Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7805
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT (SCIP)
(CREDIT 914-KE)
JUNE 2, 1989
Ministry of Cooperative Development and
Ministry of Agriculture
Rep_....ic of Kenya
LTh  docmuent has a reskrid dstlbuou and may be unsed by   ol In the peomfance of
thedr offilld dutes 1 contents may not oherse be dicosed  Wold Bank aunt!od lim



LIST QE ABBREVIATIONS
AIE                - Authority to Incur Expenditure
CBK                - Coffee Board of Kenya
CDC                - Commonwealth Development Corporation
CMIP               - Co-operative Management Improvement Project
Co-op B.K          - Co-operative Bank of Kenya
CPCS               - Co-operative Production Credit Scheme
CRF                - Coffee Research Foundation
DCWG               - District Coffee Working Group
ERR                - Economic Rate of Returns
FISS               - Farm Input Supply Scheme
GOK                - Government of Kenya
IADP               - Integrated Agricultural Development Program
ICA                - International Coffee Agreement
ICO                - International Coffee Organization
IDA                - International Development Association
KPCU               - Kenya Planters Co-operative Union
MF                 - Ministry of Finance
MOA                - Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD               - Ministry of Co-operative Development
ODA                - Overseas Development Administration, U.K.
OP                 - Office of the President
rIu                - Project Management Unit
PS                 - Permanent Secretary, GOK
PSC                - Project Steering Committee
PWG                - Project Working Group
RMEA               - Regional Mission for Eastern Africa
SAR                - Staff Appraisal Report
SCIP               - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project



FOR OFFICIAL US OLY
TM WORLD BANK
Washington. O.C. 20413
U.S.A.
00k. OA DowdorC0Wfh
Opstmn jvham
June 2, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs   Project Completion Report on Kenya Smallholder
Coffee Improvement Proiect (SCIP) (Credit 914-KS)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
'Project Completion  Report  on Kenya Smallholder Coffee Improvement
Project (SCIP) (Credit 914-KE)I prepared by the Government of Kenya,
with an overview memorandum prepared by the Africa Regional Office.
No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a resficted d,stuTbution and may be used by mscipints only in the peffonmance
of th official dutie. Its contents may not othwise be dwicsed without Wod Sank authoritio



FOR OFFXCA USE ONLY
SMALL1OLDER COFFE$ COPROVUEMOT FROJECT (SCIP)
PREFACE                                                    (j)
DAS1C DATA SaX&T                                          (il)
RVALUATION SUMMARY                                         (v)
IDA OVERVIEW                                              (x)
1.0   IZiNIcION                                                  1
2.0   PROJECT IDEIFICAnlon, PU?AR     eOU AmD LUPYuISAL          3
2.01   Project OtigiDs and Identification                  3
2.02   Preparation                                         3
2.03   Appraisal                                           3
2.04   lain Features (Objectives & Sutaary Description)    4
3.0   PROJECt INFLUIETAUTON                                      6
3.01   Project Start-up and Effectiveness                  6
3.02   Project Implementation and Problems                 6
3.03   Project Revisions                                   7
3.04   Assessmeut of Implementation by Component           9
3.041   Coffee Factories and Driers                 9
3.042   Farm Inputs                                 10
3.043   Research Extension                          12
3.044   Training                                    14
3.045   Co-operative Management Improvement
Project (OCIP)                               16
3.046   Coffee Subsector Study                      17
3.05   Project Costs, Financing Disbursements & Auditing   19
3.051   Project Coats                               19
3.052   Project Finncing                            20
3.053   Disbursements                               20
3.054   AuditilLg                                   21
3.06   Procurement                                         21
3.07   Adherence to Covenants                              21
4.0   I       TI?U!IOE   PXROI*O                                23
4.01   Organitational Aspects                              23
4.02   MoAitoring and Evaluation                           23
4.03   Project Management Unit                             24
4.04   Perfonasnee of Other Participating Agencies         2S
4.05   IDA & CDC Performance                               26
5.0   OPXRTD6 1131011        or SOW? COM   ACORIES               27
5.01   Factory Capacity Utilization                        27
5.02   Technology and facilities                           27
5.03   Management of Factories & Impact on Quality         28
5.04   Investment and operating cost                       29
5.05   Factors affecting Performace of SCIP Factories      30
6.0   PROJC    sanmS AmD UCOUKC M-VALAUMOR                       32
6.01   Overview of Benefits                                32
6.02   Prices end 1arkets                                  32
6.03   Coffee Pament System                                33
6.04   Farm InPut Component                                35
6.041   Coffee Produlction and Yields               35
6.05   Farmer's Income                                     35
6.06   Impact of training Coaponent                        36
6.07   Environmental Impact                                37
6.08   Economic Re-evLluation                              37
6.09   Smuy of Findings                                    38
6.10   Main Assumptions                                    39
6.11   Semsitivity Analysis and Implications               39
7.0   Mml LISSOMS LUl1ED MIm SCI IlD AMnLICIOs
O TEB D=SIr= oF SCIP II                                    41
8.0   ANMS AND UNLUA                                             45
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pertormance
of their oMffcial duties Its contents may not othrwise be disclsed without World Bank authoratilon.



LIST OF ARIEMES FOR NCIP/PCR
P,age No.
AMRE   I            Institutional Arrangements for SCIP
Implementation %Tables 1-5)                        46
AmNEX  II           DCWG's Assessment of SCIP I
(Tables 1-3)                                       51
ARREX  III          Supporting Tables on Project Costs
and Disbursements (Tables 1-8)                     54
AM=EX  IV           Coffee Processing Component                        73
ANNEX V             The Impact of Farm Credit Component                91
AM=EX VI            Assessment of the Impact of SCIP
to Benefitting Farmers                            101
ANDEX VII           The Coffee Research Foundation SCIP
Component (CIF) (Tables 1-5)                      106
ANNEX  VIII         Economic Analysis (Coffee Processing
Component) (Tables 1-10)                          116



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
-KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT 914-KE
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Smallholder
Coffee Improvement Project in Kenya for which IDA approved Credit 914 KE in
May 1979 for US$27.0 million and the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) approved a loan in December 1979 for US$13.0 million. The Credit and
Loan became effective in the 1979180 fiscal year.
The Credit ad Loan vere closed on March 31, 1987 four years
behind schedule.    The  IDA undisbursed   balance of US$16.5 million was
cancelled at the time of the project revision. CDC cancelled an amouat of
US$4.7 million.
The PCR was prepared by the Project Management Unit of the
Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project wit- the assistance of consultants
ongaged by the Kenya Government.    It  is  based, inter alia on the Staff
Appraisal Report; the President's Report; associated credit documents;
supervision reports; correspondence between IDA and the Borrower; and data
maintained by the Project Management Unit (PMU).   The IDA and the CDC gave
valuable assistance and encouragement to the PMU in preparing the PCR.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCR was sent to the Borrower and Cofinancier on April 12, 1989,
for comments by May 10, 1989, but none wer( received.



PROJE16T COMPLETION REPORT
KEA
SMALLHIJLDER COFFEE IPROVEMENT PROJECT
tCREUT 9l4-ME)
BASIC DATA mff£E
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraimsl       Actual or            Actual as *   of
item                                 Esti"ta      Estimated ActSUl      A.protaI l Estimate
Totel Project Cost (13 mlictii)           62.2            37.0                     69.5
Credit Amount (US$ million)I              27.0            1.t                     38.9
Diabtarse_                                               10.5
Cancel ld (UNSt mIliton)                                 16.5
Cofinaneing (USe tillIon)
CDC                                     15.0             10.3
Onto Physical Components Completed     96/65            93/ST
Proportior completed
by Above Data (            a5 (cofftt  factorieT)     100 (rtf. to revised proJoct scope)
Economic Ratc of Re.jrn (1)               21.6              7.0
InstitutIonal Performance      poor to good to poor (varied over project period)
CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENTS
(in USS mlliton)
FYN0    fY61     FY82   FY63    FY84   FY8C   FY06   no?   FY60
Appraisal Estimate (8 m)      0.4     7.2     14.4    21.8   27.8     -      -      -      -
Actual (US i)                 -       0.07     1.2     2.1    2.76   4.2    6.4    7.7   10.5
Actual as I of Appraital
Estimat                     -       0.1      9.8     9.7    16.2  18.8    20.0    28.8  38.9
bate of final disbursemnnt   January 15, 1986



PROJECT DATES
Original                          Actual as X of
Plan     Rovialona     Actual   Orlginal Plan
First Mention tn Plies                       -           -          1970           -
Megotiations                               02/79         -          02/7?         le
Bkord Approvol                              5/79         -          065/79        100
Signing                                     6/79         -          soils         uW
Effectiveonss                              10/79     1 extension    04/80    0 months delay
Cloaing Date                              08/a1/0    a extnlensioa  0o/a1/87 4 yearo delay
STAFF INPUT
(Btff weks)
FrX  MfY7O FY69   FY61  FY62 FY63 FY34 FY68    FY60  FY8T FYW6 Total
Preapp    -    18.1    .1    -     -     -    -     -          S-  -        -   18.2
Apprale.,      40.9 $8.6     -     -    -     -     -     -     -     -     -    74.6
Negotlatun       -   17.9    -     -    -     -     -     -     -     -     -    17.9
Supervision      -     .0 16.0 83.4   21.7 84.4   10.4 22.7   1S.6  21.8  18.8  192.9
Other            -    1.7    -    -     -     -     .1    -     -     -     -     1.6
TOTAL       54.0 6a.9 10 0    $.4   21.7 84.4  19.6 22.7   15.8  21.6 16.3 880.2
MISSION DATA
Specialize-
Date    No. of   tlons        Performance      Types of
Mstoon         (to./yr.  Persono Rooresnted Retina        Trend Problems
identification/
Preparation        1976      4   Eng./Fin./Econ.   -         -     -
Apprsloal          01/71    6   Eno./Fln./Econ.    -         -     -
Post-Approial       -        -              -
Supervision    I   02/80     2  Civil Engineer     2         2   Procuremnt
Supervision   Sl 0/831/f1    2   Civil Engineer    2         *    -oject funds
Supervision  III 04/29/62    8   Civil Enginoer    a         8   ProJect fund.
Supervision   IV  06/06/62   8  Civil Engineer     8         3   ProJect tund"
Supervision    V 11/O5/82    8   Civil Enginee     8         2   ProJect funds
Sup'vIiiot,   VI 66/06/82    8  Clvil Enginee      8         8   ProJect funds
Supervision  VI! 02/15/68    8  Civil Enginer      8         1   Mnagwaent Inst.
Suporvlsion VIII 97/19/68    2  Financial Analyst 8          1   Management
Supervision   1X 02/29/84    1  Financial Analyst 8          1   Disburnem.nts
Supervision    X 88/29/85    2  Financial Analyst 2          1   Disbursements
Supervision   XI 91/31/60    1  Financial Analyst -          -   Status/Funds
Supervision  XIl 12/09/86    1  Financial Analyst  -         -   Management
Supervision XSII 97/24/87    2  Agric. Economist   -         -   Management
Copletion                       Agriculturist



pTa PR OCT DATA
BorreON                         Govern_et of Kenya (UK)
Ewecutine Agencis:             Projec Masagemnt Unit (PP.,), which coordinated th
projct activitie, carrled out by the Ministries of
Agriculture (MCA) Cooperative Dvelopment (MOM),
Coffee reeerh Foundation .(CR. and Cooperative
Benk of Kenya (Coop Sank)
Follow-on Project:
Nam                             Coffee 1 Projecl
Credit Number                   -
Amount (11ml illIon)            46.0 million equivalent
Approve IDote                   Appral0"l In January/February 189; Board date Is
scheuled for 98/89
/Tre sr       wee. discrepancies between the basic data sheet and PCR data since the PCR was prered at on earlier
date. However, the discrepanclee are very minor.
1 a Problem-fre or miner problems_   2 a Moderate problems; 8 a Major probleo.
Le 1 a Improving; 2 a Stationary; a a Osterioratag.



- v -
EYALUITON MSUMAR
In March 1978, the Government of Kenya requested the World Bank to
consider financing a Coffee Rehabilitation Program for the smallholder
coffee sector. Coffee production has been Kenya's most important cash crop
and source of income for Kenya's smallholder sector and major single source
of foreign exchange. Therefore, the project was viewed as an integral part
of the Government's policy for sustaining agricultural growth, increased
incomes for smallholders and foreign exchange earnings.
nroect ObJectives
The Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project was launche4 in 1979/80
with the objective of promoting production of high quality cof'fee within the
smallholder coffee growing sector of Kenya. The main thrust of the Project
was to re.abilitate coffee factories, construct new coffee factories and
rehabilitate some neglected coffee farms. It was also to deal with the
improvement of both staff and farmers training, improvement of coffee
extension services and improvement of coffee research services as well as
providing for the necessary Research-Extension linkage. There were specifik
targets for each of the components to be improved over the project period.
The Pretect also envisaged to improve on the payments to smallholders,
althous> t did not provide explicit ways of carrying out this task.
Im=lCM=natIgn NX2erience
The Project was appraised in May-June 1978 by an IDA Mission and it
was then realised that it was necessary to request CDC to be a co-financier
to the project. As a result of CDC's acceptance, the original total project
cost was estimated at US$ 62.20 million (KSh 498 million), of which IDA was
to provide US$ 27 million. The CDC was to provide US$ 15 million and the
balance of US$ 20.2 million was to be contributed by GOK and Co-operative
Movement. The final project cost is estimated to be US$ 37.0 million;
equivalent to KSh 493.7 million. The decrease in costs in US dollars terms
was primarily due to a siV ificant devaluation of the Kenya shilling
vis-a-vis the US dollars as well as due to a substantial reduction of the
farm inputs component.  IDA credit of USW11.5 million and CDC loan of
US$lq.3 rillion were disbursed.
The Project was to be managed by the IADP co-ordinating unit with the
assistance of two co-ordinators - one from MIOA and the other from MOCD.
This was latter found to be ineffective and the Project's Mid-term Review of
1982 recommended the establishment of the PMU/SCIP. This Management Unit
(PIU/SCIP) was established in 1984/85, as a semi-autonomous unit with a
Project Manager and senior officers who were assigned on a full time basis
to the project. This arrangement which was supported by the Project's
Steering Committee (PSC) and Project's Working Group (PWG), was found to be
very successful in managing the project. The fact that Office of the
President took the responsibility of chairing the Project's Steering
Committee, with the PS, MOCD being the chairman of PWG made things move with
much ease than the case of the IADP Co-ordinating Unit.



- vi -
The Project was targetted to be tupemented over four years.   As a
result of major problems that slowed down the implementation of the project
in the initial years, and before the PMU/SCIP was established, the project
targets were re-scheduled so as to be achieved in at least seven years
instead of the original target of four years. Eventually the project's last
disbursement date was extended for three consecutive years (i.e. to 31/3/85;
31/3/86; 31/3/87) giving a total project period of eight years.
The problems that beset the project were m.inly related to low
budgetary provision for loan funds for on-lending by Co-operative Bank. In
addition, the design of the farm input credit compouent was such that it
could not be acceptable to the cooperative and participating farmers. Even
after this factor of inappropriate farm credit was realised and corrected,
the project could not lend significantly for farm inputs since the farmers
had other more attractive farm input schemes to borrow from, some of which
had attractive cash element. As a result, only about US$ 2 million was
utilized on farm input credit, out of the targetted US$ 13.4 million by the
close of the project in 1987. However towards th'e end of the period of
implementation of the project discussions were initiated on how to harmonize
various cooperative credit schemes.
The largest project component was the factory component. This
component accounted for about 74.4% of the estimated total project cost.
Factory development component also encountered souii problems during its
implementation, but these were less significant in terms of their impact
compared with the farm input. There were problems of inexperienced
supervisory staff and incapable contractors, as well as low budgetary
provisions in the initial stages of the project. These problems were,
hovever, minimized after the establishment of PDU/SCIP. As a result of
this, and due to the extension of project period from four years to eight
years, the components targets were achieved and in some cases surpassed.
Some 127 new coffee factories were constructed, as opposed to the original
target of 14 factories; some 56 factories were resited as opposed to a
target of 50; while some 280 factories were rehabilitated coopared with a
target of 350. The above differences, particularly of the new factories,
reflect the tentative basis of the initial estimate and the strong local
demand for new facilities wbich are close to coffee farmers. ALthough a
provision for 50 mechanical driers was made, none of these driers was
financed by SCIP. This was due to lack of appropriate driers for
co-operative societies.
The. CDC and IDA more or less contributed equal shares in terms of
financing the project, with CDC contributing 31.7% and IDA contributing
32.2% of total cost. Likewise the financial contribution of GOK and
Co-operative Societies were more or less equal; with GOK contributing 21.6%
and the co-operative societies meeting 14.5% of the total cost. This was
quite satisfactory in that each agency played its effective role in
financing the project.
Project Imoact
While the project met various project targets and generated some
substantial benefits, there was a significant shortfall in the expected
production and economic benefits as foreseen in the SAR. The notable
shortfall refers to the amount of incremental production of aoffee which can
be attributed directly to the project's farm inputs component. This
additional production is now estimated to be about 389 NT of clean coffee,



- vii -
as opposed tv 9,500 tons assumed in the SAR (or 4.0% of the orlginal
target). This outcome was due to the design and implementation problems of
the project'# farm Inputs component. Accordingly, the number of farmers
benefiting directly from the credit eomponent was about 14,000 (or about
20%), which is substantially less than SAR target of 70,000. For those
famers benefiting from the farm inputs component, it is estimated that
their financial returns to coffee increased by aB overall average of about
701, relative to "without" the project, and therefore, contributing an
important increase In their cash farm income.   It is however worth of nota
that despite the high financial returns to coffee resulting from the farm
input use, the component was very much constrained by its inappropriate
design as well as budgetary constraint.
The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) on the coffee factory
component also fell short of the assumed target In the SAR (i.e. 7% instead
of 21%.   Novever, the important conclusion of the PCR analysis is that the
BBR for a group of 15 factories (both new and rehabilitated) ranged from
i52% to -9%, with four factories having an ER! exceeding 102 (the assumed
opportunity cost of capital in Kenya). It is this range which highlights
the potential benefits of the fa.tory investments, provided certain measures
are carried out, i.e. appropriate design rf factory improvements, reasonable
level of factory utilization, improved c oxperative and factory management
and supervision resulting In higher quality profiles, and improved payments
system to co-operators.
Prolect Sustainab_litv
The project's benefits are expected to be sustained and possibly
enhanced for the following main reasons: the investments in new and Improved
coffee factories and the associated training supported by the project are
unden the responsibility of the farmers, who have a direct interest in
ensuring adequate operation and mantenance of the facilities and In
ensuring that the benefits are sustained; sound Government policies have
played an important role in contributing to the success of Kenya's coffee
sector development, and these polic'es to provide a positive environment are
expected to continue in the future; and continued improvements in Kenya's
coffee sector, including the measures supported by the proposed follow-up
project, are expected to generate a positive Impact.
FinditaB and Main Lessojg
The main lessons learned from SCIP I could be summarized as follows:-
(a>    There is a need to ensure that the institutional arrangement
for project implementation provide effective co-ordination of
proJect action among numerous participating agencies and
authority to resolve policy-related issues and day-to-day
matters. The establishment of PMUJ/SCIP, the PSC, and PWG as.
instruments of implementation proved to be effective. The
challenge for SCIP II is to sustain and further improve the
effectiveness of these arrangements, taking into account past
experience.
(b)    There is a need to ensure adequate budgetary allocations to
meet the project's targets and to ensure effective
arrangements for channelling project fuads to the
participating agencies. On the other hand, there is a need to
ensure that the targets set are realistic in light of
budgetary ceilings that are already known.



- viii -
(c)    The design of the farm credit component needs to be flexible
enough so that it can be responsive to farmers needs. The
design of the component should take full advantage of the
other existing and successful farm credit programs within the
coffee co-operative societies. The terms and conditions of
the credit schemes should be consistent.
(d)    There is a need to decentralize and strengthen the planning
and implementation capacities of the participating agencies
and co-operative societies. In particular, there is need to
consolidate and broaden the roles of District Coffee Working
Groups and to strengthen the linkage between Headquarters, and
the Districts in terms of planning and implementation of the
project.
(e)    There is a need to come up with clear economic and technical
criteria for evaluation of investment proposals in the coffee
factory development component. According to SCIP I
experience, the benefits from past and future factory
investments cannot be optimized unless there is considerable
improvement in both the financial management of coffee
cooperative societies and in the physical management of their
factories. Consequently, there is also a need to develop
suitable coffee factory "Models" for various levels of cherry
throughput to take into account the great variability in
coffee farm sizes and society coffee hectarage.
(f)    There is . need to improve the coffee payment system within
the co-operative sector, and to introduce a formula which
recognizes the quality of cherry delivered by the
smallholder. This would provide the farmers with incentives
to produce and deliver high quality cherry and consequently
reduce the proportion of mbuni (sun-dried coffee cherry)
deliveries.
(g)    There are several benefits associated with the development of
modern coffee processing facilities including environmental
protection and the utilization of coffee pulp which is one of
the coffee processing by-products.



KEhX,
SMALLROLDRR COFEEM IMPROVMENEN PROJECT
(CR. 914-KE)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IDA OVER   W
1.     This PCR was prepared by the Project Management Unit (PMU) of the
Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project (SCIP), of the Government of Kenya,
with the assistance of its consultants ard the Bank's Agriculture Section,
Regional Mission    Eastern Africa (Nairobi office).
2.     In the Region's view, the PCR is satisfactory in terms of following
ORD guidelines prevailing at the time of preparing the PCR (early 988)
and In the scope and content of the report. Although the Region 'ssisted
in its preparation, the Region does not fully agree with some of the
points presented. This overview outlines three specific comments which
supplement the PCR and which provide a more candid and clearer view of the
proJect's Institutional aspects and impact than presented in the PCR. The
net effect of these comments is to conclude that the project's overall
performance and impact are considered to be marginally successful, rather
than successful as stated in the PCR.
(a)  Institud;oral Role and Effectiveness of the PMU:  Perhaps
because the PCR was prepared by the PMJ and its consultants, the
references to the PEU do not appear to present a fully objective
assessment of its performance, particularly over the past two years
(see particularly, page v, item a; page 41, item a). While the
establishment of the PHU in mid-1984 clearly was a key factor in
helping the project perform relatively well, its performance, as
well as the effectiveness of the institutional arrangements, has
deteriorated over the past two years. This is observed by the
substantial delays in implementing various components under the
project, such as the Coffee Subsector Study (para 3.046) and
cooperative management (para 3.045), and the delay in completing
disbursement of the IDA and CDC Credits (para 3.053).
Regarding the broader question as to whether the PMU is justified,
there are pros and cons. On balance, the PME is needed, provided
it has sufficient authority, linkage with and support from the two
main Minlistries of Agriculture and Cooperative Development, an
effective Project Manager and adequate staff. This implies that
the future performance of the PME for the proposed follow-up
project will depend particularly on an effective Project Manager
and a clear role and authority of the PME. While the PCR indicates
that the PEU will continue under the proposed SCIP II, this is a
matter which needs to be carefully re-examined prior to finalizing
the implementation arrangements of the proposed follow-up project.
The recently appraised project by IDA has worked out improved
institutional arrangements which are expected to help ensure
efficient implementation and contribute toward the long term
institutional objectives of strengthening Kenya's coffee Industry.



(b) Achievements and Impact: Perhaps for similar reasons
indicated under item (a), the PCR characterizes the project as
being "relatively successful" (para 7, Item a), while at the same
time pointing out that there was a significant shortfall in the
expected production and economic benefits (para 6.01). IDA
characterizes the project as being marginally successful, given the
mixed institutional performance and shortfall in expected
benefits. This overall assessment reflects more objectively the
project's good progress in physical implementation of the project's
major coWponent (i.e. coffee processing factory) and training
activities, but there was overinvestment in coffee processing
factories relative to their main constralnts and the expected
benefits. The specific reasons for this shortfall in benefits vere
adequately discussed in the PCR, and included: too many new
factories; major rehabilitation works which did not necessarily
resolve the most important constraints; various complex management
constraints In the cooperative sector; and institutional
shortcomings from the Headquarters to District levels, which made
It difficult to implement in a rigorous manner the coffee
processing factory criteria to help optimize the Investment
packages. This suggests that the SAR may have underestimated these
implementation constraints, and therefore overestimated the
expected benefits. Clearly, these sectoral issues are some of the
main reasons for a follow-up project and for IDA's continued
involvement.
(c) ftrther Clarifications on the Economic Rate of Return (ERR):
Given the large number of coffee factories (463) supported by the
project, the PCR's factory level approach to re-estimating the ERR
is correct. However, there are three points that should be
clarified explicitly in order to ensure a proper interpretation of
the results.
Firat, it is reasonable for the PCX to aim for a small
"representative" group of improved and rehabilitated factories, in
order to highlight the variability in the ERR. (ranging from -102
to 522), given numerous determining factors. However, this small
group of 15 factories proved not to be fully "representative",
given the proportion of new and rehabilitated factories actually
completed. Two of the fifteen factories were new (or 132 of the
total), whereas 127 new factories were actually constructed out of
the total of 463 (or 27X of the total; or 402, if resited factories
are counted as new).  Moreover, these two new factories had an ERR
which were higher than many of the rehabilitated factories included
In the analysis. While the above points were implied in the PCR
(para 6.09, item v), it is worth noting here explicitly since this
proportion may have affected the representativeness of the overall
ERR re-estimated in the PCR in an uncertain direction (upwards or
downwards).
Second, the low economic returns for some of the rehabilitated
factories included in the PCR analysis as indicated above also
suggest that there was overinvestment relative to the benefits. In
the future, greater care needs to be placed in tailoring the
rehabilitation works to overcome the specific constraints
identified. This result again underscores the importance of



- xi -
establishing clear and unambigious technical and economic criteria
for factory investments, and most importantly, the institutional
capacity to implement the criteria on a factory basis (par& 7.0,
item f).
Third, the economic price premimum assumed in the PCR is lower than
recently estimated by an IDA appraisal mission of the proposed
Coffee II project, based on detailed analysis of the relevant
historical data. The price adjustment should be about 20% over the
"other mild" coffee price, Instead of 10% assumed in the PCR, given
Kenya's consistent high quality arabica coffee. Using the higher
price premium for the economic price probably would increase the
overall ERR to nearly 10%.
3.     The main lessons emerging from the SCIP PCR, including the points
cited above, have been incorporated in the design of the proposed
follow-up project, which was appraised by IDA in January/February 1989.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT ON SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVMEENT PROJECT
1.0    INTRODUCTION
In March 1978, the Government of Kenya requested the World Bank to
consider finaneing a Coffee Rehabilitation Programme for the Smallholder
Coffee Sector. The objectives of the project were to:-
(a)    improve quality of the coffee produced by the country's
Co-operative processing sector;
(b)    rehabilitate approximately 15,000 ha of coffee which were
owned by smallholder farmers who did not have access to
sufficient farm I-put supplies;
(c)    to provide incentives for smallholder farmers, who had
achieved higher yields due to the effect of the 1976/77 'boom'
in coffee prices, so that they can maintain these yields
despite lower price forecast in the following four years.
Since coffee production was established to be the most important cash
crop in Kenya's small scale farming sector, the project was therefore an
integral part of the Government's policy for encouraging greater
productivity within the sector.
The Project aimed at achieving the above objectives by transforming
and or strengthening some institutions dealing with coffee. The Coffee
Research Foundation was to be strengthened through the provision of funds
for construction of buildings (laboratory and staff houses), establishment
of Economic and Research Liaison sections. The Ministry of Agriculture
coffee extension services and the supervisory roles of the Ministry of
Co-operative Development to coffee co-operatives were also to be
strengthened. This was to be done through provision of incremental staff
particularly coffee factory engineers for Ministry of Agriculture, and
Auditors for Ministry of Cooperative Development as well as increased
funding for transport and travelling expenses.
The Co-operative Bank of Kenya was to employ specific loan officers
for the Project as well. At the national level, a project manager was to be
appointed within already established IADP section in Ministry of
Agriculture, while a project co-ordinator at Ministry of Cooperative
Development Headquarters was to be appointed. In terms of improving coffee
payments to the farmers the project envisaged that there would be an
improvement but never provided explicit ways of how this could be tackled
and evaluated.
Following the IDA appraisal mission in May-June 1978, it was realised
that there was a need to request CDC to be a co-financier. As a result of
CDC's acceptance, the total project cost was increased to US$ 62.20 million.
Out of this the IDA was to provide US$ 27 million and CDC"s share was
British Sterling £7.2 million (US$ 15 million equivalent). The rest of the
cost, US$ 20.2 million was to be contributed by Kenya Government and the
Co-operative Societies.



-2-
This PCR report has relied heavily on PMU/SCIP as a source of
information. There is however some information which has been gathered
through the work of two consultants who were dealing with the sections on
farm input component benefits and factory component benefits. The CDC,
World Bank as well as Co-operative Bank of Kenya provided some information
particularly regarding verification of project disbursements and financing.
The verification of project costs was done through the SCIP/PMU. The
findings of the Joint GOR1CDC/IDA SCIP II preparation mission in
January/February 1988 were also quite useful in preparing the PCR.



2.0    POECT I         IFICATION PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
2.01 Prolect Orising and Identification
The potential for coffee improvement project vas identified as early
as 1973 during the World Bank's Agricultural Sector Survey. This report
highlighted the declining productivity of coffee, particularly in the
co-operative smallholder sector. Follow-up on the need for the project
during the period 1973-77 was slow because of low coffee prices and due to
directives from the International Coffee Organization (ICO) to limit coffee
production. In 1974 coffee prices dropped as a result of good global
production prospects linked with a lower demand from the importing countries.
During this period the Government had initiated a number of programs
which acted as pilot schemes for the design of a strategy for assisting
small farmers. The end result of these various pilot schemes was the design
of an Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADP), which was the main
Government long-term program for the promotion of small farm development.
In the Third Development Plan (1974-1978) the Government aimed to widen the
basis of agricultural production and the social impact of development by
increasing coffee output in the small farm sector as a cash crop. The
declining coffee yields were largely because of escalation in input costs
(which led to low fertilizer and pesticide applications), poor rainfall and
increasing problems with labour and handling.  A major aim of the
Government, therefore, was to raise coffee earnings of smallholders with
neglected coffee holdings.
.02    Preparation
The Project was prepared by the Development Planning Division of
Kenya's Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), working closely with district coffee
working groups, the provincial and district authoritias and with the
Ministries and authorlties concerned. The World Bank's Regional Mission in
Eastern Africa (RMEA) was consulted regularly during preparation. The
experience (and information) obtained during the pilot schemes carried out
during early 1970s was also useful in the project preparation exercise.
The Smallholder Production Services and Credit Project (SPSCP)
activities, which were included in the First Integrated Agricultural
Development Program (IADP I), were very useful in the design of SCIP. The
design of SCIP and other IADP projects were guided by the concept that
project improvements should be identified and initiated at both the
divisional and the district levels in order to reflect an order of priority
and encourage maximum co-operation from the district and local committees
and other groups. Detailed coverage and the phasing of investments were
determined in annual work plans which were formulated at the District level,
and co-ordinated by MOA and MOCD Headquarters.
2.03  A&otrsgal
The project was appraised in May/June 1978 by a World Bank Mission.
The appraisal mission did not come up with any significant differences
between the proposed project design as presented in the Government's
preparation report since there were exreasive consultations between BMEA and
GOX at the time of project preparation. At the time of appraising the
project, the main constraints within the smallholder sector were seen as



- 4 -
lack of adequate processing facilities and inadequate supply of farm
inputs. Other constraints included lack of strong research/extension
linkage, and inadequate capacity within MOCD and the Co-operative Bank to
handle the credit program. The mission then paved the way for successful
negotiations between the two donor agencies (IDA & CDC) and GOK which lead
to signing of credit/loan agreements for the project.
2.04   Main Features (Objectives and Summary DescriDtion)
The project was to be managed by the existing Co-ordinating Unlit for
the Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADPI) within the Ministry
of Agriculture and the Ministry of Co-operative Development. The Head of
IADP was to be assisted by a Coffee Project Manager (changed to Project
Co-ordinator before the project was started). The project co-ordinator
would be responsible for managing and co-ordinating the implementation of
the Project as a component of the overall IADPI. The project incorporated
three of the Government's major objectives, namely:-
(i)    It was to be a National Program which would offer considerable
potential for increasing productivity and exports;
(ii)   It would provide specific assistance to smallholders;
(iii)  It would create additional employment opportunities.
The project was to comprise of the following main components:-
(a)    Rehabilitation of 400 existing coffee factories, the
construction of 14 new factories, the construction of
50 mechanical dryers and provision of improved training
facilities for factory managers;
(b)    Provision of medium-term development loans to farmers
for rehabilitation of their smallholdings. This would
involve about 70,000 smallholders containing medium
term loans for rehabilitation of an estimated 15,000 ha
of coffee;
(c)    Strengthening of the Coffee Research Foundation by
having an additional six research officers and twenty
five support staff. Suitable training programs would
be developed by improving the existing training
facilities at Jacaranda.
(d)    Development of improved coffee extension services and
training through intensified training of farmers and
extension agents. An additional nine district coffee
extension officers and three provincial coffee officers
would be appointed. A national project co-ordinator
was also to be appointed.
(e)    Strengthening of the Department of Co-operative
Development services, improved training facilities for
staff. This would entail 11 additional officers and 50
support staff so as to strengthen the Ministry's
responsibilities for educating, accounting, credit,



- 5.-
savings, planning and management of co-operative
societies. The aim would be to improve Ministry's
supervisory and management capacities so as to enable
the societies maintain a pay-out level to the coffee
farmers of approximately 75% of auction prices.
(f)    Incremental staff and facilities for Co-operative Bank
of Kenya Limited, to provide improved credit facilities
in are, -nder rehabilitation.   The project set up was
such tb1. adequate arrangements for co-ordinated
planning and implementation at both the district and
national levels were made. The district coffee working
groups and the IADP National Co-ordinating Committee
were supposed to deal with this aspect effectively.



-6-
3.0    PR0JXCT IEMLEUMNTATION
3.01   Project Start-um and Effectiveness
Following successful negotiations and signing of credit agreements
for the project, the Implementation of the project started off during the
1979/80 fiscal year. In terms of all the compnents other than the farm
input and factory development components, the project had effectively taken
off in the beginning of 1979/80 since the budgetary provision for
operational and development costs were provided for within the 1979/80
budget under both MDA and MOCD. It was, however, not possible to advance
any loans for farm Inputs or factory rehabilitation/construction within
1979/80 due to lack of budgetary provision. This lack of loan funds within
the first year of the project stalled the whole momentum that had been
created in the whole country within the coffee working groups and borrowing
societies. This factor, coupled with the fact that the Headquarter staff
never communicated thia point to the affected parties until the 3rd quarter
of 1979/80 contributed greatly to the slow rate of project start-up.
3.02   Prolect ImDlementation, and Problems
The project was to be implemented over a period of four (4) years
beginning July 1979 V. The development of the proJect was to be effected
through annual work plans. The first plan was to be submitted to IDA for
review and comments by April 30, 1979 and subsequent work plans would be
submitted by March 15 of each year during project implementation. The
preparation of the work plan was to be the responsibility of the SCIP
Project Manager.
Although the 1979/80 annual Work Plan was prepared in time, no GOK
funds were released for the project's lending operations for 1979/80 because
of the delays in finalizing the Co-operative Bank of Kenya (CBK) Subsidiary
Agreement. The IDA Credit and CDC loan became effective in April 1980,
almost one year after the signing of the IDA Credit Agreement in June 1979
and CDC Loan in December 1979. During 1980/81 and in the ensuing four years
of project implementation several serious implementation problems emerged.
These impediments included the funding problems of inadequate annual
budgetary allocations and delayed release of funds, uncoordinated and
inefficient project management arrangements, insufficient operating
resources and problems associated with the management and supervision of
co-operatives. The other problem that was of less significance than the
ones mentioned above was the problem associated with inadequate project
engineers and lack of clear project guidelines to the field staff, leading
to poor contract supervisions in the initial years of the project.
Because of the Government's financial constraints, authorized
budgetary allocations were always less than required by the project. In
addition, budgetted funds vere released late, usually between 2 to 5 months
after the start of the fiscal year. This invariably delayed annual lending
operations because the CBK could not make loan commitments to co-operatives
until the budgetted funds were actually released to it. These project
I/     Project completion and closing dates were scheduled for June 30, 1983
and March 31, 1984 respectively. Funding by external donors (IDA &
CDC) was initially scheduled to close on March 31, 1984.



- 7 -
funding-related problems resulted in considerable reduction and delays in
the execution of the project annual programs, lnadequate attention beLag
given to operational issues and also lack of timely action to resolve them.
The level of project achievement was also influenced by the poor performance
of co-operatives, mainly because of their unsatisfactory management. These
co-operative management problems were reflected In deficiencies in the
preparation, evaluation and execution of factory investments and in the
shortfall in the utilization of the farm inputs and credit. Taken together,
these factors resulted in serious project problems.
3.03   Revisions
To resolve above mentioned funding and management problems, the
Government made several changes during 1983 and 1984, although rather late
in the project period. Most of the project funding problems were overcome
during 1983/84 when important changes were made in the project financing
arrangements after GOK agreed to limit Its advance to CBK to its 10%
contribution for factory loans and 5% for farm input loans and allow the
donors to disburse their own contributions directly to CBK instead of
pre-financing 100% of the lendin2 program. The improved funding
arrangements worked out satisfactorily for all parties but was
discontinued. In addition, the institutional problems, particularly
regarding insufficient co-ordination among the participating agencies, led
to the creation of the Project Management Unit (PMI), in August 1984, which
resulted in conirlderable improvements in project implementation. For
example, as a result of the effective co-ordination at PSC and PWG levels,
the project was allocated sufficient resources for its lending program in
1984/85, which was in fact double the allocation of 1983/84. In addition,
due to effective co-ordination between PMU, the Co-op Bank of Kenya and the
DCWGs, the Co-op Bank of Kenya was able to fully commit this allocation of
KS2i 90 million in 1984/1985 without major bottlenecks.
Other important changes resulted from the creation of the PHU.
Before its creation, project implementation had been affected by Inadequate
project management and co-ordination arrangements, Including lack of
effective full-time management, ineffective co-ordination at central level
and lack of timely decisions on project issues. This was because the
project was carried out and co-ordinated by an existing co-ordinating unit
under the Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADP) through project
coordinations located within the Ministries of Agriculture and Co-operative
Development and the CBK. The co-ordinators operated from their separate
ministries/agencies and only came together during the course of AWP
preparation/field visits and periodic donor supervision missions. In
addition, the project and its problems were not receiving the full time
attention of most co-ordinators because they were also assigned to other
tasks. During the first three project years the overall direction of the
project was under the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) with Ministry of
Co-operative Development (MOCD) being responsible for implementing those
aspects of the project involving the Co-operative Bank$ Co-operative Unions
and societies. However, in 1982, the Government decided to assign the
project to MOCD because of being essentially a co-operative leading
operation. Because of the involvement of two ministries (MOA & MOCD) and
one agency (CBK) decision making was invariably slow. Furthermore, the
operations of the project co-ordinators and staff were affected by
inadequate operating resources (transport, travel and subsistence funds)*
and as a result, many project implementation issues and problems in the
field could not be resolved effectively or in time.



- 8 -
In order to resolve the management issues, the Government established
the PMU with adequate resources (staff and financial), reasonable autonomy
of operations and relatively easy access to authority. PEU's mandate Was to
take full responsibility for project implementation and to ensure
co-ordination among agencies which was crucial to the success of the
project. Following these changes, which improved considerably the whole
ambiance under which the project was being implemented, there was notable
improvements in project execution. The project was receiving the full-time
attention of the staff assigned to the unit, the project manager had direct
access to the needed resources, and there was considerable improvements In
decision-making because of the direct link between the Project Manager and
Permanent Secretaries, Ministry of Co-operative Development, and Ministry of
Agriculture.  The PMU and CBK project staff found it quite easy to organize
follow-up field trips, which in turn enabled them to guide the district
coffee working groups and Co-operative Societies effectively. The DCW6's
became more effective in terms of planning and implementation of the project
due to effective linkage and communication with PM1 and CBK.
Another notable change in project design after start-up involved the
Farm Input Loan Scheme which had been designed to address the issue of
neglected coffee holdings by making loans to farmers with neglected holdings
for rehabilitation purposes. By the end of 1984, a very small amount of
fund earmarked for the purpose of rehabilitating neglected coffee farms had
been loaned out to farmers (about 1*S$ 1.01 million or 7.6X out of the
equivalent of about US$ 13.3 million) and there was little likelihood that
they were going to be utilized for the purpose of rehabilitating neglected
coffee farms. This was because the scheme was targeted to beneficiaries who
were not active members of their coffee co-operative societies and who were
vie*'ed by their societies as not credit worthy. This situation was largely
the consequence of the underlying assumption which was made at appraisal
that coffee farms had been neglected mostly because the owners of such farms
did not have access to credit. Therefore, initially scheme conditions were
established limiting its access to owners of neglected farms who were not
credit worthy members of their co-operatives.  Experience had also shown
that neglecting of coffee farms was due to other factors such as very low
pay-outs, delayed payments, competition from other enterprises and factory
and society related management problems. Lack of credit was not considered
to be the over-riding constraint for the neglected coffee holdings.
In order to allow project funds to be used for other legitimate
credit needs in the co-operative coffee sector, Government and IDA agreed in
early 1985 that project funds be loaned to coffee co-operative unioLs and
societies so as to enable them to extend short-term input loans to coffee
cooperative farmers as a whole rather than strictly to farms with ncglected
coffee holdings. This change in credit criteria resulted in an improvement
in the utilization of the credit, but budgetary constraint limited its full
utilization during the remaining project implementation period.
In its effort to try and solve the problems associated with lack of
qualified engineers, the Government embarked on a crash program of engaging
fresh agricultural engineers, and additional factory technicians. With the
formation of PKU/SCIP a qualified and experienced Engineer from the Ministry
of Works was posted to PHU/SCIP to organize design offices and training of
fresh engineers. Seminars and workshops for Engineers and Technicians was
organized by PMU/SCTP and these brought the standard of project supervision



- 9 -
to the standard that was originally anticipated. But the closure of the
project, there -,re already fairly adequate Agricultural Engineers not only
to cover all the provincial drawing and design offices but some major coffee
districts as vell.
The SCIP guidelines were also revised in 1985 but it is unfortunate
to note that they had not been bound together and distributed to the field
by the beginning of 1988. However, the Engineers who were supervising the
contracts had been provided with advance copies of the guidelines. It *-
imperative for clear auidelines to be issued to the field officers and all
other relevant agencies in Sood time. Seminars and Workshops on the
guidelines should be organized to avoid a repeat of SCIP I situation.
3.04    Assessment of Imt_ementation by Com=onent
3.041   Coffee Factories and Driers
As can be seen from the table below, the project aimed at
constructing and rehabilitating a total of 414 factories and constructing 50
mechanical driers. This was to be carried out between 1979/80 and 1982/83.
Due to a number of reasons mainly budgetary constraints, contractual and
management problems discussed in the last chapter, tne targets for resiting,
and rehabilitation of factories were not realised by the end of 1983/84.
Table 1:  Coffee Factories and Mechanical Driers
STAFF APPRAISAL  SCIP ACHIEVEET     SCIP
TYPE           (SAR) TARGET     BY 1983/84         ACHIEVEMENT
BY 1986/87
New factory construction        14               39                127
Resiting of factories           50               31                 56
Factory Rehabilitation         350              162                280
Total   _    _414                    _232                          463
Mechanical Driers               50                1*                 1*
* Not financed by SCIP, but was funded thrcugh O.D.A.
Source: PMU/SCIP
The ProJect did actually finance and construct a higher number of
factories by 1983/84 than the SAR target although the final achievements of
resited factories and factory renovations were about 112% and 80% of the SAR
targets respectively. The new factories were about tenfoli of the original
SAR target reflecting an under-estimate at appraisal, given the strong local
demand for locating factories closer to the coffee farmers and the increased
coffee production.
The main reasons for not attaining the SAR targets by the original
target date were due to:-
o      Problems of inexperienced and incompetent contractors.
O      Problems of lack of clear communication and guidelines for
designing and awarding coffee factory
construction/rehabilitation contracts from Headquarters to
the district level.



- 10 -
Through national SCIP seminars for staff and day t? Jay guidance and
supervision of field staff and coffee working groups, the S4IP guidelines
were uAderstood and consequently revised whenever need arose. The problem
of inability of societies to raise 25X of the funds required for a given
project was addressed by the PWG and was minimized through proper
interpretation of the credit Agreements and allowing for contributions iT
.ind - thus the "total Project" cost for the purposes of asseasing 25%
contribution was defined as the total factory renovation or construction
cost, less the cost of water re-circulation and effluent disposal. This was
due to the fact that, CDC was financing 100% of the latter component. In
real terms, therefore, the society contribution was effectively reduced from
25X to about 20% the total project costs.
The above solutions, plus continuous training of farmers, committee
members and staff enabled the project to achieve higher targets in the
subsequent years.
The problem of inadequate budgetary provisions as well as that of
delay in releasing funds to Cooperative Bank of Kenya was resolved through
the direct reimbursement procedure, already explained In chapter 3.03, the
Co-operative Bank of Kenya raised the claims on behalf of the Kenya
Government and followed up the disbursements upto the donor level. Through
this procedure the Co-op Bank of Kenya was approving loans before getting
the actual cash from the Exchequer. Servicing of this liquidity was done
through the disbursement claims already processed, (negotiated into Kenya
currency) other than demanding cash from the Exchequer before spending or
even approving the loans. This procedure reduced delays in 1 m approval by
almost six months.
3.042 Enm. .Izmuut
The SAR targets for this component were quite high compared with the
actual achievement. This outcome was due primarily to the several problems
encountered by this component in the first four years of the project. The
main problems were due to:
o      inappropriate design;
o      inadequate budgetary provision, to a lesser extent;
o      rigidity in planning and implementation of the project.
The component was aimed at rehabilitating approximately 15,000 ha (f
coffee through provision cf credit to about 70,000 smallholders. The
category of farmers forming this target was also supposed to be "those
farmers who could not qualify for any other credit". This was based on the
assumption that the main constraint to the target farmers was lack of credit
and that once credit was provided, then these farmers would come forward and
borrow. Likewise, the assumption was that co-operative societies were
supposed to borrow funds for onlending to this category of farmers. The
credit was estimated to be disbursed to the farmers through provision of
farm inputs and cash element in proportions of 75% and 25% respectively.



- 11 -
Moreover, the Society Management committees were not keen to borrow
the SCIP farm credit funds, since they could not be lent to the majority of
their members but these funds were for the less progressive and sometimes
the uninterested coffee farmers. Further more, the security of the credit
was mainly the coffee crop from the progressive farmers. The societies,
therefore, preferred to borrow from other credit schemes which were running
side by side with SCIP farm credit which were available to societies and
their members and were already very popular with the farmers and management
committees of the societies. The main credit schemes competing with SCIP
funds were the Cooperative Production Credit Scheme (CPCS) and the Farm
Input Supply Scheme (FISS). Because the terms and conditions of these
schemes were very attractive to cooperative members the societies always
demanded that SCIP farm credit should have similar terms as those of CPCS.
For example, the farmer under the CPCS scheme was allowed to take credit
that was up to a maximum of a three year average of his annual turnover,
either in cash or in kind.
It was not until 1983/84 when it was recommended that the terms and
conditions of SCIP farm credit be revised and be made similar to those of
CPCS. With the revision in the design of the component's target group and
the nature of its disbursement, some more credit was given out in 1984/85,
1985/86 and 1986/87 as can be seen in the table below. However, this was
already too late to utilize the total SAR credit target as a result of which
a total of approximately USt 11.4 million was unutilized out of US$ 13.38
million originally allocated to this component.
Table 2: Farm Credit
lT        .           I                            .          .1 
I                     I To rehabilitate 15,000 ha. | To provide credit to I
I SA   TARGET         | of coffee through credit     s smallholders       l
|                     | to 70,000 smallholders.    | equivalent to        l
l                     l                            I US$ 13.38m
l                     l                            I (KSh 133.8m).        l
.1                    1                            1                       l
I Achievement by      I Rehabilitated Approx.      I Provided approx.     t
1 1983/84             | 800 ha. by providing       | US$ 1.1 million      l
|                     I credit to approx. 3,000 0    (KSh 13.986m).       l
I                     I smallholders               l                      l
| Actual              I Rehabilitate Approx.       I Spent only an        I
| Achievement by      | 1722 ha. of coffee by      | equivalent of US$ 2m I
I 1986/87             I reaching approx. 7,000     I (KSh 30.032m).       l
I smallholders.              l
I                     I__ _ _ _      I _ _ _ _ _ _ _   1 _ _  _   _   _
Balance by 1986/87 1 13,278 ha.                  | US$ 11.38            l
Source: PMU/SCIP



- 12 -
The other problem which had a direct and ne-ative effect on the farm
input credit component emanated from budgetary provisions. The project
prepared annual work plans once every year as a guideline to both the
Treasury and Co-operative Bank of Kenya on the one hand and to the Coffee
Working Groups on the other hand. The experience in SCIP was that even
where there was a need for SCIP farm credit, particularly after the revision
of its design, and provision for it made within the work plans, there was
always a problem of inadequate funds being provided in the printed
estimates. Consequently given the fact that the societies had alternate
sources of credit for farm inputs, they opted to have factory construction
and renovation loans other than SCIP farm credit when faced with a choice
among the two conponents. In addition, the societies were not attracted to
SCIP credit due to the fact that the amounts involved were small. It is
anticipated that this trend of events is likely to occur in any future
projects. To minimize this problem, it is recommended that such credit for
farm inputs should not have very many stiff pre-conditions to be fulfilled
by farmers. Preferably, the project should only aim at dealing directly
with a "society" other than a 'farmer". In other words, once a co-operative
society borrows funds for farm inputs, it should be left "free" to decide on
its loanees and in what form without being tied down to such strict
conditions as in SCIP I, provided the society guarantees that the funds
would be used to relieve constraints in coffee production.  This fle-.
is a necessary pre-condition for th%_s.cess of sEa-'8tt-'*ponent.
§.043 Research and Extension
(a)    Rearch
The SCIP project was quite beneficial to the development of
coffee research programs and in the dissemsinatitn of
information from Coffee Research Foundation to LOth extension
agents and the farmers. The Coffee Research Foundation
started the Economics section, and expanded greatly the
activities of:-
o Research Liaison, Advisory and Training section;
o Agronomy Section;
o Chemistry and processing (including coffee drying
research) section (Annex VII). The Coffee Research
Foundation, however, experienced two main problems - i.e.
-   the problem of slow or sometimes lack of reimbursement
of funds already committed and spent by the Foundation
in anticipation of being reimbursed by the Government
through Ministry of Agriculture;
-   the problem of low budgetary provision every year,
compared with the SAR targets.
The above two problems should be addressed effectively In any future
SCIP programs so as to avoid disrupting the activities of the CRF alvays at
the last moment. The problem related to reimbursement of funds could be
minimized if CRF got its funds channeled through Coffee Board of Kenya.
This is because, the Board would have more flexibility in dealing with
budgetary shortfalls arising from delays in transfer of funds from MO0A to
the Board. The establishment of the Research Liaison and Advisory Section



- 13 -
within the CRF under SCIP I did provide a very effective linkage between the
CRF research officers and the MOA extension service. The advisory officers
from CRF participated effectively in the Training & Visit (T&V) monthly
workshops and were quite effective in training the MOA subject matter
specialists in terms of coffee husbandry. This service proved very popular,
such that the number of advisory officers had to be increased from the
original three to five by 1986/87.
The expanding of laboratory services at CRF also enhanced the CRF
leaf and soil analysis work for advisory purposes. Coffee farmers were
better advised on nutritional requirements of their soils, and thus
enhancing their efficiency in utilization of fertilizer and other
chemicals. Indeed, due to the increased awareness that was created among
the coffee farming community by the advisory officers of CRF, the soil and
leaf samples that were brought in for analysis were more than the CRY could
cope with.
The establishment of the Economics Section under SCIP I in CRF did
also prove to be quite beneficial in the coffee industry. This section did
provide the necessary support to the purely technical sections in terms of
interpreting their recommendations in economic terms. Through various
surveys, the section did analyze and diagnose most of the economic problems
facing the coffee farmers in Kenya. The work produced by this section has
been quite useful in terms of providing the data base as well as reference
material for economic analysis work in the coffee Industry in Kenya. This
has been proved to be of great importAnce to planners and policy makers
within and outside coffee industry.
The CRF would benefit further from a follow-up project in terms of
strengthening the sections established under SCIP I. Greater emphasis would
be laid on processing research, farming systems research, and research
liaison and training. The training of factory managers would need to
receive a high priority so as to guarantee efficient utilization of new and
rehabilitated coffee factories. There would also be a need to establish a
"farmers services section" that would deal vith soil and leaf analysis
samples from the farms for appropriate advice.
(b)    Extension
The coffee extension services were well attended to due to
increased vehicles and recurrement budget for extension
services within Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry also
appointed coffee extension officers in all the major coffee
growing districts even where the project was not originally
anticipated to cover. The Intensified coffee extension
services by Ministry of Agriculture staff were supplemented
by the expanded liaison and Advisory services at Coffee
Research Foundation, thus making it very effective. .ith the
introduction of Training and Visit (T&V) program, some
districts gave impression that coffee extension work may have
suffe-ed, although this is yet to be verified. Although the
National Extension program (T&V) has been successful in many
districts, the following points should not be ignored:
1.     Field days and barazas should continue as they teach
More farmers at a time.



- 14 -
2.     The T&V should also emphasize on coffee even in less
coffee growing districts.
3.     The plantations should also be covered under T&V.
4.     Coffee processing at factory level should be
incorporated in T&V. Now emphasis is more on coffee
husbandry on the farms but not factory processing.
5.     Since the TAs giving the message to the farmer cover
many enterprises, less time is spent on coffee, and
therefore inadequate coffee extension services. This
means that more field days and barazas on coffee in
addition to the T&V farm visits should be organized to
overcome this bottleneck. It is, however, sufficient
to say that the project achieved its original
objective in terms of improving coffee extension
services.
3.044 Training
The SAR envisaged that quite a large number of farmers would be
trained, during the life of the project as can be seen in the table below:-
Table 3: Training Targets & Achievement
1    CATEGORY                           STF            ACHIEVSENTF BY 
APPRAISAL    1 1986/87                 I
| TARGETS       l                         I
I    Coffee factory Manager at       I              I                          I
|    Farmers Training Centres        | 1,180         1 )2,280 coffee           I
I _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___   |  )Factory   I
I                               _                   1  )Managers               1
|    Coffee Factory Manager at       |              | )trained at FTCs,        l
|    Coffee Research Foundation      |     26       |  )CRF & Co-op. College I
|    and co-operative college        l              l
1    Factory clerks and recorders    T    560      1       1,486               1
I    Farmers                         17 ,00             105,015                l
I    Ministry of Agriculture staff T (16 courses) 1       1,291                1
1                                    1              1    2 under O(IP          I
|    Ministry of Co-operative        | Not shown      I 1 senior SCIP          l
I                                    |                I 1 meeting SCIP         l
1.    _._     _ _   _ _   _ __       I  _  _    _        _   _    _   _    _   
I    Others (Union/Society)          r              l                          I
|    Managers & Committee Members    |    800       |      2,105               1
Source: PMU/SCIP (Annex III)



- 15 -
The SAR targets were superseded by the end of the project in
1986/87. Training on coffee processing has been sometimes difficult in that
it incorporates both management and practical skills of processing which
sometimes have been difficult to impart on the students due to the timing
and location of the courses. It would be imperative for the courses to be
held at a venue where both technical and practical management skills can be
covered. The experience in SCIP I was that factory managers' courses that
were held at Co-operative College were less effective than those courses
that the College conducted in the field in terms of acquiring the skills of
coffee processing.
The system of conducting a three stage training program for factory
managers was found to be unworkable, i.e. that preliminary course at an FTC;
then those who "qualify" would be trained at the second stage at CRF; and
finally a third stage of training would be carried out at the Co-operative
College for those who "qualified" at CRF. The co-ordination between FTC,
CRF and Co-operative College on this program proved to be quite difficult -
even after the formation of PMU/SCIP.  Finally it was found prudent for each
training institution to recruit its candidates irrespective of whether they
had done first or second stage of training. The question of factory
managers' training will need to be addreased to fully under SCIP II so as to
work out clear guidelines on how it could be carried out given its
importance in enhancing proper utilization of the coffee factories.
The training of farmers should be confined to the fields as much as
possible (field days, barazas, education tours etc.) and very minimum in
house courses. This will be in conformity with the experience of SCIP I,
whereby in-house training for farmers proved ineffective due to very low
coverage. The supply of inputs for demonstration plots that were started
under SCIP I was latter discontinued due to its shortcomings. It was found
out that some of these inputs ended up in the hands of farmers that were not
originally within the demonstration programs. In addition, the selection of
the recipients was influenced by factors that were sometimes not conducive
to a good demonstration, thereby ending up being ineffective. Morever, the
neighbouring farmers that were supposed to benefit from such plots often
argued that for them to adopt the new technology, they would also need free
iuputs. It is however believed that demonstrations would be necessary in
future project, provided the farmers availed the necessary inputs while the
extension staff only provided the necessary technical advice. The training
and visit program within Ministry of Agriculture should also cover the
training of coffee extension staff while being supplemented by the expanded
Research Liaison and Advisory Services Department at CRF.
Training of co-operative Ministry staff should be confined to
Co-operative College and annual seminars to cover relevant courses and
schedules. Practical on the job courses and Management oriented courses
should be considered in the next project for these staff. Induction courses
for new entrants into MDCD for introduction to the type of responsibilities
to be handled by the officers should also be organized at Co-operative
College. Other co-operative movement staff should also undergo management
oriented courses preferably at Co-operative College. The lower cadres
should be trained at the district/provincial level, with the involvement of
co-operative college staff.



- 16 -
A special mention should be made regarding the training for "coffee
experts" 1I within the coffee trade. This category of manpower is currently
quite limiting, and where It is available, it is mainly non-Kenyan. With
the declared Government policy of in indigenising the economy, then the
training of Coffee Experts" should be given a very high priority. The
Coffee Board of Kenya will have to take the lead in this respect.
In addition, the training of factory technicians and engineers in
contract supervision, costing of project and design will need to be
emphasised in future. Training of national headquarters staff from relevant
implementing agencies in terms of international coffee marketing;
educational tours to other producer countries; liquoring; and management of
coffee plantations were still deficient throughout the project
implementation. The project did not axplicitly provide for these category
of training courses but they have now been identified as quite essential.
It is therefore recommended that these courses be considered in any
follow-up projects.
Two overseas courses were however organized in the course of the
project. The first one undertaken in 1979/80 was an educational tour to ICO
Headquarters in London and to Brazil and Columbia involving four officials
of the MOA and one officer from the Coffee Board of Kenya. The second one
was a coffee marketing seminar held in 1985 in Europe where two officials
from Pmu/SCIP and one official from Co-operative College participated. The
two courses were quite beneficial to the participants since they served as
"eye-openers" to the participants thus enabling them to appreciate the
intricacies of international coffee trade. This also broadened their
knowledge and exper'ence in matters pertaining to global coffee policies
that have direct impact on Kenya's coffee production and marketing
strategies.
3.045   Co-onerative Management Improvement Pro ect (CMIP)
The need for a Co-operative Management Improvement Project (CMIP)
was identified in December 1984 by a joint Government of Kenya and IDA
supervision mission for SCIP. The Mission then recommended that some SCIP
funds could be re-allocated from the farm credit component to this project.
The main objectives of the project were:-
(i)    to establish and diagnose management related problems and
constraints within co-operative societies.;
(Ui)   to develop suitable management systems for co-operative
societies;
(iii) to develop suitable management system that would ensure
proper functioning of Ministry of Co-operative Development
field staff charged with the responsibility of supervising
and advising the co-operative societies.
1/      The (offee Act defines a Coffee Expert as "a person with sufficient
knowledge of experience properly to conduct the business of coffee
trade". In practice the coffee experts normally have a combination
of two or more of the following expertise:
Liquoring, Roasting, Marketing - both local and export.



- 17 -
The project had a delay of one year, and therefore started is
1986/87, mainly due to delays in finalizing the design and agreements which
lead to being caught up in a different budgetary cycle. The budgetary
provisions were, however, adequate for the two years - i.e. 1986/87 and
1987/88.
The pilot project started quite vigorously, with local courses, and
a tour to India for project officers in January 1987. Consultancy services
were also hired to carry out the training nee6s of the pilot project and the
possible follow up project. The first phase of CHIP was completed in June
1987. Its findings emphasize on key management problems and how they can be
solved. The second year of the project has seen less activities than the
first one. This is mainly due to some transfers of staff dealing with the
project.
Although it is quite early to make major conclusions on the impact
of this project, the impressions already gained by Ministry of Co-operative
Development are:-
(i)    that given the necessary initial post-graduate on the job
training the Ministry of Co-operative Development field
officers would be better equipped in terms of concentrating
on management issues and endeavour to streamline the
management of co-operative societies;
(ii)   it was found necessary to train the "trainers", may be at
Co-operative college level, for then to be more efficient in
t-ansmitting the same knowledge to management committees and
the co-operative management staff as well.
With this initial impressions, Ministry of Co-operative Development
vould like to work out a second phase of GMIP for co-operative management
using the lessons learned from the pilot phase. Such a program is expected
to begin in 1988/89 and would provide a basis for a possible national
program of CMIP. The Ministry of Co-operative Development considers such
CMIP as a priority project since it would aim at streamlining both
management systems of Ministry of Co-operative Development staff and
Management capability of Co-operative societies.
3.046 The Coffee Sub-sector Study
The Government of Kenya through the Ministry of Agriculture (KOA)
and Ministry of Co-operative Development (MOCD) designated a team of
consultants to carry out a coffee sub-sector study, based on agreed terms of
reference. The funding of this exercise was made through SCIP project. The
original target for this study was June/July 1986, but it was not until
November 1986 that the study got initiated. This delay was mainly
associated with problems in hiring the services of the consultants. This
was mainly due to the necessity of MOA and MOCD to have the necessary
clearance from the Project's Steering Committee to engage local consultants
as well as to define the actual role of public servants as consultants,
including the decision on the level of their remunerations.



- 18 -
The main objective of the study was to evaluate critically the
current and probably future coffee production and marketing constraints with
a view to recommending to the Government both short term and long term
solutions of these constraints.
The draft report of the consultants was presented to the Government
on 13th May, 1987. The Government then appointed a Technical Review
Committee (TRC); composed of senior officers, to review the report in order
to facilitate a detailed review of the report by the SCIP Project's Steering
Committee. The TRC completed its work sometimes in early January 1988,
having made several suggestions to the conaultants, to facilitate the
presentation of their final report. The consultants presented their final
report in late January, 1988, which is now ready for distribution by the
government after the sanctioning of the Project's Steering Committee. It
must be mentioned here that the process of reviewing the sub-sector study
report by the TRC took longer than would have been anticipated. Likewise
the process of sanctioning the report by the PSC has taken longer than
anticipated. The implication of these delays is that the preparatory work
for SCIP I} may be delayed as well. This is because the design of some
components under SCIP II will rely heavily ot. the outcome of PSC comments on
the recommendations of the sub-sector report. Morever, those designing the
components that need to be cleared by several agencies, will find it a
little bit difficult to discuss such components exhaustively with the policy
formulation organs of such agencies before the PSC gives its blessing to the
recommendations of the sub-sector report.
The assessment of the sub-sector draft final report revealed that
the study presented eleven major recommendations which could be classified
into three major categories:-
(i) recommendations which require Governments policy and
administrative decisions;
(ii)  recommendations that require further detailed study prior to
implementation;
(iii)  recommendations that require immediate administrative
implementation.
The specific proposals and actions to implement the recommendations
at least in the initial phase, could be supported through the proposed SCIP
II, which is currently under preparation. In this regard, it would be in
order if the Government makes the necessary decisions on tne
policy/administrative recommendations as outlined above. It is therefore
prudent for the Government to communicate officially with the agencies
concerned various recommendations that will require such agencies attention
for their appropriate actions. This will, of course, be after the
Government's acceptance of the recommendations in the first place, a thing
that necessitates having a PSC meeting as a matter of urgency, to sanction
these actions. As soon as this happens the concerned agencies would embark
on the implementation of the recommendations which are now ready, and
initiate the necessary studies which would work out the implementation
requirements and related details. Such an agreed framework and approach for
the development of future coffee industry also will make it possible to
finalize the sound design of the proposed SCIP II and to implement
effectlvely the specific actions required.



- 19 -
be Sb-6ector Sbuy Report ao     i bLe   a very   o---se report, whih ulil be
vry uef ul to tie coffee industry both in tie sburt nm as uvei as in tie ]m  ru. It wl
sere as a usefil refrevee for thow delrv with Keya's 0bffee developiet poies ald
progtus for samti   to come.
3.05  Pnon     (wt, FlnMri,g Disbnrsint anl hdiitin
3.05L  L   o    t
Est13hted project cost at project cculetimi are estimated to be R5h 493.7 mlUiun,
*1ch is about 995 of the origimnl osts estimated in tie Se& In US$ equivaent, baAwer,
finAl project costs are abij US$ 37.0 iaioU, *hich Is sb6tmtisly balm the originl
asasued in the SAR (i.e. t marly 6a1 of US$ 62.2 mUilhon). Ihs difftreae Is 1aApey du to
tie sigfcant dev1itlhm of tie eRya     iling relativpe to tie S dolla , goiDg frn atn
e         rate of 8:1 in L979 to 16.95:1 in 1987. For pposesof      plf asiwltarpt of
tie revised project tie Yena shillirg fi   is tie reevant f1gre. A mjor ressm tie cost
are dam to tie origimial etmates is becau  tie project period ma etmi by fair yeas,
atbxugh tie fil dis           wre copleted by Deceber 3L, 1987, or ine  nwtbs beyond tie
closing date of Mrch 3., 1987.  able 5 am*ir s tie project costs according to project
canpo¢1t, anu Awe   M prvides furtier detais according to t  ears of tie project
TAle 5: SiMy of Pkoject- 0sts (Appaisal vs PE. Fsimtes)
OME~~JS (I  APHAISAL MIWd         AM1ALCPR                1UAL AS Z
lSh M      %    1B$ M    Shb M      %  ON      (RI       (IUS
teM93)    WMn)
1. Facory Dewaiwm      301.0    60.5    37.7    367.5   74.4    27.6   122.1     73.1
2. 1an n pots (2)      188      27.9    17.2    30.0    6.1     2.2     2L.6    12.8
3. GffeelReseah         16.8     3.4     2.1    20.0    4.1     1.5    118.7     72.3
4. Mii. of Agicultue    24.8     5.0     3.2    486     9.8      3.6   195.7    115.7
5. WL. of OD-%. Dev.    14.9     3.0     1.9    22.8    4.6     1.7    152.8    87.4
6. Cb-p. Bamk of Ye1y    L3      0.3     0.1     4.9    L0      0.4    389.9    30&5
L      ST            WM97.6  100.0    62.2    93.7  10        70   3    9 .:  59.3
Notes:
UFf     Bealdau1 of actual costs accoring to ca;t us not avaiable.
(2)    Tn 1904/85 tie fam inputs anpoxent was 
Soe: MJR/S
The Project's largest caS cunea   ts t   actory coaneot, coairsn abot 74.4%
of estinted acti cost. in te SAR, tis camea       ma about 6(1 of the costs. A caVarism
of tie ave   ag   e   unit costs for factory iiproveai t and        betmi tie SAR aal
PCR reals that tie atal cost wer abot 8: hiir in real          dm asane in the SAl
(% 66i5,00 vs. 1,22D,000, in 1987/88 cmstazt prices). Tn pert, this a  te differwu
ref tles the largpr n   of    D fwtoraes aid tie higie cost of rawation t   s   l at aw d at
appmisal. As already  icatei iu para 3.03, tie most sigzficant uzwzioese bip In coswt
for a prtlailar couent ms due to the mlictio iu the scce of tie fam    ipts ca*nmt.
The actual cost me  abo.t RKh 30 iniflSm which is wll belr tie SAR tmget of raly R5b 140
m11lli.   1e ress     for thibs claz  ar dismiasse in pa. 3.042.



- 20 -
1032       ,
Ibe project ws finsared by Cb-opeativs, IM, (DC and the Gberiuet of 1wy. Tblie 6 smias
the esttiated actid filwKing of the project accordig to mjor cormet. Abmut 66.C9 of the project costs
ivolved m on lain  fra the Govenut t to the Crop Bank in aordame with prevailing teu and alitiws.
Factory lawns totalsl abxut 1Sh 296 muUtion on the follvlng   : 111 Interest per year, 1.5 years grace
wA 10 yars repaymi icludl      gmce  period. Pa  input los totaled Rh      mil±Ucm cm the folIladA
tems: 11% interest per year, 4 years gmce, aod repayment over 7 years inmudit giee period al nly payment
of Interest dcing periods of gn. Sixe tese lon fids to the participatIng o-Patixe aocietie        ard
fano.s are bein dWmted at 'sw    e fra   the coEfee paywats lsamd by the Coffee Board, thlaJ the (b-op
Bank, the recovery levels taw bem almost 10Y. The ramning 344X af the funds wre alloated to the
cirting a    g8xdes cm grant t       In accorance with estbhliel Q3wern t Mgetary prooedues. As
inlicat  In pera 3.02, oe of the ain reasons for the prject's problas and delays ts due to h1lsquite
blftary alloations.     hs probli was not overcame autil after 1984/85. Acodilngly, the bik of the
project exaitus mmre inawred after this year (i.e. 56; of total cost). Aso, in       cam, there wre
s     problm  in mkdng the fur avlable to the p      ivt ating a&ies prior to izirrig the epuxliurs.
such as in the case of the ORF.
he major chazge in the actual financIrg plan fr  the SAR plan inolved the caellatin of W 15.O
mllion fran the oril mI credit of US$ 27.0 m     ic. In part, this redutit  was due to the sinificant
devalatimn of the KAiya shlig relatve to the US doll   ad to the prbla    in tiizig fiis for farm
iputs. Ilrefore the reduction was mde In the farm inputs caumnt.
hhle 6: SCIPMR Sumry of Rcoject FMME!        (Kgh m111.ca)
Qipxi (1)             Co-p-                                              -------..
Societes        %    MA       %       CCG                      X   Total x
L Factory IhEilopUei     71.5     19.5     9.9    25.9    1565     42.6     44.6   1M.    367.    10D.0
2. Farm npts              -        -       2&5    95.0      -       -        L5     5.0    30.0   100.0
3.       Reseawh          -        -        0.6    3.0      -      -        19.4   97      20.0   t00.0
4. Mi.1stry of Agri.      -        -       17.1   35.2      -       -       31.5   64.8    48.6   100.0
5. MInistry of C0-Tp.Dav.  -       -      17.3    76.0      -      -         5.5   24.0   22.8    100.0
6. (b-p. Bak of Kerya     -        -        (L8   16.3      -      -         4.1   83.7     4.9   100.0
mm                    71.5      -      159.2    -      156.5     -      106.6    -     497       -
z OF 2Y L             14.5       -      .2.2    -        31.7    -       21.6    -     100       -
(1)    Detaled bwakdain of finanin   was not aallable for caDpmnts 3-6. 1herefore, the allotion
accrding to sources of finance mns base  on avaiable infao tim and jizgent.
3.053  Dlsb_reME_t
De ds            of the project funds frmn Ma ad  c started off bhid the scRdule of SAR target
minly due to the slao project start-up. Ihe rate of  iJ    ts,      ver picked up in the latter years due
to the faster rates of expenditure reflecting faster rate of project    a     (Amx III). Ihe first tm
yes of tle project, hid nil CDC dibursent,     t within the 1981/82 the project clalnd the first
abstaatil raeiousement fin f    and (CDC CAi  III). The amal vite of project dtsbusemits In 1986/87
rose to abmt doule that realised in th se ozl aad thid years of the project. It must be mentione that
the intro&wtim of direct relmhmrsamet syste, cpld with th e      stahUs t of FU did !laeed hasten the
wates of preparing            c clai  very nxh.



- 21 -
The claims were, thus, much smaller in magnitude, but were much more
frequent. This improved the cash flow position both at the Exchequer and at
Co-op Bank of Kenya levels.  The experience gained at PHU and Co-op Bank of
Kenya in dealing with reimbursement claims will be very valuable for any
future follow-up projects. It is proposed that more officers within the
parent ministries be trained and exposed In this field since it was quite a
bottleneck at the beginning of both IADP and SCIP projects.
3.054    uditing of&UJret
The project was not subjected to specific audits every year other
than the normal aidits carried out for the Government institutions and those
carried out for Co-operative Bank of Kenya and Coffee Research Foundation.
This was as per credit agreements. The audit reports were, however, delayed
although the delay was not more than that effecting all other Government
audit reports and was not of major concern.
3.06    Psocuremegt
The prec-urement of all goods and services under the project was done
as per the appraisal report and credit agreement. Except the first lot of
vehicles that were bought in 1979/80, through international competitive
bidding, all the other services and items were bought through local
competitive bidding. There were no major bottlenecks in construction of
buildings at Coffee Research Foundation but as has been stated elsewhere in
this report, construction of factories experienced some delays associated
with inexperienced and incapable contractors. This problem was, however,
minimized by ensuring that only "Registered contractors" with Ministry of
Agriculture and Ministry of Works qualified for such jobs. In addition, the
contractors that were late in delivering their goods or services could not
qualify to take up new contracts.
The procedure of procuring consultancy services seemed to take
longer than always anticipated. These was experienced for the coffee
sub-sector study as well as for PCR. Once the consultants were hired, they
were quick to start off the work and complete it. But the machinery to
evaluate and to sanction drafts for final preparation and typing seemed to
have taken longer than anticipated. This was partly due to the busy
schedules of those involved in the evaluation exercise as well as due to
lack of funds for typing of the drafts. It would have hastened things if
specific deadlines were set for review process while at the same time
providing the consultants with adequate funds to hire secretarial services.
3.07    Adherence to Covenants
The covenants reached between the Government of Kenya and the donors
were strictly adhered to. There were, however, some cases of minor
deviations, which were explained by all parties in the course of project
implementation; i.e.
(i)    The project implementation schedule, originally agreed to
start on 1st July 1979 to March 31, 1984, was changed due to
reasons already explained. The new project period was then
extended, and run from 1/7/79 to 31/3/87.



- 22 -
(ii)   The Credit Agreement required that Annual Work Plans (AWP) be
prepared by March 15 each yea: Wefore the beginning of the
financial year. Annual work plans for 1979/80, 1980/81 and
1981/82 which were prepared before the beginning of these
financial years turned out to be over ambitious and the
Government was not able to finance these programs as
envisaged. It was therefore agreed in 1981/82 that AWPs for
ensuring years should first be presented in draft to the
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee and then have AWP
targets finalized in August after the availability of funds
for the project had been confirmed in the budget. This
arrangement was found to be satisfactory. This linking of
funds available to the work plan target enabled the
production of AWP which consolidated the uncompleted work
carried forward from previous years.
(iii)  ProJect Management was also not carried out as per agreement
before the formation of PDU/SCIP. After the establishment of
PMU, the Project Management arrangements worked out
satisfactorily and as per credit agreement, whereby the
Government was supposed to appoint a full time manager.
(iv)   According to the Credit agreement separate project accounts
were to be established and maintained by the Ministries and
agencies involved in the project.  This was, however, not
possible du-ring the earlier project years and the Mid-Term
Review of 1984 made a number of recommendation to simplify
the accounting and audit requirements of the Credit Agreement
while Improving the accountability of the project. Under the
new arrangement, the PMU was to centralize and submit
project-wide accounts of the individual ministries and
agencies involved in the project. This would relieve these
institutions from having to submit individual and separate
accounts for the project. The requirement for separate
audited accounts from the co-operatives would be waived since
project payments to cooperatives by CBK are subject to audit
at CBK level. CBK would continue to submit its audited
accounts as in the past.
(v)    The credit agreement requires that the PCR be submitted to
the Bank within six months after the closing date, or any
other date that would be agreed upon between the Bank and the
6OK. The closing date of the project was 31/3/87, with the
final disbursement date being 31/12/87. Due to some delays
in engaging the consultants for PCR work, coupled with lack
of a strong monitoring and evaluation se"tion within
PMU/SCIP, it was not possible to finalize the PCR work
earlier than six months after the final disbursement date.



- 23 -
4.0     A   IU=1OfAML& PEUIQBMAN
4.01    Organization Aspects
At the time of project appraisal, it was quite clear that there was
a need to have a well co-ordinated national organ which would deal with
project related problems and work out both short term and long term
solutions to these problems. This forum was seen to be adequately provided
through an inter-ministerial co-ordinating committee i.e. the IADP. The
Permanent Secretary, MOA was the Chairman of the committee. It was also
envisaged that the IADP would harness the energies of other agencies dealing
with coffee (i.e. KPCU, CBK and CRY etc.) in an effort to resolve any of the
policy related problems. On reflection, this did not happen. The CBK, and
KPCU were rarely involved at the National IADP meetings. In addition it was
realized that the IADP National and District committees were quite
ineffective in co-ordinating and implementing SCIP (Annex I).
Although it was anticipated that a project Manager based vithin lADP
Headquarters and within MOA would be appointed to Head the implementation of
the project the Government appointed a project co-ordinator instead. Hence,
the day to day operations of the project were left in the hands of
middle-management staff i.e. SCIP-coordinators, one from MOA and the other
one from MOCD. This arrangement was not satisfactory, and until the project
Management Unit for SCIP was formed, the National Project Co-ordluators
lacked sufficient authority to resolve some problems that were of
inter-ministerial or inter-agency nature. This caused great delays in the
implementation of the proJect.
4.02    X(nitoring and Evaluation
A monitoring and Evaluation Unit based at Ministry of Agriculture
Headquarters was established under the IADP umbrella. This Unit was
supposed to monitor and Evaluate the performance of all the projects under
the IADP umbrella, including SCIP.
Unfortunately, this Unit was not effective in terms of gatherina
information on time, evaluating it and giving the appropriate advice to
other implementing officers or the decision makers at Ministry Headquarters
for their appropriate action. The Unit also laid great emphasis on
evaluation of other IADP projects other than SCIP. The SCIP project was
therefore left without adequate support in terms of monitoring and
evaluation of the unit was concerned. This resulted in the having the SCIP
coordinators to formulate guidelines on how the districts could report the
progress of implementation on mainly factory and training components. This
arrangement was rather weak, due to shortage of staff at Headquarters. to
follow-up these reports and compile them on continuous basis.
With the establisbment of PW/SCIP, a provision was made for the
planning section. One of its major responsibilities was to carry out
monitoring and evaluation of the project on a day to day basis.
Unfortunately, the staff posted to the Unit had to leave due to promotions
and the project seems to have suffered greatly.
Due to lack of a strong monitoring and evaluation section the
PMU/SCIP, the PCR data took slightly longer to collect and compile. The
collection of these data would have been relatively easy if it had been done



- 24 -
on a continuous basis, during the SCIP implementatiou period. It is
therefore important to note that this element of reporting, monitoring and
evaluation should be taken care of in any future projects to avoid a repeat
of SCIP experience.
4.03 Prolect Uananement Unit
The PMU for SCIP was established in 1984185 (Annex I). The day to
day operations of the project were placed under a Project Manager who had
sufficient autnority and resources for project implementation. Above the
Project Manager were the Project Working Group (PWG) and the Project
Steering Committee (PSC) vhose Chairman were the PS, MOCD and PS, Office of
the President respectively. The PWG assisted the Project Manager In
resolvtng mainly operational issues, while the PSC assisted In resolving
mainly policy issues. This arrangement seemed to work quite satisfactorily,
although it was sometimes difficult to convene a meeting of the PSC due to
other urgent commitments of its members (Annex I).
By the closure of the project, the role of th*e PS, OP ceased, and
the chairmanship of the PSC reverted to the PS, MOCD.
It would be important to ensure that the Co-ordination does not fall
back to the level of the IADP coordinating committee if any future projects
were to succeed. The best optiou would be to have the Office of the
President chairing at least one PSC meeting per year. The second
alternative of ensuring that the PSC and PWG remain as effective as before
is possibly by having both PS, MOCD and PSJ MOA being alternate Chairmen of
the PSC. The Director of Agriculture and CCD would be alternate Chairmen of
the PWG. This arrangement would allow the two ministries to chair these two
very important committees and ensure that both Ministries take full
responsibility of decisions taken by these committees. This feeling of
responsibility and accountability would also be transmitted to the
implementing officers, and thus hasten the pace of implementation.
This factor is very important particularly when it is iP.ilised that
the second coffee improvement project will be used as a vehicle for
resolving various policy related issues, other than just dealing with
implementation of physical targets only. Consequently the attention and
involvement of both MOA's & MOCD's top decision makers in SCIP II is quite
necessary. Further and detailed discussions on the roles, functions, and
composition of PSC and PWG will be absolutely necessary before the beginning
of SCIP II.
It should be emphasised that PHU/SCIP is not another institution and
should never be allowed to drift towards becoming one. PMU/SCIP is just a
centre of operation, whose officers have sufficient authority delegated to
them by their respective ministries, so as to deal with day to day
operations relating to the project. These officers should never be allowed
to drift away from their respective divisions at both NOA Headquarters and
MOCD Headquarters - otherwise the unit may run the risk of being alienated
by the parent ministries. It is therefore important for PMU Manager to
delegate sufficiently to the Head Technical Sectiov. and the Head Co-op
Section functions and allow them to consult freely with their respective
chiefs of Divisions at MOA and MOCD on behalf of the Manager. To do
othervise, is to turn PMU into an institution, which was not, and hopefully



- 25 -
still not, the intention of setting up the Unit.  The posts of Head
Technical Section and Head Co-op Section should be filled by sufficiently
senior and experienced officers to enable the Project Manager delegate
sufficiently.
4.04    Performance of Other Part,cipating Agencies
(i)    IADP Co-ordinatinx Committee at the Districts
At the District level, it was anticipated that the IADP
coordinators and the coffee extension officers would deal
with the problems of extension, training and supervision of
the lending components. The main emphasis was laid to the
fact that the IADP committees at the districts would
implement the project. In reality, the district IADP
coordinating committee were quite ineffective, largely due to
lack of proper direction from Headquarters. The vacuum
created by this weakness was filled by the District Coffee
'dorking Groups (DCWG's) which have both DAO and DCO as
alternate Chairmen (Annex II).
The DCWG's gained prominence and continued to be quite
effective in terms of project implementation and
particularly, with the abolition of IADP unit and the
formation of PMU/SCIP.
Any future coffee projects would need to lay greater emphasis
in strengthening the DCWG's through Provision of proper
guidelines and possibly its consideration for legal
recognition within the Coffee Act (Annex II).
(ii)   Other PQarticiyatia_Azencies
The anticipated strengthening of Coffee Research Foundation,
MOCD, Co-op Bank and the Ministry of Agriculture in terms of
additional resources - vehicles, increased recurrent budget,
for extension and training, and additional staff - was by and
large achieved.
There was, however, a problem in acquiring sufficient coffee
factory engineers initially, but this problem was overcomed
after the formation of PMU.
Staff turnover at District Level, as well as at Headquarters
was minimal, other than where staff moved due to promotions,
resignations, or retirements.
The annual work plan preparation and review was quite effective in
setting out the project targets annually. Thia exercise was quite
involving, but was found to be very necessary. It should be emphasised here
that it took some time, about 3 years - before the Headquarters staff could
be in a position to guide the DCWG's on the type of budgetary ceilings to
expect, and thus be effective in reducing the targets to realistic levels.
But after this problem was overcomed, the Headquarter staff from PKU/SCIP
and the Co-op Bank of Kenya became very effective in guiding the districts
on the level of funding to expe^'t, and thus enabled the districts to plan
more effectively, by providing realistic targets.



- 26 -
The unions and co-operative societies were effectively involved at
district work planning and review forums. Through the revision of SCIP
guidelines, and by organizing seminars and workshops for MOA, MOCD, Co-op
Bank of Kenya, and CRF officials, the contrcts supervision was
strengthened. The contractors improved their performance in terms of
quality of work and delivery time.
The inability of some co-operative societies to pay 25% of the total
project cost of factory construction/rehabilitation caused some delay. This
was mainly so in the initial three to four years, but latter on, the
societies had been tuned to planning for this cost before or as soon as they
applied for the SCIP loans. The problem could/even be reduced further if
the contribution could be done in kind, or if factory site were to form part
of the 25% contribution.
4.05    IDA & CDC Performance
Both IDA and CDC performance was satisfactory throughout the project
period. There were, however, variations of emphasis during the life of the
project. Between 1979 and 1982 both IDA and rDC laid great emphasis on the
need for achievement of the physical targets, and were relatively less
responsive to the need to look for alternative solutions to solve the main
constraints which were, inadequate budgetary provision, relatively
inexperienced project co-ordinators, ineffective IADP co-ordinating
committee, lack of timely communication between the Headquarters and the
District Coffee Working Groups in terms of expected budgetary ceilings and
inadequate number of engineers within the districts and Headquarters.
After 1982 the donors laid much more emphasis towards looking for
alternative solutions to the main problems affecting the project other than
the solutions prescribed in the appraisal report. The project management
unit was proposed to take over from IADP co-ordinating committee; the direct
reimbursement procedure was introduced to solve the budgeta y problem; and
more problem 3olving supervision missions were undertaken in order to
resolve any short term problems that cropped up.
By the end of the project, and as a result of having the PfU/SCIP,
PSC and PWG, both donors and the Government have found it much easier to
deal with the project related problems due to clear responsibilities and
authority vested in each of these organs. This has been made much more
useful by carrying out Joint Government/Donor supervision missions and the
related Aide-Memoire, which provided a basis for discussions at PSC and PWG
levels. This trend of operation should be encouraged in any future cofiee
projects, involving donor financing.



- 27 -
5.0     OPERATING PERFMRMANCs OF SCIP COFFEE FACTORIES
5.01    Factory CaDacitv Utilization
The basic design of SCIP factories whether new, resited or improved
assumes an ananal throughput of 1,000,000 kg of cherry (about 150 tonnes of
clean coffee equivalent). The project assumed that each investment would
soon be utilized at 100l of its capacity in order for the coffee farmers to
realize its maximum potential benefits.  In practice, tne throughput of SCIP
factories averaged 104.7 tonnes of clean coffee equivalent during the first
three years after investment 1/. This level of utilization reflects about
70% nominal capacity. However, there was extreme variability in capacity
utilization, from as low as 13X of nominal capacity to a high as 156X of
nominal capacity. The very high levels of capacity utilization reflect
congestion during the peak cherry picking periods.
Hovever, available data suggest that only about a third of the
existing SCIP factories are operating at above 801 of their nominal
capacity. Many factors are believed to be responsible for the low levels of
capacity utilization, the major ones being:
(i)    In many cases, the societies showed preference for the
construction of ew_ factories rather than
improvement/expansion of existing ones. Reduction of
distances for carrying cherry by farmers was often a stroug
motive behind this preference.
(ii)   Most SCIP factories, even at low utilization levels, often
suffer seasonal congestion, i.e. during the two annual peaks
of cherry intake. These intake peaks vary considerably
between the coffee producing regions, and the nature of
congestion appears to be closely related to variability in
managemert capability.
The World Bank staff appraisal report (SAR) for SCIP I (1979)
estimated the benefits of investment in processing facilities on the basis
of 100% capacity utilization. Hence the observed variability in capacity
utilization, resulting in a 70% utilization level, must undoubtedly affect
the anticipated rate of financial and economic return on factory investments.
5.02    Tecbnologv and Facilities
The design of processing facilities supported through SCIP I is
based on the assumptions of:
(i)    Regulated cherry intake of upto 20,000 kg cherry per day.
(it)   Reasonably good drying conditions requiring about 8-12 days
of drying from wet to fully dry parchment.
(iii) Diesel engines for the 3 main power units.
1/      Based on data from a group of 15 factories from representative
coffee producing districts in Kenya.



- 28 -
In practice, cherry intake patterns covering 50X of the total crop
over a relatively short period of about 6 weeks are common, and this period
often coincides with the period when poor drying conditions is experienced.
Cherry intakes of upto 40,000 kg per day are not unusual during the peak
cherry intake period and this results in congestion at skin drying and final
drying, but the problem is particularly severe for the latter. This can
lead to lose in quality.
Several societies now appreciate the advantages of electric motors
over diesel engines; these include fewer breakdowns and lower operating
costs. Quite a number of societies have actually opted for electric power
in their investment packages during the implementation of SCIP I, especially
where the factories were reasonably close to the power mains.
5.03    Manaaement of Factories and Im-act on Ouality
The persistent seasonal factory congestion problems can be
attributed to mainly:
(i)    The weather conditions.
(Hi)   The production and supply patterns for cherry.
(iMi)  The need for additional technical improvements to the
existing facilities.
(iv)   Weaknesses in factory management.
(v)    Delayed pulping after harvesting.
It is believed that these reasons will continue to play a major role
in the future as well.
Contributory factors to poor management include:
o      lack of adequate seasonal hired labour;
o      lack of maintenance and upkeep of mechanical equipment,
leading to frequent breakdowns during the processing season;
o      poor budgetting and inadequate provision ^f factory materials;
o      need for regular technically qualified supervision of the
day-to-day physical management of the coffee factories.
Since the project impact on coffee quality was knovn to be very much
dependent on the quality of factory management, SCIP also provided for the
training of coffee factory managers, clerks and recorders.
The majority of coffee factories appear to have continued to
experience seasonal congestion despite the investments In the factory (or
processing) components, and this has been reflected directly in the
developments In coffee quality. A survey of 18 factories from
representative smallbolder coffee districts which are beneficiaries of SCIP
I indicates that about 22X of the factories registered an overall decline in
quality over the first 3 years of operation after benefiting from SCIP I



- 29 -
funds Vf. A further 39S of the factories registered only a small overall
Increase in quality while another 39X indicated little or no change in
quality. In fact the overall picture is that no significant change in
coffee quality was registered during the first 3 years after investments in
coffee processing facilities (see Annex V). The effect of adverse weather
in 1980 and 1984 must have had an adverse effect on coffee quality. The
actual developments in coffee quality profiles during the first 3 years
after factory investments do not quite tally with the World Bank SAR
expectation that there would be substantial increases In the proportion of
washed (clean) coffee falling in the top 2 groupings of coffee classes (i.e.
class 1-3 and 4-6 groupings) jnd, corresponding decreases in the proportion
falling in the bottom 2 groupings (i.e. classes 7-10 and Nbuni) within 2 to
3 years of the project. However, tne SAR was quick to point out that full
project impact may not be expected until year 10 of the project.
Hence the economic and financial analysis of the impact of SCIP I assumes
that full developments will be realized by year 10, and that the coffee
quality profiles are expected to improve during this development period.
5.04    Investment and Operating Costs
The SAl (1979) envisaged a total capital investment of KSh
199,720,000 plus a working capital (operating costs provision) of KSh
32,370,000 at 1979 prices for different types of factory investment models
as described in Annex IV. Unit investment costs Were anticipated to vary
between KSh 987,400 for new factory and KSh 140,800 for minor factory
improvements (Type 4 investment model).
By the end of SCIP I, the utilization of the factory component funds
was as follows:
(i)    Total project investment cost in coffee processing facilities
was KSh 367.52 million.
(ii)   Unit investment cost per new factory was KSh 1.41 million,
with a range of from KShs.1.18 million to KSh 1.58 million.
(iii)  Unit investment cost per resited factory was KSh 0.63
million, with a range of from KSh 0.34 million to KSh 0.75
million.
(iv)   Unit investment cost per renovated factory was KSh 0.63
million, with a range of from KSh 0.17 million to KSh 0.96
million.
SCIP funds provided for about 80X of the total cost. The rest was
paid out of society contributions. In all cases, costs are quoted in
1979/80 - 1986/87 nominal prices. Adjustments with appropriate price
indices to give 1979/f0 and 1987/88 constant prices and comparisons with SAR
I/      Including increased proportion of "mbuni" production, but such an
increase could partly be attributed to financial policy and
management of societies which creates little or no incentives for
quality coffee production.



- 30 -
estimated unit costs are given in Annex IV. Actual project costs relative
to SAR estimates were lower in the case of resited factories but higher for
both new and renovated factories.
The SAR envisaged that the factory processing costs would vary
between KSh 2.34 per kg of clean coffee at 50% factory capacity utilization
and KSh 1.44 per kg of clean coffee at 100% capacity utilization, taking
1979 constant prices. The overall assumption of SAR on processing costs was
that the operating costs would increase in real terms by RSh 0.26 to KSh
0.53 per kg of clean coffee equivalent, mainly as a result of incremental
costs operating the recirculation equipment and incremental staff.
In practice, the operating costs in Absolute terms increased from
RSh 1.87 per kg (1979 prices) to KSh 2.79 per kg (1983-1985 prices) of clean
coffee equivalent. In constant 1979 prices*, the operating Costs remained
more or less equal to the 1979 costs i.e. KSh 1.84 per kg of clean coffee
equivalent. Thus the anticipated increase in processing coats due to
recirculation and incremental staff was actually not significant. Given the
above observations, it would be expected that the average cost of re-siting
a factory will be more or less equal to that of renovation under SCIP II.
Similarly, the cost of processing is not expected to rise very significantly
as a result of renovations and incremental staff.
5.05    Factors Affecting Performance of SCIP Factories
As we have seen from the above analysis the actual performance of
SCIP factories was below the SAR targets in terms of expected improvement in
coffee quality and factory capacity utilization.
The main reasons behind these observations were due to inadequate
financial and physical management of co-operative societies; and to the
societies' strong desire to construct new factories close to farmers,
without considering adequately the increased coffee production to fully
justify the new factory.
It is therefore important to note that any future projects shoild
lay emphasis on two main areas: i.e.
(i) There should be greater emphasis in ensuring that both
financial and physical management of societies are improved
considerably for the project to realise optimum benefits from
present and future investments.
*       1983/85 price index is 1.5203 if 1979 price index is expressed as
1.000



- 31 -
(ii)  Greater emphasis should be geared towards having very clear
evaluation procedures and criteria for new investment
projects in terms of coffee factories. The need to establish
whether a new factory would get to at least 70% capacity
utilization should be emphasised. In addition designs of
different "model factories" for d!fferent capacities should
be developed to cater for different needs that have already
been identified under SCIP I. This vould reduce the risk of
over/under - investing in processing facilities for a given
area due to lack of adequate designs which could optimize
economic benefits.



- 32 -
6.0     PROJEGT BEEFITS AND ECONOMIC U-EVALUATION
6.01    Overview of Benetits
While the project has met various project targets and generate, some
substantial benefits, there was a significant shortfall in the expected
production eid economic benefits as foreseen in the SAR. The notable
shortfall refers to the amount of incremental production of coffee which can
be attributed directly to the project's farm inputs component. This
additional production is now estimated to be about 398 MT of clean coffee,
as opposed to 9,500 tons assumed in the SAR (or 4.22 of the original
target). AS indicated In para 3.032 this outcome was due to the design and
Implementation problems of the project's farm Inputs component.
Accordingly, the number of farmers benefitting directly from the
credit component was about 14,O000 (or 202), which is substantially less than
tbe SAR target of 70,000.  For those farmers beLefitting from the farm
inputs component, it is estimated that their financial returns to coffee
increased by an overall average of about 702, relative to "without" the
project, and therefore, contributing an important increase in their cash
farm income. Within this overall increase, there is range of increases
varyinz according to farmer. Purther details on the project's indicative
impact on production and farm incomes is provided in par& 6.05. The
project's training and extension components benefitted a large number of
farmers, r,acbing upto about 105,000 farmers.  At the time the project was
redesigne  in 1984, the training and extension components were dropped from
the proj ct, since the responsibility for providing this support to farmers
was tre aferred to the National Extension Project.
The estimated economic rate of return (ERR) on the coffee factory
component also fell short of the assumed target in the SAN (i.e. 7% instead
of 22%). However, the important conclusion of the PCR analyses is that the
ERN for a group of 15 factories (2 new; 3 rehabilitated) ranged from +52% to
-9%, with four factories having an EU exceeding 102 (the assumed
opportunity cost of capital in Kenya). It is this range which highlights
the potential benefits of the factory investments, provided certain measures
are carried out i.e. appropriate design of factory improvements, reasonable
level of factory utilization, improved cooperative and factory management
and supervision resulting in higher quality profiles, improved payments
system to cooperative sector (Annex VIII).
Other important benefits resulting from the project include
Increased employment and reduced river pollution resulting from the
construction of improved coffee facilities by the latter phases of the
project period, there were also benefits in the form of improved
institutional capacity to plan, evaluate and implement coffee factory
projects, particularly at the District level.
6.02    Prices and Market
Coffee prices and their close interrelationship with market factors
are major exogenous determinants of the project's eventual financial and
gconomic impact. This section will highlight the most relevant aspects of
the prices and markets as they affect the valuation of the project's
economic benefits, particularly for the coffee factory component.  The
overall conclusion is that the main price and market assessment and



- 33 -
assumptions used in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for valuing the
project's benefits are generally applicable for the Project Completion
Report (PCR). Namely: notwithstanding some price fluctuations to reflect
weather conditions of primarily Brazil, supply and demand trends are
expected to result in generally constant prices in real terms; the high
quality of Kenya's predominantly arabica coffee will be a major determinant
in ensuring Kenya's market and relatively attractive prices. Moreover,
since SCIP's start-up in 1980, there have not been any major changes in the
domestic pricing and marketing system. While the SCIP SAR recognized
various weaknesses in the payments system, particularly in the cooperative
sector, no project measures were included to improve the system. The Coffee
Subsector Study, which was launched as part of the redesigned SCIP, did
highlight the specific problems and approach to improving the payments
system. Further details on recent and expected future price and market
trends and the need for improving the coffee payments system for
smallholders in the cooperative sector are provided in the recently
completed Coffee Subsector Study.
Prices received by Kenya's farmers are initially and largely
determined by World Market levels for mild arabicas, and then by Kenya's
pricing and marketing system. During the period 1980-1987, world coffee
prices for "other mild arabicas" (reference price for Kenya's high quality
coffee) fluctuated between a high of US$ 429 cents/kg. in 1986 to a low of
US$ 220 cents/kg in early 1987. There was a significant rise in coffee
prices, primarily in 1986, but it was shortlived. However, since 1980
coffee price trends basically have remained fairly constant in real terms.
The gradual devaluations of the KSh during this period have contributed to a
modest increase of coffee prices in real tenms when expressed in Kenya
shilling. The Underlying demand and supply trends are expected to result in
relatively constant world market prices in real terms to the year 2000 (see
Annex VIII for world market and Kenya price trends). It is estimated that
Kenya's high quality coffee has resulted in a premium of about 10% over the
world market reference price for "other mild arabica" coffee. In future
years, it is expected that maintaining Kenya's high quality will continue to
be a major determinant in assuring the market outlets at attractive prices,
Whether there is a quota or non-quota system. The Current quota system
under the International Coffee Agreement (ICA), vhich was resumed in August
1987 after a lapse of about 1.5 years, is due to expire in September 1989.
Currently, it is not clear whether there will be a renewal of the ICA in
order to regulate world prices through the quota market.
6.03    Coffee Payment $ystem
Since project start-up in 1980, there has not been any significant
change in the domestic coffee pricing and marketing system. In the design
of SCIP, there was no specific measure to improve the payments system,
although the SAR recognized that delayed payments and relatively high
deductions in the cooperative sector were disincentives to smallholders. A
distinctive feature for both the cooperative and estate sectors is that
eventual payments to farmers are based on differential payments to ten
classes of clean coffee and to three classes of hulled mbuni. The coffee
Board keeps track of the prices each "class" of coffee fetches at the
auction and calculates corresponding payments to co-operative factories and
estates. In Annex VIII, the 1983/84 net payments from the CBK to XPCU
according to the various classes of coffee, are shown as an example. These



- 34 -
price differentials, together with the quality profile for any particular
factory, are the main determinants of the incremental benefits of SCIP's
processing facilities.
Once the price differentials are established for the various classes
of coffee the eventual price received by a farmer includes the following
initial deductions (as X of the payment from CBK to KPCU): export levy (a
progressive one, which ranged from 6% to 9% over the past 6 years); county
council cess (3%, until 1987, when the cess was reduced to 1%); milling
charges (averaging about 2% over the past 6 years). Therefore, on average,
over the past 6 years the above deductions have totalled about 10-15% of the
auction price. In addition, in the cooperative seotor, coffee societies
deduct various expenses from the coffee payment made by CBK to KPCU. These
deductions vary from one society to another, and even among factories in a
society, and inclu4e primarily deductions for processing of the cherry,
including operat'ng expenses of the factories, contribution to repayments of
the coffee factory loans, and marketing expenses. Over the past 6 years, it
is estimated that on average a smallholder receives about 85X of the amount
paid from the CBK to KPCU for such deductions, but with a wide variation as
indicated above. While in about 1986 there was a directive issued by the
Commissioner of Co-operative Development limiting the total deductions to
15%, in practice there are many societies where the the deductions are as
high as 30X. Therefore, on average, the smallholder has received about 72%
of the auction price, after taking into account all the deductions (Annex
VIII).
Another distinctive feature of the domestic pricing system is the
long delay before the smalIholder receives the initial and full payment for
his coffee after delivering the cherry to the factory. The current system
involves a aeries of payments i.e. initial payment, 4-6 interims; and a
final payment. These are spread over a period of 12-24 months after the
farmer delivers his cherry to the factory, whereas the initial payment is
frequently made 6-12 months, after cherry delivery.
One of the major recommendations of the Coffee Subsector Report is
to introduce an improved payments system for the co-operative sector,
whereby the distinctive features would be:
o      to provide the farmer's initial payment shortly after he
delivers the cherry to the factory;
o      and to channel the payments directly to the farmer through
Savings and Credit Co-operative Societies (SACCOs).
The SACCOs would serve as the financial intermediary, while the
current coffee co-operative societies would be responsible for the physical
handling and processing of the crop. Given that the coffee payment system
has been a major constraint to increased production and smallholder's
economic well-being, a major feature of SCIP II currently under preparation
is to support directly the introduction of an improved payments system. The
shortfall in the improvement of quality under SCIP suggests that specific
measures to improve the payment system in the co-operative sector may most
likely lead to improved coffee quality which would result into higher
benefits to the farmers and the processing component.



- 35 -
6.04    the beRiefits of Frm Input Component
6.041   Coffee Production and Xields
The assessment of coffee production and yield trends associated with
project was done through the analysis of data from a field survey that
covered some farmers who benefitted from SCIP farm Input credit. In the
analysis, three production levels of "low", "medium" and "high" Input usage
levels were compared to Models III, II and I in the Staff Appraisal Report
(SAR) of 1979. These production levels were representative of all
production areas as was assumed in the SAR (Annex V).
The project fell short of achieving the targetted yields in all
production levels except in year 1 for the "without the project" situation
whereby for all the three input usage levels, the "achieved production
levels" more than surpassed the SAR targets. This factor is mainly
attributed to availability of alternative sources of credit outside the
project.
The overall incremental production between years 1 and 4 "without
the project" was 23 kg. of clean coffee per hectare compared to 189 kg of
clean coffee per hectare between years 1 and 4 "with" and "without the
project".
The yield difference between years 1 "with" and "without the
Project" was 148 kg of clean coffee per hectare compared to 314 kg of clean
coffee per hectare in years 4. Consequently the overall incremental
production during the project was 231 kg of clean coffee per hectare.
The project aimed at rehabilitation an estimated 15,000 hectare. It
is however estimated that the project rehabilitated approximately 1,722
hectares of coffee. The overall incremental production over the projected
period of four years could therefore be estimated to be 398 tonnes of clean
coffee per year, which was about 4.2X of the SAR target.
6.05    Farmer's Income
The trends of farmer's incomes from "with the proJect" and "without
the project" scenarios were calculated using the same aurvey data used for
evaluation of the SCIP impact on yields and production. The details of
analysis on farmer's incomes are shown in Annex V.
In this exercise, all the "current" coffee payment prices and Input
prices were inflated to 1987/88 "constant" prices in order to make the
results of different years comparable.
In the low level of production the "without the project" years
recorded a higher gross-margin per hectare than the corresponding "with the
project" years. In the "with the project" year 4, there was an overall
shortfall in the expected gross margin per hectare compared to the target.
While the incremental gross margin per hectare was negative in the
"without the proJect" situation, it was KSha.2,335.25 "with the project".
This is attributed to yield differences between the two situations which vas
higher "with the project" than "without the project". On returna to labour,



- 36 -
the targetted gross margin per man-hour was higher than achieved in the low
level of production. However, Is most of the cases, the achieved return to
labour was not significantly different from the targetted ones.
It can then be concluded that the farmer's incomes were higher in
the "with the project" situation than "without the project" situation. This
was consistent with SAR expectations. This therefore means that the farm
credit component justifies its inclusion in any future projects since it
would most likely lead to improvements in farmers incomes, through increases
in production per unit area. It should be noted that, although the SCIP
farm credit resulted in considerably very high increases in farmers'
incomes, the problems associated with these components that were discussed
in para 3.042, hindered the uptake of this credit. Hence the necessity of
having a sound design of SCIP II farm credit cannot be over-emphasised.
6.06    Imoact of the Trainnal Component
The impact of the project on training was quite significant. The
figures shown under chapter 3.034 indicate that the project managed to train
about double the targetted number in the SAR.
As far as training of factory managers was concerned, the project's
impact can be gauged by the general improvement in coffee quality within the
country. The full benefits of this training may not have been realised by
the end of the project, but it is anticipated that the benefits will be
continuous for another five to ten years to come. Training for members of
the coffee working groups, through joint seminars and separate courses for
various cadres of staff and Management committees did enhance the technical,
management and administrative capabilities of the coffee working group
members. This in turn managed to improve the roles of the coffee working
groups in general, in their efforts to plan, evaluate, and implement the
project. This was more so in terms of:
o      evaluation of investment programmes with the districts,
through the annual work planning exercise carried out jointly
by district staff and Headquarters staff;
o      setting up priorities for each district, given the
constrained loan funds;
o      awarding of contracts and their effective supervision;
o      improved extension services for coffee;
o      improved research, extension linkage between the Coffee
Research Foundation staff and the general extension staff;
o      created greater awareness through the work of the Economics
section at CRF to the relevant agencies and farmers that
coffee farming must be seen as a business. In so doing, it
generated interest in the coffee industry such that the
industry is now more than any other time very conscious of
the effects of changes In production costs and other handling
and marketing costs.



- 37 -
Finally3 It can be stated that, although the Project's impact from
the training component would not be easily qualifiable, the subjective
evaluation of thls component shows that the component was quite beneficial
to the coffee industry. It would be imperative for a system to be
established under the SCIP II project which will provide for a continuous
assessment of the impact of training in all cadres. Such a system should
evolve clear criteria of assessment so that the exercise can be more
objective.
6.07    sarftnmental Imnp-t
Severe pollution of streams and rivers by pulp and toxic effluent
from coffee factories has, in the post, been a major problem in the coffee
growing areas. Stringent legislation has been in force since the 1970's
whereby it is an offence to allow pulp or effluent (process water) to reach
nearby streams. In addition water consumption regulations limit the
abstraction of water from streams to 24,000 litres per tonne of the coffee
processed. To meet these requirements a system of water recirculation is
required omptrising three units%
o      Skin separation.
O      Recirculation of proportion of the process water.
O      Percolation lagoons for disposal of toxic effluent.
All of the kew and improved factories have been provided with these
recirculation units and 56 old factories built close to streams have been
purposely resited so as to permit the installation of the recirculation
systems. Three beneficial effects have been achieved:
(i)    skin separation allows the collection of decomposed pulp for
use as manure by the farme.-s;
(ii)   the abstraction rates from streams by project factories have
been reduced from about 90,000 litres per tonne to about
24,000 litres per tonne of coffee processed;
(iii)  where previously upto 90,000 litres of polluted water per
tonne of coffee processed was being returned to nearby
streams, this has been reduced to almost zero (Annex IV)
(itv)  In wet processing of coffee, large quantities of coffee pulp
are produced. In the past, only a small proportion used to
be carried back to the farms by the farmers. The rest of
coffee pulp used to be dumped in seepage pits or heaps.
During the rainy season, the coffee pulp dumped in heaps used
to be carried to the rivers and other water sources by the
run-off water, causing serious water pollution problems, and
hence endangering the lives of people living downstream.
The average coffee pulp produced annually by factories owned
by the cooperative societies was approximately 143,000 metric
tonnes, with factories that were either built, resited or
renovated producing 87,230 metric tonnes of the coffee pulp
which yield an estimated 9,530 metric tonnes of plants
nutrients valued at approximately RSh 134 million.



- 38 -
The renovations, building and re-siting of coffee factories,
done during the last seven years have led to several major
advantages. These are environmental advantages viz
elimination of water pollution and re-circulation of major
and minor elements and monetary advantages in terms of
savings that vould otherwise have gone towards the purchase
of commercial fertilizers with an equivalent amount of
nutrients. The soils benefited from the resultant organic
matter that improved the humic content and provide, the
mulching effects to the coffee trees where the pul ',as
returned to the farms by farmers.
6.08    Economic Re-evaluatlon
An economic re-evaluation was carried out for the project's coffee
factory component, which comprised about 772 of the total project cost.
Although the SAR also included an economic evaluation of the farm inputs
component, it was not meaningful to re-estimate the ERR for this component.
It was substantially redesigned and reduced in scope in 1983/84, resulting
in only about 6% of total costs, rather than nearly 30X asEumed in the SAR.
Moreover, there was no systematic monitoring and evaluation system to
generate reliable data to determine the economic impact of the resulting
farm inputs component. The section on farm inputs impact (paras. 6.04-6.05)
however, do provide an indicative assessment of the production impact of
this component, given that it is more relevant to compare the production
impact vith the one assumed in the SAR, than estimating and comparing the
EnR on the redesigned inputs component.
6.09    Summary of Findinags
The PCR analyses concluded that the ERR for the overall factory
component is about 7%, based on a group of 15 coffee factories supported
under the project and selected for the PCR analyses. Of these 15 factories,
two vere new factories, and the remaining 13 were rehabilitated factories
While this overall result is well below the ERR of 22% estimated in the SAR,
the folloving factors should be considered in order to interpret the
findings in a meaningful manner:
(a)    the ERR va. ad widely according to factory, from - 9.5X to
+53.5%, with 11 factories having a positive ERR and 4
factories having an ERR exceeding 102, the assumed
opportunity cost of capital in Kenya (see Annex VIII Table 7,
for a summary of the results for each factory). It Is
therefore, more meaningful to present a range of results
rather than one point estimate;
(b)    an assessment of the factories with low ERRs suggest the
following main explanatory factors:
(i) in the initial 2-3 years following the improvements,
there were nil or negligible improvements in the quality
profiles relative to the "without" project scenarios. In
some factories, the without project scenario was better than
with project, which may be associated with construction
problems during the implementation phase. This reason is
probably the most important explanation for the low returns
on some factories and appears alsa to be closely associated



- 39 -
with inadequate factory management and supervision on
financial and physical aspects of the improved facilities.
Waak financial mapsgement, which was aggravated by delayed
coffee payments appeared to contribute to an increase in the
proportion of Mbuni over the pre-project years. In addition,
deficient physical management of the processing activities
partly explain the slow build-up of quality benefits. The
drought of 1980 and 1984 may also have contributed to an
increase in Mbuni;
(ii) there were relatively low factory capacity utilization
rates in comparison to the ones assumed in the SAR (an
average of 72% for the PCR factories compared to 100% assumed
in the SAR); the 2 new factories included in the economic
analysis had negligible ERRs, reflecting the relatively low
capacity of utilization rates;
(iii) investment costs per factory in real terms were
significantly higher than assumed in the SAR (KSh 665,000 vs.
KSh 1,220,000, in constant 1987/88 prices), which partly
reflects the higher number of new and more costly factories
and more costly renovations than envisioned in the SAR;
(iv) similar to any projection of an investment project, the
results are based on numerous assumptions which are difficult
to verify, such as establishing a reliable "without" project
quality profile. The first three years was based on the
average profile for three years prior to the factory
improvements. However, it is possible that this pre-project
trend may not reflect realistically the without project
situation, given the short period involved; it was not
possible to derive data by using "control" factories during
the initial three years for the "without' project;
(v) it is possible that the 15 factories selected may not be
fully "representative" of the 463 factories eventually
constructed/improved under the project. For example, the
analysis includes only two new factories out of the 15
factories sampled. All of the PCR factories were constructed
in the early years of the project, when the institutional
capacity to adjust the factory design to the true
requirements was not adequately developed. By 1984, this
planning capacity had been improved substantially. This
observation suggests that the later factories improved under
the project were probably better designed than the earlier
factories, therefore suggesting that the later factories had
higher overall benefits than the early factories;
(vi) the high ERRs for several factories, particularly
involving low cost rehabilitation works, highlight the
relatively high potential benefits of the factory
improvements, particularly when there is relatively high
capacity utilization rates, good factory management and
supervision and adequate pricing incentives. These latter
factors are critical determiuants to achieving improved
quality of coffee.



- 40 -
6.10    MaUi Aaom=tions
The main assumptions used in the economic re-evaluation of the
factory component are summarized in Annex VIII. Additional details,
including supporting tables, are also provided in the same Amne. Where the
assumptions differ from those used In the SAR, a brief explanation is also
provided.
6.11    Sensitivity Analysis and Imnlications
The critical factors affecting the ERR refer to the assumed quality
profiles of the various factories, the future economic price of coffee, and
capacity utilization rates of the factories. However, the variable which is
more within the direct control of the project beneficiaries/factories refers
to the quality profile, which is largely determined by the effectiveness of
factory management and supervision and producer incentives. After testing
for improved quality profiles to "achievable" levels for the factories
having a negative ERR, these factories still show an EMM less than 10%.
When the sensitivity tests included a higher throughput of coffee (402) in
the "with" project scenario, the ERR increased to about 101 for the
factories having a negative ERR. Higher coffee prices also contribute to an
increase in the ERR, but are less important than the other two variables
cited above. The results of the sensitivity tests are shown in Annex VIII.
These sensitivity tests suggest the following conclusions and
lessons of the design of SCIP II:
o      factory design should aim to tackle the specific constraints,
rather than using one fixed factory design;
o      before any new factory is constructed, tbere should be
reasonable certainty that the capacity utilization rates will
be relatively high (i.e. preferably exceeding 80% in most
cases);
o      good factory management and supervision should be provided in
order to reap the benefits of the investments through
achieving higher quality profiles.
O      the payment system should be Improved and designed in such a
manner that it encourages the delivery of high quality cherry
for processing, while at the same time discouraging the rise
in the proportion of mbuni.



- 41 -
7.0     MAIN LESSON LEARUED FROM SCIP I AND IMPLICATIONS FOR THE DESIGN OF
SCIP Is
The followizg main lessons were learned from SCIP I. Their
implications on the design of SCIP II are also discussed.
(a)    There is a need to ensure that the institutional arranaements
for project implementation provide effective co-ordination of
project actions among numerous participating agencies and
authority to resolve policy-related issues and day-to-day
matters. The establishment of the SCIP/PMU, the Project
Working Group and the Project Steering Committee as
instruments of implementation In the later years of SCIP
project proved to be effective. This arrangement played a
large role in transforming the project into a relatively
successful project. The challenge for SCIP II is to sustain
and further improved the effectiveness of these arrangements,
taking into account past experience and need for further
improvements.
(b)    There is a need to ensure adequate budgetarv allocations to
meet the project's targets and to ensure effective
arrangements for channelling project funds to the
participating agencies. On the other hand there is a need to
ensure that the targets set are realistic in terms of
budgetary ceilings that are already known, a fact that should
never escape the attention of an appraisal mission. Many of
SCIP's problems in the initial four years were related to
these budgetary problems. The challenge for those designing
and implementing SCIP II will be to ensure that the
budget-related constraints encountered in SCIP I are not
repeated or minimized, and that effective solutions are
implemented.
(c)    The imnlementation neriod of the project needs to be
realistic. Under SCIP I, the period was too short, four
years, compared with 8 years of actual implementations.
Implementation delays were partly due to procurement problems
with contractors carrying out works for processing facilities
on behalf of co-operative societies, absence of coffee
factory engineers and other officers during the initial phase
of the project. Even with these improvements, there will be
a need to consider realistically the procurement-related
aspects of the coffee processing facilities and likely
budgetary constraints In the proposed SCIP II project. The
time needed to implement an improved coffee payments system
which will require the establishment of SACCO's, their
effective operations and improved co-operative management is
such that a project period of at least seven years will be
justified. This is even more pertinent when it is realised
that most of the proposed changes in SCIP II would require
pilot phases before fullscale implementation.



- 42 -
(4)    The desiRn of the farm credit component needs to be flexible
enough so that it can be responsive to farmers needs. The
design of the component should take full advantage of the
other existing and successful farm credit programmes within
coffee co-operative societies. Under SCIP I, the original
design of the farm inputs component incorrectly limited the
funds to a particular target group, which for various
reasons, did not respond as ant4cipated. This resulted in a
cancellation of US$ 15.0 million of the IDA Credit totalling
US$ 27.0 million. Also there were other credit programs in
the co-operative sector with better terms and conditions,
which the farmers preferred to the SCIP I farm credit. In
recent years, the under utilization of funds was also due to
budgetary shortfalls. While some progress has been made in
unifying credit schemes and broadening the target group, SCIP
II will need to assess realistically the apparent
constraint(s) to farmer demand for credit to obtain required
farm inputs, in addition to making sure that the design of
the component is basically sound.
(e)    There is a need to decentralize and strentthen the nlanning
and imulementation caiacities of the varticipatinz aaencies
and co-operative societies. Under SCIP I a good beginning
was made in strengthening the roles of District Coffee
Working Groups in planning and implementation of project,
recruitment and posting of technical staff at the District
and Headquarters levels, and provision of appropriate types
of training to both Government officers and
co-operative/society personnel. Under SCIP II, there is a
need to consolidate and broaden the roles of District Coffee
Working Groups, (linked with DDC's and Sub-DDC's) and to
strengthen the linkage between Headquarters and the Districts
in terms of planning and implementation of the project.
(f)    There is a need to come up with clear economic and technical
criteria for evaluation of investment DroDosals in the coffee
factory development component. Experience in SCIP I is that,
without such clear criteria, the coffee working groups and
project officers would tend to recommend unviable projects
for funding. There was also great variability in factory
performance in terms of capacity utilization and the quality
of clean coffee falling under different classes. This has a
big impact on income. Therefore, a much greater emphasis in
the evaluation of project proposals (especially for nam
factories) should be placed on the viability of each distinct
investment from both technical and economic points of view.
Very low rates of capacity utilization would indicate the
need to consider expanding the capacities of nearby factor4es
as an alternative to financing the construction of new
factories, or a need to have smaller factories for the crop
levels, which would reduce travelling distances from farms to
factory. The factory investments would also aim at
addressing clear and specific constraints with an aim of
optimizing the benefits from the investments.



- 43 -
(g)    Considering the effects of poor drying conditions and peaks
in the cherry intake patterns as well as some weaknesses in
the coffee factory management, it would be prudent to allow
for some excess factory capacity in the co-operative coffee
sector in Kenya. Present indications are that averag
cavacity utilization levels of between 75% and 85X of the
Uominal capacity of a factors woMld be realistic.
(h)    Electrification of a factory offers nossibilities of reducing
power costs in a factgrg, at least in the medium and long
run. Available data indicate that capital costs of
electrification of KSh 450,000 per factory, including the
costs of power line and transformers, is a viable alternative
to installing diesel engines at the cost of about KSh 250,000
per factory, bearing in mind that electrification entails
much lower costs of maintenance and power in the long run (as
compared with diesel power).
(i)    Pan ventilated storage is an effective well-tested but simple
tec4noloSD which is widely used in the estate coffee sector
for dealing with cherry intake peaks, congestion and
associated drop in coffee quality. There is a need to
investigate whether it is time for this tecbnologv to be
transferred to the cooperative sector.
(j)    The benefits from past and future factory investments cannot
be optimized unless there is considerable Improvement In both
the financial manasement of coffee coonerative societies and
in the physical manaaement of their factories. The weak
financial management, with associated slow and late payments
coupled with excessive deductions for operating (processing)
expenses are major disincentives to the farmers. This has
probably been a major factor in enhancing the undesirable
increase in Mbum1 production which has been witnessed over
the SCIP I project period. The weak physical management has
also contributed to seasonal congestion and the resultant
undesirable effect on overall coffee quality. This
management factor is felt to be a major contributor to the
very uneven impact of the project with regard to coffee
quality changes.
(k)    There is need to develop coffee faetory "models" that would
be suitable for various cherrv throuahout levels to take care
of the great variability In coffee farm sizes and society
coffee hectarage. In SCIP I, it was very difficult to come
up with different factory designs particularly in the first
few years of the project, due to shortage of qualified
staff. This resulted in some areas having to construct very
large factories (standard three disc factory) that would have
otherwise been avoided.
(1)    There is need to continue with the investment of water
recirculation since it reduces river pollution and ensures
availability of clean water down stream for other users. The
facility of water recirculation also reduces the water used
in coffee processing, and speeds up coffee fermentation,
thereby improving on coffee quality.



- 44 -
(m)    There is a need to imUrove the coffee payment system withiu
the co-oDerative sector and to introdguce.a. foamulV whcb
recoznizes the aualitv of cterry delivretd Dy the
smallholder. This would provide the farmers with incentives
to produce and deliver high quality cherry and consequently
reduce the proportion of mbini deliveries.



- 45 -
LIST OF A4NEXES FOR SCXEP/CR
Paae go.
ANNEX  I            Institutional Arrangements for SCIP
Implementation (Tables 1-5)                        46
ANNEX  II           DCIG's Assessment of SCIP I
(Tables 1-3)                                       51
ANNEX  III          Supporting Tables on Project Costs
and Disbursements (Tables 1-8)                     54
ANNEX  IV           Coffee Processing Component                         73
ANNEX V             The Impact of Farm Credit Component                 91
ARMEX VI            Assessment of the Impact of SCIP
to Benefitting Farmers                            101
ANNEX VII           The Coffee Research Foundation SCIP
Component (CRF) (Tables 1-5)                      106
ANNEX VIII          Economic Analysis (Coffee Processing
Component) (Tables 1-10)                          116



- 46 -
I.A.D.P. - CO-ORDINATING COMMITTEE
Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Agriculture                    -   Chairman
Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Co-op. Development             -   Member
Permanent Secretary,
Ministry of Finance                        -   Member
General Manager
Cotton Lint & Seed Marketing Board         -   Member
General Manager
Agricultural Finance Corporation           -   Member
General Manager
Coffee Board of Kenya                      -   Member
General Manager
Co-operative Bank of Kenya                 -   Member
Head of I.A.D.P.
Ministry of Agriculture                    -   Secretary
Director of Agriculture                    -   Member
Commissioner for
Co-operative Development                   -   Member
General Manager
Kenya Sugar Authority                      -   Member
Project Management - SCIP -
(Ministry of Agriculture_                  -   Member
Other Co-opted Members.



- 47 -
AREX: I                                         ~~~~~~~~~~ThDLL 2
P.S.C. FOR SCIP I
(A)    COMiOSITION
Permanent Secretary, Office of the President ............ Chairman*
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Co-op. Development ..... Member
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture     ............ Member
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Finance       ................ Member
Director of Agriculture .................... . Member
Commissioner for Co-op. Development ..................... Member
General Manager, Co-op. Bank of Kenya      ................... Member
Project Manager - PMU/SCIP  ................................ Member
IDA and CDC Representatives ............................. Observers
(B)    SUMMuRY OF FUNCTIONS
- Deal with all technical matters pertaining to the Project
- Revitv the Projects Work Plan and sanction its implementation
- Deal with the appointment or transfers of five officers of PMU/SCIP
- Deal vith any matters pertaining to appointment of consultants or any
other Technical Assistance from outside PHU/SCIP.
NA: *After 1986, the chairmanship of this committee reverted to the
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Co-op. Development.



- 48 -
AM                                                                TABL  3
P.W.G. FOR SCIP I
(A)    CQOMQSXTION
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Co-op. Development ...... set Chairman
Director of Agriculture    ..     .....   .... Member
Commissioner for Co-op. Development ......................... Member
General Manager, Co-op. Bank of Kenya ....................... Member
Project  hneiger .. ......................................... Member
IDA and CDC representatives ................................. Observers
(B)    SUMMURY OF FUNCTIONS
- Deal with all technical matters pertaining to the project
- Recommend to P.S.C. any technical assistance or consultancy
required by the proJect



- 49 _
,AIR     I                                                        TABLE 4
THE COMPOSITION OF PMU FOR-SC     X
(A)    CGlMOT2QU
1.   Project Manager                - From Ministry of Agriculture at
Deputy Director level
2.0 Read Technical Section           - A Senior Agricultural Officer
from Ministry of Agriculture
2.1 A Registered Engineer            -  Seconded from the Ministry of
Works
2.2 Agricultural Engineer            - An Officer from Ministry of
Agriculture
2.3 Agronomist                       - Agricultural Officer I
3.0 Head Co-op. Services Section    - A Senior Co-operative Officer
from Ministry of Co-op. Dev.
3.1 Asat. to Head Co-op. Section    - A Co-operative Officer
4.0 Economist/Planner                - An Agricultural Economist at
SAO level
5.0 Read of Administration and      - One officer from
Finance Section                   Ministry of Co-op. Development
6.0  Support Staff                  - Half from MOCD and half from
Ministry of Agriculture.
(B)    OPERATING PRINCIPLES
(i)    The unit was supervised by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of
Co-op. Development on day to day basis through the Project
Manaer.
(ii)   The Heads of Sections and other staff were assigned to SCIP by
their respective Permanent Secretaries.
(iii) The A.I.Es for the SCIP operations were delegated to the Project
Manager by both Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Cooperative Development.
(iv)   The Head Technical Section and the Head Co-operative Section
maintained their day to day consultations with their respective
chiefs of Divisions at Ministries Headquarters.



- so -
CTE CMSIION-ANI4D PU     TONS-OP R.C.WG's
District Agricultural Officer           -  Alternate Chairman
District Co-operative Officer            - Alternate Chairman
District Coffee Rxtension Officer or
District Crops Officer                  -   Secretary
District Coffee Factory Engineer and
or Technician                           - Member
District Water Bailiff                  - Member
Union General Managers (Coffee Unions)   - Member
Secretary Managers of Non-Affiliated
Co-op. Societies                        - Member
District Credit Officer                 - Member
District Coffee Inspector               - Member
Area Manager, Coffee Board of Kenya     - Member
Branch Manager of Field Office
(Co-op Bank of Kenya)                   - Member
Branch Manager - K.P.C.U.               - Member
Co-opted members could include:-
District Development Officer
Executive Officer - Land Control Board
District Works Officer
District Mechanical Engineer
District Electrical Engineer - etc.
FUCTIOmS
The D.C.W.G. is responsible frr proper functioning of all coffee
related operations in the distrct; including coffee production,
processing, marketing; payment to the farmers; education and related
projects. It derives Its authority from several Acts - i.e.
Agriculture Act, Coffee Act, the Co-operative Societies Act, the Water
Act, etc. The D.C.W.G. deals mainly with operational issues, and
guides each Ministry or agency involved in terms of future policy
formulations. It does not have executive powers, but utilizes the
various functional officers to implement its decisions.



ANNEX It
TABLE I
PROJECT IMPACT - SUBJECTIVE ASSESSMENT BY DISTRICT COFFEE WORKING GROUPS,
PARAMETERS THAT WERE OBSERVEDIASSESSED
RESPONSE           YIELD       QUALITY     FARM      FARM INPUT USE       PRIVATE    WATER       TRAINING OF     TRAINING OP
CATEGORY                                   INCOMES   AND CROP HUSBANDRY   FACTORIES  POLLUTION   FARMiERS           STAFF
lncreased          13            10          14             10               5           1         15                15
4              6          3               7             11           5          2                 1
Decreased         ZERO           ZERO       ZERO            ZERO           ZERO         11        ZERO              ZERO
NB:           The total number of Districts that responded were 17
(rource:     PMU/SCIP
S~~~l



-52 -
ANMEX 11                                                         TABLE 2
PROJECT ORGANISATION AND GUIDELINES
CATEGORY OF               RES1-,NSES/PROPOSALS     NUMBER OF DISTRICTS
RESPONSES                                          PROPOSING/RESPONDING
I.A.D.P.          - was effective                      1
- was not effective                   5
PHU/SCIP          - was effective                     13
- was not effective                  Zero
C.W.G.            - were effective                     15
w- ere not effective-                 6  (before 1981/82)
Proposed          Need to have elaborate
changes           guidelines for a project
and distribute them in                4
advance. Such guidelines
to include labour contracts
and be specific on roles
each agency should play.
Proposed          Need to maintain PMU for
changes           projects and to have joint           4
field visits for all agencies
involved
Proposed          Need to have annual work
changes           planning exercise and the             3
annual coffee seminars
Proposed          Need to have vigorous
changes           followup from Hqs. on day             3
to day implementation and
need to provide clerks
of work.
NB:     Total Number of respondents (districts) were 16.
Source:  PMU/SCIP



ANNEX II                                               TABLE 3
PROBLEMS OF PROJECT  W LEMENTATION
CATEGORY OF PROBLEMS                       NUMBER OF
DISTRAICTS(RESPON4DENTS
1.     Problems related with farmers/
Societies/Unions relactaneel
inability to take the loans                    12
2.     Problems associated with delays and
unexceptability to raise 25S deposit           12
before factory loans are released
3.     Problems associated with delays in
making formal loan applications and
the long chain of loan application             8
processing                                     ._.
4.     Problems of delay in rele'se of
the letters of offer by C.,-op.                9
.   Bank of Kenya,
5.     Problems of inadequate funding for
factory construction/rehabilitation            7
projects
6.     Problems associated with poor
supervision due to inadequate                  9
transport and shortage or laxity
of personnel
7.     Problems associated with hasty
start-up of the project at district
level and none involvement of                  7
*istrict personnel at target setting/
planning level initially; as well as
lack of clear guidelines
8.     Problems associated with incapable/
inexperienced contractors, hence               8
leading to delays in project
Implementation
9.     Problems associated with the wrong
design of farm input credit- i.e.
wrong target group, very little or             8
no cash element, and competition
from more favrourable farm credit
schemes                                                                 _
10.     Problems associated with low/lack
of budgetary provisions                       12                        _
| 11.   Problems associated with lack of/or
inadequa-e co-ordination                       4
i_adequate co-ordination   _
NB:    Total Ntumber of districts/respondents were 19
Source: PmU/SCIP



_ 54~                      _AMU III - TABL 1
SCIP PCR
Project Expmnditures Acarding to Campocuat and Year
Fortig
Cwe   i                        19w70     lOi9      1912     lm9l0    11934    119        19951  ilYS       P   1m71  TOA    lichag
PFrceatap
L.  ktul Costst               *                  -in K    000
1.  FactorY    lwl     t              0   36,452   20,917   32,9      59$M,7   71,39     81,117    4,10          0  367,l13        35
2. ra      Inputs                    0     4,816    2,360         0    4,70?        0     6,567    9,579         0   30,030         80
3.  Coffee Research              2,136     3,238    1,442    1,172     1,913    2,240     3,914    3,200         0   19,955        23
4. Rioistry of Agric.            7,919     6,591    4,549    2,733     1,034    7,425    15,115      431    2,413    48,610        30
S. Rinistry of Coop 1kv.         3,144     2,513    2,327         0      379    3,908     2,974    4,824    2,755    22,730        30
6.  Cop Sank of Kenya                 0      782      428         0        0    1,617     1,269      49        114    4,W           20
TOTAL COStS:
K Sh (000)                      13,201    54,392   32,293   37,403    47,832   8,979    110,28    03,437     5,282  493,747         36
lie US I000) equivl 11)          1,703      ,596    3,135    39041     4,743    5,558    4,847     1,103      313    37,040        36
8. Est.uted Costs(SAR):
K Sh (in sillians)               107.3     15.8     14t4      34.9        -        -                                  497.6
US S (in dillions) IIJ             13.4     19.9     18.3      10.4       --       -         --       --               62.2
. Actual as I of SAR:
K Sh                           12.3?     35.5?    22.02    44.12
US$ equiv.                     12.72     33.2?    17.1?    28.72
Notes:
(1)      Lowr costs in US$ equivalent thn ass_d in Sil is due primrily.
to a significat unformn devaluation of the K SH(f roe Oil to I.85sl)



55                   ANNEX III - TABLE 2
COF     FACTORY CONSTRUCTION AND DIsTRIDUTIO*- 197980-1986/87
SOURCE OF FUIOS        YEAl           FACTORY TYPE                       TOTAL
A. SCLP                         NEW          RESITIN¢        RENOVATION
1980/81     10            3               63         76
1981/82     2             9               21         32
1982/83     13            7               23         43
1983/84     14            12              55         81
1984/85    26             10              43        '79
1985/86    40             1'              33         80
1986/87    22              8              42         72
SUB-TOTAL      127             56             280        463
B. OTHER SOURCES
1982/83    6                              3          9
1983/84    3                              -          3
1984/85    4              1               3          8
1985/86    -              1               7          8
1986/87     5                             -          5
SUB-TOTAL       18             2               13        33
GRAND TOTAL       145             58             293       496
SOUPCE: PMU/SCIP



L ist of Coffee Factories Constructed/Rehabilitated under Uto Project.
SOURCE:         Pau=RT 1WANMOU tN      WANNE                        III - TABLE 3
DISIRC       icY       FATf YPE               1LYih N:XIr   (aNIWAT        YEAR
(F -   ___  APPRMD     AM
KUAM        Gititi     Gitibt (M)      IlN     29,a20         320,000        Q
Kiairia          iN    600,380        85O03/84
Gititu1 (M)     RiN .        o 39,5)29.a8403
Ki-.ti          Ri     em,0o0          ej1,0o   *   84(85
Gc qO           RN     5B3,X0          68,00        84/85
Pidd            RN     561 ,00         616,OOD      64/85
Kiath           mg 3,                  612,000      84/85
N      45a,o00      1,2   ,00       84/85
Ri     453,750D        343,D        83/84
tlxtAi          N     1,500,000      1,835,00       8516
aterie          N     1,300.,a       1,85),00       8/87
tIdithiati      N     1,300,00       1,'725,00D     85/87
Karothai   Riakaro         11*    228,580)                     8wal
Bmrikcuigo      TV     2A, £80)        595,0 
Kivr'a          M       137,140)                    ..
Thiururi        M4     G97,750         85o,ao0      83/84
Wthimini        N      qw,000          740,a         4
Gi Uzg3         N      800,000         785,00X      84/85
Kvi*'eg         N     1,400,000      180,C8DO       885
Kbrdwor         M4     430,0KJO        sm,(fl       86/87
Minri           R      430,00O 80,aD                86/87
Gatukuyu                             1,794.000      84/85
(htdukyu   Gbtte           RN     554,900        7500,00       Bum
Kariko          Ri     607,875         303,00        82/3
Kiandino         TJ    772,135)      2,010,OOD      82/83
Karze           Ri     851,635)                        of
Gitxih3r        RF     401,=)        1,040,CKX      84/85
Cauarvu         L5     885,CXf)                      o t
Igmba           Ri)                  1,710,000      85/86
t4fgiu         RFt)   2,189,X0         620,(M       "o
Kif   ~         1N)                    415,000  .       
6 factwese      Elec 2,8630,(OX      4,000,000      86/87
Gabli      Karatu          RN     218,)400       218,400       80/81
Ibb8ao          RN     227,900         240          882
Kandege         RN     20,100          313,5D       81/2
Karubt          I      583,00          6s6,ao       83/84
Ibdege          t       165,000        20B,160      84/a5
ftJtbI4a        N     1,400,000      1,900,C0       w5a86
RN     450,000        68X,CO        86/87
Karabit          Ele.
Mf14iga         fill   730,OX)       1,20O,aOD      86/87
.isaiki            t Ki1'Ae R            /V74 e00M ,     , i I
K          oOw         Fi itJ     787,9M        e696,QD        84/85
GidlUIka        N     1,70(,OM       1,780,CX)  ....
Kigaa           Ele)   490,OD          900,000)     86/37
Gidvla          ELe)
Kiar,gi (m4)   M1N                     354,896      86/t7
nhaer           RS)   1L.1O,,          E61,a0       ....
Kifa            RN)                    393,0O0     8s687
Nlberwi    Nmberi)         N      e75,5)        1,273,00       83/84
Riabai          RN
KamVci     Ka%yni          RN     (A3,640        895,000       8D/81
Kaibere         R)      4AGOO,QD       277,31       861B7
_ ) ._K____.__         216,998
D%JT     l I(7I              1           36,346,365      44,098,285



- 57 -
iisuucr      SMECIY       FACMWY       IYE d;    i4 MCNIr      a    An          VW
.________     ..J       AWLUI     .,      4..
KRNWC        bau.         ftipnwlo       ]RN       46,20)       106,90D        8Q/81
XmJatd        1R1        73,000)                     8D/M
Irat           34       100,O        175,00X0       8384
F1       e)00o         585,30D      .   /57
RzItp          1       12,000D        125,O00        5/)81
1ib   Vr       m        31,000        -ft000         MfG4
KaimtraU       n      1,MD,000      1,825Z00         84/85
Abw%e            r          F4      210,
Kauidwege      114      237,150)      418,00O        OD/SI
Maw            N      1,5D000       1,575,000        84/8S
Kagw&diid    Gatitbu        RN       572,291.75    149,328        80/81
YaguNini       EN       1),000           -           83/84
KnAti          34       13),000       644,000        to it
K8gu3Jird      1        532,000       790,00D        85/86
K0gia          RN       615,(00       680,C00        85/06
Gibta          N      1,30D,000     1,911,870        86/87
Kiawgmc      Ire,u         llN        %,S2.5)       56,582.EO     80/81
?y0gChiju      N      1,5,000        1,924,000       83/84
Kiaa,u         R4       35,DOO        420,OOD        86/87
Nginnchtubxu   1N       35,291.OD     386,291.60     8D/81
KaKIwa        2xaia         11"       45,000        45,00         80/81
Kirw           3        s,on7.45       58,071.45     8D/81
G   itobo      N      1,O0X,(00     1,31S,624        82/83
ae)wvm       R       190,000)         -            83/84
Ndiiad         RN       277,OOD       146,000        85/86
4arig       !N        1,30),000     1,835,000        to 
Kqph           R        449,aooD      546,686        86i/87
irera        Mim            13       235, 15D      235, 150       80181
ii             R       43D,000        457,000        83/84
Mti            N      1,500,000     1,800,000of 
GathaitL       N      1,50),COOD    1,810,30D        84/85
Kagaa          llN      1303.4        13D,392.70     80/ l
KaWo                    6ZOOD         724,200        W84
NitareIoa      3        240,0M        263,00         *   ,
7heritJ           1,SM,as0      1,7e5,50D        84/85
mrd  u         RN       637,0oo       635,000        ;58
NJ~OM     KaU            RN       1!o,aoM       254,5M    0    8Vf33
Kairi          R        5001m       1 ,470,OW 183
GikwaW         N      1,300,00      1,995,015        86/87
MaIU         f4&umz         RN       20, 040       a60, 200       82/ 83
Mr050 Rs,33.s                                        82/83
AInMta         RI        f>,           9,OO          83t8
NoJ    t       Aoll      40,00D       S;S),0         It to
KbiUga       gKieri         FN       190,,000      28,000         82/83
Pwoethe        Ri        55,G@0        55,000        83/84
KaJa           RN       450,OM        423,000        84/85
WeiU'.:        RN       2B5,OD0       285,OOD         'I
KiWi Kideri    TV       110,000       2              83/84
eiUq1 t1N                60,000          _           ..



Dismicr     SOCI        FTRY          IYPE tW  !DPN Nao       Q?UTRWCT     YEAR
..            JaB- t.N..  A,=T'=
- ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     -                          _   . .U I  .,_ _ ___
MJWAIA      GatW        U0 tl        N,0- ,0                 1,4AQ,0C0     82/83
,, -     , v            . BN 160,000    285,OOD     83/84
Kiae          RN        270,OOD        268, 00.
mta ,,        RN    ,    50,00D        158,000
KegihR      Kan~=         R         350,O00        33,OOD      83/84
3miem         RNN       340,000       *5
Idwjr         NI        3410,000       500,000     .. *.
KVu           ]RN       170,000        350,0O0     . .
Karinb ga     N        1,500,000     l,,   C00D    84/85
Kamgpo        N        1,500,000     1,770,000
Kangiro       N        1,500,000      1,M8,00      .. Is
Kanoini       RN        300,000        276,000     85/86
Kwriga    -   v         421,000        386,ax)     It
RN        41,xOO         3B6,000     is
Riikiberu     RN       4A7,X00         400,00      is
Kia.endLim    RN        337,000        246,000     It
irioana       N        1,500,000      1,&0,(301    .it
KaguS         N        1,500,000      1,68D,600 *
Kinuru       FN         600,000        672,000     86/87
fwgflni     %uku          N        1,500,000     1,865,000     84/f
District botal      N(17) RS(l)
P  T:75)  41,221,000    51,994.249. B
---------------- ---------  ----- --------         ----~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



.                          .
ioI                                     o
, I
I ~g    si                                               ' .gU   -a  %  -gs
I  !~~2



- 60 -
USTRICT      ODCIEIY T     ACY IY        IFPE OF      DAN   NOU      O0NTRACT        YEAR
JOB        APPROVED         AMOUNT      .       ___
-                                                   - -    ----- --
1UflMCOA     Baregw       KshlWigai       1W          405,000        540,000          8Q/81
K  w        445,O00         50D,00D
.aI  nidi      IRN          432,000         540,000
RAwbdati       lW           510,000        6M,000           81/82
Kiava~p         IV          600,Wn         83,00D              84
Gi1baw,         W         1,400000        1   ,90,0         84
Pkixi        &ifUmbi         RN          446,250        59,00O           80/8.
Kariwhi        HN           569,000        6M06,            81/82
Kiabe           N         1,242,000       1,6DOOD          81/82
M   it,          rN         696,500        780,000          84/85
1Udciaa         N         1,W,O0D         1,904,D           85/86
Getya           R           450,000         569,000         86/87
Kibirigwii   1jmm            RW          482,000        480(XX           S0/81
hIaw            Hi          594,000        690,000          81/82
2"7gwi          N4        1,300,000       1,391,8D          85/86
(ianjege        i         1,3)0,000       1,274,000         t
pegati         1H           8CU,000        913,000          85/86
Kiar.i          RN          591,750         789,0X          86/87
Ixtira       1(agumw         W            32,750        447,000          80/81
r4eva           iN          412,X500       5se,000          81/82
Karia           N         1,357,625       1,700,0W0         83/84
Gita x4i        N         1,300,000       1,712,500         86/87
%oreNo          BU          579,000        780,             86/87
Ii~i     8   Kq  u           N          485,000         720,0)0          80/81
Ndin&           1           486,750        649,(00          81/82
Kewn.a          FS          665,OMX)        930,000         83/84
Kariko          1N          68D,000        &X), 650         8W/86
Karia           RW          798,356         905,000         85/85
Kiaeri         mN           7,AD           966,000          85/87
Kdare        Kirgr           RN          376,000        290,00D           0/81.
Kro     .       RN          376,000        290,000          8Q81
Knrni          RN           376,000         690,000         SQ/83
Kaboyo          W           453,750         605,000         81/82
i   re          PN          341,250         455,O0          81/82
Ki=Vwia         1           614,900 Q83000                  82CO3
Kathata         N         1,35D,000       1,490,00          84/85
Kiaribe         1W          900,000       1,150,00          85/96
UInkwl       Lkuut,mi        N         1,000,000        950,00D    .     80/81
N   9-,           fN .        p~~~~~~~ODDB  3m.0(1R          JU/8Z,
'~a       llN* M      430,coo        596;o            81/82
Kanargi         N           900,000       1,175,0O0         81/82
Kii             RS          782,000       1,390,O00         82/83
NE          578,000         80D,000         of
gibur-i        ]RN          750,000)
Kiri            N           750,000)      1,725,O0          85/86
Kibarir         W         1,300,000       1,768,000
Dmlgn                     1 AL  HUI) 15(3)  RN (3)   32.220,581    4,977,110
../6



61-
-- - -  - - --  - -- -
lSTRICT     * SOCIETY       FACTORY       IPE OF        LOAN   AMOUNJT    CONTRAC        YEAR
~~---------                      --------------
EMBU         Thambane      Thdu  a          RN         2%,0O0             205,000     80/81
Kitt1m           RN         30D,000           214,000      84/
Nw  lyr         *ewi       R    N         341,000)
Gwkl             RN         341 ,x))          410,000      80/81
Njwdi            N         1,40D,OOD)        1,70,0o0)     84/85
Gd*XKha       (atiai            RN        455,000            444,000     82/83
GMki             N         1,300,000         1,754,000     85/86
(abid         1&nhi             1N        400,000            450,000     82/83
MinLid           15        1,(X7,0D          1 ,cO,cOX     86/87
Stores(5)                   750,000          1,245,744
1W         350,(W)           63D.O        82/83
vavituri         RN         350,000)
Kirwnmwe       dabdeifiiia      N        1,500OO,D         1,68J0)00     83/84
KVpirgai      Kpaixgazi         RN        675, 000           900,000     83/84
?    wtatiri     M1         532,000          1,0m,O1       %6/87
S. K¢sri      Kgm               }1        450,000            50),0CX0    83/84
Kia?a            N         1,30.000          1,730,CMO     8/86
KiegmVge      !znriri           P6        700,00D            879,000     83/84
Njeriri          FW        1,062,030         1,118,0QO     83/84
N Kagri       mxnjeni           N        1,57,X500          1,800,0XZ    84/85
Kibugu        Kibug  (M)       1t        1,287,A00          1,228,8      84/85
C. Ngandri     Wiria           R1         30D,000)
Iathiari         1          31),O)            6w,CXX       84/85
Kiird            N         1,300,000         1,515,000     86/87
C. 1jri       Kar    _c         N        1,30,(=l)          1,  ,o       86/8
D1EflU   mm~AL            N(7) 15(3) 1R(14)           19,573,500       26.133,6Q4
IW           NdJtzri       N   3ujri         RS        716,000            716,000     80/81
>w.gi            RN         375,00D           375000       83/84
Chuka          Nthirad          le        800,000          1,30,OD0      80/81
T'pi             1S         600,000           8&D,000      80/81
irii             1          400,000           2O,D         o
Gu               RN         200,000           250,00Qn
Tdw*w            RN         2M0,ODD           250,0Oo      ...
IrWp             1i         800,000           968,000      83/84
Nth±ira          RS         50,000            8D,0O0O      84/8.
Kiamii           N         1,300,OC0         1,460,0O0     85/86
btabi         Bwee              F6        600,000            920,000     80/81
.Kianjd u        aN         600,000           960,000      80m/8
Kaniarua         1W         Gcolr    600,000               of I$
Rg-Kieri         RS        1,562,000         1,380,C00     83/84
TXpji         evaru            N          980,000            9W0,00      80Q/81
Rai             R1          D75,000          1,170,000     83/84
l~riti           ES1)                        1,200,000     85/86
N                RS)       2,203,000         1,200, 01     .  t



- 62 -
O9SI3CT      sXCEiY       F   MIN          TM UF     UWor    M NC      CONlRF      WV
JtE       AP1fR             NPOW
. . . a  Th .    N          1,a0D,006        1        ,a0,,/0 sof81
RLu*km           IR        1,000,0           1,000,00,   W/83
fetha DJ                      Rs         1,3M9O6 I.,000                83/84
uthJa            1         1,2D0,000            6,M      84/85
GLIaWo           I15       1,cXD,OOD         1,3l7,00D ..
NWda          K4"m            IRS          sso,aoo         1,Mg.40D    al/82
NikiAi           15          30D,00D          399,00   it If
)ki1ua           15          650,000           710,000   Is "
t&u              RN          6EO,0D            S67,0D   ..t*
Mbess            N           8DOOD           1,22000     s'
Gi iuw           N         1,050,OOD         1,360,00D   85/86
Kiiri            N         1,30D0,O          1,350E.aD   " "
Pb@ind        P!irithia       RS           700,0)0)        81/82       81/82
Kabati           15          450,000)                    i #I
Miigi            15          300,O0D)        2,443,8MB  is "
Ib.giti          RS          5 ,c000)
?ioid            15          so0,af)
Igetbe        Anxiege         RS)                           863,79D    82(83
Vakiri     R     M)        1,203,75D         340,000     oft
4Aiblxb*e        IRS         890,00)           830,I     83/84
rwffim           R           865,00D         1,01,Z72    85/86
lame             1t          800,000           985,0X0   86/87
Aaugenti         RS          832,500         1,040,62    84/85
ttd           rh'dUu           FV          600,00O           733,00X   82/83
.hr              15          200),OO           274,OOD   83/87
FqF gie           N20,1)                       23B,OOD   " *
NP  l         Tai             1N)                            365,00    82/8
RAW              ]RN)        925,00            365,O        t
Nbwe  m          FN)                           12B,4     ....
NOXWW            N         1,220,000         1,390D.OD   83/84
13 fatories
Elwt.            FN        2,043,75D         2,!B3,068   85/86
Vdathe m      .micu           N          1,145,000         1,145,00    82/8a3
Kittho           1           640,000           600,      #. It
KYi      M)da    1           106,XOD           106,      It If
iatume () F                  aO,oF ZO,U0 .
Miathen          RN          Swi,m             9)0,0D    85/87
WNalithtria      N         1,300,0(0         1,3)0,00(   n    O
Ni             K5 Fe                       756,000 D70,0               83/84
KiaijAwi                       15          965,0tl0        1 ,1J ,OO0  83/84
Kianlri          15        1,)OO,D00         1,253,0OD   85/86
luin         I~N   oibloN            15    a15C00            412,734   83/84
Tigiji           FN          C0W,00            9i2OO     W6/87
l    1h0         1N          G0,000            632,OOD    t O
Kiriadi       Kiriadi          a         1,25o,0o0           95,0o0    83/84
Wsru            5B         1,(o,0oD          1,194,150   84/85
ki3wJnI       Niird           15           375,000           375,000   83/84
Vlriguieru    Taitu           FS           890,000         1,034,0OD   84/8
Kithi?        eirir           RS         1,0)0,(DR         1,245,000   84/85
. K aKI          N         1,30000           1,3)0,00,0 I 85/86



- 63 -
rsmzcr       sczmv         VAM             rimY OYF   i UW  NII          oMMIRC     WEAR
Jt0        AW1UI1            AIM
- -_ -                     -       RUUUR1X             o5v0,000         *115@00     tJII? 
IJ -       _lun        1    ine               ' 1W          O           ,l27,x     85/88
Ki   ,P               I*W      3N        1,c00000D         1,040,DOO   U8AS6
Katheri       KiJi1jc          N         1,257,5X)         1,470W,O    85/86
1IiaQ ran*s 1                            1,xoD.00D         1,W).27     84/85
gEIIS1                     1,2D00,           l,so,00    ~8
MiNk,         K~T)             N         1,20D,OOD         1,25%00O    860
""W        ft4igi          15         1.O.O             1,225,UD    86/87
Kiers         KirooAKin        FNi          8D,.00D        1,090,00    86/87
NMSDECT 1C 14                     ;(32) FI() 33)      62,218,500      72,863,185
3424AR       Kakuu         I*oNi           3            200,00x0         Z)O,       80/81
Kwakitl3         N         1,172,833         1,150,925   . 
1Ksini           N         1,060,OOD         1,060,0O0   82/83
I 000,(XX)        l1 67W)     86/87
vakithanke      P           5300,000 Q10,000              85186
Wl4itibz      Kau a                        224,5             449,0X    80/81
umnli            FldJ        224,500           Z71,OOD   Is 
KibtA          Kyanm           l           169,SOO           224,98    80/81
Kit4Li (M)       BN          342,O0W           445,0W    ....
I'bxgdu       Katine           34          227,395           210,000   80/81
Kamethei         R           313,521           369,CO)    is t
K    nSA ut1 i   37, .725                       53 ,W ) 
Seu3d            34          263,401           246,C000     i
Ka Hinz        bau             N           80D,00D           800,oD    80/813
KaUm-gadi L NLaai              N           80D,000          .328,200   80/81
K    M*w$h1d     Ml          SD,0D           1,240,00O   8/87
Now IwetiL    1I4slli          N           50,C              95D,)0D     DA/1
...."F o      I     IN         500,000               OOD 40 n  "
K        irtA    3           296,OOD           44,470    83/84
N           40D,000          1,4J0,W)    83/84
1   LeJywd       3N          307,SW            410,00   84/85
Kallud           3N          240,000           349,253   8/85
(Kt)            Rs         1,CoD,OOD         1,735,000   86/87
Kikia         Ibu              N           975,00D         1, ,000      1/82
1em              RIQ         321,9M            417,0)    83/84
tbioa            N         1,00(,W00         1,n0ooD     84m/8
t=d              RN          195,00            254,970   85A6
utang            34          45o,0a)           ;60,000   86/87
M M.ziazli             P~ierK              RN           445,000           43DC000   82/83
M aad                        453,70D           437,1r     to ""
Kilalad       Kilalani                      2 2,750          21,OOD    83/84
biteL Ei                     300,000           440,O     85/86;
MAlini        Mbiliid IN)      IN           5,GM             355,000    83/84
4k 'wni          341         251,000           255,W00   84/85
A|4hft    4   4OC,(ooo   tbllini           34          251,WD            256,00X      Os
Kikaixxd)         4,aa)000                     1a,,ov       of
2 fatries        Elec.       300,00            394,0M    85/86
Kmtlm  Wmhm             R           165,wo            159,700    84/85
DI TOr      L  Nt8) jW25j) FW2-16,903,064                22.771,978



- 64 -
DISWJCT     SMCI=         FAI4               E O     LL   MW           030=        WAR
KOM ht ___                                 RI          3,000             392.OD    SD/81
-       2600.00     ._.. _-3M(M
?I~~w1a    IN               2,0M              262,00   60/81
R   iA        Ri*muta         iN          309,aoD           335,000   " "
RN          296,OOo           348a9o0 *c   *
b     ts          k           To          330,000                     It of
o           ~    ~   ~~N 1,(MD00D        ism    0 Zlo 
Barat  wd*w     IN          318,000           3)D000D   80/8
% v iriiw       M           2,000             286,000   SD/el
wE            EakM            RN          3 5,00D           400000    8D/8
OwWrim          N           1,000,&D          9   ,"0m  86/87
*aiga         RIGNo           RN          393,OOD           142,OOD   80/81
Mgandha         N          1,000,000         1,46,DOD   84/85
omrs          Gesra           RN          ZD,000            279,000   S/81
Rm,d            N           8,00              850,iXD   ...
N b ji  .           v          1,~~~       ~   ~~~~SM,OOD,M 8WOw $Ii
ker           Kabege          N          1,000,OOD         1,300,Cf   83/84
1-br*va       183 FS                      85,0              848,000   83/84
ttgpegwa  Egentoto         N         1,0CM,,O           3.450,129.  84/85
NitA          t'a0uta         RS          636,000           7W),OC    85/85
N4y    d      tb,de            Ri         350,000           615,000   85/8s
Girag         Girarg          RI          671,250           W/D       85/86
K.Werya       Ker,eya         WI          5,3D,000          448,440   85/87
t4o           t    o          115         690,000           93,250    86/7
D~UMCY     L              11(7) 15(3) RN(14)        14,418.250      15,389.,817. 0.
NM          sor8          Sar'xa           RI          4)0,0O          450,0__ 8e181
S. trdi       KUFxkEs      J  N           8)0,000           68)DX)    82/83
Kereloi       tibos           N           550,000           640,000   83/84
Tugen Hills   Katimok         RN          107,000
D1M= I      L   (2)IRS (-) M (2)          2,050,000     2,070.000
MUA    __   1   i hills   Kat4t            R           150,000          150,000   S/81
Katbic           I           150,000          158,000   84/8
Swetnidn         RI          335,000)
Taws             N          490,000)
Bartn11uD        N          490,000)         1,915,,0   8/6
1/K  4      ~~~RI       3)0D,O))
K 4moi        K*b5mi          N           737,000           900Q,000 
Kituro        Kitro (M})      R           40D,000           400,000   84/85
Kleloi        KdI e           N            B,D0ID           640,000   8384
1      1M U   I(4) 3(5)                    3,159 ;O0    4, 155;000
SIAYA      NtfGO          Yala            RS           446.000          262,560    81/2
KISUKU      p,gwh         Kam.r           Is           381 ,000          36,0      81/82
SIWANZA      &ka-a          N    y                     76,0)             781,000   81/82
qea           GitOzgi         RI          SOD,00            796,000   86/85
oirr          cera            is          891,0o0           833,427   812
tisadii       Nisadi          RS          760,000         1,U9,000    82/83
=o            kyor            IS          75D,000           805,323   82(83
Dwfbe         P el            RS          925,0xD           962,M0     M/84
KPbrjrW       fbq  g          RS          850,000           934,000   83/84
SN*Mb      _   Ak             N          _s        _        566,300   85/86
IS7rcr    , L        N(I) IS 6) RI1)      5,936,000     6,737,550



D     lsr    33CIET1       FACKEY      I     TOE OF.     IAN AJT           (ONTRAI    YEAR
,_________  _ ______iJ e   wP E B        _ _
BUNDM                                        RS Mtind   1   F6   '356, 000  924,772     1/82
1Oaeba        ah,lP6                  ,     834,050.          770,542    it ,.
INaixzige     M=c              F6           58,250            679,875    *"
Ijaisd        I    i                          5,40            711,789    .
OvAe1e         iaile             4          1900 m                  8 1" t3
N*vycrao      N*Wmjo           iUN          137,7w0            593,754   . 
OQsiWd        aie                           877,000           845,Ct     83
Mt. EIgmn      (   e            N           675,00D           749,380    ....
Kvt1             fN           38,000            510,000    83/84
K,3sddio           I          3)0,000           361,OO     t of
"*Idm           vyekiw          RN          376,000           45o,00c    83/84
Kibisi        Kibisi            RN           35,00            657,00D
M*h3V&       FVkhi"             R           5),000             580,000   83/84
Sibuita       Sibiura           RN          480, 000          580,000    84/85
Meihen           ]RN          isD,C             237,130    8
Kikai         Kikai             N           529,5tW           641,O00    85/86
C   etps      Ceptais           N           585,000           716, 550   85/86
Kibitgei      Kibingei         N            598,000           700,       ....
Sirisia       Sirisia           N           509,00            615,000    ....
ihrvlati      Khwulati         N            593,000           728,000    .
Saari         Sasui            N            507,0o0           750,000     o *
Kpakorc#        ka   W          N           530,000           648,000    to
NaMiwfo         iiwgofllo      N            5)3,750           739,000    i
vow           Menu              N           457,00             694,000   o f
,Mt E1lpn                       RN63e4e          1 -   3_17/4
.  D1SflU.m .UML N(9J  Mt4) ^ff)L  -        13,6l,450       15,713,324     .     . .
KWAMM     '   tlq
Isik4a        zi.hjia          N            750,000           8o0,000    8)/81
141=jia          RI           2-0,00O              -       86/87
&rior         l4zirika         RN           4,008    .        595,000    8Q/81
Kibuma        EshiIholcbe      RI           620,000            59,00     80/81
?4Mmjuriam    meb.mi            ff4         500,000            50D,000   84/85
Jebck         Jerck            RN           400,000           400,00     85/86
mAipw            N            480,000           574,1L     86/87
Ll4er          ew              N            560,00O           754,489    86/87
Bwyo-.o       Ef1ukhrnd         R           380,000           754,489    86/87
_is" il Dilrm   NI(3)  I     ](- R f (6)  4,378,00           4,32,9M8
KAIIP)       Olo03iidtok   Noolturesh       ]RN     _     34,880           249,75D    81/82
.RN           70,00             63,000    85/86
D1 Um lQPL   1W                 RN (I)      3)4,88D            32,75D
IX .         KMy              k              Ri            2,000            162,OO0   8V83
Kipsigis      fiPeti            RN          450,OOD                      85/86
KaitLi           RN           450,000              _       .4.
Churama        CheraEx         N            250,000           449,881    86/87
Kiologit      Kinwlot           N           25,00D               _ 
N(2) 11(3    1,022,000         6 l,e



- 66 -
DSIS  Cr   .0cIY           FAcf:            TWM OF       LON AOJ           ONMWr     YEAR
._________  ___________   _____JOBAPPW       DY            A   t_
W/r yr                     Tartar           Rti (I)        94,000            94,000  8283
TftIZDIA     Sibot         Sibot            RN             80.00              80,OCG3  84/85
NW=      R      btik       t'twg1           I           300,000            300,000  *  /87
TtAVEA       Taita                          RIN         3?2,000            386,000   &8/83
WMz*N                         316,000           295,000
Plzg3            EiN         316,000            35,0OD    83/84
14.rB            14N         80D,0D0            85,500    83/84
N1(I) R(3)   1,SX,000 1w904,!1D
GmD 1L              N(127) 6(5   mN(20)    06,745,300      370,210,075
Source:    PMU/SCIP



-67-
ANX III - TABLE 4
SCIP,PcR
UTILIZATION OF SCIP FARM CREDIT By YR      - (1979180-1986/87)
YEAR                                       AMOUNT UTILIZED'
K. shs.
1979/80                                             NIL
1980/81                                         6,816,127.60
1981/82                                         2,360,38C.00
1982/83                                             .      ;
1983/84                                         4,709,095.65
1984/85                                              _
1985/86                                         6,566,559.50
1986/87                                         9,579,942.00
TOTAL                                         30,032,104.75
SOURCE: PMU/SCIP



AL.JEqLS4L.RU%mtL        .Fwrhl Jl?jt1L-t86/8                       ANNEX III       TABIL   5
(in Waat.)
blatclat.         1919/80      190/81      1981182       1982/83      1983/84     1984/85      19e1/80     1984,8?        _ust         IeN
tdL aaawI.a           -         250,040          -            _     2J,5.11            .           _            _         524.511        l.t
Meobakee              -         516,JtO                       _ -   556,792            -      204,394           -       1,111,904        44
X kbu                                                               4,32- 305,?19  -  -   *9  -    -      500,000       1,342,048        44
aru                   -       1.942,441          --                       -            -    1,295,291    1,200,00       4,451,752       14.6
"WIl                            022,126          _            .           _            _            ,   7.000.000       7.622,138       24.0
Urlnvae               -              -      889.00            -           -            -           -            -        09,000          3.0
KYA*bu                -         49,428     132.340            -   2,534,889            -      996,610     399.942       4.553,409        5.1l
ia"do                 -          12,229                                   -                  -                                           O_,229  0..'
41w                   -              -           -            -           -                         -     140,009         10,000         0.5
hwin go               -              -     220,000            -     249,235            -      120.000           -        409235          2.0
taliche               -         40,000           -                  -                  -                  20.000-         40.000         0.
use"                  -          95.303          -            -           -            -                        -95,303                  0.5 
vet pokt              -          3*,04           -            -                  _ _     _                                34.414         0.1
tras-UN.La            -              -           -                        -            -      100.000                     100,000        0.3
_Wi5&                 -        495.505           -                        -            -                        -          ,49,0         1.0
_akm                  -        180,692           -            -     238,738                   330,000     300.000       1,054,430        3.5
sing                  -         13,540      45,345            -           -            -           -                      58,"05         3.
Immh                  -         11.42-                       -            -                  -                            ),423          O C4
mtb suyae             -         79,144     493,20-                  -                  -       50,000           -        42i,352         2.1
kiaj1                 -       1,420,000   460,4                           _            -    3I,4t0,265                 5,570,753        1.5
tetow  (20)                   6,814,12"  2,440,"0             -    ,709,094            -    4,544,560   9,519,42       30,132,.0
(13,985.404)                           14*,144,502)
(4 .41)                              (53.61 
Source: Pfli/SCIP



- 69 -
ANNEX III   TABLE 6 (cont'd)
tCategoy of Core          Appai     TarRets     Achievements by 1986/87
No. of course Duration    Achievement
Coffee Factory
Technicians at CRF                                1           1           18
Jlovenlt Staf f -
Staff Training at FTC' s                                      2           1291
Secretary managefr at FTCs                                                 192
Cherry Recorders  at FTCS                                                 868
StoreKeepers at FTC's                                                     138
Coffee Farmers at Field day/ 70,000                        2-3         105,015
FTC's                                                       5
Committee Members at FTC's                                                1746
Field Committee Members at FTC's                                           359
Ministry of Coop.
Developsenbt Staff
Factory supervisoi  at FTC '                                              480
NB: With the introduction of NEP,training on coffee was integrated but
CEPO's continued to organize members educational days and tours which
re nmero8     to list.
SOURCE:   PMUtSCIP



- 70 -
ANNEX III - TABLE 7(a)
SCIP PCR                                             a
DJS9URS     S O  IDA M  CDC CREDITS
ID a                                                C D C          TOTAL    TOTAL
YEAR             KSN N           US N                                KSN N      SyIfERL   (IDACDCJQ   E
CPCR)   SA     Revised    PCR  FM AS    PCR AS                   OOO) K S N     K Sh 
Ci.dit(l)          OF SAR REV. CR.                          PCi
FT 1979/80           -     0.40     0.00    0.00     0.00       -     0.0c         0.0      0.00    13.20
Ff 19.8/Bl        0.60     6.80     0.07    0.07     1.03   100.00    0.00          0.00    0.60    56.40
FY 1981/82       11.60     7.20     1.13    1.13    15.69   100.00    8.60          0.44   20.20    32.30
FY 1982/93       13.40     7.20    0.89     0.89    12.36   100.00    7.30          0.54   22.70    37.40
FY 1983184        9.40     5.40     0.65    0.65    12.04   100.00    0.00          0.00    9.S0    67.90
FY 1984/85       22.00        -     1.41    1.41     0.00   100.00   48.60          2.58   70.60    87.00
Ft 0086'86       19.8(        -  ;   .22    122      0.00   100.00   20.00          0.85   39.80   110.90
FY 19861F7       38.30        -    4.75     2.34     0.00   49.26    33.60          1.40   71."     83.40
FY 1987/88       45.60        -     1.88    2.71     0.00   144.15   36.40          1.32   92.00     5.30
T 0 T A L       160.70    27.00    12.00   10.42    38.59   86.83   156.50          7.13  317.20   493.70
Rote(1)
Original IDA Credit of US$27.0 N was redured to US$12.0 N in mid-1986



^71-
ANNEX III - TABLE 7(6)
SCI?  Pci
COMPARISON OF IDA DISZURS1BMTS ACC0RDIEC TO C014POENT
(Revised Credit   Vs. Actual,    US.S 000)
COMPONENT 1/                          REVISED IDA           ACTUAL             ACTUAL AS
CkEDIT        *                            OF REVISED
1. Coffee Factory Loans                 6,200              6,215.9                100
2. Fam Input Loans                      1,700              2,016.1                119
3. Consttuction of Buildings (CRF)        100                    .4                 0.004
4. Vehicles & Equipment                   500                 297.1                59
(Exil-Coffee factories)
5. Training (MOA, CRF, HOCD)              400                 362.5                90
6. Operating Expenses (PMU)             1,800               1,312.3                73
7. Technical Assistance 2/                100                  0                    0
8. Co-op. Management Pilot              1,100                 292.9                26
9. Unallocated                            100                  -                    -
Total                          12,000             10,497.1                 87.5
1 Components were revised in the Development Credit Agreement (DCR) with IDA in 1986
2/ Refers to Coffee Subsector Study. While the study was completed and expenses
were incurred, no withdrawal applications were submitted to IDA by the final
deadline of December 31, 1988, under this category but applications were made
under category 6 - PMU.



ANNEX III - TABLE 8
BUDGETARY PROVISION - SAR COMPARED WITH ACTUAL ALLOCATION
(K.shs. '000)
SUB-TOTAL          Z OF ACTUAL                 SUB-TOAL                  T 0 T A L        Z 0' ACTUAL
_ b        1979/80-1983/84       TO SAR TARGETS           1984/85 - 1986/87                            TO SAR TARGET
1.  Factory         1.     232,090                52                         NIL                   232,090              127
.Development     2.     121,076                                         174,499                 295,575
1I. Farm Input      1.     107,017                                           NIL                   107,017
13                                                                     28
2.       13,885                                         16,147                  30,032
III,  C.R.F.        1.      12,990                                           NIL                    12,990
2.'      10,701                                         9,255                  19.956
EV. M.O.A.          1.      19,114              117                          NIL                    19,114              183
2.      22.350                                         19.60u                  34.95O
V. M.O.C.D.         1.      11,510                                           NIL                    11,510
2        7,154                62                       9,796';                  48,950             165.
V1. CO-op. Bsank    1.         969               119                         NIL                       969             507
2.        1,157                                         3.700;                   4,910
T O T A L       1.     383,690                4*f                        NIL                   383,690             105
2.      7aZ m1                            ~w    mniiii*niimnwnn               404,374
goomm  WM=-1zWZ2 ..............winn~ummufu                                    m..mm.iinmms~
Source:    Own calculation based on SAR .. SC1P/1'NMt data.
1* SAR
2 3 PCR



- 73 -
AMqEX IV
COFFEE PROCESSING COMPONENT:
ACHIEVEMENTS. COST PERFORMANCE, BENEFITS AND LESSONS LEARNED
A.       Introduction and Background
A.1      Investments in coffee processing facilities (i.e. factories)
addressed one of the major components of the first phase of the
Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project (i.e. SCIP I). Lack of sufficient
processing facilities and low levels of coffee factory management had
been singled out as some of the major factors contributing to the
steadily declining quality of coffee in the smallholder or cooperative
sector in Kenya since the 1960s. These factors had thus been used as the
basis for project identification in the preparation of SCIP I. Hence a
major objective of SCIP I was to improve the quality of coffee produced
by the smallholder coffee farmers in Kenya. More specifically, SCIP I
aimed to improve overall quality of coffee by raising the proportion of
clean coffee falling in the higher classes, or by reducing the proportion
of clean coffee falling in the lower classes, including the "Mbuni"
category. The project was implemented between 1979 and 1987. Increasing
proportions of "mbuni" received by a given factory must reflect either
lack of sufficient processing facilities, thus leading to congestion at
the factory during the peak coffee picking and processing period, or lack
of incentives on the part of farmers to pick and deliver cherry on time
for processing at their local factories. Whichever the case may be,
increasing proportions of "mbuni" ultimately reflect low quality coffee,
and the factories development project component of SCIP I was designed to
solve this particular problem. Toward the same and, SCIP I also aimed to
provide some incremental processing capacity needed for increased coffee
output which was anticipated to result from the rehabilitation of 15,000
hectares of neglected coffee farms in Kenya.
B.       SG$P I Factors Comgonent Prolect Taraets
B.1      The World Bank SAR for SCIP I (May 1979) indicates that the
coffee processing component of SCIP I, which provided for investments in
coffee factories, had as a major objective a target of increasing the
proportion of washed coffee from 90% to 100% of the crop, thus reducing
the "mbuni" proportion of the crop from 10% to 0% of the crop, by year 10
of the project implementation period. The project also envisaged a
parallel increase in the proportion of coffee prices received by the
farmers due to improvementB in processing and factory management. Such
developments would definitely raise producer incomes. It was envisaged
that the prices received by the farmers would steadily decrease from 66%
to 62% of the coffee auction price by 1992/93 if SCIP I was not
implemented, but steadily increase from 66% to 74% of the coffee auction
price by the same time if SCIP I was implemented. Even though delayed
payments to coffee pr ducers are considered to be a major factor
contributing to retardation in the development of the cooperative coffee
sector in Kenya, this particular issue was not addressed in SCIP I.



- 74 -
C.       Proiect Desimn. Coffee Processing Facilities and Physical
Achievements:
C.1      Back9around
C.ll    The World Bank Staff Appraisal Report of SCIP I in 1979 (i.e.
1979 SAB) envisaged a total of 414 individual investments in coffee
factories and 50 in mechanical driers. These investments in coffee
processing facilities were based on the models given in Table 1.
C.1.2    The actual SCIP I investments in coffee processing facilities
generally followed the investment models given in Table 1, but any
investments in model types 2, 3, and/or 4 were simply recorded as
"factory renovations" without distinguishing the degree of improvements
undertaken as was expected in the SAR models. However, it should be
noted that:
(i)    provision of mechanical driers to the coffee cooperative
societies was dropped out of the project following some
extensive review and consultations;
(ii)    actual numbers of investments in different types of
investment models as described in Table 1 exceeded the
target total number of 414 by about 12X;
(lit)    demand fe- and the actual investments in new factories far
exceed the original (SAR) estimate. This reflects the
tentative basis for the initial estimate and the strong
local demand for new factories which are csoser to farmers
coffee farms.
Table 1 also shows the actual investment pattern in coffee processing
facilities by the end of SCIP I (i.e. by the end of 1986/87 crop year).
C.2      Actual Design of Coffee ProcessinQ Facillties and their Cao,acitv
Utilization
C.2.1    The basic design of the coffee factories in the smallholder
coffee sector assumes an annual throughput of atout 1,000,000 kg of
cherry, or an equivalent of about 150 metric tonnes of clean coffee.
These are basically 3 - disc factories, which will be referred to as SCIP
factories in subsequent discussions. SCIP I assumed that each investment
would soon be utilized at 100l of its capacity, which would be necessary
for the farmers to realize the full potential benefits of the
investment. In practice, however, the throughput of SCIP factories
averaged 104.7 metric tonnes of clean coffee equivalent during the first
three years after the project start-up 1/. This level of capacity
utilization reflects about 70X of nominal capacity. However, a great
variability in capacity utilization, ranging from a low of 13% to a high
of 156%, was observed -- see Table 2.
C.2.2    The very high levels of capacity utilization for some of SCIP
coffee factories reflect congestion in such factories during the peak
cherry intake periods. However, it should be noted that the available
data indicate only about a third of the existing factories operating at
levels above 80X of their nominal capacities.
J/      Based on data from a sample of 18 SCIP factories from
representative coffee producing districts in Kenya



- 75 -
C.2.3    Many factors are known to be responsible for the low levels of
factory capacity utilization in Kenya, but the major ones include:
(M) insufficient levels of coffee produtction in the
neighbourhood of a given factory -- in many cases, the
societies showed a preference for the construction of new
factories rather than for the Improvement or expansion of
existing ones, the reduction of distances for carrying
cherry by the farmers often being a strong motive behind
this preference.
(ii)    Seasonal congestion at most SCIP factories, even though the
year-round cherry intake reflects lor levels of capacity
utilization - the peak cherry intake patterns vary
considerably between the coffee producing districts, but
the nature of congestion appears to be related to
variability in management capability.
C.2.4    The 1979 SAR for SCIP I had estimated the benefits of
investments in coffee processing facilities on the basis of lOOX capacity
utilization. Hence the observed variability in factory capacity
utilization of SCIP factories must undoubtedly affect the anticipated
economic rate of return on factory investments.
C.3      Tecbnology and Facilities
C.3.1    The design of SCIP factories is based on the assumptions of:
(i)    regulated cherry intake of up to 20,000 kg per day;
(ii)    reasonably good drying conditions, requiring 8-12 days of
drying of pulped coffee from wet to fully dry parchment.
(Mii)    diesel engines for the 3 main power mwits.
In practice, 50X of the total coffee crop in a given area is delivered as
cherry over a relatively short period of usually about 6 weeks, and this
period often c acides with the period of poor drying conditions. Cherry
intakes of up to 40,000 kg per day per factory are not unusual during
peak cherry intake period, and this results in congestion at the skin
drying and final drying stages, the problem being particularly severe for
the latter. This may ultimately lead to serious decline in quality of
clean coffee.
C.3.2    Available evidence suggests that many societies now appreciate
the advantages of electric motors over the diesel engines, particularly
in terms of fewer breakdowns and lower operating costs. In fact, quite a
number of societies were opting for electric power in their investment
packages during the implementation of SCIP I, and such options should be
supported where the factories are reasonably close to the power mains.
C.4      Factory Manadement and Imnact on Oualitv of Coffee
C.4.1    Some of the persistent seasonal factory congestion problems can
be attributed to:
(i)    weather conditions;



- 76 -
(ii)    production and delivery patterns for cherry; and
(iii)    the need for additional technical improvements to the
existing facilities.
However, weaknesa in physical factory management is believed to play a
major role in contributing to this seasonal congestion problem. Factors
leading to poor physical factory managezent include:
(M)    lack of adequate seasonal hired labour;
(ii)    lack of maintenance and upkeep of mechanical equipment,
leading to frequent breakdowns during the processing season;
(iii)    poor budgeting and inadequate provision of factory
materials;
(iv)    need for regular technically qualified supervision of the
day-to-day physical management of the coffee factories.
Since the project impact on coffee quality i8 known to be dependent on
the quality of factory management, SCIP I actually provided a training
target of 1206 coffee factory managers, 560 factory clerks and recorders
and some frontline extension agents and coffee farmers. By the end of
SCIP I (i.e. 1986/87), a total of 2280 coffee factory managers and 1486
coffee factory clerks and recorders, besides a large number of frontline
extension agents and coffee farmers, had attended training courses on
various aspects related to the coffee industry.
C.4.2    The majority of cooperative coffee factories appear to have
continued to experience seasonal congestion despite investments in
processing facilities, judging from developments in coffee quality
profiles during the first three years after SCIP I projects start-up. A
survey of 15 purposively selected factories from the coffee producing
districts in Kenya, which had benefited from SCIP I funds, indicates that
22% of the factories registered an overall decline in quality over the
first three years of operation after benefiting from SCIP I funds 1/. A
further 39X of the factories registered only a small overall increase in
quality, while another 39X indicated little or no change in quality.  In
fact the overall picture suggests that no significant change in coffee
quality was registered during the first three years of factory operation
after project start-up (see Table 3 for further details).
C.4.3    The actual developments in coffee quality profiles during the
first 3 years after factory investments do not quite tally with the SAR
expectation that there would be substantial increases in the proportion
of washed (clean) coffee falling in the top 2 groupings of co~.fee classes
(i.e. class 1 - 3 and 4 - 6 groupings) gan  corresponding decreases in the
proportion falling in the bottom 2 groupings (i.e. classes 7 - 10 and
mbuni) within 2 to 3 years of the project. However, the SAR is quick to
point out that full project impact may not be expected until year 10 of
Including increased proportion of "mbuni" production, but this
increase could also be attributed to financial policy and
societies management which create little or no incentives for
production of high quality coffee.



- 77 -
the project. Hence the economic analysis of the impact of SCIP I assumes
that the full developments benefits will be realized by year 10, and that
the coffee quality profiles are expected to improve during this
development period - see Tables 3 and 4 and the discussion of
assumptions .or the economic analysis (Annex 7).
C.5      Concludins Remark oM Desin Feartures
C.5.1    All the issues raised above regarding the design and operation
of coffee processing facilities deserve critical consideration and
evaluation in the preparation of any future coffee improvement projects.
D.       FactorY Investments and ODeratinx Costa
D.1      Tie 1979 SAR of SCIP I envisaged a total capital investment of
RSh 199,720,000 olus a working (i.e. operating) capital of KSh `1,370,000
at 1979 constant prices for different types of investment models as
described in Table 1. Unit investment costs were anticipated to vary
between KSh 984,400 for new factory and RSh 140,800 for minor factory
improvements (i.e. type 4 investment model). During implementation,
provided only investment costs, with the working capital provided by the
factory societies from their own funds.
D.2      By the end of SCIP I, the utilization of the factory component
funds was as follows:
(i)    the total project investment cost in coffee processing
facilities, inclusive of the 20X society contribution, was
RSh 367.52 million;
(ii)    Unit investment cost per new factory ranged from RSh 1.18
million to RSh 1.58 million, the average being KSh 1.41
million;
(ili)    unit investment cost per re-sited factory ranget ,eom RSh
0.34 million to RSh 0.75 million, the average being 8Sh
0.63 million;
(iv)    unit investment cost per renovated factory ranged from
KShs. 0.17 million to RShs. 0.96 million, the average being
KShs. 0.63 million.
The above investment costs are quoted in nominal prices, and they would
have to be adjusted with the appropriate price indices before they can be
compared with the SAR estimates, either in terms of 1979/80 or 1987/88
constant prices. Such conversions into 1987/88 constant prices show the
factory unit costs for SCIP I to have been:
ME    PR        PCR an
(RSh_millionJ   X-of SAR
(i)    New factory:                            1.96    2.03        103
(ii)    Resited factory:                        1.3     0.94         72
(iii)    Renovated factory:                      0,53-   0.91        171
Weighted Average:                       0.665   1.22        183
=          = =:



- 78 -
Tables 5 and 6 provides further details. Hence, the actual project unit costs
relative to SAR estimates were lover in the case of resited factories, but
slightly higher for the new factories and significantly higher for the
renovated factories. On a weighted average basis, the actual unit cost was
about 83% more than that assumed in the SAR. This increase reflects primarily
the significant unforseen increase in the unit cost of the renovated factories
and the higher proportion of new factories than was envisioned in the SAR.
D.3      The SAR envisaged that the factory processing costs would vary
between KSh 2.34 per kg of clean coffee at 50% factory capacity utilization
and !CSh 1.44 per kg of clean coffee at 100X capacity utilization, taking 1979
constant prices. The overall assumption of SAR on processing costs was that
the operating costs would increase by KSh 0.26 to KSh 0.53 per kg of clean
coffee equivalent, mainly as a result of incremental costs of operating the
recirculation equipment and incremental staff.
D.4      In practice, the operating costs in absolute terms increased from KSh
1.87 per kg (1979 prices) to KSh 2.79 per kg (1983-1985 prices) of clean
coffee equivalent. In constant 1979 prices*, the operating costs thus
actually decreased to KSh 1.84 per kg of clean coffee equivalent (see Table 7).
D.5      As noted, the SAR provided for operating capital.  However, during
implementation no project funds were used for helping to finance the working
capital of the factories. In future factory investments, there will be a need
to assess the requirement for such financing in order to optioning the
efficient utilization of the factory facilities, given the cash-flow position
of the coffee factories and available sources of financing.
B.       Coffee Processinz and the Environment
B 1      Introduction
Coffee processing factories have been a major pollutant of rivers in
the past and they still remain a threat to public health to people living
downstream of the rivers which have factories located upstream in those cases
where the necessary antipollution measures have not been effected. In order
to help solve the water pollution problem resulting from coffee processing, a
"recirculation system# which was designed by the Ministry of Water Development
is now being used as the main antipollution measure in the coffee industry.
It is actually mandatory that every design for a new factory and the
renovation of old factories incorporates the recirculation system component.
Owing to fund limitations, a number of coffee cooperative societies
in Kenya have not been able to incorporate full recirculation jystems in some
of their coffee factories. They have adopted partial recirculation (inclusive
of a few components of the system) with the objective of completing the system
at a more opporttme time.
1.2      Comnonents of the Recirculation System and Estimated Coats
(1987/88 Prices)
The components of a full recirculation system and their estimated
costs in 1987/88 prices is summarized below:
*        For 1979 * 100, 1983/85 Price Index = 152.03



- 79 -
Item                                                  Estimated Cost
(KShs. '000)
-1.      Recirculation tank                               55
2.       Skin tower                                       20
3.       Recirculation piping                             52
4.       Recirculation pump house                         20
5.       Recirculation engine/pump
set (TS2 16.2 Hp Lister
attached to a non-clay skin pump)               120
6.       Seepage pits                                      5
Estimated Total Cost (1987/88)                  272
3.3    Handling the Wate , Pollut on Problfem
As highlighted above, every design for a new, factory and renovation of
ezisting factories oust incorporate provisions for the recirculation system
component in order to solve the water pollution problem. In some cases, it
was found necessary to resite some of the old (existing) coffee factories in
order to be able to accommodate the recirculation system component and avoid
water pollution problem. Resiting of factories has involved the relocation of
the factory at a new site away from the river. Hence the resiting of a
factory as a project component is basically equivalent to the construction of
a new factory as far as investments in coffee processing facilities are
concerned, but the old machinery is re-installed at the new site.
The site at which an old factory which is deemed to be a nuisance as
far as river water pollution is concerned and is to be relocated should have
the following features:
(i) suitable slope;
(ii) be large (spacioas) enough so that when the seepage pits are
provided they will be at a minimum distance of 46 metres away
from any obvious body of water or watercourse.
Of course the same features apply for a site at which a new factory is
to be built.
3.4    Naior Benefits from Investments in the Recirgulation Svstem
Installation of the recirculation system and other water antipollution
measures basically fulfill the requirements of the Water Act (Revised 1972),
Chapter 372 of the Laws of Kenya, Rules 72 and 74. The antipollution measures
should ensure among other things that the river water is not a health hazard
to the users downstream. However, the major benefits from investments in the
recirculation system and other water antipollution measures include the
following:
(1) The two major residues from coffee processing, namely the
mucilage and the pulp (skin) are prevented from being poured into
the nearest body of water (usually the river that provides the
water for processing). Even though the mucilage finally gets
into the underground water through seepage it will have undergone
underground filtration.



- 80 -
(ii) The system makes it possible to reduce the amount of water used
during the processing of coffee to levels close to the acceptable
rate of 5,000 gallons (23 cubic metres) of water per tonne of
coffee as recommended by the Ministry of Water Development. This
reduction of water use is possible because the water can be
recycled twice or thrice.
(iii) Recirculation of water quickens the fermentation process because
the recirculated water contains enzymes from the previous
fermentation process.
(iv) The pulp can be taken after it dries up and used by the farmers
in mulching their coffee trees.
F.     Benefits of the ProcessinR Component
F.l.l. The results of the economic re-evaluation of the processing component
are highlighted in the taxt, with supporting tables in Annex 8. TLUs section
provides background on the nature of the benefits and some of the
methodological issues involved in carrying out the economic re-evaluation of
the factory component.
Table 1:  Relnvestmejt Cgsts in Coffee Processina Faclities* in
Years 10 and 20 after Prolect Start-up
Costg in 1983 Constant Prices
Situation                     Year 10                 Year 20
(KShs)                 (KShs)
Without Project 1/                 240,000                240,000
With Project A/                    320,000                320,000
*  Relates to mechanical equipment, engines, pumps and discs.
1/  (i) Main water supply engine and pump          KShs.  160,000
(ii)  Pulper engine and 4 discs                 [Sha.   80,000
Total        KShs.  240,000
1/  (i) Main water supply engine and pump          KShs.  160,000
(II)  Pulper engine and 4 discs                 KShs.   80,000
(iii)  Recirculation engine and pump             KSh,   80,00Q
Tota;        KShs.  320,000
P.1    Backaround
F.1.2. The basic assumption of the SAR (1979) was that the benefits of
investments in coffee proceasing facilities would entirely be associated with
improvements in the quality of clean coffee. In other words, the coffee
processing component of the project (sCIP I) is assumed to have no impact on
total production of coffee. Any production increases were assumed to result
from the farm inputs component of the project. Hence the benefits from the
SCIP I processing component are evaluated in the SAR in terms of: (1) Changes
in Coffee Quality, leading to changes in revenue;



- 81 -
Production volumes without oro1ect and withi roAect were assumed to be
identical, but their distribution among the various classes (or
class-groupings) was assume%. to vary. This Project Completion Report (PCR)
adopts the seme assumptions as the SAR in the economic re-evaluation of SCIP I.
F.1.3 The operating costs are taken as the processing costs at factory or
society level for producing dry parchment coffee plus the costs of delivering
that parchment coffee to the marketing authorities. In the preparation of the
PCR, the cost figures are derived from 3 years prior to project start-up (to
give 'Vithout project costs") and 3 years after the project s,tart-up (to give
"with project costs").
F.2    Benefits: Some Methodolorical Issues
F.2.1 For years I and 2 after the project start-up, the SAR assumes the
benefits to be static, being the same for "without" and "wih" ptoject
situations. The project revenue is assumed to increase due to quality
improvement from years 3 to 10 of the project and to remain constant
thereafter up to year 25 of the project. In order to quantify the quality
improvements the SAR used 4 broad coffee quality groupings, viz:
. Clasres 1-3
. Classes 4-6
. ClAsses 7-10
. Mbuni (1,2 and 3).
Further, the SAR anticipates increases in the top 2 class-groupings and
corresponding decreas.s in the bottom 2 groupings over the project
development. The SAR also assumes that classes 7-10 would be reduced to 2% at
full development and that "Mbuni" production would be reduced to zero during
the same period. This assumption, however, appears to be unrealistic in the
light of actual coffee production conditions.
F.2.2 Experience in the cooperative coffee sector in Kenya indicates that
levels of 5% - 10% in classes 7-10 and 7% - 12% in the Nbuni grades 1, 2 and
3, depending largely on management levels, are more realistic figures and
these have been adopted in the preparation of the PCR quality profile
projections for years 5 - 25 of the project.
F.2.3 Another methodological issue relates to the lumping together of quality
classes into groups as this creates a problem of calculating the price to be
assigned to each group, thus giving room for error when trying to determine
projected revenue. Also, there are various issues involved in assessing
accurately the benefits of constructing new factories, particularly in
relation to the assumptions "without" project.
G.     Lesson Learned from the Desizn and Oneration of SCIP
Coffee Processint Facilities
(a)   Based on the findings of the economic re-evaluation the
processing component, there was great variability in factory
performance in terms of capacity utilization and the quality of
clean coffee falling under different classes. This has a big
impact on income. Therefore, a much greater emphasis in the
evaluation of project proposals, especially for new factories,
should be placed on the viability of each distinct investment
from both technical and economic points of view.   Very low rates



- 82 -
of capacity utilization would indicate the need to consider
expanding the capacities of nearby factories as an alternative to
financing the construction of new factories. The findings also
highlight the need to optimize in the design of the renovation
investments in order to address the main constraints and to avoid
over-investing In improved facilities.
(b)   Considering the effects of poor drying conditions and peaks in
the cherry Intake patterns as well as some weaknesses in the
coffee factory management* it would be prudent to allow for some
excess factory capacity in the c3operative coffee sector in
Kenya. Present indications are that average capacity utilization
levels of between 75% and 85% of the nominal capacity of standard
3 - DISC factory would be realistic, i.e., it would be reasonable
to presume a factory throughput of 112-127 tonnes of clean coffee
equivalent in the design and evaluation of any future projects.
(c)   ElectrifiLation of a factory offers possibilities of reducing
power costs in a factory, at least in the medium and long run.
Availabl data indicate that capital costs of electrification of
KSh 450,000 per factory, including the costs of power line and
transformer, is a viable alternative to installing diesel engines
at the cost of about KSh 250,000 per factory, bearing in mind
that electrification entails much lower costs of maintenance and
power in the long run (as compared with diesel power).
(d)   Fan ventilated storage is an effective well-tested but simple
technology which is widely used in the estate coffee sector for
dealing with cherry intake peaks ahd congestion and thereby avoid
the associated drop in coffee quality. Time appears ripe for
this technology to be transferred to the cooperative sector. A
design and costing for an investment package for fan ventilated
storage whWch would be appropriate to the cooperative sector,
taking into account the nominal capacity and production patterns
in the sector, is required and research in this area should be
done.
(e)   The benefits from future factory investments cannot be optimized
unless there is considerable improvement in 'oth the financial
management of coffee cooperative societies and in the physical
management of their factories. The weak financial management,
with associated slow and late payments coupled with excessive
deductions for operating (processing) expenses, discourages
farmers and is probably a major factor in promoting the
undesirable increase in Mbuni production which has been witnessed
over the SCIP I project period. The weak physical management has
also contributed to seasonal congestion and the resultant
undesirable effect on overall coffee quality. This management
factor is felt to be a major contributor to the very uneven
impact of the project with regard to coffee quality changes -
see TO,le 3 and the discussion of quality profiles in subsection
C of this report. As observed, 22% of the sample SCIP I
factories analysed recorded an overall decline in quality, and
the major factor which contributed most to that decline was the



- 83 -
proportionate increase in Mbuni production over the project
period. Based on the 3 years period after the project start-up,
Mani production rose from about 10.2X Io about 18.1% of the
total delivered crop.
Investment in recirculation aysteJi^ as components of coffee
processing facilitiea ensures that clean water is available to
the users downstream of the factory locations along the rivers
and that more water is available to these users because the
systems are water antipollution devices while the water
recirculation reduces the amount of water used in coffee
processing. The system have also enabled the pulp which was
previously being dumped into the pits near the river, and this
being in inaccessible to the farmers, be deposited at locations
in the factory suitable enough to facilitate the collection by
farmers who in turn use it, when dry, as farmyard manure.



-  84  -
Table 1:   SCIP I Tarae it   SAn  vs. Actual Investments in Coffee ProcessinE
Facilities, 1979 - 1987
Type of Investment     Detailed Description         Target     Actual    Actual
Model                                           (SAR)     (PCR)       as
X of
Target
A. Factory
1.  New Factory        Full construction of new
factory                         14       127       1071
2.  Type 1 Model       Resiting of existing
(Resiting)        factory                         50        56         112
3.  Type 2 Model       Extensive improvements of
(Renovation)      existing factory               170
4. Type 3 Model        Selective improvements of
existing factory               140
5.  Type 4 Model       Minor improvements of
(Renovation)      existing factory                40
Sub - Total                    350       280         80
2==      2=         =
Total Factories                414       463         11X
=         =
B.  Accessories        Mechanical Driers               S0
Source: The World Bank SAR (1979) and SCIP PMU



Tabl. t: SCIP I ractory Calacity Utilization Levels Based on
Prolect Xears 1. 2. and 3 Throughout
Throughput*
Factor-Y Name           Tonnes, Clean Coffee     [ Utilization
Gacharage                     234                     156
Ayoro                          48                      32
Gachugu                       117                      78
Gakundu                       175                     117
Githombokoni                  130                      87
Kairi                          80                      53
Kalua                          47                      31
Kalusiude                     -35                      23
Kamuyu                        123                      82
Kanvaail.                      93                      62
Kanjikeru                      88                      59
Rhachonge                      34                      27
Klairia                       229                     153
Kianyaga                      160                     107
Marua                          86                      57
1dulma                         89                      59
Wyabouge                       96                      64
UVOU                           19                      13
Weinfhted Average             104.7                    70
*   Nominal Capacity Assumed to be 150 Metric Toumes Clean
Coffee Equivalent of Cherry



-  86  -
Table 3(a): DeveloDment of Coffee Oualitv Profiles Durina the
First 3 Years After the ProAect Start-u,
Type of Change In Coffee Quality Relative                 % of Factories
to Higher Quality Classes J/      Involved
1.  Improvement                      39
2.  No change                        39
3.  Decline                          22
1/    The change refe-s to the difference between "without" and "with"
project quality profiles.
Source: SCIP I Factories Sample Survey, 1988
Table 3(b):   Weighted Developments in Actual Oualitv Profiles
by Year 3 of Project
% of Clean Coffee in Given Gro mina
Situation: N* = 18                Class: 1-3:  4-6:  7-10:  Mbuni
Anticipated "Without" Project     23.2   53.8   9.1   13.9
Actual"With" Project              23.8   51.0   8.4   16.8
* N = Number of SCIP factories surveyed
Source: Survey Data, SCIP/PMU, 1988



- 87 -
Table 4: Coffee Quality -With Project" Performance Models:
Actual and Projected Performance'
HIGH PERFORMING FACTORY  MEDIIUM PfRFORMIING FACTORY  1.W PMFORMING FACTORY
CLEAN     ACTUAL I   PROJECTE X     ACTCM   Z  PROJE        ACMM     I " PROJECTED I
COFFEE    PROFILE    PROFILE        PROFILE    PROFILE      PROFILE   PROFILE
QUALITY  (YEARS 1-3) (YRS 1-25)   (YEARS 1-3) (YRS 11-25) (YEARS 1-3) (YRS 11-25
CLASS
1                         (10.00)                  ( 0.00                  ( 0.00
2            31.81   45.0 (15.00)     6.88     50 ( 1O.0v     0.00     1O.0( 0.00
3                         (20.00)                  ( 40.00                 (10.00
4                        (15.00)                   ( 13.00                 (20.00
5            47.17   43.0 (16.00)    68.08     33.0( 10.00   63.59     68 (30.00
6                        (12.00)                   ( 10.00                 (18.00
7                         ( 2.00)                  ( 3.00                  (4.00
8             7.61    5.0 ( 1.00)     9.68      7.0( 2.00    14.63      10 C 3.00
9                         ( 1.00                   ( 1.00                  ( 2.00
10                        (1.00                    ( 1.00                  ( 1.00
SUB-TOTAL    86.59        93.00      84.64           90.00   78.22          88.00
Mbuni: 1      9.43         4.00       6.80 T          7.00   12.97           6.00
2      3.98         3.00      8.24            3.00    8.23           4.00
3      0.00         0.00      0.42            0.00     0.58           2.00
SUB-TOTAL    13.41         7.00      15.36           10.00   21.78          12.00
GRAND TOTAL  100.00      100.00     100.00          100.00  TOO.00         100.00
-  -*a==      W _                                                    m 
*      Based on the average (Actual Performance) for Years 1-3 of the Project for 15
SCIP factories from "representative' coffee producing districts in Kenya.



-88-
Tble 52    SW   I Plc=7 O,pit: Ibit I          sm       atot (lIn M h)
TYEERS OF              RN== GM AND U                YDT I          E OOS      SAR HIAM'          GE -6   O
FACP I                                             IN 1979/80    W 1987/88    19791m        19W8    
R2T                         IE 
A. ~No                  (0mvent (-i-      o         (Q.itant (-ist ant       (mmcar (- -       uta      1-979W0
Aes)                         MM)          kM   )      Fiem)         Moss)         100
1. raid              1,470,000      1982/83      1,097,015    2,172,090       -            -           134
2. Raungl            1,175,000      1982/83        876,86     1,736,195       -            -           1
3. U1M               1.80000      1983/84     1,097.220     2.172,500       -            -           144
ft=E       N:           1,408,333      1982(83     1,023.71       ,269         987.400     T9-55,(r        -
B. Reskte:
1. Ao                  750,000      1982/83        55%9702    1,108,210       -            -           134
2.    t                336,,285     1980/83        A14,285      622,24        -                        10)7
3. Gazxtu              43,330       1982/83        308,455      6LO,741       -            -           134
4. Yamus_de           3980,000      1982/83        731,343    1.448,059       -            -           134
5. EQw                 679t874      1983/84        472,135      934,827                                144
ResFited b  ory   61,898       1980/84        477,184      944824      66,0        1,3   53        -
C. RguaIa:
1. rhelmu              192,558      1981/82        M,13         319,004       -            -           122
2. G                   568,000      193/84        394,444       780,999       -            -           144
3. Kalm                169,500      198L/82       138,934       27089         -            -           122
4. Iban  mu            960,000      1983/84        666,667    1,320,001       -            -           144
5. K1                  830D000      1983/84        576,389    1,089,375       -            -           144
6. Klairla             893,520      1983/84       620,500    1,t228,90        -            -           144
7. Mmml                925,00      1983/84        642,361   1,271,875                     -           144
8 qab                  380,000      1980/81       355,140       703,177                    -           107
9. Nhllm               650,000      1983/84        45L,389      893,750                    -           144
10. Raaiu               697,300      1981/82        571,557    1,13L,683       -            -           12Z
_ Cwm;;Ro                  626B 07                                                                        w 9042  -
1/ Bsed an analysis of 18 SC9P factorlP



- 89 -
Table 6:   SCIP I Factory Comnonent:  The Dintribution of
Cgsta by Factory Investment Tynes
Type of Factory      No of       Total Cost   Range of Unit        %
Investment           Factories   in 1987/88   Cost in 1987/88   Share of
Prices       Prices            Total Cost
(KShs I)     (KShs M)
1.  New Factories         127       263.16         1.74-2.17        45.9
(2.03)
2.  Resited Factories      56        52.17         0.62-1.45         9.1
(0.94)
3.  Renovated Factories   280       258.0          0.28-1.32        45.0
(0.91)
463       573.33                          100.0
Note:  1.  Figures in brackets under the "Range of Unit Cost"
column give the average unit investment cost per type of
factory investment in constant 1987/88 prices.
2. The total investment cost of XShs. 367.52 million in 1979/80
- 1986/87 current prices is adjusted to KSbs. 573.33
million in 1987/88 prices.
Source:    Calculations based on data from SClP/PMU official records,
1988 (i.e. Table 5 data).



- 90 -
Table 7: SCIP I Factors Procesgin& Costs
(Currnt KSh Uer kIc of Clean Coffee)
Details                         ---,--C                     - ---aSAR- Estimate
"Without"    "With"       Incremental    Incremental
Factory Name       Project      Project      Cost            Cost
S itation    Situation
Gacharage             1.08         2.03           0.95            -
Ayoro                 3.03         3.79           0.76            -
Gachugu               1.26         2.76           1.50            -
6akundu               2.58         2.81           0.23            -
Githombokoni          1.67         4.59           2.92            -
Kairi                 0.53         2.35           1.82            -
Kalaa                 1.30         2.70           1.40            -
Kamusinde             2.15         2.94           0.79            -
Kamuyu                2.14         2.56           0.42            -
Kamwangi              2.15         2.94           0.79            -
KanJikeru             2.95         2.89          (0.06)           -
Khachonga             1.81         2.70           0.89            -
Kiairia               1.69         2.29           0.06            -
Kianyaga              1.81         2.70           0.89            -
Marua                 2.15         2.94           0.79            -
Nduluma               2.08         2.94           0.86            -
Nyabonge              1.61         3.06           1.45            -
Uvuu                  5.17          3.27       (190)              -
Weighted Average      1.87         2.79           0.92         0.26-0.53
(Period)         (1979/80)    (1982/85)    (1979/85-       (1979-1989)



- 91 -
THE IMPACT OF FARM CREDIT COMPOURT
INTRODUCTION
The objective of farm input component of the smallholder coffee
improvement project (SCIP I) was to improve coffee production and farm
incomes through rehabilitation of a targetted 15,000 hectares out of an
estimated 23,000 hectares of coffee which were neglected. The project
therefore aimed at providing sufficient farm inputs like fertilizers,
pesticides, and cash to employ labor.
However, by the end of 1983/84 there was a very low borrowing of
the project funds a fact attributed to poor technical design of the
project. The target group had already r.eglected their coffee and
therefore it turned out that they had other reasons for having neglected
their coffee other than lack of farm inputs.
It was also realised that this was a risky group of farmers to
lend to as credit could not be recovered through their sale proceeds due
to the nature and status of their farms.
This draw back therefore prompted a review of the objectives of
the project at the end of 1984/85 and the original target group was
changed to cover any smallholder coffee farmer who would be eligible to
get credit from the society. The project funds therefore provided short
term farm inputs to coffee farmers with the choice of farmers being left
to the co-operative management who in turn would recover and repay the
loan to the Co-operative Bank.
Although these changes improved on the utilization of some of
the project funds, some of the design problems persisted which made the
SCIP credit line less competitive than the existing credit lines like
co-operative production credit scheme (CPCS). The Interest charges for
SCIP were high and there was to be a grace period of 3 years which then
made the administration of this credit line difficult compared to others.
At the end of the project therefore, only US$ 2 m. out of a
targetted US$ 15 m. had been utilized.
PROJECT PERFORMANCE
Cofofe Production
Coffee production trends and a comparison between the targetted
production and what was achieved is compared in annex 4 appendix 1.1.
Three production levels of low, medium and high input usage were
compared to models III, II ed I in the staff appraisal report of 1979
(SAR). In all the production levels without the project, the yield
levels were higher than those anticipated at the pro.,tct preparation
period because either the average yields estimated were low or more
preferably the farmers Improved their yield even without the project due
to availability of other credit lines.



- 92 -
With the project however, the project fell short of achieving
the targetted yields which again could be attributed either to
unrealistic yield estimate at the project preparation and/or difficulties
encountered in credit administration.
The yield differences between years 1 with and without the
project was 148 kg of clean coffee per hectare compared to 314 kg of
clean coffee per hectare when the impact of the project was fully
realised by year 4.
The average incremental production between the 4 years without
the project was 436 kg of clean coffee per hectare compared to 667 kg of
clean coffee per hectare (appendix 1.2). The overall incremental
production during the project was therefore 231 kg of clean coffee per
hectare.
The initial objective of the project was to rehabilitate an
estimated 15,000 hectaree of coffee. The overall incremental production
over the project period was however 1722 hectares of coffee with an
overall incremental production of 398 tonnes of clean coffee per hectare.
FARM INC0ME
The trend in farm income and the variation between the targetted
levels at the project l naration and what was achieved is compared in
appeudix 2.1.
A bigher level of income was realised in the 4 years without the
project than anticipated at the preparation. As explained earlier, this
attributable to higher yields realised. The overall mean income per
hectare withouc the project was Kshs 7293 compared to KRhs 18,017 giving
an incremental income due to the project of KRhs 10,724.
The overall average percentage increase in income was 70% per
hectare across the three production levels. This performance was
achieved due to the fact that although only a small proportion of credit
funds was utilized, the project farmers ha,; access to other types of c
credit with better terms. As so these farmers could not realistically be
considered to be control farmers.
On returns to labor, the targetted gross margin per hour was
higher than those achieved in the low level of production which again is
attributed to low labor requirements estimated at the project
preparation. In order to make reasonable comparisons, all the current
prices on inputs and coffee prices are adjusted to 1988 constant prices.
In all the analysis in this report years 1 with and without
project implies that first year with or without SCIP credit.
An assessment of the impact of the factory component to the
beneficiary farmers is attached in appendix 5.



- 93 -
ANNEX V
Appendix 1.1
COMPARISIOtN OF COFFEE PRODUCTION LEVtLS FOR WITH AND WITHOUT THE PROJECT
YIELDS IN KG CLEAN COFFEE PER HECTARE
Level I                                   .___            _ _
WITHOUT PROJECT    WITH PROJECT
YEAR 1             YEAR 1     "EAR 4
Targetted                     135                645         815
Achieved                      276                345         475
Differences                 + 141              - 300        -340
Level II                                  WITHOUT PROJECT    WITH PROJECT
YEAR I             YEAR 1     YEAR 4
Targetted                     265                710         880
Achieved                      465                540         771
Difference                  + 200               -170       1 110
Level III I
WITHOUT PROJECT    WITH PROJECT
YEAR 1            YEAR 1    YEAR 4
Targetted                        540              960        1160
Achieved                         561              943        1145
Differences                    + 117               17        - 15



ANNEX V
Appendix 1.2
YIELD VARIATIDiN IN DIFFERENT PRODUCION LEVELS FOR WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT
YIELDS IN KG Of CLEAN COFFEE PER HECTARE
YIELD LEVELS
WITHOUT PROJECT                WITH PROJECT
YEAR 1      YEAR 4             YEAR 1      YEAR 4
Level  1               276          299               345          475
Level II               465         .476               540          771
Level III              567         610                943         1145
Mean                   424          447               572          761
Average
Production                  436                               667
Project incremental
production                                  231



-95 -                      mxv
- 9S -             ~~~ANNlEX V
Appendix 2.1
CONPARISION OF FARM INCOME WITH AND WITHOUT THE PROJECT IN
KSHS PER HECTARE (1988 CONSTANT PRICES)
Level I
Without Project               With project
Year to 4                     year 1      year 4
Targetted                2704                         6198        15154
Achieved                 3074                         7586        14667
Difference               +372                        +1388         -487
Level 1I
Without Project                With project
year to 4                     year 1       year 4
Targetted                4420                         4814       14066
Achieved                 7934                        13226       19916
Difference              +3514                        +8302       +5895
Level III
Without Project                With Project
Year I to 4                   year 1      year 4
Targetted             6670                            7650        20864
Achieved             10370                           21947        26460
Difference           +3700                          +14197        +5596



ANNEX V
-96 -
Appendix 2.2
INKOME VARIATION BrTWEEN DIFFERENT PRODUCTION LEVELS
IN KSHS.(1988 CONSTANT PRICES)
Gross Margin in KShs. per hectare
Witht  , Project            with project
year 1    year 4            year 1      year 4
Level I                4442       3074             7586         14667
Level II                8628      7934              13116       19916
Level III              10882     10370             21847        26460
Mean                    7743      5843              15927       20107
Average Income              7293                          18017
Project Incremental                        10724
Income



_ 97 
ANNEX V
Appendix 3
COMPARISION OF RETURNS TO LABOUR WITH AND WITHOUT PROJECT IN KS. PER MAN-HOUR
Level I
Without Project          With Project
Year 1                   Year 1      Year 4
Targetted                  5.0                     2.6         6.0
Achieved                  5.7                      5.1         4.8
Difference                0.7                     +2.5        -1.2
Level II
Without Project       With Project
Year 1                Year 1      Year 4
Targetted                    5.2                   1.6          5.0
Achieved                     5.8                   7.3          7.6
Difference                  +0.6                  +5.7         2.6
Level III
Without Project       With Project
Year 1                Year 1       Year 4
Targetted                    5.4                    3.0          7.4
Achieved                     5.7                    6.8          6.8
Difference                 +0.3                    -3.8        -0.5



- 98 -
ANNEX V
Appendix 4.1
GROSS MARGIN FROM COFFEE IN K.Shs./HA
Level I
Without Project          With Project
Year 1     Year 4     Year 1      Year 4
Yield Kg/Ha of clean
Coffee                        276        299        345         475
Gross output                10820      14450      15456       27265
Variable costs
Fertilizers                  2018       1684       1280        2620
Insecticides                  416        768        488        1076
Tools                         326        350        326         350
Hired labour                 3712       6966       4642       11070
Total Costs                  6378      11376       7874       17394
Gross Margin                 4442       3074-      7586       14667
Returns (KShs./ha)           3.70        2.60      5.10        4.80



-  99-
ANNEX V
Appendix 4.2
CROSS MARGItN FROM COFFEE IN K.Sh/Ha
Level II
Without Project          With Project
________ ________ ______ _  Year  1  Year  4    Year  1      Year  4
Yield Kg/ha of clean
coffee                          465        476          540          771
Gross output                  1822C      23324        24192       44255.4
Variable costs
Fertilizers                    1722      2526          2041         3694
Fungicides                     1522       2144         1702         3752
Insecticides                    612       1000          656         1538
Tools                          1086       1194         1086         1194
Hired Labour                   4658       8522         5590        14154
Total costs                    9600      15386        11076        24334
Gross Margin                   8628       7934        13116        19916
Returns-K.Shs.Iha               5.8       5.10         7.30         7.60



- 100-
ANNEX V
Appendix 4.3
CROSS MARGIN FROM COFFEE IN K.SHS/HA
Level III
Without Project         With Project
Year 1    year 4      Year 1        Year 4
Yield kg/Ha of clean
coffee                          567        610         943          1,145
Gross output                  22226      29890       42246          65724
Variable costs
Fertilizers                    1764       2768        3184          55542
Insecticides                    660       1152         978          2308
Tools                          1130       1238         1130          1238
Hired Labour                   5944      11196        10004         21024
Total Costs                   11344      19516       20372          39264
Gross Margin                  10882      10370       21847          26460
Returns (KShs./ha)            5.70        5.0         6.8            6.8



- 101 -
ANMRl
ASSESSMEOT OF T     IA     OF SCIP TO BENEFITTING FARMERS
1.     I       E
This report is an assessment on the impact of the factory
component of the smallholder coffee improvement project (SCIP) to the
direct beneficiary coffee farmers and factory managers.
The objective of this exercise was to evaluate the farmers
attitude towards the factory component and also quantify some of the
project's benefits that otherwise could not be reflected in the economic
rate of return analysis.
A sample of farmers neighbouring the new, resisted or renovated
factory were randomly selected from the member's register after which
they were visited and interviewed by a field staff enumerator with a
pre-tested structured questionnaire.
A total of ten factories were selected and eight formers per
factory interviewed makin8 an overall sample of 80 farmers.
2.       RM    RpoNsE
2.1 Factorw break-downs
On the f:equency of factory break-down before and after project,
there was a clear Indication that the project reduced the number of
break-downs. Before the project, the frequency of break-down of between
3 and 6 per year were reported by 85X of the sample interviewed compared
to a maximum of 2 break-downs as reported by 68% of the sample
interviewed. The average number of break-downs before the project were 5
compared to only 2 after the project. This not only indicates savings in
terms of costs of repair but also a factor attributed to an improvement
in quality.
2.2 Coffee DickinM days
On the number of picking days the farmers are allowed by the
factory authority they indicated that with the renovation of the factory
&d even those who had a new factory built, the average number of picking
days increased from an average of two per week before to three per week
after. Before the project, while only 10 of the sample reported being
allowed to pick between 4 and 6 days per week, this production increased
to 23% after the project (Table 3).
2.3 Distance to the Factort
One of the difficulties the farmers go through is walking long
distances to deliver cherry to the factories. Table 4 summarises the
various distances the farmers were walking before a new factory was built
and the corresponding distances after the construction of the new factory.



- 102 -
While 57% of the sample interviewed were between l and 4 km from the
factory this proportion increased to 78X after the new factory was
built. Also while the average distance to the factory was 5.3 km, this
reduced to 3.8 km after the new factory was constructed. This no doubt
indicates a reduction in drudgery the farmers used to undergo in
transporting cherry to the factory.
2.4 Time Mo*nt in weiahinR coffee
Due to high congestion at some coffee factories, a lot of time is
usually spent by farmers at the factory to weigh their coffee. When this
aspect was put forward to farmers, there was an indication that while 47%
of the farmers interviewed reported spending 8 hours and above before the
factory was renovated or newly built while the proportion decreased to
21% after the project. On average, 6.8 hours were spent before the
project which decreased to 3.8 hours after the project.
It is worth mentioning that the time spent at the factory has a
high opportunity cost to the farmer (Table 5).
2.5 Environmental Impact of SCIP
In wet processing of coffee, large quantities of coffee pulp are
produced. In the past, only a small proportion used to be carried back
to the farms by the farmers, the rest of the coffee pulp used to be
dumped in seepage pits or heaps. During the rainly season, the coffee
pulp dumped in heaps used to be carried to the rivers and other water
sources by the run-off water, causing serious water pollution problems,
and hence endangering the lives of people living downstream.
Chemical analysis of coffee pulp indicates that it contains large
proportion of both major and minor elements required in the soil for
plant growth. Hence, it serves a major advantage for the farmers to
carry the coffee pulp to the farms. In the last 7 years, the coffee
factory engineers designed skin towers that were convenient both in
design and site for easy pulp collection and the coffee factories were
sited far away from sources of water to avoid pollution through seepage.
Further, farmers were educated on advantages of the coffee pulp in the
farms. Due to these facts, farmers in regions where factories were
either resited, renovated or built have been carrying 100% of the pulp.
There are 774 coffee factories owned by the cooperative societies
in the Republic. Of these, 463 (602) were either built, resited or
renovated with the facts mentioned above in mind. The average coffee
pulp produced annually during the same period by factories owned by the
cooperative societies was approximately 143,000 metric tonnes, with
factories that were either built, resited or renovated producing 87,230
metric tonnes of coffee pulp which yielded an estimated 9,530 metric
tonnes of plants nutrients valued at approximately KSh 134 million. This
represented an average saving of KSh 134 million per annum compared with
the value of the commercial fertilizers with an equivalent amount of
nutrients.



- 103 -
Table 1: Estimated Value and Amount of Elements in Coffee Pulp Produced
Annually by SCIP Improved Coffee Factories
Element/Nutrient          Estimated Amount         Estimated Value Costa
Present (MLT)             (KSh in million)
B                        9 ,9310.,p                   137.0
P                            8.-1  ^                    0.4
K                          127.00                         .3
Ca                          81.40                       N/A
Fe                           2.21,                      N/A
Cu                           0.07                        /A
Total     _         _         9.66                      1337-
The renovations, building and re-siting of coffee factories, done
during the last seven years have led to several major advantages. These
are environmental advantages viz elimination of vater pollution and
re-circulation of major and minor elements and monetary advantages in
terms of savings that would otherwise have gone towards the purchase of
commercial fertilizers with an equivalent amount of nutrients. The soils
benefitted from the resultant organic matter that improved the humic
content and provided the mulching effects to the coffee trees where the
pulp was returned to the farms by farmers.
3.     CONCLUSION
There is a strong indication from the beneficiaries of SCIP
factory component that there were a number of benefits emanating from
this particular component.
While all of the outlined benefits do seem to have some
relationship to coffee quality improvement, this exercise did not analyse
the impact on quality. However, it can be deduced that all these
benefits could either maintain and/or improve coffee quality and hence
the farmer's income.



- 104 -
Table 2: Frequency of factory break-down before and after Renovation
Before Renovation                IAfter Renovation 
I  Number  of         Frequency          Number of        I    Frequency
I  Break-downs        in percentage I    Break-downs      |    in percentage
I                  I                 .   I        .                                1
I        3         I       23         I        0          I           39           I
4         I        23        I        1          I           25
6         I       29         1        2          1            4           1
8         I       15         1        3          I           29
I  _ _   _      ._  _   _    _    I  _ _    _   _     I       __ _ _ _    _    
Imeanr
Ibreak-            I
Idown    5.0       I         -        1        2.0        |
I                    _  _     _  _      I               ,__ _ 1  ___         _  _
Table 3: Frequency of the number of picking days before and after the
project
IBefore projectT                                After project 
I                    *__ _ _ _         * _ _ _ _ _ _ __      _  _    _    _
I  Number of         I  Frequency      I  Number of        I    Frequency          I
|  picking days      7 in percentage I picking days             in percentage      I
I                    I                 I  _ _    _    _      .         -_ _ _  _    'I
1           I     17          I         1         I           3
2           1      44         I         2         I          24
3           1      29         I         3                    40
4           I       7         I         4         I          19           1
5           1       3         1         5         I          11           1
6           I       0         I         6         I           3           !
I_ _ean              I                 I                   I
Ipicking             I                 I                   I
Idays    2           1    1oo                    3                   100
I                    I      .__.         I         ,        1 __     _     _      I



- 105 -
Table 4: Frequency of distance in Km. between the farmer and
the new and old factories
I         Old Factory               I             New Factory                  |
|   Distance     1   Frequency      I     Distance     I    Frequency
I   in Km.        I in percentage I       in Km           i in percentage
f                 T                                -- I  - -----I 
1.0        I        12        1        1         I           37
2.0        I        17        I        2         I           23
3.0                  18      I        3         I           13
4.0        I        10        I        4         I            5
5.0        I         7        I        5                      5
6.0        I         7        I        6         I            3
I    10.0         1       29        I       10         1           14          I
mean              1                 I                  I                       I
Idi8s-
Itance e
(km) 5.3        1      100        I        3.8       1          100          I
I  ___            I  _    _    _      I  _ __     _    1  _  ___I
Table 5: Frequency of time taken to weigh coffee at the factory
before new/renovation/resiting of factory
. _  ~      ~~I
|  Before project I                  Ifter project
I  _ _   _ _    _                    ! _ _ _ _ _ _                             I _ _ _   _ _ _
I Time taken        I Frequency      I Time taken       I    Frequency         |
I   in hours        I in percentage I     in hours           i in percentage   I
I                   I    -       -   I                  !                   _,
0 - 2          1     17                 0 - 2      1          31          1
1  2.1 - 4.0        1     15         1     2.1 - 4.0    f          22
1  4.1 - 6.0        1     10         1     4.1 - 6.0    1          19          I
I  6.1 - 8.0        1     10         1     6.1 - 8.0    1           7          I
1  8.1-10.0         1      7.0       !     8.1-10       1          10          1
17    10.0          1     41         110.0              1          11          1
I  _ _   _    _   _ I   _    _   _     I  . _  _    _    .   _ , _ _  ,_ _.    I
I  ean              I                 T                 1                      I
1 in                                                    I                      I
Ibra     6.8        I    100          1        3.8      I         100
I,_I__                                                       _          _ i 



- 106 -
THE COFFER RESEARCH FOUNDATION CONPONEM
1.0    IRQODUWCTION
The SCIP project was funded through a credit from the World
Bank/International Development Association (IDA) a loan from CDC. In
addition, the Kenya Government and the co-operative movement also
contributed in funding the project. This effort aimed at providing funds
for improving various aspects of coffee work in Kenya as from the year
1979. The CRF component was funded by way of grants through the Ministry of
Agriculture. The SCIP activities at CRF covered certain aspects of research
and training outlined below under objectives. The SCIP project grants to
CRF ended officially in June 1987. However, the Coffee Board of Kenya (CBK)
had mrde funds available for SCIP projects at CRF as from 1.7.87 up to date.
2.0    OBJECTTVES
The main aim of the SCIP project was to strengthen the CRY in its
pursuance of research as well as advisory and training. The research
sections which expanded their activities as a result of SCIP funding were:
(i) agronomy; (ii) economics; (iii) chemistry quality and processing
including coffee drying research; and (iv) research liaison, advisory and
training. The CRF and Kenya Government utilized the SCIP facilities at CRF
to train farm managers, factory technicians and coffee extension officers.
The workplan aimed at achieving the SCIP component at CRY was as
follows:
(a)    Chemistrx
-      Experimental work on mechanical drying of coffee.
-      Continuation of tests and modifications of drying equipment
and conditioning bins.
-      Orientation of newly recruited staff to nutritional aspects of
coffee quality.
-      Establishment of a liquoring unit at Coffee Research Station.
-      Equipping the newly built laboratories for analysis
agricultural chemicals and residues on coffee.
-      Expansion of leaf analysis service.
(b)    Exierimental Aaronomv
The objective of this section was to carry out result
demonstration/trials in farmers' fields in conjunction with Economics
Section, Research Liaison/Tra&ning Section of CRF and the Coffee
Extension Service of Ministry of Agriculture on:
-      nitrogen fertilizer demonstration;
-      pruning demonstrations;
-      weed control by herbicides;
-      intercropping young coffee with beans;
-      recording marginal coffee areas;
-      regional nurseries on robusta/arabica.



- 107 -
(c)    Economics Section
-      Survey of farm practices and on non-adoption of research
recommendation.
-      Continue to carry out coffee areas zoning linked to ecological
potential and technical recommendations.
-      Detailed case studies on farmers constraints.
-      Zstablisbment of a coffee/food crops plot at the CRF to study
closely the food/cash crop interaction and problems of
resource constraints.
-      To introduce computer facilities for analysis.
-      Integrate economic analysis with agronomy work in order to
evaluate socio-economically the recommended technology.
(d)    Research Liaison Section
-      To strengthen the advisory services of CRF by organizing and
participating in district tours and field days with other CRF
sections and Ministry of Agriculture staff
-      Organising training for Ministry of Agriculture Extension
Staff, Coffee Factory Managers and Coffee Factory Technician
-      Supporting Ministry of Agriculture Staff and farmers tranintg
programs
-      Preparation of teaching material and aids including hand
books, and technical notes iA collaboration with Ministry of
Agriculture
-      A bus was needed for transporting trainees from time to time
to places where they had to visit
-      One extra house was to be constructed because the funds
available were not adequate for constructing all the houses
budgeted for earlier at CRF.
See Table 1 for CRF staf' recruitment during the project
period.
3.0    ALLOCATI£ OE O R PROJCT ITEMS
Table 2 shows how the CRF was allocated with vehicles, staff housing
buildings (laboratories and offices) and staff in various Research
Sections which participated in the SCIP program.
4.00   CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT (See Table 3 For Details)
(a)    Construction of laboratory for Chemistry Oualitv and Advisory
SampI a
Completed and handed over to the Coffee Research Foundation in
August 1981. Hovever, the laboratory is not yet fully
equipped due to lack of funds.



- 108 -
(2a)   Five Senior Staff House": were constructed under 1979/80
program.
These are:
Semi-detached (a)  -            Nos S38 & 39
Maisonettes (2)   -             Sf45 & S/46
Pre-fab                         No S/44
One Senior Staff house has yet to be constructed due to lack
of funds.
(2b)   Six Maisonettes and one Lecture Rall
Were completed within schedule in August 1981. The houses are
now occupied and are numbered S/47, 48, 49, 50, 51 and 52.
(3)    Construction of houses for three Junior Staff (SJ) and one
Graded Staff (GS) had yet to start due to lack of funds.
However, Junior Staff houses (JS 86 and JS 87) as vell as
Graded Staff houses (GS 103 and 104) were built during the
1985/86 Financial year.
(4)    Construction of Office Block for Aaronomy and Economics
Sections
Was completed and handed over to the CRF by the builders on 27
February 1981.
(5)    Construction of the training centre
Was completed using CRF funds in August 1979 but was only
enough to accommodate 24 trainees. Plans were to be made for
future expansion using SCIP funds so that 40-46 people could
be accommodated and trained at any one time. However funds
have not been made available for the envisaged expansion. As
a result the CRF converted a staff house No. S22 to serve as a
dining hall, kitchen and food store.  There is therefore need
to construct a proper dining hall.
(6)    Purchase of five vehicles:  was done.  These are:
(i)    Peugeot 404 wMatatuu        - RVS 080
(ii)      n                        - KVW 365
(iii)           "                  -  CVW 366
(iv)   S/W Base Landrover          - KSK 182
(v)    Peugeot 304 Van             - KSN 193
In addition to the above vehicles, the Government gave the CRF
a bus No. GK 663 in January 1988 for use by students who will
be coming to CRF from time to time for training.
4.    Training
(1)    Fourteen courses each of 4 weeks' duration have been conducted
for Factory Managers up to-date. The total participants are
352 Which includes 12 Ethiopians.
(2)    Four courses for Coffee Extension Offices have been conducted
for 84 officers. The first two courses for 33 officers each
lasted for one week.



- 109 -
(3)    Three courses for technical assistants have been conducted for
a total of 63 TAs. A course for Pest Testers was attended by
16 TAs in 1982.
(4)    One course for Factory Supervisors was conducted for 4 weeks
in 1982 and attended by 42 supervisors.
(5)    Eighteen Factory Technicians attended a course in 1982.
4.2    Research on Ccffee Dilint SyVtem
The SCIP project had provision for importing and testing
driers for coffee. However, the CRF instead decided to design and
build a coffee drying system. The Kenya Government obtained British
Government Aid which enabled the CRF to complete research on coffee
drying systems in 1984. The drying system is in operation at CRF but
has yet to be tested in the Cooperative Sector. Two driers, one
imported by Law Denis and the other by the Koingkilde group were also
tested and the results published. There is need to continue this
research in conjunction with the fan ventilated bins in order to come
up with suitable systems for cooperatives.
4.3    Pubjiga%ions
A list of papers published by those involved with SCIP
especially by the CRF Economics Section are available in the CRF
library. Other publications compiled as Circulars for the benefit of
the Coffee Industry are also available.
5.0    FU=DG
Tables 4 and 5 shows the amount of money which was allocated to the
SC*.P projects at CRF Budget Estimates from 1979/80 to 1987/88.  The
actual amount spent is also shown. It should be noted that the CRF
contributed funds to the project from time to time whenever there was
need to do so over and above government grants.
6.0    COMBT
6.1    Le-Uibursements
The biggest problem at CRF was lack of funds to start off the project
in 1979 while waiting for re-imbursement to arrive from the Treasury
through the Ministry of Agriculture. For example, the first
re-imbursement reached CRF in January 1980 for refund of activities
started in July 1979. The situation did not improve and in 1981 for
example there was a temporary stoppage of projects to such an extent
that only about U£ 162,000 could be raised by the CRF for spending
and claiming towards the end of the financial year against a grant
budget of K£ 200,000.
Another constraint was due to the fact that the amount of funds
allocated to CRF for SCIP project continued to be slashed yearly from
£ 200,000 in 1980/81 to R£ 80,000 p.a. between 1982-84. Therefore
SCIP activities had to slow down or be cut drastically unless the CRY
had funds to augment the SCIP grant from the Treasury.



- 110 -
From the foregoing I would recommend that there is need to ensure
that some money be set aside for starting off the future SCIP project
by way of rMIrina fund for use and re-imbursement by way of
receipts. Such a fund could also be called imprest which could be
refunded before the next one is given out to the institutions where
SCIP projects are going on.
6.1.1 Flexibility
It should be pointed out here that the SCIP WORK PLAN was flexible
enough to accommodate extra needed expenses under "Unallocated
funds". That kind of flexibility enabled thle CRF to build a lecture
hall which was not specifically provided for in the allocated items
shown in Table 2.



ANNEX VII- TABLE I
- - - --  + -   AC  EHT OF CCIP AT 4- STAFF          I      - --  -  - 
HOSTEL   'RES4RCH    AGRONOMY    CHEMISTRY  ECONOMICS
TRAINING   LIAISON              (QUw  IT.)
Research Officers                  -          -            2
Field Officers                     -          1            -          1
Training                 -         1          -            -
Advisory Officers        -         3          -            -
Technicians ( Trainers)  -         -          -            2
l.aboratory Assistants   -         -          -            1
Field Assistants         -         -          3            -          2
Field Attendants         -         -          4            -          -
Drivers                  -         3          -            -          1
Supporting Staff         8               -                 -
TOTAL               8         7                       5



- 112 -                       ANNEX VII
Table 2: SMALLHOIDER COFFE IMPROVEENT PROJECT
COFFEE RESEARCH FOUNDATION - ALLOCATION OF PROJECT ITl3MS
- -CRF Sections-
Chemisty Agronomy Economics R Liaison Total No
Vehicles                 ..I     -           1          1          3          5
Staff housing:
Senior Staff houses    .. 1    4           1          3          4         12
Junior Staff houses    .el     -           3          3          -          6
Graded staff houses    .. |    -           3          -          -          3
Laboratory Buildings     .. I    2                      -          -          2
Office Buildings         .. I    -           1          1          -          2
Office Equipment (sets)     I    -           1          3          -          -
Field Balances                   -           5          -          -          5
Staff:                      I
Research Officers      .. 1    2           -          2          -          4
Field Officers         ..I     -           1         1           -          2
Training Officers      .. I    -           -          -          1          1
Advisory Officers      .. I    -           -          -          3          3
TeCbCriEa1       .      . I     .   .      ... -     -                      2
Field Assistants        .      -           3         3           -          6
Laboratory Assistants     1    2           -          -          -          2
Graded T   Staff               3           7          3                     6
Drivers                  I-11                                    3          5
Total Staff          |   9 B          7         7          31



- 113 -
Table 3:   CAPITAL DEVEWPMENT UNDER SCIP AT CRF BETWEEN 1979-1986
Type of Building               1 Identification     I Spwce (M2) and
I Number             I number of room
I                    I where applicable
I  _  
1.  Chemistry (Quality Laboratory                        I
[One storey lab]                I                    I Obtainable from
I                    I the Senior Estate
I                    I Officer, CRP at a
I                    I later date,
2.  Houses for Senior Staff (5)     I                    1
l                    I
(a)  Semi-detached (2)          I (1)   S38          1
I (ii) S39           I
(b)  Maisonettes (6)            I (i)     S45        I
(ii)   S46        I
(iii)  S47        I
(iv)   S48
I (v)     S49        I
I (vi)    S50        I
(vii)  S51
(viii) S52
I                    I
(c)  Prefabricated house (1)    I         S44        i
3.  Lecture HaU
4.  Junior Staff houses (2)         I (i)   JS 86
(ii) JS 87
5.  Graded Staff houses (2)         I (i)     GS 103
I (i) GS 14'
I                    I
6. Training Centre built with       1                    |
the CRF funds                  | (i)   SL 28
I (ii) SL 34
I (iii)R7            I
I (iv) Blue          |
I       Mountain
I (v)   TV Room 
I (vi) Hbusekeeper's house plus four
I       domestic workers
II
7.  Old living house go 22 was
modified to serve as a
Kitchen and Dining Hal1
_ _ _ _ _ __       _  _  _. _   I.   _ _ _    _ .    _  _  __      _



Table 4:   GOVERNMENT ESTIMATE vs ACTUAL SCIP FUNDS USED AT CRF                                              ANNEX VII
|   ITEM                     1979/80 | 1980/81 | 1981/82 | 1982/83 | 1983/84 | 1984/85 | 1985/86 |             1986/87 |    1987/88
I                         I      .~j          ,1       1   I      1   J      1   I      1   J    .    .                       1      .I KI ...  ...  ,  1.
Government Grant                  j          I          I          I          I          I          I                            I
Estimate              |  189,650    200,000 | 145,000      80,000 | 80,000      111,995 1 157,000 |     160,000*    | 201,950*-
1,I                       I           I     .    .I                                                     1.             I ,.,        I
Actual including      I           I          I          1          I                     I
I   CRF contribution      I  106,793 | 161,924 | 82,077 | 88,605 I 95,672           111,995 | 190,743        Not yet       Not yet   I
I           I          I          I          I          I          I          I |  available   available
*   Government grant was KS 80,000 and CRF contribution was additional KE 80,000 in 1986/87
** CRF contributed all the funds for 1987/88 because SCIP funding had ended



Table 5:   ACTUAL APPLICALTION OF SCIP FUNDS AT cRP                                                         AN4NEX VII
|   ITEM OF             |   1979/80 | 1980/81 | 1981/82 | 1982/83     1983/84 | 1984/85 | 1985/86 |     1986/87  | 1987/88
EXPENDITURE                K£    |    K£ KE               KF.| F.               KE        K£           K£          KE
I                     v I            I         I          I       .            I         I          I                          I
Staff, Training     I            I         I          I         I          I         I          I             I            I
and General Upkeep |      9,172     79,173 |  75,272 1   78,488 | 94,262 | 97,465 J 139,327 |       124,000* | 144,750***
I                                    I         I    .               I    .    .          I    .                 1        I     I
Equipment                19,075 | 10,832 |     1,652 |    2,009 |   1,410 | 12,407 | 15,152 |        16,000* | 51,200**    |
I           .                 .                I    ,         1               .    .    . I  I  ,  ..               ..I _...1. . I ,,. 
Capital
|   Development         |    78,546     91,919 1   5,153      8,108 |    Nil   |   2,123 | 36,264 |      20,000* |      -      I
I     E   m                                                                    I         I          I a 
***   Estimate



- 116 -
AME VIII
ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION OF THE
COFFEE PROCESSING COMPONENT:
MAIN ASSUMPTIONS AND SUPPORTING TABLES
1.       The text highlights the overall findings of the economic
re-evaluation of the project's coffee processing component, which comprised
about 70% of total project costs. Annex IV provides background information on
the physical, operational, and benefit features of the processing component.
This Annex consolidates the main assumptions used for the economic analysis
and shows the supporting tables of the analysis, including the sensitivity
tests.
Assumwtions   .4 in Economic Re-Evaluation of Coffee Factories
2.       The main assumptions used in the economic evaluation of coffee
factories are summarized below where these assumptions differed from the SAR
and/or have particular features, comments are also provided.
(a)   Economic Life of Project.  25 years, with mict of the factories
being constructed or improved during the period 1981/82 -
1983/84.
(b)   Incremental Proiect Cgots. All estimated actual coffee factory
investment for new or rebabilitated factories, replacement (for
engines and pumps in years 10 and 20), and processing costs for
the 15 PCR factories were included in the analyses, expressed
in constant 1987/88 prices (Annex 6, Table 5); in the SAR,
replacement costs were not included, which resulted in
overstating the incremental benefits; for details on these
costs, see Table 1.
(c)   Incremental Benefits.  The tangible source of benefits was
assumed to stem from the improved quality of clean coffee made
possible by the project's factory investments and training
activities. These benefits were quantified by the quality
profile and corresponding prices for 10 classes of washed
coffee and 3 classes of mbuni for each of the 15 factories.
For the years following factory improvements, the following
assumptions were made on the quality profiles: "without"
project - the average actual quality of the three years prior
to the improvements were assumed to continue for the evaluation
period of 25 years. For the 2 new factories included in the
analysis, the "without" project assumptions and proxy were on
available data from nearby factories, which were previously
serving the area of the new factory i.e. which were relieved of
the congestion at peak processing periods. It should be noted
that, in cases where severe congestion is occurring, a more
realistic assumption in "without" the project is to project a
decline in quality profile. However, for purposes of analysis,
this assumption was not used because of a lack of supporting
evidence. "With' project - actual quality profile data was
obtained from the Coffee Board for the 2-3 years following the
improvements; for years 4-10, it was assumed that the quality
profiles would continue to improve gradually; from year 10
onwards, the quality profile was assumed to be constant:
quality profile for both "without" and "with" project
situations were assumed to be the same.



- 117 -
It should be noted that pre-project data for quality profiles
for a number of factories may have been better than the
actual, given an overall national trend of deterioration in
quality during the period 1980/85.
The projections of quality improvements for "with' project
were based on three performance models, reflecting quality
improvements which have been observed in some of the factories
supported by the project (see Annex IV, Table 4). The SAR
assumed that, "with" project, the quality in classes 7-10
would be reduced to only 2% and that the amount of mbuni would
be reduced to zero of the total cherry delivered to the
factory. Overall, the SAR assumptions appeared to be more
optimistic in the levels of quality improvement than assumed
in the PCR. Table 0 provides an example of the results for
one of the factories.
(d)    Ptoduction.  Similar to the assumption used in the SAR, the
coffee factory analysis assumed that there was no incremental
production resulting from this component. However, in some
new factories it is possible that the increased processed
capacity and proximity of new factories to farmers may have
provided an incentive to farmers to increase their
production. No reliable data was available to modify the SAR
assumption. To the extent the new factories induced
additional production, the economic returns would increase.
(e)    Prices. Table 3 shows the net payment from CBK to KPCU
according to the various classes of coffee, taking 1983/84 as
an example. Up to 1986/87, prices used for clean coffee were
based on the actual prices paid to farmers for each of the
classes, as reported by the Coffee Board, but excluding the
export levy and county council cess in order to reflect the
economic values and the deductions to the co-operative
societies, since the processing costs were already included.
Table 4 provides details of the main deductions. From 1987/88
onwards, the future prices were based on projections of world
market prices for "other mild arabicas", as estimated by the
World Bank, but adjusted to reflect the historical
relationship between this reference price and the one observed
in the Nairobi auction.  In general, this auction price has
included a 10% premium over the world reference price, which
reflects the high quality of Kenya's coffee. These actual and
projected prices were used as the basis for establishing the
prices for each of the classes, based on the price
differentials observed over the past 6 years, and applied to
the observed (first 3 years) and assumed (year 4-10) quality
profiles in order to calculate the benefits for both "without'
and "with" project scenarios. All prices were expressed in
1987/88 constant prices (see Table 5). Table 6 presents the
economic prices used In the PCR, together with a comparison of
the prices assumed in the SAR. The latest available projected
price indicates that the PCR economic coffee price in Kenya
shilling equivalent is about 10% higher than the one assumed



- 118 -
in the SA. Although the US dollar equivalent coffee price
assumed in the SAR is higher than the one in the PCR, the
relevant price for the economic re-evaluation is expressed in
Kenya lhillings.
Results: Base Case and Sensitivitv Tests
3.     Table 7 presents the results of the economic re-evaluation of the
selected 15 factories. Tables 8-10 show the results of the sensitivity
tests ior selected factories, according to changes in quality and
production. Implicitly, these sensitivity tests also test for changes in
prices, which are determined by the world market.



- 119 -
MUIX VIII - TABL. 1
Table 1: Reiiwstmt Cst        in C*ffee Noe.saivg Facilities* in
leaw*-W and 20 after Project StarL-u
Costs in 1988 Constant Prices
Situation                      Year 10                 Year 20
(aKShs)                (KShs)
Witbout Project 1/                  240,000                240,000
With Project  2/                    320,000                320,000
*  Relates to mechanical equipment, engines, pumps and discs.
11  (i)  main water supply engine and pump          KShs. 160,000
(ii)  Pulper engine and 4 discs                  KShs.   80,000
Total        KShs. 240,000
2/ (i)   Main water supply engine and punp          KShs. 160,000
(ii)  Pulper engine and 4 discs                  KShs.   80,000
(iii)  Recirculation engine and pump              KShs.   80,000
-                     Total        KSha. 320,000



ID
dM3                  1610~~~~IL3  PU        toa         PISCI        PU        Itl           04.10      708       liOI         7051CC      75 08                  81W 170       PRIC         40        ia            COO'
3                    5~~~~~     ~~7.75  4437  £2,402    64.30       2,085     233,6253      83.7         "03      02.246      3,ift       2,44      225,089           3.701     34.10       1,493     12S.93        3401
4                           57.15       6,914    Sl2,977        3.49      I;,zII     633,440      08.10       4,303     505,04        it."0      f.424     711,64          20.133  1  6.9o        9,424     178,386      20.133.
$                           54.20      34,157     795,44       &2.30      201,404  I,'30,10        76.20      9,714?    762w,6        7-.31      11,0.4  3,090,25.1         33.753     7.35       34,90144  0,09,21        32.151
4                           52.05       4,52      339,761      5.M         I'm3?     550,71        70.60      4,4114    387,3!3:      ill 74     8,4       45,243.          14.641     A 41O       4,05   4  6,143         14.41,
7                   ~~~~~   ~~32.30  3,260  12,233      211.30      4,12      339,050       49,30      7,251     123,434"      94.00      3,432     205092            1.333      "D.o       3,432     70500          1.=3
*                           21.81       2,79       39,I2       23.4        4,06       95,57        39.80      8,925      75,25        Z ,4f      2,33      252,929           6,2n1     52.20       2,431     85,92          S.IM
9                           19."0         443      9,223       21.05         084      24,944       31.50        32        1,745       49.40        492      74,283           3.051     49.40         4?       PM23         7.451
la                          38.75          I           0       20.25           0           a      24.35           0           0         4            0           8          0.600,     41.40           0          0        0.401
20310?02                               37,42    3,071,3                   S4.963   3,034,714                 75,901   3,65W.s2                  39,443   7.823.3(7          04.311               3I,44     11,33.07       54.3
Mall 1                      44.05       3,032     870,71       49.70       5,570     274,024       £9.49      2,625     382,2.        6.3.29     4,003     212,078           8. 51     63.20       4,401     232,97,        IL5Su
owl33  2                    I9.A        3,13       60,014      23.30       4,622      96,243       47.40      2,174      92,3*        ai,ift      I,2m     13o377            7.001     49.40       3,315     13,734         7.O1
Mal 33                      38.05           0          0       20.00           0           9       33.50          0           0 Jl.40                0           0           0.002     48.40           0           0       0.00
35.3040                                 6,949     231,483                 10,362     375,065                  4,000     2?4,"iO                   7,33'    416,716          15.oS1                 ?,317     486,106       135.13
Maa   30302.                           44,590   2,802,000                 65,345   3,409,8539                3,0,17   2,13i9'0                  46,835   3,245,033         Iva.001                46,685   3,24,03        to0.-WI
IS4U111120CS,     41 1.30,1111                     12,134                             11,019                             41.'Ni                             $q.453                                            88,341
fit 08110M3                                     2,030,44                           3,32,106                           2,09o19                             ,25,2                                            3,193,46
4816,       484s,       kIcel      481a3       ktuul       kiwaI       Actual      kctuas     ROU      ?r.,,t.0    ?t,gtttu d    *~i 2rme     W41UTV     ptolulso   Prejett     Pt.,g109    I Dam1
0111 P9OJEC.               frig    prooucuu        [KMe        Prciw  pr00atamo       lot         tramo  90uact,.        Iicce       Pr,cts 0*aEt,ct,       laco.        700838.      Pt,cn   PrUvtaga        laces     Pau34
2                     0~~~    ~    ~     ~     ~~.00 0  0         0                          . 0     0        0.94  4                   0         0.809                    0.001 08                  4              0 .001
7                    55,~~~~~~325    0          0       62.35           0           0      84.30           0           4       r35 00         8           0          0.081      n65.0         9IA     010,841       2.003
3                 51.75     ~~~~~~~20,35V  8,264,067  64.30          8     0             0 3.7 to      064     s7,253       84.38      6,94(     584.243          14.041     04.10        ,313     737,423       20.001
*                            71        2,937     170,70        £3.40      23,92     4087,093      03.70      327,77   8.452.133      8. 99      33.534     948,730         24.741      01.9 to     0.299    042,513       32.00
5                    3~~~~~~~$.0.  0,499  0fl,3         42.30      33,333     80,1646       78,20O     4,405     339,291       73.35      0,400     633,391          10,392     13.35       7,4410   549,421        160.01
6                    53.05~~~~MO  3,434    877,41       VJ 51.5     5,43     0114,501      10.6*         72)      52,040       i4.10      6,421     428,403          33.711     64.7        6,014     405133        33.1003
7                   ~~~~~~22.80    70i      85,603      25.80       4,337     I50,55?       4.50         702      50,19        68.00      7,102     326,328          5.52       49. 00     12,343     34,445        Lou0
O                   ~~~~~    ~~21.15  402   12,73       23.40       3,30       38,342       Iq.,O        249       9,736       32.30        8l7      43,067           8.773     52.10         043      4390         200
1                    8~~~~   ~   ~~9,70  263  51,39     21.15       3,32       29,037       36.50        274       6,497       49.40        590      29,344           3.761     49.40         542      22,15        0.201
80                   18.25~~~~W    02       1,832       24,23           0          0       24.35           0           0      43.40          231        869          0.041      41.49         234      9,693        0.301
403.10108                   ~~~~~~34,400  2,019,70              58,t43   2,007,962                  24.473  3,934,441                 31,006  ?4822,2fl           09.3.32               30,354   2,60,23       135.502
634318              ~~~~~44.00   4,201     103,99       49.70       4,402     330,219       6140       3,483     242,126      61.20       4,064     354,3o$           9.941     63.20       4,213     2*6,23        9.001
Sol4  2                     19.20       3,603     74,554       21.30       7,000     849,800      42.44       2,114     311,42        49.48      4,145     224,171           M.78      49.40       4,443     234,703;      9.101.
*1111l                      It$$5           I          0       20.00           0           0       IS.5"          6           6       41.4i.         0           0           0.001     03.40           0          0        LOU0
so-Volk0                                7,9       2583,47                 13.402     447.219                  6,234     350.363                  9,29      539,20           39,41                  6,4421    405,937       tOaO
am      t00alk                         44,590   2.,2765                   45,845   3,285,1242                30,247   2,293,324                 4L,,825  1,342,30          30.0803                44,033   3,334.239      140.00
8.441510457       15   .fJO                        49,532                            494,340                             84,422                            320,705                                           172,445
3VIIW    t41PS                 .                 24,00                                    9                                  0                                   0                                                0
MET 08115118                                    1,854,612                          3,900,902                          2,200.04                             220,031O                                        3,253,75
lu1C1241*.411   1833li  WI. AOul                4175,9941                          t23.0583                             333.644                             lb.340                                           20,09
3110511*1A 3*u78n    33w346 tool                 3,311                              1126,0111                            49,2149                            It.035a                                          ".,92
. ~  ~    ~    ~    ~    ~   ~    ~   ~   ~    ~   ~   ~  ~       .     -        .       -.-.                                                                         -      -.-.~~..  ........  ....  ......   ........  ... ..........  -  - .......... 
O's i*50 CWIll *, 1[Mold SM: 



- 2-                                                                   ANNEX VIII - TABLE 2 (cout'd)
am               nic           m        tc rmit                 PRC          Pl        "co t^|   am   t        Patt         n   o             tO    I
136s3      1t3l3)       417,3   9llt           ISbIs       EKEs)       Ilnbl   9393l3         Islt)       It46!)      3S6s) i   MUIL
I                   ~~~~~          ~     ~~0,90  0  9               O."204                                         O .9  .0"      0                    0.00
2                          35.60           0           0        0.e0.1      5.60          0           0        O.OOt     3.60            0           0        0.0eo
*      S                           34.30       2,S4     12529"         3.201      04.10      IdYS      125,M         3.702      8.40        3,4932     2 ,3         3.20
4                            I.90      9,424     773,314       20.231     8. 90       9,474     773,934       20.131      83.90      9,424     731,814       20.331
1.35                                  14,14   1,90,257        71.51t      73.35      34,P4S  1,0045t         Si1.73t     73.35      14,164   t,09,2         3t.751
*      6 47 642                                6,354    457,143       14.641      64.70       6.154    457,14. 34o642            6.7         6,154     457,143        4.64
7                          40,00       3,422     MO5,M92        7,333      40*.o       .432    M2,82           7.333     60.00       3,432     25,892         7.21
I                          52.10       2,m       152,4M         6.M        52.t0      1',97     1532,929       a.m7      52.30       2.S35     352.22         6.M
*       9                          ".40          92      24,295        3.01       4.40          49      24,281        3.05      4N.40          492      24,263        1t05
If                         41.40           0           0        0.001      43.40          0           0        0.t02     431.0           0           0        0.011
3t-1W0l.                              39,43    2,B,307         64.372                3149     2   3,3017      04.3f1                34       2,37,307        34.37!
N t           1                   63.20       4,003     252,9" 7.5I1              43.20      4JnO3     252,970        E.552      63.70      4,003     252,970        MM551
NM 312                     4.40        3,315     163,4          7.0t       49.40        ,335    36,736         7.02       49.40      S,135     163,136        7.01
11BUllt J                  41.0            0           0        o.0ot      41.40          0           0       0.002      43.4".          0           9        C,
W      MALO                               I,S17     416,76        15.65t                 7,11t     416,7tX       15.b71                 1,ltt     *16.746       IL3
lO0L                                 46.8315  3.245.013       00.001                46,35    3,245,033      100.902                4t,91S   3,245,013      109.02
I : It±                 i   l    I             i%t  1      51,S47                                51,343                                          :1.S4,
31217131                       ~~~~~~~~~~3,313,464                             3,391,666                                     13,293,666
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . .. . ...... .... ..... . ............... _.__............................. .................__....., _.. ._ ..... . ..... .. .,__,_
Pro*tgd    pra9   til   0roj tt         3 I  1  prjetd       projtct     projted  t   lt      Prowe32 .rojectt          ho1ted   I GOLn 
Ku Itt   icPit                Ferit"    IrAftttoa     lrtcwt   dOtLE         Bricts Prottico         I*tz  tt   WiL         Pfil      Prodocllon    tect      pwtS 
3                           b0.00          I           0       0.001       0.00           0           0       0.00        0.0           0           0        0.001
2                          35.40       1,373     3,295          4.OOt      35.0       1,2tl     28,515        7.001      85.0        S,27r     280,515        7.1
34,.0      12,10    1,102,400      28.002      84.10      15,917   1,333,620      34.         54.10      ,12,1     ,33,629        34.402
*                           "1.0      3,421     690.14       lB.0Ot      Bl.0        1.022     575.2n        M5.00      I."         7,022    .575,2 125.002
5                          7l.S5   -    's       too, *N,X     14.0%       13.35      S,6IB     t12.0         12.0N1     n.ss$       5,619     t12,06        IL"
S                          66.70       5,6U3     374,797       12,09t     66.70       5.350     343,432      11.00t      66.10       5,I30     343,482       13.00t
7                          tO.OO       1.'1U     117,914        4.20S     60.0        1,M        "'M1         .50"       60.00       1,*59     '".12          3.10
a                          52.10          6       45,323        1.351     32.10         O        46342         1.902     52.40         o3       46,342        I.10
"49.40                                  535      25,43         1.102     49.40         422      21,283        3.051     49.4          492      24,283        1.05
to                         4.40         m323      13,567       0.701      41.40         391      16,474       0.85       41.40         39       16,474       0b.
SO-MAL                                39,251  3S,10,2P4         3.0                   0,401    ,5,115.224      .30                  40,140   3,135,224       36.39
NMI                        t;S3.20     s,m       251,ttP        8.50S     tS.20        4,w      242,614       0.201      U.20        1,83?     242.614        LM
138U1 2                    49.40       3,532     176,913        7.45-     49.40       2.575     227,139       S.50      49.49       2,5s      127,19t        3.50
out I                      4.40            0           0       0.00o      41.40           0           o       o0.00      43,40           0           0        o.00s
102.                                   7,56r     423.40        16.152                 6,434     3.9,330       13.702                 6,14      369,810       M3.70
M     MlAI                            46,015   3,433,803 l     0.001                46.815   3,505,034 l    00.00O                 46,81S   3,50,034       100.00
13339311         4133                            123,996                                         29,673                                       1229,673
soniNINg                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 900.00
MTIII SUITS                                    3,2,307                                        3.S35,357                                    3.,25,357
0  13135131*2. UCUEF..                                                               . t  3....4. 1-1,691                                     lOl,491
'C)                                                                                  >. 



ANNEX VIII - TABLE 2 (cont'd)
O
-3-
1231W? PRUIECT 43313~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I60                                    PWU             IW)        IX$
0.1W                       p.           rm         m tEI?                  Pm          pn         uc"         uLr          a            ao       1.U"ag
^ _ .,_ _,,,_. __., ........~~~~~~~~~~~~.......... . _. _. _. ..... __.... .... ._ .... . ... .
(56,3       686         33S4)   PUPIL!         IShJ    ~   tiny5       ISO.?   PUIL            *1b,       163)        libI     PUi t
|   ~ I                     0.00           0           0        0.01        e0.00         0           0        0.00t       0.ee           0          t        0.00
}   2                       35.40          e           0        0.001      35.60           0          O        0.00?      35.40           0           0       0.0
34.30       1,49      025,9          nm        34.0        1,49      115,9          3.20t      64.30       1,4"     125,98        32.
O  4                       8l.90       9,424     73,3S.4       20.131      33.90       9,424    771,E13       70.15t      81."        9,424     fl,.84       25.173
5                          ZX         IZ,"4    loXtJ73.35  14,064  1,090.257  31.51  73.35  34,4  ,090,257    31.5?       73.35      34,344    .0M0257        s1.M
_                                 £6.70       4,34      457,143       14.,42      66.70       4,33s    457,113       16.461      4.70        4,354     457,143       14.41
I ',?                       6s,00      3,432     20s,392        7.3        40.00       3,432    205,092        7.331       0.00       3,432     205,s2        7.
I                          52.10       2,95      152,Iom         .m        52.10      2,935     352,99         6.2n       52.10       3,935     152,92         .2M
It                                "4.40          92      29,203        1. 0S2     49.40         497     24,33s        3.052      49.40         492      24,293       1.09
It                 ~~~~~43.10       0           0        0.003      61.60          0           4i       0.001,     43.40           0           0       0.00
WIU                                   39,4"    2,   .307        4.371                 39,498  2.2,307         84.3n                  39,691   2,302,307       4.1311
33331 3                    43.20       4,003     252.970        O.5        U4.20      4,003     152,970        9.551      63.20       4,007    252,970         U.SE
3M      2                  4.40        3,315     143,734        7.011      49.40      I,515     13,73          7,012 1     9,40       3,335     343,7.4       7.t
NMI   3                    4.40            0           0        0.00t      4.40           0           0        0.00o      41,40          0           0        0.0o1
gD*10TtWL                              7.317     436,704       15.t4t                 l,317     43t,704       M5.431                  7,SIJ    416,706       35.64
PM    MAL                             46,335   3,245,013      100.000                 46,315  3,245.W        100.00                 44,915   3,245.013     100.00I
7312313    cOS     13                             $3.741                                         51,347                                          31,347
*   _     4? UUhIS                                       3,393,446                                      3,133,644                                       3,193W 4a
4                                                           ~~~~~~~~              ~         ~~~       ~  ~          ~~   ~   ~   ~~~~~.- -.*..  ................  ............ . *-- - .-.. .  ...- 
ProJIti o    PIoJK0     OrojiCted  I OUIITY    ProisttI     Pco3Kted   PronIetd   t 91LIIt    Proectld    Proe;ttd    ProjKtgd I 013.3                                                         I
4_     3II nTMM                  Prim    ProOto .tcl lOZ           PUPILI        Prices  Prutctica      loco.t    PROFILE       Prien   ProEut,o         Inc"*  PUPIL!
_.                                  . . .           .          ..................        -. ...... 
I                           0.00           0           0        0.002      0.00           0           0        0.001       0.00          0           0        0.002
35.40       4482      400,734       ¶00.40t    35.60       4,8       400*,7rs      I0 oct o     5.,6      4,682     100,746       1O.00
34.10      11,724   1,574,357       08.001     84.10     31,121    1,574,157       40.001     84.10      13,72    3,57,853         0.0M
*                          83.90       4,086     418,431       13.00?     83."        4,0       498,479       M.M01       el,.0      6,086     49,439        33.'O?
s 5                        73.35       4,492     37,33S        3O.03       731.:      4,462      34.38        30.003      n3.3s       4,482    34   ,81      10.00
W  4                       44.70       4,462     312,256       I0.00P     44I70        ,42      312.25        10.001      4.70       4,432     312,254       W0.00
40.0        1,404 o     4,147       S.0ot      40.00       30         34,264        3.003      60.00      1,404      84,247        3.001
52.10         93       431,79t       2.001     52.10         933      49,18I        2.001     52.30         936      43,731        2.40t
t w                        n.Zb           b       tS1z7         1,"4.40  443  23,12  3.002  49,4O 443  23,12?  1.001      49.40         40      23,2to,00t
to                         41.40         448      193,33        3.003     41.40         468      I9,3II        I.001     41.40         463      19,333        3,00?
*73t.L                                42,334   3,305,233      '90.00                 42,14   3,35,233         O.00S               42,34   3,305,233       90,00o
111  1                   64.20       3,27?     207,310        '. Got      3.20      3,27      201,t0O        L.o0t      63.20      3,2?t     201,110        7.00t
mm      t                  *49.40      1,404      49,300        3.00t     49.40       1,4l0      69,           3.00S      49.40       1,404     69,380        3.0?
_       3                  63.40           0           0        0,901      43.40          0           0        o.e        41.40          0           0        0.00s
7  sS*tAL                              44612     276,489       10.005                 4,602     274,489       M0.00M                 4.682     276,489       30.00
Wm    1wit                            46,615   3,533,722      l00.00t                46,315   3,593,m        loe.003                 46,835  3,533,722      100.00t
PIO           m m"$ t            t         s         S 135,23t                                       IMS237                                         135,237
l ng      0n COST                                         o                                         10.010                                              e
NEllT llttS                                         3,446.403                                      5*5"*4483                                      3,44*"ti85
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~    ~   ~   ~   ~   ~   ~~~~.... .> ..... .It            ................. .it              .............         ........



X23
ANNEX VIII - TABLE 3
JNET PAYMENT BY CIK TO KPCU BY
"CLASSES" OF COFFEE--1983184
Ksh/kg             Ksh/50 kg
Clean Coffee
1                         42.45               2,122.50
2                          42.15               2,107.50
3                          41.95               2,097.50
4                          41.50               2,015.00
5                          40.80           .   2,040.00
1-5                         41.40                2,069.95
6                          37.80               1,890.00
7                          16.40                820.00
8                          15.35                 767.50
9                          14.30                 715.00
10                         13.25                 662.50
6-10                          29.00               1,450.04
1-10                         38.06               1,903.09
Hulled MBUNI
I                          32.55               1,627.50
II                         13.95                 609.50
111                          13.15                657.50
1-III                         25.03               1,251.41
AYERAGE                          36.65               1,832.68
SOURCE: CBK.



- 124 -
ANNEX VIII - TABLE 4
SCIP ?R
SUMMARY OF NAIN DEDUCTIONS ON COFFEE PAYMENTS TO PhARMES
(BASED ON 1983/84 POOL)
Approximate Percentage
of Realization 1/
(A)    Coffee Board Marketing Expenses                     2-55%
(B)    Export Duty for Government                          8.33%
Sub-total                   10.88%
(C)    County Council Cess                                 3.0X
(D)    Average Deductions by Coop Societies               14.0%  2/
Total Deductions             28.0%
(Price Received by Farmer as X of Nairobi
Auction Price)                                    72.0%
1/     Realization price refers to Nairobi auction price.
2/     AmOunt of deductions varies from society to society, and even among
factories in a society (from 10-30% of realization price). These
deductions are to cover factory processing costs, transport of
parchment to KPCU collection centers and   other  society expenses,
sometimes not related to coffee.



- 125 -                ANNEX VIII- TABLE 5
SCIP PCR
Economic Prices (1987/88 Constant Prices)Al
(KSh per kg)
Class          82/83    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88 Onwards
1         0        0        0        0        0            0
2        55.25    61.35    84.7     85.60    50.9         55.0
3        57.75    64.10    83.7     84.0     49.3         53.3
4        57.15    63.40    81.7     81.90    48.1         52.0
5        56.20    62.30    78.2     73.35    43.10        46.55
6        52.05    57.75    70.6     66.70    39.20        42.40
7        22.10    25.10    49.5     60.0     35.20        38.10
8        21.15    23.40    39.1     52.1     30.60        33.10
9        19.70    21.85    36.5     49.40    29.0         31.40
10        18.25    20.25    24.35    41.40    24.3         26.30
M4bu$ 1        44.80    49.70    69.40    63.20    37.10        40.10
Mbuft  2       19.20    21.30    42.40    49.40    29.0         31.40
Nbu^I 3        18.05    20.0     33.50    41.40    24.3         26.30
1I/  Prices up to 1986/87 are based on the Nairobi auction prices;
adjusted to economic prices in 1987188 constant prices (excluding
export tax and council cess); prices for 1987/88 onwards are based
on projected world prices for "other mild arabicas", but adjusted to
reflect Kenya's quality premium  .



- 126 -
ANNEX VIII - TABLE 6
SCIP PCR
COMPARISON OF COFFEE PRICES FOR ECONOMIC ANALYSIS,
(ZSM s PE)
SAR                                   PCR
Nairobi Auction Price            World
UR KSHJk       USSk   Equivalent    Prices2  Nairobi Auction PriceY
Year   197978o    1987/88   1979/80 1987/89     (1987188     (1987/88    (1987/88
prices     prices    prices    r        prices)     prices)     prices)
US$/kg_     USt/kg      KSH/kg
1979/80  20.8      46.5      2.6       3.5        4.65         5.12       87.0
1987/88  21.5      48.1      2.68      3.63       2.76         3.0         51.0
1989/90  21.4      48.1      2.68      3.63       2.89         3.18       54.0
1I     Figure assumed in the SAR (Annex 1, Table 14)
2/     Based on international price index (1987/88 - 100)
3/     Based on latest World Bank projections for 'other mild arabicas
41     Assumes an average quality premium of 10%, based on recent historical
relationship between world reference price and Nairobi auction prices.



I iltd,eh sit stpatq u nJnlfl (g)
8OT111P31 9190S34 * qJo "@; q *56SOAl Ug (win"30 43n
teuuJut 'iu *R4 Jo erJie ot pssmdza) ,asosl Jo a3e OUo op S;T m Su (1) :"101
VtL    6r0Wt    6-01S't  B OSS't  t-99t'1 E1S'L  1Z   Z'tAr   1Z099) ItO99) 16nt)  S'89  tt91   (111'811:?)       9I3R1E TIT
. . ... .... ..... .... . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . ... . . . .. .  . . .. . . . . .. . . . . ... . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . . . . .. . .   . .
Ell    t t      8'l1i   2Z9    (t 6t)  0'09   91t)   9S      9t)    S g9t  09S U  ltt    91"9   (Stoo'I) I          UoMI St
6I t    9S91   S' 9  1 S'9S     9'Ot   91?     tI     g tI  (      (91 CZ)  Qt'l)  l tit)  6t19Z  (0rO91*0)      u;hurn; it
'ti    V MI I'  l't90'1  1't91'1  8'88  9'B901(9 19'1S) WHY lt) lO tt) I o, t?) Wmt9) 1 0 tgt)  l'ut2  WI'ZZ'Z)   11011111 't1
19  S   OU 9'0t?  S'O£    t     t'1t2  2't2 t  S9l    1191 t'10?   88 tUZ9'lt     4OP'1) (NO'1T                          I 1
lS) VI     (Z11) 991            19Z)    I'LZ   tII    VII 2l  'Ot   01 Ot  1  ) (t1L) I 1   ? S'StlSU  )           *pgfltl! 11
0tZ      9zz 91?? tl   8S ZZ    I'SI   ro01   (919) 9 S) tJ'OHt)   Ot) WHO       (0'80) l)  6'L  (tIfT)            ?t1p1 *01
S9     S'tUz   rS: I     tw    (L'UJ   tuOl   (8191s) (6 912) (0o066) tOn6t)  rii 91 sti  II I   #lJ)              9*0qvI  6
S'O    Sl111    B'ft   4'011    Vt!   ZVII     UK91   t 9l  t1Z9     tq19  919   t1l9    t'89   (19S0')T 'n lo
(9'8)  SgZ8    (910     S'Zt    (1,9o  (S'9)  (t')    WIt6  (0Zl)      0 ZlJ  (tI?  (016) ltet   (6 SLI'1             'l   L4
6 6t1  0    18S  01    018 O't8S  1'N   1'     0 8lt  0 81   Z'l?  1191     ' [l  ZCli   (CTI ll)  (168) 'B6Ur"J           19
(1'C    6 Slt   B 59 UV   Stl   t (ril  0,i 19   s9   te8Z   t Z    t t    (S6    9s19    L'tt   (9'80')              Til! 'S
(lt)   3 9     (nO?)   O'lS    (Vl  9l 8'1   (91't)  (91?)  (9SIt)  (nIt)  (i'Ll  O61t   t:     (ZCitO'l)            Gist 't
l       8 S8    8'S     8'8     (6'10t) WSI')  (S180t  (81)I) WHO   (510) OtIO   (C)      61I    (0IOI'Z)       ;°u9ZOvwt  It
ZNS    619£     6'101t  8l9t    t    9St  ZI9N  01    019t  t86    t86    61L1Z  S'*8i   l1't   (6819)             u'a9 ox   tC
CE 9ttl         8  91    tSL   9L l01  I t     t 19  61T   1'9S   119   £-SE   9'01t   ((9U)  (t0'9)               "oin  t
S I             6 I
............... . .... .... .. .. .. I..... ......... ... .... . I..............................  ............................... ..... .... -,. ...... ......... .......... ....... ........... ...... ........... ...
St-1i 5StaI Ot ltai 61-1t s3191 01 Bl  t iji  8 a9dl I '1  l g 9al  S J9 L  1 aeaI  2 1I*1  I 3t1  I ml
ass                              {QOa.mni *306M )  218131 (sI9;#llDJWml) wi valn
TU,'0°3O3 Uoloq Jo s;s9l;nt o;uoou IN I xI S :01 fIqvj
t ;Iq'J. - IIIA X3bN



SCIP - PCR                                                                                             ANNEX VIII - TABLE 8
6112@2WSls     1IOM     IUPLIf  410T21   SEtuS;ivitIV t t
Milli.    Mth      Wiltt 1tt    10 toIvf                                 wtit? PWMfILE Yt1      10
___~~~~~~~~~ .                         ........... ......_ ........ ___................. . .. . .... ....... . .._........ . .... .. .... ...... ..... . . .. .._ . .. ..... _.... _....
Pro*tW       Prowot t0 ho*ttd        I UAtIT                  Ph  Wt,ied   PsVoWil      PrsMtt$    I   tOUIT
107l3 99   1                             Prig"   frogetshp        l.cow      tWILE                     Prcu     PtoadvCthk      Iew        PPOTILI
____~~~~~~~~~., ._ . ......... . . . . . . . ............... . ____.................____._
I                                         54.10       q,%6       50425ms        7.001                  5M.30 t       2,5S2     726,07         Io.0P
2                                         55.0o      13,il3    3,012,92        14.501                   55.00       2.94     2,424,           20.00?
3                                         53.30      22,018    1.173,331        21.001                  53.30       2,404    3t,5,752        72.00?
I                                         52.elb     t31004 11,"Io             t1.5                    1s0.os       25."4    1,74,00O       2".0o1
5                                         46.55      21,371      9M  M12        26."t                    16455      19.42t     904,773        tS.01t
4                                         42.t40    NJ.5        702,921       12.90                    42.00        4,1446    24,592          5.00X
7                                         31.to       2,422       92,279         2.671                  39.10        2,590      98,694         2."t
S33.30                                               1,425       47,350         1.102                 J33.I         1..2M      42.9?1         1.00!
9                                         73,40         972       30,502        0.75?                    32.4?           0            0        o,eos
10                                        2.30        1 .034      27,251        0.30?                   76.30            0           0         0.002
SUJ-ItAL                                            1124533    S.52,029         3.90?                              13,0044   4,337,t001       9."
133    1                                  40.20       9,594      36.154          7.100                   40.10      5.l1      207,750         4.002
Not13? 2                                  33.40      7t771       244,016         4.00?                   31.40       1,295      40,669         3.00
o       J11                               26.30            0           0        0,0l                    24.30            0            0        0.0oe
0W*ftIl                                              14,967      412,172        13.10                                6,674     249.419         5.003
e TOT.                                              IZ,520     4204,802        309.001                             1239,520  6,584,027       300.00?                                                                                  0
MUlS        COSTS 2118 4,591M9)                                  534,43                                                        5$4,72M
liNVISmI   COSTS                                                  60.000                                                        90.000 
MEt EIII ITS                                                  5S     313                                                     5,943,t55
lUl   tE. KAtlVtS      01. cOFIEE                             5,l60,9                                                        5,943, 255
iUCTND?E    KIwi? (two11 Cmm)U                                 5592,029                                                      6.7"~.609
M.S   _1 C0  UTS   * tU   l$I6 I IIS W33
It2 301   INCRCaSE t0R MIN PROILE:            5.Ot
........ ... ................. ... I.... ........ .............. *..
PR 0151322196 PtOPTItA       )W*0    R  7    5 0t3:   -5. I03l
......     ....   ..............          . .        . _   .. .
PR VIIN Kut IL111 Pw Itti                             *J. IIMs
........................................ , ......



ANINEX VIIt -TABLE 9
#61hzl t0P1 SOMIItW PfIVIE SEESltl?t 1ESI 11
I ....... . . ............. ................... 
_~~~~~~~~~~~.                         . .   .. ... . ................. . . . ....... . ..... ....................... . _ .. ......... _._ ....._ . __. ._.. ........ . __......... 
ojected     Proeted    proaJctod  I gAIIIv                 P  nt.td     rojetted  tr,wt   td    OVA2 t,
aiollu                                J prite  Predtim       ftae"         llE                   Piet"  Ptoctlue        Inco"     PRWILE
_ __ ...............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~......... . ..................... __ ......................... ---_._ ._
I                                          e0.0       e0                   0.093                 54.00       V.vS      213,305        %.001
t                                      lOD."          e0                   O."t                  '.4.U       1,320     321,696        L.
J                                      49,30      *.320     11.sN4         0.eo                  "J.o       q9,4 e      6,m i6 1.0
*                                      43.0l      14,22  0    199         191.0t                 43.10      19.51      949,99        25.001
5                                       3.10     22,911     90,046        29.00o                 43.10      15.900     6,"9          20.0*1
4                                      3.20       15I.010   M6,07         19.001.                39.20       9,tKi     311.67S       12.01.
J                                      35.20l     4,740     I".9St ,         eo4                 33420       5.160     11,4235        *.e01
O                                      31.10      2,370      n,wi4         S.P                   30.60      2;,37       7,574         3.00t
n29.e0                                            1,510     45,21        2.00t                 29.00        " l       2,0tt         I.0
IS                                     24.9         79       I9,197        1.001                 24.20           t           4        0.00
WIF    4                                          7,942    .915.131       %-W                               71,102   5,2 I,U0        90.00
11                                     37.31      5,5030    205,11         7.eet                 39.10       3,150     1U6.549        5.001
aum   2" 2.00                                     3,1u0      91,62     *    .0en                 29.00          tO     69.722        3.00t
EEl 3                                  2.0        2.1370     57.592        3.10t                 26.3        1.50       M9.M5         2.001
11-08                                             1,0on     354.403       1m4.0t                             17,9"0    23.6            .0 
"E tMAL                                           19,0    3,2   23,1     100.01.                            79,002   3,465.344      100.001 
i M      U   TS S c K1 24531si                              172143                                                     110.150                                                                                     i
1OSI        Wil m"to,o                                                                                                  to,"11                                                                                      I
T                                                         tmITS  2,9 s9                                              3,205,0
nNaWn        Enwii (01= arml                                ,                                                          ,2s
IEUUU        llEITS hiuG    CPPUI                         1,95.101                                                   3,711,16
t MMUR   1103*5   111$ WVI PSOILts                     6.61
aS 4S5I53     "mlO    MI. t 3 tam  7ia5 1K          1.43111
.... .   .......................... . .... . . . . _  ..  .
W    f1N OLD WAtTr   MW0                           -Q.MOs



.~~~~~~~~~~~~-- .i .       ii
1          #4 *. #4444  #4D-~  '4 "  __* _44  _ _ _ _0
oa  ,  ,.  ,  , ,_ .' 4*         i  .0
*                                  -.ayaPw 9y -  ----. ' 
$   I                    _~~~~~~~I
__s__ -S3 *-  4               9    U }E
* , 9  asaaas         v''_~a> -   2- F't
1  amaa aS am ai.._ *i _Xsi_s. _04..  - :e
I     ~~~- 9s -      ~ 



