Document of
The World Bank                         RE        ' TO
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2253a-KE
FILE COPY
KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 10, 1979
Eastern Africa Region
Central Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units            -   Kenya Shillings (K Sh) /1
US$1.00                   -   K Sh 8.0
K Sh 1.00                 -   US$0.125
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                              British/US Equivalents
1 meter (m)                    -   3.28 feet
1 hectare (ha)                 -   2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)       2       -   0.62 mile
1 square kilometer (km )       -   0.39 square mile (sq mi)
1 kilogram (kg)                -   2.2 pounds (lb)
1 liter (1)                    -   0.26 US gallon (gal)
-   0.22 British gallon (imp. gal)
1 metric ton (m ton)           -   2,205 pounds (lb)
1 long ton                     -   2,240 pounds (lb)
ABBREVIATIONS
AFC       -  Agricultural Finance Corporation
CBD       -  Coffee Berry Disease
CBK       -  Co-operative Bank of Kenya
CBOK      -  Coffee Board of Kenya
CPCS      -  Co-operative Production Credit Scheme
CRF       -  Coffee Research Foundation
CSS       -  Co-operative Savings Scheme
DAO       -  District Agricultural Officer
FTC       -  Farmer Training Center
IADP      -  Integrated Agricultural Development Programme
IADP I    -  First Integrated Agricultural Development Project
ICO       -  International Coffee Organization
KFA       - Kenya Farmers Association (Co-operative) Ltd.
KNFC      -  Kenya National Federation of Co-operatives Limited
KPCU      -  Kenya Planters' Co-operative Union Ltd.
MOA       -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD      -  Ministry of Co-operative Development
PDA       -  Provincial Director of Agriculture
SCIP      -  Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project
FISCAL YEAR
Government   -  July 1 to June 30
CBK          -  October 1 to September 30
CBOK         -  July 1 to June 30
CRF          -  October 1 to September 30
KPCU         -  July 1 to June 30
/1   Since October 1975 the Kenya Shilling has been pegged to the SDR at a rate
of SDR = K Sh 9.36; the rate vis-a-vis the US dollar has fluctuated since
that time.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  ................................................ 1
A.    Project Background             ...................................    1
B.    The Agricultural  Sector ....             ..........................    1
C.    Government Services  ..................................    5
D.   Agricultural Credit  ..................................                    7
E.   Commercial Services .            ..................................    9
II.    COFFEE SUB-SECTOR .........................................   10
A.    Background    ...........................................   10
B.    Kenyan Coffee Markets and Prices  ..................              ...  10
C.    Production    ...........................................   12
D.   Processing    ...........................................   14
III.    THE PROJECT  ...............................................   15
A.   General Description  . ....................... ............   15
B.    Detailed Features  . . ................................. .   16
C.  Project Costs                     .         .         ............... 18
D. Financing ..................  20
E.  Procurement ..................  21
F.  Disbursements ..................  22
G.    Accounts and Audit  ............. ......................   23
H.    Environmental  Impact  ...           ..............................  23
IV.    ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............. .................  24
A.    Project Organization and Staffing  ..                ..................  24
B.    Training  ................................*.   27
C.    Monitoring and Evaluation            ............. ...............  27
D.    Project Implementation            .............. .................  28
V.    COFFEE PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING ...........................  29
A.    Production - Technical Features  .....                .................  29
B.    Production - Farmers Benefits   .             ........................  32
C.    Production - Estimates  ........             .......................  33
This Report is based on the findings of a IBRD appraisal mission which
visited Kenya in May-June, 1978, composed of J. Wijnand, F.-M. Patorni
(IDA) and D. Gardiner, A. Gibson and H. Seuster (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
Page No.
D.  Processing - Constraints .....   .......................   33
E.  Processing - Modifications ............... ...........   34
F.  Processing  -  Benefits  .......... ..    ......................  .  35
VI.  MARKETS AND PRICES ........    ................................  35
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    ................................  38
A.  Economic Evaluation  ..................................  38
B.  Financial Evaluation ........ .... ....................  40
VIII.  SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS ........  41
SUPPORTING TABLES, CHARTS, MAP AND DESIGNS
TABLE 1 - Project Costs Summary
TABLE 2 - Detailed Financing Plan
TABLE 3 - Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. - Project Cash Flow
TABLE 4 - Government Cash Flow
TABLE 5 - Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Table 6 - Economic Rate of Return Calculation
TABLE 7 - Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Table of Contents of Volume II
CHART 1 - Ministry of Agriculture
2 - Department of Co-operative Development
MAP
Kenya-Coffee Areas IBRD 13743



KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.  Project Background
1.01      In March 1978, the Government of Kenya requested that the Bank
consider financing a coffee rehabilitation program for the smallholder
coffee sector. The loan application was prepared by the Development Planning
Division of the Kenya Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). The potential for a
project was identified during the 1973 Agricultural Sector Survey. At that
time, coffee prices were showing the first upward trend since the early
sixties.   However no rapid follow-up took place because, in 1974, prices
dropped again as a result of good production prospects linked with a lower
demand from the importing countries. The project preparation team worked
closely with district coffee working groups and the provincial and district
authorities. The Bank's Regional Mission in East Africa (RMEA) was consulted
regularly during preparation by MOA. This report is based on the findings of
a Bank appraisal mission which visited Kenya in May-June, 1978, composed of
Messrs. J. Wijnand, F.M. Patorni (IDA), A. Gibson, H. Seuster and D. Gardiner
(Consultants). The objective of the Project is to (a) improve the quality
of coffee produced by the country's cooperative processing facilities; (b)
rehabilitate about 15,000 ha of coffee plantings which are owned by small-
holder farmers who do not have access to sufficient input supplies; and (c) to
provide incentives for smallholder farmers, who achieved higher yields because
of the recent boom in coffee prices, to maintain those yields despite lower
coffee prices forecast for the next four years. All smallholder coffee
producing areas are included in the proposal and the Project would rely on
existing coffee bushes. Coffee production is established as the most important
cash crop in Kenya's small-scale farm sector and the proposed Project is an
integral part of the Government's policy for encouraging greater productivity
in the small-scale farm sector. Development of smallholder coffee would
extend Bank assistance to the Kenya coffee industry presently given to coffee
estates through the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project (Credit 537-KE, Loan
1093-KE) which was initiated in 1975.
B. The Agricultural Sector
General
1.02      Kenya has a total area of 583,000 km  and it is a country of enor-
mous contrasts in topography, climate and soils. The climate varies with
the altitude which ranges from sea level to over 5,000 meters. Conditions
range from very dry, in the marginal areas of the north to high rainfall in



-2-
the forests of the south-western highlands. Almost half the total area is
near desert, with very limited agricultural potential, while the plateaus in
Central Kenya include some of the most fertile soils in Africa. Kenya's
population is estimated at 14.2 million (mid-1977) and is growing at the rate
of about 3.5% annually. About 90% of the population is classified as rural
and is mainly dependent on agriculture for its livelihood. Kenya's 1977 GDP
in current prices, and at factor cost, was about K Sh 32.4 billion, or K Sh
2,280 (US$285) per capita. The average annual income per capita of those
living in rural areas is estimated at K Sh 580 (US$70). Population densities
vary widely from region to regi 2n.  In most heavily populated areas, there are
about 150 to 200 persons per km and the average holding is one hectare.
There are many areas with much lower densities, even in localities of high and
medium potential. Extreme variations in population density are explained by
the fact that in most areas land is regarded as the exclusive domain of a
particular tribe; in addition, the colonial heritage has influenced population
(and agricultural) patterns, as much land was appropriated for large-scale
expatriate farms or set aside as Government land.
1.03      Kenya's agricultural sector is characterized by a wide variety
in systems of production which reflects the differences between ecological
zones and the patterns of land tenure and population distribution. A broad
distinction can be made between the large farming sector, including Govern-
ment farms, and the smallholder sector which employs the great majority of the
rural population. The Government defines small farms as 20 ha and below.
There are about 1.5 million smallholdings in Kenya, of which about 50% are
less than 2 ha, and occupy less than 4% of cultivable land. Most small-
holdings are farmed by their owners. About 20% are considered experienced
commercial farmers, another 20% are in a transitional stage between sub-
sistence and commercial production, and the balance of some 60% are sub-
sistence farmers. Hiaize is the staple crop but smallholders also produce
beans, coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cotton, oilseeds, livestock, milk, potatoes
and fruit. Large- and medium-scale farms are larger than 20 ha, and they
occupy about 2.7 million ha (compared with 3.5 million ha occupied by small
farms). There are about 1,000 large farms with holdings in excess of 400
ha each, and just over 2,000 medium-scale farms of 20-400 ha each. Virtually
all production systems for these farms are oriented to commercial markets
and involve a wide range of crops. Wheat, sisal and maize are the dominant
crops.
1.04      The share of the agricultural sector in total GDP has been declin-
ing, from 40% in 1964 to 28% in 1977. This resulted principally from fast
expansion in other sectors, notably the manufacturing and supply industries.
Recent growth in agriculture as a whole remained below the 1964-73 rates of
4.5% per annum, notwithstanding Government efforts to develop this sector.
This is in large part explained by unfavorable weather conditions from 1973/74
to 1975/76. The trend in agriculture's contribution to total GDP for the last
six years is as follows:



K Sh million (constant 1972 prices)
% Increase
1972      1973    1974    1975   1976    1977*          72-77
Total GDP            13,172    14,066  14,382  14,523  15,405  16,536           25.5
Agriculture
Non-Monetary          2,134      2,306   2,376   2,329   2,329   2,406          12.7
Monetary              1,888      1,934   1,922   1,924   2,001   2,246          19.0
Total Agriculture    4,022       4,240   4,298   4,253   4,330   4,652
Percentage of Total  31.9        30.1    29.9    29.7    28.1    28.1
*    Provisional.
The encouraging growth of the monetary contribution to agriculture, estimated
at 19% between 1972 and 1977, was complemented by a somewhat slower expan-
sion in non-monetary production (13%). Between 1976 and 1977 the total
contribution from agriculture to GDP rose by 7% (constant 1972 prices),
to K Sh 4,652 million (US$581 million). There was a 12% increase in the
growth rate of monetary production and a 3% contribution from the non-
monetary sector. At current prices, the value of marketed farm produce
rose from K Sh 5,000 million (US$625 million) in 1976 to K Sh 8,302 million
(US$1,038 million) in 1977. The small and large farm sectors contributed to
this growth in roughly equal amounts.
1.05      Quantitatively over the period 1974-77 output from cereal production
rose 11%, output from temporary industrial crops rose 12%, while output
from permanent crops rose 35%. In comparison, production from livestock
increased by 11%. The price indices showed increases of 15% for crops,
compared to 33% for livestock produce.
1.06      Agricultural exports, always the single most important sectoral
contributor to total exports, increased by 101% in 1977 to total K Sh 6,336
million (US$792 million); rising coffee prices having the dominant effect
(1977 = +80%). These data reflect a good agricultural year in 1977,
and show the tremendous impact of international demand for Kenya's coffee and
tea crops.
Livestock
1.07      The estimated total numbers of cattle, sheep and goats in Kenya
are 9.7 million, 5.5 million and 6.3 million, respectively. Of these,
approximately 1.9 million cattle and 0.5 million sheep are grade animals.
Livestock development schemes have been designed to provide veterinary,
upgrading (by artificial insemination), and marketing (meat/milk) facilities,
particularly for cattle and for high potential areas. Mfore recently, range



-4-
areas have been receiving greater attention, and sheep and goat improvement
centers are also being developed, especially for marginal areas. To improve
livestock health further, the Department of Veterinary Services is currently
taking over direct responsibility for the construction and operation of dips
throughout the country. The Government has also initiated a national project
for poultry improvement. The objectives of these policies are to improve
domestic meat/produce supplies and to develop the potential for meat exports.
Forestry and Natural Resources
1.08      Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km ), 520,500 km  is categorized as
potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as "high", 6% "medium" nd
81% "low".  The 5emainder is mainly categ2rized as forest (17,000 k  ),
water (13,500 km ), game parks (28,500 km ) and townships (3,500 km ). With
little high potential land remaining uncultivated, the growing population is
pressing development of lesser potential areas and forests, making action
for effective resource conservation imperative. To achieve this, the Govern-
ment is now emphasizing appropriate soil conservation measures, especially in
small farm areas, linked to reafforestation; long term development planning
for marginal areas; and specific schemes for ensuring the further development
of high potential land by appropriate farming systems.
Development Strategy
1.09      Government's development objectives for agriculture are (a) to
achieve self-sufficiency in agricultural products, (b) to increase both the
output and productivity of export commodities, (c) to diversify output to
spread out the effects of price fluctuation, and (d) to develop the social and
physical infrastructure in integrated programs for both cash and food crops,
thereby raising incomes and living standards in the poorer parts of the country.
The reduction of rural-urban disparities and general inequalities in incomes
is a complementary long-term objective of the Government. Since the agricul-
tural sector offers the best prospects for increasing production with rela-
tively low capital inputs, its growth can significantly contribute towards
achieving these stated objectives.
1.10      The development strategy for agriculture addresses the problems
of both the large and small farm sectors; it is clear that both will continue
to play a significant role in contributing to the rational growth of food
production. Services and projects thus aim to support the development need
of both sectors to realize the full potential from mixed farms in high
potential areas. The Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADP)
was introduced as the main vehicle for supporting small farm development,
especially those farms outside the cash economy.  For more advanced farmers
the Third Agricultural Credit Project financed by IDA is designed for both
small- and medium-scale farms; multi-owner farmers can benefit from the Group
Farms Rehabilitation Project. The Narok Agricultural Development Project
aims to foster the development of mixed farms in the middle range (20-100 ha)



-5-
in a district of high, and largely unexploited, potential. Coffee is an
important enterprise for specific encouragement within the development
strategy, because of its importance as a cash crop, its significance to
exports, and because productivity has been declining in recent years.
1.11      The central policy of Government for self-sufficiency in essential
food crops is being emphasized by the Ministry of Agriculture. Notably, the
pricing policy and small farm development projects since 1974 have encouraged
surplus maize production, ensuring strategic reserve (now 180,000 tons)
and developing export capacity (1975-76: 200,000 tons, 1976-77: 500,000
tons). In 1975, sugar and wheat were also selected for self-sufficiency
programs. In addition, in 1977 it was decided to speed up the drive for
self-sufficiency in cotton, tobacco and edible oils.
C. Government Services
1.12      Government services to agriculture are delivered through five
ministries and 15 statutory production boards. The Ministry of Agriculture
has the primary responsibility for agricultural development and farmer
services. The Ministry of Cooperative Development (MOCD) supervises co-
operative organizations and provides them with management advice. The
Ministry of Lands and Settlement is responsible for land adjudication,
legal division and consolidation of all farm land. The Ministry of Works
and the Ministry of Water Development provide and supervise crop extrac-
tion roads and rural water supplies, respectively. The statutory boards
involved in agriculture are either general, as is the Maize and Produce Board,
which trades in most food crops, or crop-specific, e.g., the Coffee Board
of Kenya (CBOK). The initiation and implementation of development projects
is being decentralized through the increased use of the District Development
Committee which approves and monitors all development projects at the district
level.
1.13      The Ministry of Agriculture comprises three departments:  the
Department of Agriculture, the Department of Veterinary Services and the
Administrative Services Department, which includes the Development Planning
Division. Chiefs are directly responsible to the Permanent Secretary. The
Department of Agriculture is responsible for implementing policy and promot-
ing agricultural production throughout Kenya. The Department of Veterinary
Services concentrates on the provision of health and breeding facilities for
livestock. The Development Planning Division is a supporting organization
for both of these technical divisions; it acts as the main link with the
Ministry of Finance and Planning, and is responsible for all economic and
development planning matters related to agriculture. The Department of Agri-
culture includes eight technical divisions; each division head is responsible
to the Director of Agriculture for the specific aspects of agriculture for
which the division is concerned. The eight divisions are: (i) Industrial
Crops Production, (ii) Food Crop Production, (iii) Horticultural Crop Produc-
tion, (iv) Animal Production, (v) Range Management, (vi) Livestock Marketing,



- 6 -
(vii) Land and Farm Management, and (viii) Scientific Research. A Deputy
Director of Agriculture was appointed in April 1976 to be responsible for
planning and organization of extension services and training. He liaises
directly with the Provincial Directors of Agriculture (PDA's), who have prin-
cipal responsibility for extension services in their area of jurisdiction.
1.14      Agricultural Extension Services.  Agricultural extension work
involves most of the Ministry's technical divisions. Ministry headquarters
is responsible for overall policy decisions and administration, but field
operations are directed from a provincial level and are organized and co-
ordinated on a district basis, under the District Agricultural Officer (DAO).
Within limits set by Government policy, provincial extension services have
a high degree of autonomy. The Land and Farm Management Division is sup-
posed to act as a coordinator of extension efforts. Most extension staff
have in the past specialized in crop production. However, services were
reorganized in 1976 and extension agents at farmer level now act as gene-
ralists; the emphasis is on improved management of the farm as a whole.
Current extension staff for crop development number about 7,000, and the
average number of holdings per officer is about 230. The principal problems
of extension services in the past have been poor communications, notably
transport, an unbalanced mix of specialist skills, lack of in-service training,
and limited continuity due to frequent transfers of personnel. The 1976
reorganization of extension services and several on-going development projects
aim to address these problems and to make extension services a more effective
vehicle for providing support and supervision of farmers. Specifically, the
Government aims to increase extension coverage in key development areas, to
provide better transportation and allowances and to improve housing facilities
in remote areas for extension officers, to provide more information to farmers
in support of extension work, and to strengthen in-service training programs
for extension staff.
1.15      Staff Training is provided by a network of colleges and training
institutions. Senior agricultural staff are now mainly trained to university
degree level at the University of Nairobi. Intermediate level staff are
trained to diploma standard at the Egerton College, while junior staff obtain
their training (to certificate level) either at Embu or Bukura Institutes
of Agriculture. In 1972, MOA initiated a training scheme designed to update
the training of all extension officers, particularly in the technological
aspects of crop and animal production. In the same year the Ministry created
the Land and Farm Management Division which has emphasized improvement of
farm management standards. Assisted by the Fourth Education Project (IDA),
MOA now intends to expand the Faculty of Agriculture (to 180 B.Sc. graduates
per year) and Bukura and Embu Institutes of Agriculture (to 350 certificate
holders each per year). The numbers of trained staff for agricultural ser-
vices is still far from adequate, and is likely to remain so for the fore-
seeable future; however, several active programs are underway to expand the
capacity of training institutions and to make their programs more effective
in support of national development efforts.



- 7 -
1.16      Farmer Training Centers (FTCs).  FTCs are designed to introduce
farmers to modern agriculture techniques through short residential courses;
FTCs also offer in-service training for extension staff. There are two
large-scale FTCs at Eldoret and Nyahururu, which concentrate on training
farmers, managers, and extension staff for large farms, and 31 smaller
FTCs, 18 of which are operated directly by the MOA and 13 by the National
Christian Council of Kenya. The Government hopes to establish FTCs in each of
Kenya's 42 districts. Capacity of FTCs ranges from 35-100 people per course.
Each FTC has, in addition to farm employees, about eight teaching and admini-
strative staff. Each has a demonstration farm varying in size from 25 to
1,000 hectares to assist with training courses. FTCs also work through modern
farms and demonstration plots in their district. FTCs each offer 30-50
courses annually, reaching a maximum of about 5,000 farmers and extension
staff. In-service training for extension workers is provided on a regular
basis to update knowledge of animal and crop extension and farm management;
courses normally last two months.
1.17      Agricultural research is the responsibility of a specific division
of MOA and is mainly conducted at 24 research stations situated throughout
the country and generally reflecting priority production of the area concerned.
Past research has emphasized crop production, e.g. the development of hybrid
maize varieties and adaptation of wheat varieties at the National Plant
Breeding Station, Njoro, and has thus played a significant role in increasing
food production since Independence.
D. Agricultural Credit
1.18      Agricultural credit in Kenya is available through a number of
institutions in the organized credit market and individuals operating in
an informal market. Five types of credit institutions can be distinguished:
(a) commercial banks which provide working capital and development credit
channeled largely through medium- or large-scale farmers; (b) the Agricul-
tural Finance Corporation (AFC) which gives loans to large as well as small-
scale farmers; (c) the Co-operative Bank of Kenya (CBK) which provides
development and seasonal loans to cooperative societies; (d) parastatal
organizations such as crop or produce boards which provide seasonal loans
or medium term loans mainly for the development of cash crops; and (e) other
credit institutions which provide suppliers credit through institutions such
as the Kenya Farmers' Association and Kenyan Breweries Ltd.
1.19      The Central Bank of Kenya controls the banking system which includes
a large commercial banking sector, and two principal parastatal organizations,
AFC and the CBK, both of which are also operated on commercial lines. The
Central Bank sets the prime interest rate (currently 8% per annum) and the
minimum interest rates and volume of credit with which commercial banks can
lend for specific purposes. Of the total estimated credit of K Sh 820 million
available for agricultural production in 1975-76, over 50% was supplied by
commercial banks and nearly 10% by input suppliers mainly for large farm



-8-
operations. Approximately 20% each is supplied by AFC and the Co-operative
Bank of Kenya, the latter principally to small farmers. These credit funds
represent loans to 180,000 farm businesses or approximately 15% of the total
farms in Kenya.
1.20      Commercial banking is dominated by three large institutions linked
to British overseas banking groups: the Kenya Commercial Bank, the Barclays
Bank International, and the Standard Bank (Kenya) Ltd. These banks provide
broad coverage through a network of branch offices in important towns.
The bulk of commercial bank lending to agriculture is channeled to large-
scale farms and farming companies, and to corporations engaged in agro-
industrial activities. Commercial banks also handle, however, an estimated
10-12,000 loans to medium- and small-scale farmers; small-scale loans are
normally short-term and are largely for on-farm developments rather than
working capital. Normally these loans take the form of a line of credit;
banks seldom perform analysis of farm development proposals and there is
virtually no follow-up of farm developments. The principal constraints to
increased commercial bank lending for small and medium size farms are the
high cost of making small loans and the lack of dependable farm management
services. At the end of 1977, total commercial bank lending to the agricul-
tural sector was K Sh 1,088 million.
1.21      The Co-operative Bank of Kenya was established in 1968 to provide
medium and seasonal finance to cooperative societies and to act as an outlet
for societies' funds and members' savings. It does not deal with individuals
but lends to unions or societies who make loans to their members. The major
lending system of the Co-operative Bank is the Co-operative Production Credit
Scheme (CPCS) through which approximately 240,000 loans have been made since
1970. It is Government policy to emphasize small farm loans through the
Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADP). The first phase aims at
reaching 56,000 members by 1980 in all parts of the country. This program
is concentrated on developing systems for assisting less progressive small
farmers. Crop and produce boards provide seasonal credit and some medium-term
loans for specific crops. The Wheat Board, for example, finances wheat
production, and in 1976/77, financed 722 growers, for a total amount of about
K Sh 37 million; funds for these programs are normally lines of credit from
commercial banks. The KFA provides services to farmers through its payment
terms, which are 60 to 90 days for members; since KFA markets wheat, they
often serve as collection agents for the Wheat Board. The Kenya Breweries
extends seasonal credit for barley production and is considering a program
of tractor loans for barley growers.
1.22      GMR Scheme.  The Guaranteed Minimum Return (GMR) scheme provides
crop insurance to growers of maize and/or wheat with a minimum of 6 hectares
under either crop. GMR was introduced in 1942 as a war-time measure to
encourage large-scale crop production, and until 1966 it applied only to plots
of at least 40 hectares under specified crops. The program has gradually been
reduced in scope for crops covered, but has been expanded by lowering the
minimum holding size eligible for participation. Under GMR, the Government
approves planting of a certain acreage; this planting order entitles the
farmer to compensation in case of crop failure; the security provided by GMR



-9-
creates the basis for seasonal credit in the form of advances on GMR. AFC
acts as agent for the disbursement and collection of GMR funds. Since
1975/76, AFC, acting as the Government's agent, has raised funds for GMR
through the sale of promissory notes by the Central Bank. GMR provides
crop insurance and seasonal credit up to a maximum of K Sh 500 per hectare;
interest is charged at 10% a year. The GMR program has substantial arrears
and operates inefficiently; AFC is seeking to phase it out.
1.23      The Agricultural Finance Corporation is a statutory board which was
established in 1963 to assist in the development of agriculture by making
loans to individual farmers, cooperative societies or companies. Although
mainly providing medium- and long-term credit, AFC also provides seasonal
credit to its borrowers. AFC loans are generally secured over land. It is
Government's policy to expand loan activities through AFC particularly to
more progressive small farmers, in addition to its services to the medium-
and large-scale farming sectors. The small-scale lending programs are mainly
assisted by IDA lines of credits. One of the large-scale lending programs,
Group Farms Rehabilitation Project, was initiated in 1975 and is being partly
financed by the Bank Group.
E. Commercial Services
Agricultural Inputs
1.24      Most agricultural inputs are obtained by farmers through several
commercial organizations. Of these Kenya Farmers Association (Co-operative)
Ltd., (KFA) is the largest, with 33 branches and 2,212 stockists throughout
the country. In addition, the Kenya National Federation of Co-operatives
(KNFC) initiated a merchandizing organization in 1975 to complement and expand
the national coverage of input supplies to farmers through the cooperative
network. In 1975 Government assumed responsibility for importing and distri-
buting fertilizers to the existing retail outlets; it also introduced uniform
fertilizer prices throughout the country. An agreement was signed in 1975 for
the construction of a fertilizer factory to satisfy the national demand; this
factory was due to commence production in 1979 but recent financial management
problems have resulted in the project start-up date being put back till early
1980.
1.25      The national seed requirements are mainly supplied by the Kenya Seed
Company, in which the Government is a major shareholder. Spray chemicals
required for crop production are supplied by several commercial companies
through existing retail outlets (mainly KFA). Building materials and other
items required by the agricultural sector are generally manufactured in Kenya,
and are available through KFA and other suppliers. A range of farm machinery
is imported, assembled or manufactured by a variety of commercial companies
and retailed through outlets in strategic centers.



- 10 -
II. COFFEE SUB-SECTOR
A. Background
2.01      Coffee growing was introduced in Kenya around 1900 and has gone
through various ups and downs. The industry initially developed along estate
lines and by 1935 about 42,000 ha were planted with Arabica coffee, producing
approximately 22,000 tons of washed coffee. From 1935 till 1950 the hectarage
under coffee declined steadily to 24,000 hectares, mainly due to poor prices.
The sharp rise in prices from 1950 onwards was responsible for the third
phase in coffee development in Kenya and by 1955 production overtook the 1935
level to reach 23,000 tons. During this third phase the first major diversi-
fication of coffee production to smallholders occurred. However, the process
was slow and it was not until 1960 that production became really significant,
both as regards quantity or quality. By 1964, smallholding mature hectarage
surpassed the estate hectarage and smallholding production overtook estate
production in 1965-66. Today production from the smallholder sector is about
the same as the production from the estate sector, although the average yields
of the smallholder sector are well below the estate sector.
2.02      Coffee is the most important single agricultural commodity in terms
of its contribution to the gross marketed value of agricultural produce and in
earning foreign exchange. The share of coffee in total annual export earnings
has consistently been more than 14% since 1972. In 1976 the share increased
to 27.8% and in 1977 to a record 42.6%. Coffee is also important in terms of
employment opportunities. Out of about 900,000 people in regular wage employ-
ment in the monetary sector in Kenya during 1977, approximately 87,000 were
engaged as permanent workers in the various parts of the coffee industry.
An additional unknown number is involved in casual employment, particularly
during the picking season.
2.03      Notwithstanding its economic importance, coffee contributes only
a minor share to direct Government revenue. This small provision contrasts
sharply with that in most other producing countries. An export tax was
imposed on coffee in 1963 at a relatively moderate rate of K Sh 400 (US$50) a
ton which represented approximately 5% of value. The tax was halved in 1967
and discontinued after 1973. In June 1977 an ad valorem export tax was
introduced and set at 15% of the value of auction sales proceeds above
K Sh 20,000 (US$2,500) a ton.
B. Kenyan Coffee Markets and Prices
2.04      The marketing structure is centralized through the Coffee Board of
Kenya (CBOK) which controls the planting of coffee through a licensing system,
takes delivery of all coffee produced and sells it for export by auction.
Its main intermediate agent is the Kenya Planters Co-operative Union Limited



- 11 -
(KPCU) which receives parchment coffee from the estates and from smallholders
through the local cooperative societies for hulling, grading and cleaning.
All final processing and grading takes place in Nairobi where facilities exist
for storage throughout the year. Auctions are normally held every week in
Nairobi at which sales are made to private exporters. A complex system of
grading by appearance and cup taste is carried out and sampl2s are sent to
buyers all over the world before the coffee is auctioned. The participa-
tion of the CBOK in the marketing process ceases after the auction.
2.05      The share of Kenya in total world exportable production of coffee in
1974/75 was just under 2%. However, Kenya is an important supplier to certain
countries notably West Germany, Netherlands, USA and Sweden. The volume of
exports has risen from 53,725 tons in 1970 to 94,344 tons in 1977.
Table 1: QUANTITIES AND TOTAL VALUE OF COFFEE EXPORTS 1969-1977
Quantity            Value         Domestic Export Prices (f.o.b.)
Year          tons            K Sh (million)             K Sh per kg
1970          53,725                 445                    8.28
1971          56,426                 391                    6.92
1972         63,142                  495                    7.84
1973         75,317                  716                    9.50
1974         71,680                  767                   10.70
1975          67,728                 704                   10.40
1976          77,586               1,867                   24.06
1977          94,344               4,087                   43.33
2.06      The trend in producer prices for the period 1965-1977 are as
follows:
Table 2: TRENDS IN PRODUCER PRICES, 1965 - 1977 /1
Payment to Grower                         Payment to Grower
Year      K Sh per kg                      Year      K Sh per kg
Current Prices   1977 Prices              Current Prices   1977 Prices
1965          6.40             15.40       1971          5.70            12.10
1966          6.00             13.70       1972          7.00            14.00
1967          5.30             11.90       1973          8.70            15.90
1968          6.00             13.40       1974          9.80            15.25
1969          5.60             12.60       1975          9.40            12.25
1970          7.40             16.25       1976         22.30            25.60
1977        39.60             39.60
/1   1977 constant prices derived by using Kenya's Consumer Price Index
(IMF International Statistics).



- 12 -
2.07      The year 1975/76 represented a dramatic year with price records being
set and broken almost weekly. By the end of June 1976 some 62,000 tons had
been sold, in itself a record, and prices had reached a level of K Sh 28,000
per ton. At the end of 1976, 77,586 tons had been exported at an average
price of K Sh 24,060 per ton. Exports of Kenya coffee earned the country
an equivalent of K Sh 1,860 million in foreign currency that year. In 1977
prices rose even further to an unprecedented average of K Sh 43,330 a ton and
94,344 tons were exported resulting in an equivalent of K Sh 4,087 million in
foreign currency.
2.08      The quality of Kenya coffee is reflected in the high prices which
it commands on the export markets. The information below confirms its high
value particularly during the recent period of tight supply.
Table 3: PRICES (K Sh per ton FOB)
Year                Kenya          All Exporting Countries
1974               10,700                    9,220
1975               10,420                    9,040
1976               24,060                   19,760
1977               43,340                   33,600
2.09      The behavior of the international coffee market was a direct
result of the changing supply situation. Prices in real terms reached a peak
in 1977 and a gradual decline is expected during the next four years as the
supply situation eases.
C. Production
2.10      Coffee is grown in all of the six main agricultural provinces,
generally being restricted to altitudes of 4,500 to 7,000 feet. With the
exception of an area of about 100 hectares of Robusta in Western Kenya,
Arabica is the variety of coffee grown in Kenya and considerable effort has
been given to produce optimum varieties which has resulted in Kenya's crop
being highly regarded for quality on the world market. A permanent coffee
breeding unit as part of the Coffee Research Foundation (CRF) in Ruiru has
been established which is the sole supplier of coffee planting material within
the country. Central Province has always dominated coffee production, with
Eastern, Rift Valley, Western, and Nyanza Provinces following in order of area
planted. Coast coffee is grown only on a limited scale in Taita.



- 13 -
2.11      The main coffee areas within each province are situated in regions
receiving an average of 1,000 mm to 1,800 mm annual rainfall. Serious, long
lasting droughts occur periodically and can suddenly reduce the overall pro-
duction capacity of the coffee tree. The limitations of water supply lead to
methods of farming for coffee in Kenya which are considerably different from
those of Central and South America. Soil depths of 2 to 3 m are considered
necessary to provide sufficient water storage capacity between wet seasons.
The majority of soils on which coffee is grown in Kenya are of volcanic origin,
low in nitrogen and phosphorous, but usually well supplied with potassium
and minor elements. However, some coffee is also grown on non-volcanic soils
which are deficient in many nutrients and have a wide diversity of character-
istics. Shade trees are generally not grown in the main coffee areas, although
at the upper and lower altitude margins, they are used to moderate diurnal
temperature fluctuations. Coffee tree populations of 1,300 to 1,400 per
hectare are usual, although where irrigation is possible, it appears that the
optimum density may be about 2,200 trees per ha. Irrigation is gradually
becoming more common on estates and about 25% of this coffee growing area
receives some supplementary irrigation. On smallholdings, it appears almost
impossible to design economical irrigation schemes for the crop because the
blocks of coffee are small and are situated on steep, terraced land high above
the water-courses. Fortunately the small-scale coffee farms are generally in
higher rainfall areas than the coffee estates.
2.12      During the past decade there has been a decrease in the coffee
growing areas, although in the last few years it has remained static at
around the 86,800 ha recorded in 1977. The decline was attributed to (i)
management problems associated with the transfer of production from estates
to smallholders, (ii) coincidental rise in incidence of Coffee Berry Disease
(CBD), seriously reducing yields and earnings, (iii) restrictions on new
plantings under the International Coffee Agreement, which ended in 1973.
In 1977 the relative areas grown by estates and smallholders were 27,800
(32%) and 59,000 (68%) hectares. Approximately 270,000 farmers are registered
as coffee growers. The remaining registered coffee estates (731 in 1977),
have each an average productive area of 40 hectares.
2.13      The decline in production from 1973 till 1975 can be attributed
specifically to: (i) poor rainfall: many coffee growing areas suffered
drought in 1973, (ii) escalation in input costs, leading to low fertilizer
and spray applications and consequential yield reduction and disease recur-
rence, (iii) increasing problems with labor and handling and (iv) compara-
tively better prices and payment systems for alternative crops. The greatest
scope for increasing output from existing bushes is within the smallholder
coffee sector where average yields are well below potential. Average yields
of washed coffee on smallholdings have so far reached less than 50% of that
achieved by estates. Productivity in smallholdings was 760 kg per hectare
on average compared with 1,790 kg per hectare on estates in 1977. However
production in the smallholder industry does produce mean average yields of up
to 1,450 kg per hectare per year. The low average productivity is attributed
to the 23,000 hectares of neglected coffee holdings. KPCU and the CPCS scheme
provide only credit worthy coffee farmers with agricultural supplies on credit.
The criteria for these loans are directly linked with past production perform-
ances. It is clear that the neglected holdings therefore do not qualify for



- 14 -
access to sufficient input supplies because of low production levels in the
past. A major aim of the Government is, therefore to reduce this imbalance
and raise coffee earnings of smallholders with neglected holdings. To achieve
these aims it is necessary to analyze the reasons for the poor performance of
farmers who own the neglected holdings. One of the main reasons appears to
be farmers dissatisfaction with the services supplied by coffee factories,
societies and unions. Poor management of societies has frequently resulted in
low payment rates for coffee delivered because of high overhead costs. The
capacity of the machinery in coffee factories is often not capable of handling
the crop which results in either lower quality of coffee produced or farmers
being turned away when trying to sell their coffee crop. The same results are
also noticed when factory management is poor. In both cases this results in a
lower pay-out rate for coffee delivered by the smallholder coffee farmers. In
the end the farmer often decides to neglect his coffee and spend more time on
alternative crops.
D. Processing
Handling System
2.14      The majority of Kenya coffee is processed according to the "wet"
method. However, at the end of each season the few remaining fruit are
stripped off the trees and dried in the sun. The product of this "dry" method
is known locally as "mbuni". Small growers deliver their cherry to the nearest
co-operate coffee factories which are collectively owned by the farmers and
run by societies, membership of which is compulsory for the coffee farmers.
The pulping machinery is under cover, fermenting tanks are of concrete, drying
is done on wire-bottomed tables raised above the ground. On delivery of the
cherry the grower receives a weight receipt, if the cherry is accepted at the
factory. If it is rejected, the farmer dries it into "mbuni" and sells it
to his respective society. The societies and factories in each district are
organized into a District Co-operative Union. The Co-operative Union under-
takes the transport of the pulped and dried parchment by lorry to the nearest
railhead or direct to the milling agents (KPCU) of the CBOK, who hull, grade
and prepare the coffee for sale at the weekly public auction in Nairobi.
The mill normally treats each society's deliveries separately and the ratio
cherry/clean coffee is fixed by the Union on the basis of the outturn Report
for each delivery. Payouts are made three or four times a year to the socie-
ties which, in turn, pay their members on the basis of the cherry weight
receipts. Final prices are calculated at the close of each crop year when,
after the deduction of various marketing costs, taxes and commissions by
the CBOK, KPCU, the cooperative unions and the local cooperative societies,
the balance is paid to the growers.
2.15      The coffee grower's Co-operative Societies are well established
throughout the country. There is however sufficient evidence that inefficient
management of a number of societies is resulting in a lower payout to the
small farmers, thus diminishing the incentive to improve production. The
sector has also had problems of deteriorating quality in recent years because
of undercapacity and poor management of the cooperatively owned processing
factories. There exists a wide range in the efficiency of committees and



- 15 -
staff of the societies. Individual growers are often inclined to associate
themselves only with the most efficient societies. This trend can only be
halted by ensuring the administrative efficiency of cooperative organizations
and by improving the facilities and capacity of the co-operative factories.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The proposed Project would, over a four year period (1979 - 1982),
assist and rehabilitate the cooperative coffee industry. The Project activi-
ties would aim to (i) improve the quality of coffee produced by the country's
cooperative processing facilities; (ii) rehabilitate about 15,000 out of
23,000 ha of neglected coffee plantings which are owned by smallholder farmers
who do not have access to sufficient input supplies; and (iii) provide incen-
tives for farmers, who achieved higher yields because of the recent boom in
coffee prices, to maintain those yields despite lower coffee prices forecast
for the next four years. All smallholder coffee producing areas would be
included in the proposal. Within this four-year period the target of the
Project would be the active participation of approximately 70,000 registered
coffee growers through the provision and coordination of essential services
to the cooperative coffee sector. The Project would comprise the following
components:
(a) The rehabilitation of 400 existing factories, the
construction of 14 new factories, the construction of
50 mechanical dryers and provision of improved training
facilities;
(b) Provision of medium-term development loans to farmers
for the rehabilitation of their holdings;
(c) Strengthening of the Coffee Research Foundation;
(d) Development of improved coffee extension services
and training;
(e) Strengthening of the Department of Cooperative
Development services, improved training facilities
for staff; and
(f) Incremental staff and facilities for the Co-operative
Bank of Kenya Ltd, to provide improved credit facilities
in areas under rehabilitation.
3.02      The Project would be managed by the existing coordinating unit
for the Integrated Agricultural Development Program (IADP) within the Ministry
of Agriculture as strengthened under the Project, and the Department of
Co-operative Development. The Head of the IADP program would be assisted
by a Coffee Project Manager who would be responsible for managing the
implementation of the Project as a component of the overall IADP program.



- 16 -
3.03      Agricultural development in Kenya is now largely planned on a whole
farm basis, encouraging production through simple, area-specific packages of
enterprises. The IADP is the vehicle chosen for effecting this development.
Coffee is an important enterprise for specific encouragement within this
program, because of its importance as a cash crop, its significance to exports
and because productivity has been declining in recent years. The proposed
Project would incorporate three of the Government's major objectives, namely:
(i) it would be a national program which offers considerable potential for
increasing productivity and exports; (ii) it would provide specific assistance
to smallholders; and (iii) it would create additional employment opportunities.
B. Detailed Features
Factory Construction and Rehabilitation
3.04      The percentage of top quality coffees in Kenya has steadily declined
since 1960, and this can be directly attributed to the constraints experienced
by the smallholder producer. Traditionally, the highest qualities of Kenya
coffee have been produced by the smallholder cooperative sector and not by the
estates. Major contributing factors in the observed decline in quality have
been the inadequacy of both the factory management and the physical facilities
provided at the coffee processing factories.
The Project would aim to remove these major constraints by providing
funds for the construction of 14 new 3-disc factories and the rehabilitation
of a further 400 factories. Total rehabilitation will be carried out on
approximately 50 of these factories by resiting and rebuilding, extensive
rehabilitation will be necessary on approximately 170 factories, and partial
rehabilitation would be carried out on the remaining factories. The Project
would provide for 314 new 1,000 bag stores, 451 extra pulper discs, 171 extra
pulpers and 1,600 units of 1,000 ft. of extra drying table space. In those
areas where climate and space availability are evident constraints, the Proj-
ect would provide 50 mechanical drying facilities. All factories under the
Project would be provided with facilities which will enable them to comply
with the Kenya Water Act (Chap. 372). This would consist of approximately 236
complete recirculation systems and 314 recirculation pumps. The entire
smallholder coffee industry would benefit from these investments rather than
just the Project participants. Correct utilization of the physical facilities
provided under the Project would be implemented under an extensive factory-
management training program, which would reach 1,180 coffee factory managers
and 560 factory clerks and produce recorders. Under the Project, CRF would
train 26 coffee factory technicians. Arrangements for the maintenance
of the factories both during and after the Project period were discussed
during negotiations and assurances obtained that appropriate provisions
be made through the regular budgetary procedures of the coffee societies
which are under the control of MOCD. One of the major reasons for farmers
to neglect these holdings has been the low pay-out rates because of poor
and inefficient factory performances. The above training and rehabilitation
measures will contribute significantly to creating better incentives for
farmers to maximize their production levels.



- 17 -
Medium-Term Development Loans
3.05       An estimated 70,000 smallholder coffee farmers would obtain medium-
term development loans from the Co-operative Bank of Kenya to enable them to
rehabilitate their holdings. Rehabilitation would include clearing of over-
grown plantings, establishing proper weed control regimes, pruning, soil con-
servation measures, improved nutrition practices, pest and disease control and
infilling of vacancies (approx. 5% equalling 750 ha). The Project would aim
for these holdings to be brought back into optimum production which is a
process which could take up to four years. At the end of the rehabilitation
period, the growers would have established proven production levels which
would ent-itle them to participate in existing credit schemes.  The adminis-
tration of these loans would be similar to that of CPCS (para 1.21).  The
funds would be lent to farmers for a period of up to four years, repayable
during the following three years. The interest rate paid by the farmers would
be not less than 10% p.a. (para 3.14). Arrangements to provide adequate
security, and in particular the possibility of securing the loans by a charge
over land owned by the loanee, were discussed at negotiations.
Coffee Research Foundation
3.06      The Coffee Research Foundation (CRF) would be strengthened with
additional research facilities and a number (6) of newly appointed researchers
and support staff (25), to increase research into varieties, cultural methods
and crop treatment. In addition, suitable training programs for coffee
extension officers and the factory managers would be set up to transmit
research findings rapidly into field practice. To do so, the Project would
support the improvement of the existing training facilities at the Jacaranda
Farm of the Foundation. The proposals are the major part of the Foundation's
Development program for 1978-1983 which covers areas outside their regular
research programs.
Extension Services and Training
3.07      The Project would aim to strengthen the coffee extension services
of the MOA through the provision of training, office equipment, vehicles
and staff. This would be effected as an adjunct of the existing extension
services at provincial and district level, which are, at present, restricted
in number and facilities and not sufficiently trained to give the best advice
to coffee farmers. The Project would be implemented under the Government's
Integrated Agricultural Development Program. A Senior Agricultural Officer
would be responsible to Head IADP for all aspects of project coordination.
At present there are three provincial coffee officers, but two more senior
officers would be appointed under the Project, to ensure thorough field
coordination of the specialist aspects of the Project in all areas. These
officers would work under the Provincial Directors of Agriculture (PDA's) in
close coordination with the provincial IADP coordinators. Similarly, nine
additional district coffee officers would be appointed to ensure thorough
coordination of the Project requirements at farmer level. These officers
would be responsible to the DAOs (District Agricultural Officers) and would
work in close coordination with the District IADP coordinators through



- 18 -
divisional extension agents. Specific Project-oriented in-service training
programs would be provided for coffee extension staff and specialized coffee
officers in all aspects of coffee production by CRF. Coffee farmer training
would be undertaken through field courses and demonstrations.
Department of Cooperative Development
3.08      The Project would provide office equipment, vehicles and staff
necessary to expand and strengthen the Department of Cooperative Development
(MOCD). A total of 11 additional officers plus support staff (50) would be
employed to implement the Project efficiently. The main areas of activity to
be strengthened are MOCD's responsibilities for education, accounting, credit
and savings, planning and management. One of the best incentives to raise
farmers' interest would be to maximize the pay-outs to farmers. At present
this pay-out level averages 75% of the auction price with considerable varia-
tions from as low as 30% to as high as 85%. However, the expected fall in
coffee prices linked with the present overhead cost by unions and societies,
would result in a decreased pay-out to farmers equal to about 60% of auction
prices. MOCD has responsibility for improving the operational activities of
unions and societies and it is in this area that the greatest contribution
from MOCD can be made. A direct reduction in overhead costs both in the
union/societies and the coffee factories would result in a direct increase in
pay-out levels to farmers. The proposed improvements in MOCD's supervisory
capabilities would aim to maintain the pay-out level at approximately 75% of
auction prices.
Co-operative Bank
3.09      CBK credit services in the coffee areas would be strengthened
and expanded, in order to serve better the needs of the farmers who are
going to participate in the Project. Both additional (field) staff and
vehicles would be provided for in the Project proposals.
C. Project Costs
3.10      Total Project costs, including taxes and duties (US$5.0 million
equivalent), are estimated at K Sh 497.5 million (US$62.2 million), the foreign
exchange component of which is about K Sh 215.8 million (US$27 million) or
about 43%. All estimates are based on prices expected as of March 1979. A
physical contingency of 10% was applied to all Project items. Price contin-
gencies were applied using inflation rates of 9% in year 1 and 8% thereafter
and amount to 16% of the total Project costs.
3.11      Details of the Project costs are summarized below:



Foreign
K Sh Million ---       ---- US$ Million ----    Exchange      % of
Local  Foreign  Total      Local  Foreign  Total       (        Base Cost
Factory Development
Construction and Rehabilitation      87.1   77.3  164.4         10.9     9.7   20.6         47         43
Recirculation Systems                18.7   16.6   35.3          2.3     2.1     4.4        47          9
Working Capital                      25.9    6.5   32.4          3.3    0.8      4.1        20          8
Farm Inputs                           50.3   56.7  107.0           6.3     7.0   13.3         53         28
Coffee Research Foundation
Research                              6.5     2.6     9.1        0.8     0.3     1.1        29          2.5
Training                              3.4    0.5      3.9        0.4     0.1     0.5        14          1
Ministry of Agriculture
Extension Services                    8.4     3.5   11.9         1.1     0.4     1.5        29          3
Training                             5.4      -       5.4        0.7     -       0.7        -           1.5
Monitoring                            1.8     -       1.8        0.2     -       0.2        -           0.5
Ministry of Coop. Development
Project Implementation                7.0    3.0   10.0          0.9     0.4     1.3        30          2.5
Training                              1.5     -       1.5        0.2     -       0.2        -           0.5
Co-operative Bank                       0.8     0.2     1.0        0.09    0.01    0.1        23          0.5
Total Base Cost                    216.8  166.9  383.7          27.2    2       48.0        43        100
Physical Contingencies              21.9   16.5   38.4           2.7     2.1     4.8        43          10
Price Contingencies                 43.0   32.4   75.4           5.3     4.1     9.4        43          21
Total Project Cost                 281.7  215.8  497.5         35.2    27.0   62.2         43          131



- 20 -
D. Financing
3.12       Financing of the Project costs would be shared in the following
amounts and proportions by the Cooperative Societies, Government, IDA and the
Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC), UK (for detailed financing plan
see Table 2):
FINANCING PLAN
FARM INPUTS FOR 70,00 0 FARMERS - CONSTRUCTION/RE14ABILITATION OF 414 FACTORIES
(US$ Million)
Co, Soi-eties    _overnment  IDA          CDC
Amt.  7      Ant.   I    Amt.    X    Amt.    X    TOTAL
Factory Development:
Civil works and Euijnment  4.8  20     2.1    8    6.5   26   11.6  46        25.0
*.Xorkinr Canital          4.1  100     -     -    -         -  _              4.1
-nr-  lnuts                 -    -0.7           5   12.6    95    -     --     13.3
Coffee Pesearch Foundation
(Pesearch & Training)                   1.0  62   0.6   38    -    -           1.6
Ministry of Agriculture
(Extension Services, Train-
ing, Monitoring)           _    _       1.6  66   0.8   34    -    -           2.4
Ministry of Cooperative Dlevt.
(Project Implementation &
Training)                  _    _       1.0  73   0.5   27    -    -           1.5
Cooperative Bank            _    _       0.09  90   0.01  10    -    -          0.1
Sub-Total                 8.9  18      6.5  15  21.0   43   11.6  24         48.0
Contingencies             2.6  18      2.2  15   6.0   43    3.4  24          14.2
Total, including taxes   11.5  18      8.7  15  27.0   43   15.0  24          62.2
Taxes                     1.5  30      3.5  70    -       _     -    -        5.0
Total, net of taxes      10.0  18      5.2    9   27.0   47   15.0  26        57.2
3.13       The proposed IDA Credit of US$27 million would finance about 47%
of the total project cost net of taxes. It is recommended that retroactive
financing of US$0.45 million be approved from September 1, 1978 to meet pre-
liminary Project costs. The IDA credit would be made to Government on stand-
ard terms. An additional US$15 million of external financing by CDC is being
arranged to provide a total of US$42 million from foreign sources, or about
73% of the total Project cost, net of taxes. The CDC loan would be for 15
years, including 5 years of grace at 7% interest rate per annum. The fulfill-
ment of all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the CDC loan would
be a condition of credit effectiveness. Farmers' would contribute through
cooperative societies, to the financing of factory rehabilitation and construc-
tion, and of incremental working capital for factory operation. Government
would finance the local currency component of the remaining costs.



- 21 -
3.14        The funds for credit (factories and farm inputs) would be onlent
by Government to CBK at an annual interest rate of 7%. Funds for factory
construction and rehabilitation would be in turn onlent by CBK to co-operative
societies (both directly and through co-operative unions) for up to 10 years,
including up to 18 months of grace, with interest to co-operative societies at
not less than 10% per annum. CBK would also provide medium-term loans to
farmers through co-operative unions and societies; loans to farmers would be
for up to 7 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at not less than
10% per annum.  The interest rates to be charged would permit a margin of 2%
for CBK, and 1% for the co-operative unions in those cases where funds are
channelled through unions and 3% for CBK if funds are lent directly to the
co-operative societies. These rates are in line with existing medium term
agricultural lending rates in Kenya. Repayments made to CBK by the co-operative
unions and societies would be credited to a revolving fund and would be used
to give additional loans for the improvement of coffee factories and farms and
for repayment of the loan to the Government. Government and IDA funds would be
repaid by CBK after a 10 year grace period, but the proceeds of the CDC loan
would be repaid in ten equal installments beginning in 1985. Any future modi-
fications to general interest rates for agricultural loans arising from review
by Government of interest rates in Kenya and discussions with the Bank Group
would be applied to this project. Assurances on the above lending terms and
conditions were obtained during negotiations and the execution of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition of effectiveness.
3.15        Funds, amounting to about US$0.8 million, from the IDA Credit for
assistance to CRF and vehicles for CBK would be passed on to those agencies on
such terms as the Government may determine.
E. Procurement
3.16      Most of the items to be financed under the Project would not be
suitable for bulk procurement under international competitive bidding.
However, there is adequate competition, both international and national, in
offering goods through the normal supply channels. All the costs quoted in
this paragraph include physical and price contingencies. Fertilizers and
chemicals for the Project, estimated to cost about US$10 million and tools
for farmers estimated at about US$2.3 million, would represent a small frac-
tion (about 10%) of the whole coffee sector requirements; as it would not
be practical to establish special procurement channels for the limited re-
quirements under the Project, they would continue to be procured by the
cooperative unions and societies mainly from commercial firms; supplies are
satisfactory and prices competitive. Most of the equipment and civil works for
factory construction and rehabilitation, estimated to cost US$33 million would
be procured by the cooperative unions following local competitive bidding
procedures. Civil works would be too small in scale and too scattered (414
construction sites) to attract international contractors, and major equipment
suppliers are represented in Kenya. Civil works not costing more than US$10,000
equivalent per factory may be carried out on force account by the cooperative
societies. Such works would include, inter alia, the installation of sun-drying
tables and the preparation of construction sites. Miscellaneous supplies
would also be purchased by the cooperative societies through commercial
channels to carry out these works. The aggregate value of these works and
equipment is estimated at about US$1 million. For the construction of housing



- 22 -
and offices, estimated to cost about US$1 million, local contractors would be
employed by the appropriate institutions following local competitive bidding.
Office equipment for MOA and MOCD (US$15,000) and research equipment for CRF
(US$13,000) would be purchased following local competitive bidding procedures.
The procurement of a total of about 50 vehicles, estimated to cost US$1
million, would follow international competitive bidding procedures, except in
cases under which purchases could not be made through bulk contracts for 10 or
more vehicles; in the latter case, vehicles would be purchased following local
competitive bidding procedures. The balance of US$14.9 million consists of
the costs of farm labor (US$3.5 million), transportation of coffee, cherries
and farm inputs between the farm and the factory (US$1 million), and incre-
mental staff and operating costs (US$10.4 million). Assurances as to the
above arrangements were obtained at negotiations.
F. Disbursements
3.17      The proceeds of the Credit would be disbursed over 4 years on the
following basis:
US$ Million
(a)  32% of the amounts disbursed by the
Cooperative Bank for loans for factory con-
struction and rehabilitation including factory
buildings and for the purchase of factory
equipment;                                                6.5
(b)  95% of the amounts disbursed by the Co-
operative Bank for loans for farm inputs;                12.6
(c)  40% of the total expenditures for the
construction of buildings (excluding
factory buildings);                                       0.3
(d)  70% of the total expenditures for vehicles
and equipment (excluding factory equipment);              0.7
(e)  70% of the total expenditures for Project-
related training; and                                     0.9
(f)  an unallocated amount representing a part
of price contingencies on the above categories
and transferable to them as appropriate.                  6.0
Total Credit                            27.0
Disbursements against (a) and (b) would be made against statements of expendi-
ture certified by the Co-operative Bank, the documentation for which would
be retained by the Co-operative Bank for review by Bank supervision missions.
Disbursements against (c), (d), and (e) would be fully documented. An esti-
mated schedule of disbursements is given in Table 5.



- 23 -
G. Accounts and Audit
3.18      Separate Project accounts would be maintained by each of the executing
entities under the Project as follows: (i) by the Financial Controller in the
IADP Unit for the loan proceeds for all the components of the Project including
Project funds handled under the credit components; (ii) by the Project Accountant
in the Department of Co-operative Development for activities under the Project
and training of factory staff; and (iii) by the Co-operative Bank, the Co-operative
Unions and Societies involved in the Project, and the Coffee Research Foundation and
MAO for their activities pertaining to the Project. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that (i) the above accounting records would be established and maintained;
(ii) the accounts of all the above institutions would continue to be audited by in-
dependent auditors acceptable to the Association; and that (iii) the audited accounts
prepared by the IADP Unit would be forwarded to the Association, with the auditor's
report, not later than six months following the end of the financial year to which
they relate.
3.19      The present auditing arrangements of the institutions involved in
the Project are satisfactory. The responsibility for auditing MOA's and
MOCD's accounts, as in the case of all Government entities, rests with the
Auditor General. The accounts of cooperative unions and societies are audited
by the Audits and Accounts Division of the Department of Co-operative Develop-
ment. The accounts of the other institutions involved in the Project are
audited by independent private auditing firms established in Nairobi and
they are satisfactory.
H. Environmental Impact
Soil Conservation
3.20      Through the Soil Conservation Services of the Land and Farm Manage-
ment Division of the MOA, appropriate conservation measures would be encour-
aged and enforced for all coffee land under rehabilitation. This component
would follow the existing policy for emphasizing soil conservation through
major extension efforts, supported by specific labor intensive and mechanized
projects. In addition, soil conservation training would be incorporated in
the Project-oriented training programs.
Water Pollution
3.21      In 1976 new legislation was enacted with regard to water conserva-
tion. Prior legislation was concerned primarily with conserving water quan-
tity whereas the new legislation is equally concerned with conserving water
quality. Indiscriminate disposal of the effluent from coffee processing



- 24 -
factories has caused considerable pollution of rivers to the detriment of
domestic, agricultural and industrial usage. It is now illegal to return
any coffee factory effluent to the rivers. The Project would facilitate
compliance with this new regulation through the provision of suitable water
recirculation/disposal systems for coffee factories.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Project Organization and Staffing
4.01      The Ministry of Agriculture is now implementing the First Integrated
Agricultural Development Project (IADP I) as the major vehicle for encourag-
ing smallholder development throughout the country. IADP is coordinated by
a Management unit at MOA and MOCD headquarters, supported by coordinators
at both the provincial and district level. Coffee being one of the most
important smallholder crops grown, IADP has been selected by the Government
as the vehicle through which the Project will be managed and implemented.
Thus, the Ministry of Agriculture would have overall responsibility for
implementing the Project. However, under this overall direction, those
aspects of the Project involving the Co-operative Bank, cooperative unions
and societies would be carried out by the Ministry of Cooperative Development.
4.02      The Management unit in MOA for IADP consists of the IADP Coordinator,
Deputy Coordinator, an Evaluation Officer and Financial Controller. These
four officers in turn are supported by four senior agricultural officers who
are looking after the specific disciplines required within IADP projects,
i.e. Crop Production, Animal Production, Land and Farm Management and Veteri-
nary Services. These technical coordinators are responsible for the necessary
liaison and coordination to remove constraints and promote production within
smallholder "farm packages".
4.03      The eight technical divisions of the Department of Agriculture are
responsible for policy recommendations and formulating technical guidelines
for their specialized fields. For the Project the Head of the Industrial
Crop Division would be responsible for advising on all technical matters
relating to coffee production and factory development. Because of the detail
and extensive scope of the Project, a senior agricultural officer with wide
experience in all aspects of coffee production, would be appointed as Manager -
Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project (SCIP). He would be working as a
member of the IADP Coordinating Committee and be responsible to the Head IADP
for full implementation of the Project. He would work in close consultation
with the IADP Crop Production Coordinator and the Head of the Industrial Crops
Division; the Manager - SCIP participated in the credit negotiations.



- 25 -
4.04      Equally important, the SCIP Manager would be responsible for liaising
with relevant departments and organizations outside the Department of Agricul-
ture. This liaison would especially concern the officer responsible for the
Project in MOCD and also in the Coffee Board of Kenya, KNFC for inputs, CRF,
CBOK for credit, and the Department of Water Development for pollution
elimination.
4.05      At provincial and district level the present IADP coordinators
would be responsible for ensuring the smooth implementation of SCIP. They
would be assisted by specialist coffee officers at both the provincial and
district level. Some of these specialists are already in place and the
Project would provide funds to bring the number of provincial coffee officers
up to 5, and the number of district officers up to 11. The implementation of
the Project at farm level would be achieved through normal extension services
dealing with groups of farmers at sub-location level. To assist in this work
approximately 40 of the existing agricultural assistants would receive special
training to orientate them to the objectives of the Project. These assistants
would then be reassigned throughout the coffee growing areas.
4.06      The assistants would be required to liaise closely with the coffee
inspectors of the Coffee Board of Kenya and the Coffee Working Groups which
exist in most districts. These groups are made up of growers and represen-
tatives of the various relevant organizations.
4.07      To ensure proper coordination of the Project at the highest level,
representatives of the coffee industry would be appointed to the already
established Interministerial Coordinating Committee for IADP under the chair-
manship of the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry of Agriculture. The Coffee
Board of Kenya and the Kenya Planters Cooperative Union would be represented
by the general managers of those institutions while the Coffee Research Founda-
tion will be represented by its Director. These representatives would attend
Coordinating Committee meetings when relevant.
4.08      As with the current operations of the IADP, the development of
the Project would be effected through annual work plans. The first plan
would be submitted to IDA for review and comments by April 30, 1979, and
subsequent plans would be submitted by March 15 of each year during Project
implementation. Subsequently, analysis of the Project's achievements would
be undertaken through the ongoing monitoring and evaluation system which was
introduced and is being expanded under the IADP.
4.09      The annual review and work plans would form the basis for specific
Project implementation programs. The preparation of the work plan would be
the responsibility of the Manager-SCIP. The Plan would incorporate detailed
proposals for the coming twelve months for factory improvements, farmers
participation, credit requirements, input requirements, infrastructural
support activities, training activities, monitoring/evaluation requirements
and research activities. The full cooperation and assistance from the various



- 26 -
participating institutions and Ministries would be obtained. The Plan would
be reviewed by the IADP Interministerial Coordinating Committee under the
chairmanship of the Permanent Secretary of MOA. Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the work program for each year would be submitted to
the Bank for review and comments not later than March 15 of each year. The
work plans for 1979 have been submitted since negotiations.
4.10      At field level the district would be the basic management unit
and a committee consisting of the DAO, the District Coffee Officer, the IADP
District Coordinator, the District Cooperative Officer, the District Develop-
ment Officer, the Cooperative Union Manager and the CBK field representative
would prepare district work plans and review progress.
4.11      Those aspects of the Project which involve CBK, unions and societies
would be carried out by the Department of Co-operative Development. MOCD
controls the district cooperative unions at the national level. It promotes
development through assistance in management, implementation of accounting
systems, credit schemes and training programs. A major function is to audit
the accounts of unions (and in some cases, societies). It is envisaged that
an Assistant Commissioner at headquarters will be appointed to coordinate
all coffee matters within MOCD; the officer should participate in the credit
negotiations. As the number of loanees is expected to be substantial, he
will be assisted by one Senior Cooperative Officer and an Accountant. Addi-
tional staff will be posted to both the district and provinces to facilitate
both the additional loan processing and auditing functions which will be
required under the Project. The Project would provide for credit through the
Co-operative Bank of Kenya. In order to ensure proper supervision of the
Project's loans, the field services of the CBK would be strengthened.
4.12      Staffing - The Project would require the following incremental
staff:
Senior Staff-/Junior Staff  Total
Ministry of Agriculture                           34             50           84
Department of Cooperative Development             11             50           61
Cooperative Bank of Kenya                          3              3            6
Coffee Research Foundation                        14             17           31
Total                                        62           120          182
1/   Job Group J and above.
Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that (i) Government
would assign staff to the Project in line with the provisions under the
various components proposals, (ii) terms of reference for key Project staff
be agreed with the Association and that (iii) Government would ensure at all
times that there are appointed to the positions of Project Manager within the
IADP Unit and of Project Coordinator within the MOCD, persons with appropriate



- 27 -
qualifications and experience. Detailed lists of incremental staff posts and
job descriptions for the senior project positions are in Annexes 5, 6, and 7.
Planning for the appointments of the senior staff required has already started
and no difficulty is envisaged in recruiting the staff set out above.
B. Training
4.13      Serious constraints are being encountered in the field with trying
to improve the effectiveness of the coffee extension services and coffee
factory management. The four most important constraints are: (a) the inade-
quate technical background of coffee extension staff, society managers, factory
managers, committee members and coffee growers, (b) lack of coffee extension
supervisory staff, (c) inadequate recurrent budgetary support for the extension
staff and (d) the lack of clear incentives to encourage coffee extension staff
to a better performance.
4.14      The Government has already started to address the problems outlined
in (c) and (d) in anticipation of Project start-up. The Project would aim to
alleviate the constraints mentioned under (a) and (b); firstly by providing
for field training courses and demonstrations for coffee farmers and in-service
training programs for coffee extension staff, factory managers, committee
members and society managers; and secondly by providing for the appointment of
additional coffee extension supervisory staff both at the provincial and
district level. These training programs would not replace the present general
staff training programs undertaken by both MOA and MOCD but would supplement
them and be Project orientated. The proposed training programs for the
various staff involved in implementing the Project would be conducted in joint
cooperation by MOA, MOCD and CRF.
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      The monitoring and evaluation needs of the Project would be the
responsibility of the Monitoring and Evaluation Section within the IADP Unit.
A recent special supervision mission dealing with the performance of this
unit concluded that the monitoring and evaluation system which has been set
up is generally well conceived although there are some significant ways in
which it could be improved. A detailed schedule on steps and timing for
improving the unit has been discussed with the Ministry of Agriculture and
assurances were obtained at negotiations that the full implementation of
the recommendation would be completed by July 1, 1979 or a later date to be
agreed with the Association.
4.16      The additional workload for the unit to monitor and evaluate this
Project would require provisions for the employment of five additional super-
visors and 20 enumerators. The proforma side of the monitoring and evaluation
system would assist in obtaining information from the agencies and ministries



- 28 -
involved in the Project; this in turn would assist management in (a) collect-
ing statistics on project inputs and outputs for further evaluation and
reporting needs, (b) observing and assessing progress and the fulfillment of
set targets and operations as laid down in the respective work plans, (c)
identifying problems and shortcomings of the Project for timely adjustments
and re-orientation of the Project, and (d) managing the Project effectively
and efficiently at all levels.
4.17      In addition to the proforma reporting system, farm surveys would
be designed to (i) determine the Project's effect on project beneficiaries,
(ii) provide early indication of project constraints, and (iii) indicate
areas where services to the smallholder coffee farmers should be adapted
or changed, i.e. extension, training, input supply, marketing system and
other cooperative services. In addition, the farm surveys would serve as
guidance to the Planning Division in MOA in the annual preparation of work
plans.
4.18      The Government should prepare a completion report summarizing per-
formance under the Project and evaluating its successes and problems. This
should be submitted to the Association not later than six months after the
expected closing date (i.e. September 30, 1984), and assurances on this
subject were obtained during negotiations.
D. Project Implementation
4.19      The Project would be implemented over a period of four years,
beginning July 1979. The Government was encouraged during negotiations to
begin preparing the first work plans and plan start-up activities to avoid
subsequent implementation delays. The Project Implementation Schedule is
summarized below and was also discussed during negotiations.



- 29 -
?UJkLI LWLkLMENIAI IIIUN SlKEDOULE
Project Year (July 1- June 30)                               0             1             2            3             4              5
1978/79     1979/80      1980/81      1981/82        1982/83        1983/84
Project Staffin;
Appointment of Manager - SCIP + HQ Staff !NOA
Coordinator - MOCD + HQ Staff MOCD
Prov. and District MDA Staff
Prov. and District MDCD Staff
CBK Staff
CRF Staff
Project Planning
Terms of Referetice Key Staff                               5
District Submissions for Year (1) Activities                     _
Yearly Work Plan and Budgets
Submissions from CRF and CBK
Project Implementation
Factory Construction, Improvement & Training
Extension and Training, Monitoring & Evaluation                                  _
CUK Loans
CRF
MOCD and Training
Annual Project Review                                                                                                  _      -
Governmrent Completion Report                                                                                                            Sept. 84
T iRD
Appraisal
Niegotiations
Board Approval                                                      n
Effectiveness
Annual Workplans Approval                                                               U *          *
Completion                                                                                                                       June 30
Closing                                                                                                                          '83   * Mar. 84
V. COFFEE PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING
A. Production - Technical Features
5.01               Coffee is grown on approximately 86,800 ha, of which 59,000 ha are
cultivated by small-scale farmers. It is grown in all of the six main agricul-
tural provinces, generally being restricted to altitudes of 1,400 to 2,100
meters. The following Table shows the area planted to coffee covering the
period 1963-1977:
Hectares
Crop Year                        Estates                      Smallholders                           Total
1963/64                        32,600                             20,000                           52,600
1966/67                        31,800                             42,900                           74,700
1970/71                        29,900                             53,800                           83,700
1974/75                        28,600                             57,800                           86,400
1975/76                        28,600                             56,600                           85,200
1976/77                        26,900                             59,900                           86,800



- 30 -
The reduction in estate planting is mainly due to the policy of transferring
estates from expatriate ownership. A considerable growth in smallholding
area took place between 1963 and the early 1970's. The changes between the
early 1970's and 1976 are probably mainly as a result of an improvement in
the statistical procedures because, according to CBK, the smallholder areas
might have been under-estimated originally.
5.02      Mainly Arabica coffee is grown in Kenya and this variety requires
a stress factor to break its inherent dormancy and produce high yields. It
is generally accepted that this stress is supplied by the dry season which
is much more pronounced East of the Rift Valley than it is in Western Kenya.
The coffee areas of Central and Eastern provinces have therefore a higher
yield potential than those West of the Rift Valley. Despite similar natural
conditions and production techniques small-scale farmers harvest much less
coffee (1977-average 760 kg/ha) than large-scale producers (1977-1,790 kg/
ha). In the early sixties yields on smallholdings were much higher due to
the fact that at that time many of the trees were relatively young and the
soil in which they were planted was highly fertile. In the following years
yields fell sharply due to the effect of Coffee Berry Disease on the one hand
and the expansion of smallholdings without technical supervision on the other
hand. The Table below shows the trend of yields for the period 1963-1977
in kg/ha.
Kg/ha
Crop Year                           Estates              Smallholdings
1963/64-1965/66 (average)                   768                     995
1966/67-1970/71 (average)                   753                     495
1971/72-1974/75 (average)                 1,153                     621
1975/76                                   1,317                     638
1976/77                                   1,786                     761
Yields of smallholder coffee started to rise again in the early seventies
which was mainly due to improved extension services and increased pay-outs by
KPCU.
5.03      Research on the ways and means of increasing yields is carried out
by the Coffee Research Foundation at Ruiru. Both the Research Institute and
the Coffee Board of Kenya confirm that mean average yields of 1,000 kg/ha are
well within the capabilities of the Kenyan small-scale coffee farmers. Many
progressive coffee farmers are achieving these yields and better. Out of
58,900 ha of small-scale coffee plantings, approximately 23,000 ha have been
identified as either neglected or not worked to their full potential. The
average yields for this area are approximately 220 kg/ha only, compared to
the average yield of 1,100 kg/ha achieved by farmers (about 60% of the
small-scale farmers) who do not need support through the Project.



- 31 -
5.04      Under the Project an improvement strategy would be followed which
has been outlined in paras 3.04-3.09. These investments, except the provision
of medium-term development loans which are made to project farmers only, would
benefit the entire small-scale coffee industry. Although approximately 23,000
hectares have been classified as neglected by the GOK and CBOK, it is antici-
pated that only 15,000 hectares of this will be affected by the Project provi-
sions. Farmers acceptance of the provisions is expected to build up slowly
with about 3,000 ha of the target group joining in year 1, 6,000 ha in year 2,
and 3,000 ha in both year 3 and 4. For the farmers joining, the Project pro-
visions would eliminate genuine constraints which are facing them.  Not all
the farmers with neglected holdings face these constraints. Out of 23,000 ha,
approximately 8,000 ha are owned by farmers which belong to the low end of the
production scale for reasons ranging from non-interest to old age.  Project
provisions do not allow for their participation.  Identification of potential
participants will be carried out at the farm level by a team of people con-
sisting of the local extension agent, the local Coffee Board inspector and
representatives of the Department of Cooperative Development. It is antici-
pated that higher uptake rates will emerge from areas East of Rift compared
to areas West of Rift.
5.05      The farm models described below are indicative of the farming
practices likely to be adopted by those who obtain loans under the Project.
These models are particularly important for analysis of what is happening on
the present neglected holdings compared to those of progressive farmers.
Although there are differences between the 19 districts covered under the
Project, it was necessary to contain the number of models. The models there-
fore give an order of magnitude of what can be achieved rather than predicting
precise output figures. The models consist of three parts: (a) gross margin
calculations per hectare for coffee; (b) the significant farming system for a
number of districts with the corresponding farm budget and (c) the resulting
cash flow for the farming system described. Model 1 is typical for the target
coffee growing areas in Machakos and Muranga and represents approximately 4%
of the total coffee smallholding areas. There are few alternative cash crops
and the farms often depend entirely on the cash return from coffee. At
present, progressive farmers in these areas achieve the highest yields
in the country. Proper use of inputs would enable the farmer to increase
greatly his productivity with a corresponding increase in the creation of
employment opportunities and income. Model II covers the growing areas in
Nyeri, Meru and Kirinyaga. It represents approximately 15% of smallholder
coffee growing areas. Food crops like maize and beans are produced mainly for
home consumption and the major other cash crop is potatoes. Model III is based
on Kisii coffee farmers and it represents an average view of the coffee farm
activities in that district. The model is also representative for South
Nyanza and the major part of Kisumu and Siaya. The well distributed rainfall
in these districts does not stimulate top yields from Arabica coffee. However
it is clear again that with proper husbandry methods and access to sufficient
inputs the farmer is well positioned to increase his productivity. Model IV
is representative of the larger farms in Baringo, West Pokot, Kajiado, Kericho
and Nandi. This zone is suitable for Arabica coffee and it would bring a
reliable income into the district. Large tracts of some of the districts were



- 32 -
newly settled after Independence in 1963 and the incoming farmer - often a
pastoralist   concentrated on cattle and maize first.  Therefore considerable
efforts by the extension services would be required to upgrade production
techniques. The yields' forecasts (350 kg/ha in Year 4) are well below the
potential as the rehabilitation of these areas will take longer than the
Project period.
5.06      Estimates of yield increases may be summarized as follows:
Yields (kg/ha)
Progressive
Non-Project
Project Year      Without       1       2         3         4           Farms
Model I            450        560     760        960      1,160     1,400-1,450
Model II           265        390     550        710        880     1,050-1,100
Model III          135        305     475        645        815         815
Model IV            95        160     225        290        350       300-350
Yield increases are expected to arise largely from husbandry improvements:
(a) increased input use, particularly fertilizers and pesticides, (b) better
weed control measures, (c) planned pruning cycles, (d) employment of casual
labor during peak labor times. Improved extension activities and training
facilities will play a major role in achieving the projected yield increases.
Progressive non-Project farmers achieve the mean annual yields indicated
above already. Annual yields would vary of course with the stage of pruning.
For models I and II, conservative estimates have been used to allow for occa-
sional droughts and other yield limiting factors. Over the four-year Project
period a gradual uptake by farmers is expected resulting in having by Year 4
approximately 15,000 ha under rehabilitation. The majority of these farmers
are expected to apply for medium-term development loans.
B. Production - Farmers Benefits
5.07      Although all smallholder coffee farmers would benefit from upgraded
factory facilities and improved extension services, an estimated 70,000 farmers
are expected to benefit directly from the Project's credit component over four
years. Almost 90% of Project cost correspond to factory rehabilitation and
farm credit and would be recovered from the beneficiaries through loan repay-
ments; the remaining 10% corresponds to institution-building expenditures
which would be recovered through the existing taxes levied on incremental
production. For farm credit, only those farmers who cannot obtain sufficient
input supplies through present credit schemes would qualify for participation.
At full development (farm year 4) net incomes of farmers who obtained the
medium-term development credit, based on the farm models described above, are
estimated as follows:



- 33 -
Model I     Model II      Model III      Model IV
Improvements
Area to be rehabilitated
(ha)                            2,865         9,550         2,250           115
Net farm income without
Project                         3,587         5,578         4,530         5,112
Subsistence                      3,587         3,636         3,786         3,346
Cash income without
Project                           -           1,942           744         1,766
Net farm income with
Project (farm year 4)           6,619         8,901         7,015         5,669
Subsistence                      3,736         3,636         3,786         3,346
Cash income with Project         2,883         5,265         3,265         2,323
The projected increases for Models I, II and III are substantial and result
mainly from increased inputs and the ability to employ casual laborers. They
are realistic projections which are already being exceeded by the progressive
farmers. Model IV shows an acceptable increase in cash income which is ex-
pected to improve beyond the Project period. Model IV is expected to show
a slower take up than farmers in other areas and this will result in more
extension work to be put in.
C. Production - Estimates
5.08      Production estimates are based on yield projections for each indi-
vidual district using farm budget analysis. The production estimates are
realistic as the yield projections used are already being surpassed by the
more progressive farmers in the districts. In Year 7, incremental produc-
tion is estimated at about 9,500 tons of clean coffee. The increment would
represent an increase of about 9.5% on the 1976/77 national production of
about 100,000 tons. The national production rose sharply in 1976/77 and it is
expected that the 1977/78 crop will only be about 90,000 tons due to adverse
weather conditions particularly in the Eastern and Central provinces.
D. Processing - Constraints
5.09      Physical Facilities - The Co-operative societies have been unable to
process the cooperative crop efficiently because of a general lack in both the
quantity and quality of physical factory facilities. Specific shortcomings
are (a) antiquated pulpers of unsuitable design or the use of underdimensioned
pulpers, (b) the absence of suitable pregrading equipment, (c) insufficient
numbers of fermentation tanks for the present cherry input, (d) the absence of



- 34 -
underwater soak tanks, (e) inadequate skin drying and table drying capacity,
(f) insufficient parchment storage capacity and (g) final washing and grading
channels which are too short. In addition, only a few society coffee factories
have any recirculation equipment which would enable them to comply with the
1976 Water Act.
5.10      Coffee Factory Management - The major constraint is the lack of
suitably trained, job-oriented personnel in charge of factory management.
The incorrect use of factory equipment and facilities is the largest single
cause of coffee quality decline. At a lower level of administration, the
main obstacles are the shortage of numbers and quality of clerks and account-
ing staff. These shortages have led to delays and inaccuracies in payment
to the individual farmers and this in turn has resulted in loss of faith
in the Society by the coffee farmer.
5.11      Coffee Factory Engineering Staff - There is an almost complete
absence of qualified engineering staff within the co-operative coffee sector
industry. This has resulted in a serious lack of maintenance and again
incorrect use of machinery. These staff shortages have also been responsible
for the present diversity in factory design and modification recommendations.
E. Processing - Modifications
5.12      The Project would remove the present physical shortcomings by
constructing 14 new factories and rehabilitating 400 of the 568 existing
factories. Although 506 factories were identified as needing rehabilitation,
it is anticipated that only 400 factories will be affected by the Project
provisions. The remaining factories would not be rehabilitated under the
Project because the respective societies would not be interested for various
reasons or will obtain funds elsewhere. Improvements to the 400 factories
can be divided into four basic types. This division is primarily determined
by the age of the factory. For Type I classified improvements, the Project
proposals would allow for resiting and rebuilding 50 factories which by virtue
of site location and available space cannot be considered for rehabilitation
in the conventional sense. Type II factories number 170 and they would
require extensive modifications to existing structures. Constraints due to
the relative siting of the major factory components and the adjacent river
would be overcome by hydraulically pumping parchment coffee to a higher
elevation within the factory area. Type III improvements to 140 factories and
Type IV improvements to 40 factories would mainly provide additional pulping
capacity, additional drying table capacity and additional storage facilities.
5.13      The Project would make provisions for the installation of all nec-
essary recirculation equipment at individual society processing units to
comply with the Water Act of 1976. The Project would also provide for the
introduction of suitable mechanical drying units in those districts where
climatic conditions and size of site produce drying constraints which cannot
be solved by conventional sun-drying systems. Subject to the submission of a



- 35 -
detailed area evaluation, the Project would provide for 50 such units, 20 in
Nyeri and Muranga District of Central Province, 20 in Meru and Embu Districts
in Eastern Province and 10 in Kakamega and Bungoma Districts of Western
District.
5.14      The Project would include provision for training programs for 1,180
coffee Factory Managers and Assistant Managers, and 560 factory clerks and
produce recorders. The Project proposes to eliminate constraints due to lack
of engineering skills by recruiting 4 additional provincial coffee factory
engineers and 16 additional coffee factory technicians.
F. Processing - Benefits
5.15      The Factory Improvement program would specifically attempt to
improve the quality benefits. The optimum quality of any coffee is determined
at the moment the cherry is picked from the coffee tree. Achievement of the
optimum quality of any given consignment of coffee is then greatly dependent
on the efficiency of the subsequent processing steps to which the cherry
coffee is subjected. Significant declines in quality are incurred through the
use of incorrect pulpers, shortage of drying space, poor storage facilities,
the use of polluted factory water, and the absence of under-water soak tanks.
In addition delayed pulping, non-selective cherry sorting, poor skin drying
and sun drying, incorrect pulper setting are all managerial aspects which
necessarily affect the final quality gradings. It is anticipated that follow-
ing completion of the Project proposals, type I and II factories should be
capable of improving their present quality standards by at least 3 classes
and type III and IV factories by 1 class, resulting in increases of clean
coffee prices ranging from 5% to 10%.
VI. MARKETS AND PRICES
Demand
6.01      About 20% of world coffee production is consumed in producing coun-
tries. Of the supplies entering international markets, almost 90% are imported
by the US, Canada and European countries. The US absorbs more than one-third
of world coffee imports; Western Europe takes approximately one-half of total
imports. Major importing countries in Europe are West Germany (10% of world
imports), France (8%), and Italy (6%). The demand for coffee is primarily
determined by established habits, per capita income and population. In most
countries, the demand for coffee is highly inelastic with respect to changes
in prices and incomes. Consumption in coffee producing countries is expected
to grow by 4.5% a year until 1980, by 3.8% between 1980 and 1985, and by 2.5%
in the remaining years up to 1990. World import demand is projected to grow
at an average rate of 2.7% a year up to 1990.



- 36 -
6.02      The market for Kenya coffee, however, differs significantly from
the above averages, because of Kenya coffee's high quality (see para 2.05).
It is expected that the demand for Kenya coffee will continue to grow at a
faster rate than the global demand for coffee, and that the Kenya coffee
industry will be able to continue selling the totality of its production at
high prices in the future (see para 6.04).
Supply
6.03      The largest coffee producer is Brazil (on average 25% of the world's
production), followed by Columbia (12%), Ivory Coast (6%), Uganda (5%), Mexico
(5%), Guatemala (3.5%), and Indonesia (3.5%). Kenya's share of the world
market is about 2%. World coffee production is projected to expand at an
average annual rate of 3% from about 4 million tons in 1974 to about 7 mil-
lion tons in 1990.
6.04      The potential expansion of Kenya's coffee production is of the same
order of magnitude as this average world production annual rate of expansion
of 3%. It is estimated that, besides the 9,500 tons generated by the pro-
posed project after a 7-year period through the rehabilitation of small-
holder's farms, the maximum potential expansion of the area under coffee
(this is not part of the proposed project) is up to about 40,000 hectares. 1/
At an assumed average yield of 1,000 kg per ha, such an expansion of areas
would result in an additional production of 40,000 tons. The Government of
Kenya, however, has no firm plans to embark on such expansion. In any event,
the maximum foreseeable expansion of Kenya coffee production would therefore
be of about 50,000 tons above the some 100,000 tons achieved at present.
This represents an average 3% annual increase over a 15-year period. The
rate of growth of production resulting from the project itself would average
about 2.5% over the project period.
Prices
6.05      High coffee prices during the mid-1950s triggered an expansion of
coffee plantings in almost all producing countries, which led to an increase
in production and to growing stocks during the early 1960s. Producer stocks
reached their peak of 90 million bags (5.4 million tons), equal to 2 years
of world import demand, in 1966. In the following years, crops fell contin-
uously short of consumption, and stocks were gradually drawn down. Because
of the high stock levels during the early 1960s, prices reacted only slowly
to the changing market situation. It was not until the early 1970s that
prices again approached their level of the 1950s. When the commodity boom
of 1973/74 started, coffee prices joined the upward trend, reaching US$0.72/lb,
where they remained until the Brazilian frost of July 1975.  Steep price
increases followed, reaching a peak of US$3.29/lb in April 1977. During 1978,
auction prices for Kenyan coffees have averaged $1.67/lb.
1/   Source:  Coffee Board of Kenya.



- 37 -
6.06      Prices are expected to decline from their present higher level to
reach a forecasted low of $0.98/lbs (1979 constant) by 1981/82; this decline
in prices is expected to slow the rate of coffee plantings which will result
in a strengthening of coffee markets during the second half of the 1980s.
6.07      As already stated, Kenya coffee commands prices about 20% higher
than the coffee from most other exporting members, because it is a high quality
arabica coffee used for blending with lower quality coffees. However, per-
centage variations of the prices of Kenya coffee are close to those of other
types of coffees. For price projections under the proposed Project, the
actual series of Nairobi auction prices have been extrapolated using the price
index for Guatemala Prime Washed as calculated by the Bank's Commodities and
Export Projections Division.
International Coffee Agreement
6.08      The six-year International Coffee Agreement which entered into
force on October 1, 1976 provides for the introduction of export quotas when
prices fall below specified levels (at present US$0.775/lbs). This reference
price refers to a "composite indicator price" (the arithmetic mean of a group
of indicator prices for Other Milds and Robustas) published by the International
Coffee Organization (ICO). Export quotas would come into effect when this
indicator price falls, for 20 consecutive market days, below the reference
price of US$0.775 cents. Article 33.3 of the 1976 International Coffee Agree-
ment provided for a review and possible revision of the reference price by
the Council before September 30, 1978, and again in 1980. The September 1978
Review Meeting did not decide on a new reference price. It decided that it
would convene another meeting if and when the composite indicator price falls
for 20 consecutive trading days to a level which is 15% below an average price
to be calculated on the results of the 20 marketing days before September 30,
and the 20 marketing days after September 30, 1978. On present indications,
this would mean that another meeting be held if and when the price falls to
approximately $1.25/lbs. Kenya's quota is presently 65,000 tons, which is
significantly below its present production of nearly 100,000 tons. However,
a possible triggering of the International Coffee Agreement quotas would not
effect Kenya's exports significantly, because the new quotas to be established
would be based on the past two years volume of exports, and the productive
build-up under the Project would be progressive (see para. 7.10).
6.09      The International Coffee Organization has been advised of the
Project and has not raised objections, as firstly the Project provisions do
not include new plantings and secondly the rate of production resulting from
the Project is commensurate with the anticipated rate of growth of demand for
coffee.



- 38 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Evaluation
Summary Economic Benefits and Justification
7.01      The proposed Project would be of major importance to Kenya as it
would contribute to increased production and quality of coffee, the country's
main source of export earnings. The agricultural credit, extension and train-
ing components would assist up to about 70,000 farmers to increase their pro-
ductivity, and the factory construction and rehabilitation component would
improve coffee quality and reduce river pollution (para 7.11). These two
components would contribute to increasing smallholder's income (para 5.07)
and Kenya's foreign exchange earnings though the production of an additional
9,500 tons of clean coffee and a quality improvement resulting in an average
price increase of 6% in 1990 (in constant terms). Incremental employment
created for farm labor would be equivalent to about 6,500 full-time annual
jobs. The research component would continue the Government efforts to ensure
the long-term growth of the coffee industry.
7.02      The ERR measuring incremental benefits of the project as a whole
is estimated at 21%. The Project's benefits are derived from two separately
identifiable sources: (i) the incremental production by the Project farmers,
and (ii) the improvement of the quality of coffee processed in the factories,
due to improved processing practices. Separate benefit streams corresponding
to these benefits are in Table 6. The ERR on the agricultural production
component alone (i.e. excluding the costs and benefits of improved coffee
quality) would be 20.5%. The ERR on the factory component alone would be
22%. The cost savings arising from the improvement of co-operative societies'
management, although high, have not been taken into account in the economic
analysis (the ERR would be over 40% if these benefits were taken into account).
7.03      In the calculation of the above rates of return, foreign exchange
was shadow priced. 1/ The cost of hired labor was valued at its actual mar-
ket rate, which was also used to value farmers' families' labor. If foreign
exchange were not shadow priced, the ERR would decrease by about 6 percentage
points to 15%. Detailed calculations of rates of return, prices and sensitivity
analyses are at Tables 6 and 7.
Basic Assumptions
7.04      The economic life of the project is assumed to be 25 years.  The
rate of return analysis includes all expenditures for capital investments,
replacements, operation and maintenance costs related to all the project
1/   Shadow foreign exchange rate KSh 11.0/US$1.0 compared to current rate
of KSh 8.0/US$1.



- 39 -
components.  Costs do not include price contingencies, taxes and duties.
Physical contingencies (representing 10% of project base cost), however, are
included in the calculation of rates of return. Coffee prices have been
projected in accordance with the latest Bank forecasts.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.05      The ERR of the Project as a whole is moderately sensitive to
variations of costs or benefits. If all costs are increased by 20%, or if
all benefits are decreased by 20%, the ERR would decrease by 6 percentage
points from 21% to 15%.
7.06      The sensitivity of the ERR of the agricultural production compo-
nent (base estimate 20.5%) was tested against variations of:
(a)  production costs (resulting from changes of
input prices and/or physical requirements);
(b)  value of incremental production (resulting from
changes in coffee prices and/or quantities of
coffee produced); and of
(c)  the number of farmers participating in the program.
A 20% increase of production costs would decrease the ERR on the production
component by 6.5 percentage points from 20.5% to 14%; a 20% decrease of
production benefits would decrease the ERR by 10.5 percentage points from
20.5% to 10%; a decrease of the number of project participants to half of the
base estimate would reduce the ERR by 4.5 percentage points from 20.5% to 16%.
7.07      The sensitivity of the ERR of the factory construction and rehabil-
itation component (base estimate 22%) was tested against variations of:
(a)  capital and operating costs;
(b)  capacity level of factory utilization;
(c)  coffee prices;
(d)  quality of the factories' output; and
(e)  1 year delay in factories' start-up.
A detailed sensitivity analysis was conducted for each type of factory. The
ERR would still be above 15% if any one of the above parameters varied by up
to 20%.
Risks
7.08      Risks associated with rainfall and other natural conditions have
been taken into account in estimating the Project benefits. To minimize the



- 40 -
risk that Project institutions might fail to reach the expected number of
farmers with services and inputs, Project implementation would be governed
by Annual Work Plans (para 4.09). Another risk is that farmers may adopt the
recommended input packages less rapidly than anticipated. This, however, would
not significantly affect the rate of return since most expenditures would be
reduced by an amount commensurate with the loss of incremental benefits. As
an illustration, if only 50% of the farmers expected to participate actually
participated in the Project, the ERR on the production component would decrease
from 20% to 16%.
7.09      Technical risks regarding factory design and operations and risks
of substantial delays of construction are low since (i) coffee factory tech-
nology is well known in Kenya, (ii) the projections of the factories' per-
formance is based on the actual performance of coffee factories operating
in Kenya at present, and (iii) the project provides for training of factory
personnel. Risks of unsatisfactory management are further minimized by the
fact that the factories would be operated independently.
7.10      The commercial risks are low, because forecasts of coffee prices have
been based on all expected world coffee production increases; unforeseeable
developments of the coffee market would be likely to reflect a lower-than-
expected world production (thus pushing prices up) rather than an underestima-
tion of future coffee production. The possible triggering of International
Coffee Agreement quotas (para 6.08) would not affect significantly Kenya's
exports, because the above quotas are based on the past two years volume of
exports, and the production build-up under the Project would be progressive.
Environmental Impact
7.11      One of the major benefits of the Project, although not quantified
in the present analysis, would be the elimination of heavy river pollution
by coffee factory effluents, through the provision of water recirculation
systems and appropriate waste disposal. Another environmental benefit would
be the prevention of soil erosion on rehabilitated farms through small scale
on-farm conservation works.
B. Financial Evaluation
Forecasts of Factory Operations
7.12      The assumptions regarding capital costs for factory construction
and rehabilitation, and recurrent costs, are detailed in Annex 3 for each
factory type. These costs are based on the actual conditions of coffee pro-
cessing in Kenya. In the base case, it was assumed that factories would
operate at 100% capacity. This assumption is realistic, as coffee factories
in Kenya usually operate above their nominal capacity.
7.13      Detailed financial projections for the new factories and for the
four types of factory rehabilitation works, and sensitivity analyses, have
been carried out. Depending on the type of improvement carried out, the



- 41 -
financial rate of return (FRR) on investment, including the investment in the
recirculation system which does not yield direct benefits, would range between
12% and 32% (FRR calculated in constant prices). Sensitivity analyses show
that the FRR, for any factory type would be over 14% (if the cost of the
recirculation system is excluded) and in most cases over 10% (if the cost
of the recirculation system is included) in the following circumstances:
(i) factories operating at 80% of capacity, (ii) incremental benefits from
improved quality decreasing by 20%, (iii) operating costs increasing by 20%
and (iv) capital costs increase by 20%.
7.14      Under the Project, the cooperative societies would borrow 100% of
the cost of the recirculation system and 75% of the other factory investments,
at 10% interest rate per annum, repayable over 5 years including one year
of grace. These terms would ensure a satisfactory payout to farmers during
the early years of the project and thereafter.
Co-operative Bank and Government Cash Flows, and Foreign Exchange Benefits
7.15      The Co-operative Bank's Project cash flow (Table 3) would be positive
during the first 10 years and allow for additional investments in the coffee
sector. Repayments in subsequent years would be readily met from earlier surpluses.
The Government cash (Table 4) would be negative during the first 2 years and reach
a deficit of about US$2.0 million. Thereafter, annual cash flows would be positive,
the cumulative cash flow would become positive in project year 4. The project
foreign exchange receipts would always exceed foreign exchange expenditure. At
full development in about year 10, the project's net annual foreign exchange earn-
ings would be about US$18 million (in 1979 prices).
VIII. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED ON CREDIT CONDITIONS
8.01      The following issues were discussed during negotiations:
(i) the proposed Project Implementation schedule as outlined
in para 4.19.
(ii) arrangements for the maintenance of the factories following
the Project period (para 3.04).
(iii) arrangements to provide adequate security for farmers' loans,
and in particular the possibility of securing the loans by
a charge over the land owned by the loanee (para 3.05).
8.02      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the following
issues:
(a) Financing arrangements for the Project (para 3.12);
(b) Procurement arrangements for the Project (para 3.16);



- 42 
(c) Establishment and/or maintenance of separate project
accounts (para 3.18) by
(i) the Financial Controller in the IADP Unit, which would
cover the loan proceeds for all components;
(ii) the Department of Co-operative for their activities
pertaining to the project;
(iii) the Co-operative Bank, Co-operative Unions and Societies
for project activities;
(iv) the Coffee Research Foundation for their activities
pertaining to the Project; and
(v)  MOA for their extension training and monitoring
activities pertaining to the Project.
(d) That accounts of all the above institutions continue to be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank
(para 3.18);
(e) That audited accounts be forwarded by Government to the
Bank, with the auditor's report, not later than six months
following the end of the financial year to which they
related (para 3.18);
(f) That annual work programs be prepared and submitted to the
Bank for review and comments not later than April 30, 1979,
(subsequently received) and thereafter not later than March 15
of each year (para 4.09);
(g) That the Government apply modifications to interest rates
resulting from the general review on interest rates to the
sub-loans subsequently approved under the Project (para 3.14);
(h) That Government assign staff to the Project in line with
the provisions under the various component proposals (para
4.12);
(i) That terms of reference for key Project staff be agreed with
the Association (para 4.12);
(j) That the Government ensure at all times that there are appointed
to the positions of Project Manager within the IADP Unit and of
Project Coordinator within the MOCD, persons with appropriate
qualifications and experience (para 4.12);
(k) That the Government prepare a draft completion report on
the Project and submit it to the Government not later than
September 30, 1984 (para 4.18);



- 43 -
(1) that the Government complete the implementation of recom-
mended changes to the Monitoring and Evaluation Section of
the IADP Unit by July 1, 1979 or at a later date to be
agreed with the Association (para 4.15); and
(m)  that both administrative and financial provisions be made for
the maintenance of the factories during and after the Project
period (para 3.04).
8.03      Conditions of Credit effectiveness would be that (i) all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the CDC loan have been fulfilled (para 3.13)
and that (ii) a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
has been executed on behalf of the Borrower and CBK (para 3.14).
8.04      Subject to the above conditions, the proposed Project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$27.0 million to the Government of Kenya
on standard terms.



- 44 -
Table 1
KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT RROJECT
PrOject Coat Summary I'
(I Sh'OOO)
Foreign     Taxes and
Exchange     Duties
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4                   Total         (            (
I. FACTORY DEVELOPMENT
Capital Cost                            64,390    80,980    52,990       1,360               199,720          47          14
Working Capital                            -       10,850    13,320      8,200                32,370          20          10
Sub-Total                          64,390    91,830    66,310       9,560               232,090          43          13
II. FARM INPUTS -/
Fertilizers and Pesticides               4,137    14,584    19,726    24,785                  63,232          76           3
Tools                                    2,025     4,769      3,720      3,903                14,417          60           3
Hired Labor                              1,752     5,525      7,176      8,200                22,653           -          10
Transport                                  412     1,429      2,150     2,724                  6,715           -           -
Sub-Total                           8,326    26,307    32,772    39,612                 107,017          53           3
III. COFFEE RESEARCH FOUNDATION
Research: Capital                        5,098        -          -         -                   5,098          44          11
Recurrent                       998        998        998       998                  3,992         10           4
Total                         6,096        998        998       998                  9,090         29           8
Training                                 1,340        890       B35        835                 3,900          14           7
Sub-Total                            7,436     1,888      1,833      1,833                12,990          24           8
IV. MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Extension Service: Capital               2,690        -         -          -                   2,690          70          20
Recurrent            2,304     2,304      2,304      2,304                 9,216          17           6
Total                4,994     2,304      2,304      2,304                11,906          29           9
Training                                 1,350      1,350     1,350      1,350                 5,400          -           -
Monitoring                                 452        452       452        452                 1,808           2           1
Sub-Total                            6,796     4,106      4,106      4,106                19,114          18          6
V. MINISTRY OF CO-OPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT
Project Implementation: Capital          2,450        -         -          -                   2,450          70          20
Recurrent      1,885      1,885      1,885     1,885                  7,540          17          6
Total           4,335     1,885      1,885     1,885                  9,990          30         10
Training                                   390        390       370        370                 1,520          -           -
Sub-Total                            4,725     2,275      2,255      2,255                11,510          26           9
VI. CO-OPERATIVE BANK
Capital                                    165        -         -          -                     165          70          20
Recurrent                                  201        201       201        201                   804          13           4
Sub-Total                              366       201        201        201                   969          23           7
TOTAL BASE COST                           92,039   126,607   107,477    57,567                 383,690          43           8
Physical Contingenci7 -                  9,204    12,661    10,748       5,757                38,370          43           8
Price Contingencies -                    6,075    19,500    28,374    21,530                  75,479          43           8
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       107,318   158,768   146,599    84,854                 497,539          43           8
1/  Base costs in March 1979 constant prices.  Year 1 ccrresponds to financial
year starting July 1, 1979.
2/ Net credit requirements.
3/ lOX on all items.
T/  Inflation rates 9Z in Year 1, 8X thereafter.
December 28, 1978



KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Detailed Financing Plan
(K Sh Million)
1/                                       Foreign
Coop. Societies           Government                 IDA                 CDC                                          Exchange
Amount         %        Amount           %    Amount           %      Amount          %               Total               (
1. Factory Development
Construction - Rehabilitation                               39.8        25          12.6           7     40.4           24        71.6          44               164.4              47
Recirculation Systems                                       -           -            3.5          10     11.5           23        20.3           57               35.3              47
Sub-Total                                                39.8         20          16.1          8      51.9           26        91.9          46               199.7              47
Working Capital                                             32.4       100          -             -      -              -         -              -                32.4              20
2.  Farm Inputs  2/                                             -          -              5.5          5    101.5           95        -              -                107.0             53
3. Coffee Research Foundation
Buildings                                                   -          -             2.9          60       2.0          40        -              -                 4.9              40
Vehicles and Equipment                                      -          -             0.2          30      0.5           70        -             -                  0.7              70
Training Expenses                                           -          -             1.0          30       2.4          70        -              -                  3.4             15
Other Recurrent Costs                                       -          -             4.0        100       -             -         -             -                  4.0              10
4. Ministry of Agriculture
Vehicles and Equipment                                      -          -             0.8          30      1.9           70        -              -                 2.7              70
Training Expenses                                           -          -             1.6          30      3.8           70        -              -                 5.4              -
Other Recurrent Costs                                       -          -            11.0        100       -             -         -             -                 11.0              15
5.  Ministry of Coop.Development
Vehicles and Equipment                                      -          -             0.7          30       1.8          70        -              -                 2.5              70
Training Expenses                                           -          -             0.5          30       1.0          70        -              -                 1.5              -
Other Recurrent Costs                                       -          -             7.5        100       -             -         -             -                  7.5              30
6. Co-operative Bank
Vehicles                                                    -          -             0.1          30      0.1           70        -              -                 0.2              70
Recurrent Costs                                             -          -             0.8        100        -            -         -              -                 0.8              13
Sub-Total                                                72.2         18          52.7         15    166.9           43         91.9          24               383.7              43
7.  Contingencies                                               20.7        18           17.5         15      48.4          43        27.2           24               113.8             43
Total. Including Taxes                                   92.9         18          70.2         15    215.3           43        119.1          24               497.5              43
Taxes-                                                      11.7        30          27.7         70    -                 -        -              -                39.4              -
Total. Net of Taxes                                      81.2         18          42.5          9    215.3           47        119.1          26               458.1              47
1/  Commonwealth Development Corporation (UK)
2/ Net credit requirements.
3/  Information provided to show IDA's and CDC's contribution to project financing
on a without tax basis. However, all goods procured under the project would be
subject to the usual tax laws of Kenya
March 7, 1979



KENYA
SMALLhOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. - Project Cash Flow 1/
(K Sh million)
Years
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Year 11   Year 12   Year 13   Year 14   Year 15   16-20
Sources of Fund
Loans frm  Government 2/                 69.3    113.6    105.3         55.5       --        --         --        --        --          --         --          --         --         --          -_         -
Repayments 3/
Factory Loans:  Interest                1.3       7.2      13.5      16.2       14.3      12.2      10.1       8.0        5.9        3.7         1.8        1.2         0.5        --          --        --
Principal            --         0.4       5.4      13.8      20.9       23.6      23.6      23.6       23.5       23.4        21.8       16.0        13.9        --         --         --
Famers' Credit: Interest               0.2        1.4       4.1       8.1       12.8      11.6      10.2       8.1        4.6        1.8         --         --          --         --          --        --
Principal            --         --        --        --         6.1      16.5      25.5      39.0       32.4       18.5         --         --          --         --          --        --
Less Doubtful Debts 4/                  --        --        --        --        (0.3)    (1.3)      (2.4)      (2.6)     (2.0)      (1.0)        --         -_          __         -_          __        __
Carried from Previous Year                --        --        --         --        _-        --        __         __        -_          -_         __          __         -_         __          __        __
Total Sources of Funds                  70.8      122.6    128.3       93.6       53.8      62.6      67.0       76.1      64.4       46.4        23.6       17.2        14.4        --          --        --
Uses of Funds
Loans to Co-operative Unions             69.3    113.6    105.3         55.5       --        --         --        --        --          --         --          --         --          --         --        --
Interest 2/                               1.3       5.0      13.2      20.0       22.5      15.4      15.4       15.4      15.4       15.4         --          --         --         --          --        --
Annuity 2/                                __         _        __         __        __       14.3       14.3      14.3      14.3        14.3       48.8       48.8        48.8       48.8        48.8      33.4
Total Uses of Funds                      70.6    118.6    118.5         75.5      22.5      29.7      29.7       29.7      29.7       29.7        48.8       48.8        48.8       48.8        48.8      33.4
Cash Flow (available for new
investments) 5/                        0.2       4.0        9.8      18.1       31.3      32.9      37.3       46.4      34.7       16.7       (25.2)     (31.6)    (34.4)       (48.8)      (48.8)   (33.4)
1/ In current terms.
2/ At 7% interest per annum with 5 years of grace for principal payments for funds from CDC and 10 years of grace for
principal payments from Bank and Government funds. Principal repaid over 10 years in each case.
3/ Factory loans: repaid by co-operative societies at 9% interest rate p.a. over 10 years including 18 months of grace.
Farmers' loans: repaid by co-operative unions at 9% over a maximum of 7 years including 4 years of grace for
principal repayments.  Interest rate paid by ultimate beneficiaries is not less than 10%.                                                                                                                             a
4/  Five percent of farmers' credit.
5/  Surplus funds if reinvested would cover deficits in later years.
May 9, 1979



-47-
KENYA                                                  Table 4
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
l/
Government Cash Flow
(K Sh Million)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4  Year 5  Year 6   Year 7  Year 8   Year 9  Year 10
SOURCES OF FUNDS
2/
Taxes and Import Duties                         9.2      15.2       14.4         8.0      7.0      7.0        7.0      7.0        7.0      7.0
County Council Cess                             -         0.2        1.0        2.0       3.6      5.1        5.9      6.3       6.6       7.2
4/
Export Taxes                                    -         -          -          -         -        6.1       7.9       8.9       9.8      11.3
Interest and Principal-/                       1.3        5.0      13.2        20.0     22.5      29.7      29.7     29.7       29.7     29.7
External Sources
IDA Credit                                  44.2     67.4        64.0       40.6       -         -         -        -          -        -
CDC Loan                                    24.5     37.4        35.6        22.6      -         -         -        -          -        -
Total Sources of Funds                        79.2   125.2        128.2        93.2     33.1      47.9      50.5     51.9       53.1     55.2
USES OF FUNDS
Project Expenditures:
Co-operative Bank Loans                       69.3   113.6        105.3        55.5
Coffee Research Foundation:
Capital Costs                                6.0      -          -            -
Recurrent Costs                              1.2       1.3       1.4          1.5      1.5       1.5       1.5      1.5        1.5      1.5
Training                                     1.6       1.1       1.1          1.2      1.2       1.2       1.2      1.2        1.2      1.2
Sub-Total                            8.8      2.4        2.5          2.7      2.7      2.7        2.7      2.7        2.7      2.7
Ministry of Agriculture:
Vehicles and Equipment                       3.2      -          -            -        -         -         -        -          -        -
Training                                     1.6       1.7       1.8          2.0      2.0       2.0       2.0      2.0        2.0      2.0
Recurrent Costs                              3.2       3,5       3.8          4.1      4.1      4.1        4.1      4.1        4.1      4.1
Sub-Total                            8.0      5.2        5.6          6.1      6.1      6.1        6.1      6.1        6.1      6.1
Ministry of Co-op. Development!
Vehicles and Equipment                       2.9      -          -            -        -         -         -        -          -        -
Training                                     0.5      0.5        0.5          0.5      0.5       0.5       0.5      0.5        0.5      0.5
Recurrent Costs                              2.2       2.4       2.6          2.8      2.8       2.8       2.8      2.8        2.8      2.8
Sub-Total                            5.6      2.9        3.1          3.3      3.3      3.3        3.3      3.3        3.3      3.3
Co-operative Bank:
Vehicles                                     0.2      -          -            -        -        -          -        -          -        -
Recurrent Costs                              0.2      0.3        0.3          0.3      0.3       0.3       0.3      0.3        0.3      0.3
Sub-Total                            0.4      0.3        0.3          0.3      0.3      0.3        0.3      0.3        0.3      0.3
Total Project Expenditure                     92.1   124.4       107.8         48.9     12.4      12.4      12.4      12.4      12.4     12.4
Debt Service:
6/
IDA Credit  - Service Charge                 0.1      0.6        1.1          1.5      1.6      1.6        1.6      1.6        1.6      1.6
IDA Credit  - Repayments                     -        -          -            -        -        -          -        -          -        -
7/
CDC Loan    - Interest                       0.9      3.0        5.6          7.6      8.4      8.4        7.6      6.7        5.9      5.0
CDC Loan    - Repayments                     -        -          -            -        -       12.0       12.0     12.0       12.0     12.0
Total Uses of Funds                           93.1   128.0   1.23.             77.0     22.4      34.4      33.6      32.7      31.9     31.0
Net Cash Flow                                (13.9)   (2L.         4.7         16.2     10.7     13.5       16.9     19.2       21.2    24.2
1/  Year 1 corresponds to financial year starting July 1, 1979.  Current prices are used for
years I to 4.  Inflation rates used are 9% for year 1, 8%/. for  e ars 2 to 4, t8. thereafter.
2/  Taxes and duties are 8% of project-related expenditures.
3/ 3% of auction value of coffee (see Annex 1, Table 14). Incremental production and quality
improvement are shown in Annex 1, Table 18.
4/  15% of sales above K Sh 20/kg.
5/  Interests paid by Co-operative Bank at 71 p.a. on funds lent for credit. Repayments on CDC commence year 6.
6/ Standard IDA terms.
7/ Fifteen years repayment of which five years of grace; 7% interest rate per annum.
May 9, 1979



- 48 -
Table 5
KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements 1/
(us$ Million)
IDA  Fiscal Year             Quarterly             Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter              Disbursements              at End of Quarter
1979/80
September 30, 1979
December 31, 1979              --
March 31, 1980                 0.2                            0.2
June 30, 1980                  0.2                            o.4
1980/81
September 30, 1980             1.4                            1.8
December 31, 1980              1.8                            3.6
March 31, 1981                 1.8                            5.4
June 30, 1981                  1.8                            7.2
1981/82
September 30, 1981             1.8                            9.0
December 31, 1981              1.8                           10.8
March 31, 1982                 1.8                           12.6
June 30, 1982                  1.8                           14.4
1982/83
September 30, 1982             1.8                          16.2
December 31, 1982              1.8                           18.0
March 31, 1983                 1.8                           19.8
June 30, 1983                  1.8                           21.6
1983/84
September 30, 1983             1.8                           23.4
December 31, 1983              1.8                           25.2
March 31, 1984                 1.8                           27.0
June 30, 1984
1/ A 12 month lag between physical investments and disbursements by the
IDA is assumed. Disbursements in 1979/80 correspond to initial
expenses being financed retroactively.
March 5, 1979



KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(K Sh Million)
Yeara   Accounting
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Year 6   Year 7   Year 8   Year 9   Year 10   Year 11    12-25                  Factor
COSTS
1. FactorY Development
Construction/Rehabilitation                       53.1      66.3      43.7       1.4       -         -         -         _         _          _           _         _          1.04
Recirculation Systems                             11.3      14.7       9.3       -         -         -         -         _         -          -           _         _          1.04
2. Incremental Farm Inputs 3/
Fertilizers, Pesticides, Tools, Transport          7.7      24.5      33.1      37.0      41.0      45.0      46.4      46.4      46.4       46.4       46.4      46.4         1.21
Hired Labor                                        1.4       5.7       8.2      11.2      12.7      13.4      13.8      13.8      13.8       13.8        13.8      13.8        1.0
Family Labor _/                                    3.3      10.5      15.3      20.8      23.0      24.1      24.7      24.7      24.7       24.7        24.7      24.7        1.0
3. Research -                                         6.1       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0       1.0         1.0        1.0       1.0        1.03
4. Training and Monitoring 6/                         3.5       3.1       3.1       3.1       1.5        1.5      1.5       1.5        1.5        1.5        1.5       1.5        1.0
5. Other Services 7/                                  9.7       4.4       4.4       4.4       4.4       4.4       4.4       4.4       4.4         4.4        4.4       4.4        1.01
6. Thysical Contingencies (10%)                       9.6      13.1      11.8       7.9       8.4       8.9       9.2       9.2        9.2        9.2        9.2       9.2        1.09
BENEFITS
1. Incremental Production
Quantity (ton  0o9) -'                             -         0.4       1.6       3.5       5.9       8.0       9.0       9.5       9.5        9.5         9.5       9.5
Price (K Sh/kg) -                                  -        14.3      12.6      11.2      12.1      12.7      13.2      13.5      13.8       14.1       14.5      14.9                                  4
Value                                              -         5.7      20.2      39.2      71.4    101.6    118.8    128.3    131.1          134.0      137.8    141.6          1.37
2. Quality Improvement IO/
Factories Throughput (ton '000) -/                 -         -        19.2      44.3      61.7      61.7      61.7      61.7      61.7        61.7       61.7      61.7
Quality Premium (K Sh/kg) 12                       _         -         -         0.2       0.4       0.6       0.7       0.8       0.9        1.1         1.2       1.3
Value                                              -         -         -         8.9      24.7      37.0      43.2      49.4      55.5       57.9        74,0      80.2        1.37
1/ In March 1979 prices.
2/ From Annex 1, Table 2. Incremental recurrent costs are not shown, as they were
deducted from farmers' price.  They amount to K Sh 0.5/kg.
3/ From Annex 1, Table 3.
2/ From Annex 1, Table 3.
Valued at Hired Labor prices.
5/ From Annex 1, Table 4, less Training component.
6/ Items under Training and Monitoring in Annex 1, Table 1. After Project completion,
requirements for training and monitoring would be halved.
7/ Extension services, MOCD, Co-op. Bank costs.
8/ From Annex 2, Table 28, shifted by one year.
9/ Using prices paid to farmers in the without project situation (Annex 1, Table 14) to
avoid double-counting of factory benefits (quality improvement). Taxes and cesses
have been added back as they do not represent economic costs.
10/ Due to higher standard of processing.
11/  See implementation schedule in Annex 3, Table 5.
12/  See Annex 1, Table 14.  Difference in farmers' price for the with project and                                                                                                                        a,
without project situation.  Taxes and cesses have been added back.                                                                                                                                   s



-50 -                           Table 7
KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
ERR (%)
A. All Project Components 1/
Base ERR                                                     21
All costs increased by 20%                                   15
All benefits decreased by 20%                                15
B. Agricultural Production
Base ERR                                                     20.5
All production costs, except family labor,                   14
increased by 20%
All production benefits decreased by 20%                     10
Farmers' participation at 50% of base estimate               16
Family labor valued at zero                                  33
C. Factory Component 2/
Base ERR                                                     22
1/ For the economic analysis, two components have been considered
individually: (i) agricultural production resulting in increasing
the quantity of coffee produced, and (ii) factory construction/
rehabilitation resulting in improving coffee quality. Corresponding
benefits streams are in Annex 1, Table 18.
2/ See detailed analysis per type of factory in Annex 1, Table 16.
January 2, 1979



- 51 -
KENYA
APPRAISAL OF THE SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS - VOLUME II
ANNEXES
1.   Cost Tables and Rate of Return Calculation
Table  1.  Project Cost Summary
Table  2.  Factory Construction and Rehabilitation - Project Costs
Table  3.  Cost of Incremental Farm Inputs and Credit Requirements
Table  4.  Coffee Research Foundation - Project Costs
Table  5.  Ministry of Agriculture - Project Costs
Table  6.  Department of Co-operative Development - Project Costs
Table  7.  Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. - Project Costs
Table  8.  Cost of Fertilizers as of June 1978
Table  9.  Price Projections of Fertilizers and Chemical
Table 10. Actual and Projected Coffee Prices - Guatemalan Primed Washed
Table 11. Distribution of Kenya Coffee Export
Table 12. Actual and Projected Prices of Average Kenya Coffee Mix
Table 13. Distribution of Project's Cooperative Produced Coffee,
per Class Group
Table 14. Projected Financial Coffee Prices to Farmers
Table 15. Improvement of Coffee Quality, per Type of Factor Improvement
Table 16. Factories: Summary of Financial Rates of Return
Table 17. Analysis of Factory Investments (5 pages)
Table 18. Rate of Return Calculation
Table 19. Economic Rate of Return and Sensitivity Analysis
Table 20. Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. - Project Cash Flow
Table 21. Government Cash Flow
2.   Farm Budgets and Production Estimates
Table 1A. Smallholder Coffee Hectares, Yields and Production (1977)
Table  1B. Smallholder Coffee Areas - Project Areas
Table  2.  Gross Margin from Cofee - Machakos District
Table  3.  Farm Budgets - Machakos District
Table  4.  Cash Flow - Machakos District
Table  5.  Gross Margin from Coffee - Embu District
Table  6.  Farm Budgets - Embu District
Table  7.  Cash Flow - Embu District
Table  8.  Gross Margin from Coffee - Kisii District
Table  9.  Farm Budgets - Kisii District
Table 10. Cash Flow - Kisii Distrist
Table 11. Gross Margin from Coffee - Baringo Distrist
Table 12.  Farm Budgets - Baringo District
Table 13. Cash Flow - Baringo District
Table 14. Expected Yields - Project Farmers



- 52 -
VOLUME II
ANNEXES (Continued)
2.   Farm Budgets and Production Estimates (Continued)
Table 15. Typical Farming Systems in Project Area
Table 16. Total Labor Requirements for Picking Coffee for Project Farmers
Table 17. Total Labor Requirements for All Coffee Activities of Project
Farmers
Table 18. Distribution of Labor Requirements and Costs for
Casual Labor for Project Farmers
Table 19. Fertilizer Requirements
Table 20. Average Pesticide Recommendations per Hectare by District
Table 21. Total Fertilizer Requirements
Table 22. Pesticide Requirements
Table 23. Credit Requirements for Tools
Table 24. Hired Labor Requirements
Table 25. Transport Requirements
Table 26. Farmers Own Input Contribution
Table 27. Total Medium-Term Credit Requirements
Table 28. Total Production Estimates
3.   The Coffee Processing Improvement Program
Appendix 1. Model Descriptions of Factory Types and Criteria for
Complete Rehabilitation
Appendix 2. Mechanical Coffee Driers
Appendix 3. Job Description and Salary Scales for Provincial
Coffee Factory Engineers and Coffee Factory Technicians
Appendix 4. Factory Staff Houses
Chart 1.    Recirculation System Flow Chart
Chart 2.    Quality Decline by Class and Type of Factory
(Mecahnical Facilities only)
Chart 3.    Quality Decline by Class and Type of Factory
(Management Aspects only)
Table 1.    A Proposed Program for the Establishment of New
Factories at Society Level
Table 2.    List of Factories Scheduled for Improvement (13 pages)
Table 3.    Summary of Coffee Factory Improvement by Province and
District
Table 4.    Unit Costs for New Factories and of Rehabilitation
of Existing Factories
Table 5.    Investment Costs of New Factories and of Rehabilitation
of Existing Factories
Table 6.    Operating Costs Three-disc Factory
Design 1.   Designs for New Factories and Types I, III and IV
Rehabilitation
Design 2.   Designs for Type II Rehabilitation



- 53 -
VOLUME II
ANNEXES (Continued)
4.   Agricultural Credit and the Co-operative Bank
Table 1.   New Agriculture Credit Issued by Type of Farmer
1973/74 - 1976/77
Table 2.   Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. - Balance Sheets
Table 3.   Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. - Income and
Expenditure Accounts
Table 4.   Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. - Funds Flow Statement
Table 5.   Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. - Indicators of Financial
and Operational Performance
Table 6.   Co-operative Bank:  Delinquency Rates as at April 30, 1978
Table 7.   Loan Agreement Blank Form
Table 8.   Loan Application Blank Form
5.   Coffee Research Foundation
Table 1.   Coffee Research Foundation - Project Costs
Table 2.   Coffee Research Foundation - Allocation of Project Items
6.   Ministry of Agriculture
7.   The Role of Cooperatives in Coffee Production
8.   Training
Appendix 1. Course Guide for Coffee Factory M4anagers (7 pages)
Appendix 2. Cooperative College of Kenya - The Centre for
Cooperative Education (10 pages)
9.   Kenya Planters' Cooperative Union Limited
Appendix 1. Different Grades of Coffee (2 pages)
Appendix 2. Coffee Classifications (5 pages)
10. The Coffee Board of Kenya
11. Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File






KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
Ministry of Agriculture Organization
Minister of Agriculture 
Permar'en Sec etary
Head Development  Deputy Secretary    1                Depu y Secretary                     ~~~~~~Principal Finance
iJj[jmnDpuyScrtr                                                                     Deuy  ere  yand Establish-
Plnning Division                    Development                                     Adiitrtin                               etOfficer
Diretorof Agtric e
Dpulty retor                                                                                                                    of Research
Livestock         Range        Land and Far        Anima             dustra        Horcula
Mar g Management    Management   [rod           [on   [oCp                          Food Crops
Provincial Director      |
j   of Agriculture
IADP MANAGEMENT UNIT
Head - IADP
FDistrict Agricultural Officer
_   0 Dep. Heasd IAOP                                         P                                                                                                FarmerTnainingCeFr n t
_ _    Ecaleation Officesr
Fi-_   .1 Cont,oil.r                              Division Agricultural Officer
_Financial Controller
Crap          Animal         Lan  & Farm I  Veterinar        Manager
Praducti      P      tion   Management   Services           S   I i.p                                 Field Extension Staff
Coordintdr   Codinator   Coardinator   Coordinator
|    Farmer
a/ Technical Divisions Represented at Provincial and District Levels.
World Bank - 1 8992






KENYA
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE DEPARTMENTOF CO-OPERATE DEVELOPMENT
C CCD  
|Educ & Tra-n D,,      l        Cred-t & F,n D,v t          Audib & Acc D,v                                                                                      D- PIr   D,                  SW-c  D
A C C D                       A C C D                     A C C D                                                                                              A.C C D                     A C C D
Field Edct. tRural CrediS                                                                                                                                    Statistics Sec               Administration
7   S C.O.  1               S C O                     PA (CD-DP)Field Services                            Fiae    Ad iOraton
P.blcity            _      Urba  Credit          _     Acc-tsS-                                                                                          PIn  &M-am                      A.d.t & Ac
_ ~~~~~~~~~~C O                                             CO_S.A                                            (CO-P _ .0   C-P
F_          I                 ~~~
_   lespectarate                e Iqcir & Liquid                                                                                   Suvy&Pr_
C-tra Provc                 Cost Prcc                 Eastern Proince            Ny-aa Preus-ce              Rsft Valley Pro           Western Province -Nairab Area
ACCD                        PCO                       ACC D                      A C C D                    A C C D                      P C O                     S.C O
Special,. Sr               Special Sern               Special Serv                Special SrvL  Special Serv                           Special Ser,               Special Serc
-     S.A  (CO-OP)               SA  (CO OP)                 S.A  (CO-OP)               PA. (CO-OP)                S.A  (CO-DP                SA. (CO-OP)   |            P.A  (CO-OP)
-    C O  (EDUC)                 CO  (EDUC)                  CO. (EDUCI                 CO  (UCI                 CO  (EDUC S            -     C.O  (EDUC)        |       C.o  (EDUC)
CO  (EDUC|       N                                       C C.O. (SAV & CR)
Find S-r-v            -    Field Services             Fseld Servics               Field Services            Field Sev.i-CS             Field Services                                         F|id Seve
D.C O  Kserb.          H       D C 0. Kiifi                0 C 0 Enbii              D C 0. Ho-a Bay              D.C 0 BHrgc               DC.O. Bg-oma                                      -   C 0. D-nd-ri
-  D C O  Kiniry ga  |          DC0 KH     a           -   DC 0 K,tyi            H   D.C,O  K,sii            -       C.0  Edor          -  D.C.O  Busa                                             C.O  K-nenp
-  DC 0 Muranga                 D CO  Lam.                 D.C.O. Machacos        -    D CO K-sm                 DC C Efgyo M           -  D CO  Kakmega                                      -   C.O  Kitarl
h D.CO.O, Nyeri             O H    D.C.0 Mombasa | E     C.D Mera       |-        DC.O, Sae.     Kaiado                                                                                  -    C.O. Machakos
DC.O. Nyandarua                  D.C.O Taste                                                                      DC.0 Kpaet                                                                  -    C.O. Muhr-oroi
D C O  Tan RaRv.                                                                 C CO. K-cho                                                                 -    C O  Nyr
D CO Kiale                                                                            C.O. Sirik.a
-   D.C O. Laikipa|                                                                    C O. Setik
.C 0 Naka                                                                                   T/alls
C C D    C.mmiessoner let Co-aperasive Developnent
D C C.D  Deputy Commissioner for Cc-operative Development                                                       DC 0 N k
A C.C.D  Assistant Commissioner far Co-operative Development
P.C.0    Provincial Co-operative Officer                                                                   n        C.O Turkan
D C 0    Dsstmict Co-opemative Officer                                                                          D CO  WV Pokot
S C 0      enior Ceoperatve Officer                                                                           I                          A.D.A  (CO-OPI Assistant D-rectar of Audits
C 0      Ce-operative O+ficer                                                                                                           P.A      CO-OP) Principal Aiditor q-
S.A    (CO-OP) Seniorm      t Adrtr
)0.              Eo..riae Officerd
Upgrading Propesed
W-nd Ba-k - 19266






'{i *S.~~-                                                      C,                                  H    2       >--  C9-  !    X-dl                                   p3t09 i\
r  ; 0 \ 0; d 2 / ~~~~-                                                            r                                  t  \  -/ .-J <a\0u0)r-
K>               ' -@    0 2\; | 004jt   V    m               g    cn *                           >                                 >                               r
_2n< i : . Q 3 s i: /1 < g X - c) X  ,<    8-   c  z   S    .    )>  t a    4,  a  3  1  ;
o  g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
0' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~7
0 tX t (l 0 0 0ETZ   D  li  X   or  ~~  g  3_  -_/
St                   _            .            '                                            '00'-       :::-3 
9                                                               7 -  77777--7 E         lE _ 2                                              X.          )
/    2  /    '    *   >    T    -0   rm   i.,Rr, .{1:rt,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
i                                                                                               t   /    *   c  7    j  |    ,>    <   i95;5   u    r.|i-:"Rt'l- Jr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a
O  /  -,t= D  ,/ \< \/Vw l) t f <g 1jM                           A
d /   1/  \ \ /'              \-Q                       k           S            Et    )                 z            ---R~~~~~Z lU
|    X v                n                             X   /    rtl 4                               !                        \- ~~~~~~~~~u W



