Document of            C                     y
The World Bank   r k L Q L 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. P-2534-KE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
May 9, 1979
Tis document hus a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients _ly in the performace of
their okicial dudes. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Blank ustorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =       Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 1            =      US$0.125
US$1.00          =      KSh 8.00
(As the Kenya Shilling is officially valued at a fixed
rate of 9.66 KSh to the SDR, the US Dollar/K Shilling
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this
report were made at US$1.00 to KSh 8.00 which is close
to the average 1978 exchange rate.)
ABBREVIATIONS
CBK       =    Co-operative Bank of Kenya
CBOK      =    Coffee Board of Kenya
CPCS           Co-operative Production Credit Scheme
CRF       =    Coffee Research Foundation
FTC       =    Farmer Training Center
IADP      =    Integrated Agricultural Development Programme
KFA       =    Kenya Farmers Association (Co-operative) Ltd.
KPCU      =    Kenya Planters' Co-operative Union Ltd.
MOA            Ministry of Agriculture
MOCD      =    Ministry of Co-operative Development
SCIP      =    Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Kenya    =    July 1 - June 30
CBK                     =    October 1 to September 30
CBOK                    =    July 1 to June 30
CRF                     =    October 1 to September 30
KPCU                    =    July 1 to June 30



KENYA
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER             Republic of Kenya
BENEFICIARIES        The Co-operative Bank of Kenya Ltd. (CBK), the Coffee
Research Foundation (CRF), and the Borrower's Ministry
of Agriculture (MOA) and Ministry of Co-operative
Development (MOCD).
AMOUNT           :  US$27.0 million equivalent
TERMS                Standard
RELENDING TERMS      US$24.6 million of the proceeds of the credit would be
relent by the Government to CBK for a period to be
determined by the Government, including 10 years of
grace, with an annual interest rate of 7%. The Government
would bear the foreign exchange risk. CBK would in turn
relend the proceeds to co-operative societies (both
directly and through co-operative unions) (a) for factory
construction and rehabilitation for up to 10 years,
including 18 months of grace, with interest of not less
than 10% per annum, and (b) to such societies for onlend-
ing to coffee farmers for medium-term development loans,
for 7 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest
of not less than 10% per annum. US$0.8 million of the
proceeds of the credit would be used to provide financial
assistance to CBK and CRF and the balance would be used
to strengthen services provided by MOA and MOCD.
PROJECT              The project would, over a four year period, assist in the
DESCRIPTION         rehabilitation of the co-operative coffee industry.  The
project would aim to (i) improve the quality of coffee
produced by the country's co-operative processing facili-
ties; (ii) rehabilitate about 15,000 ha of neglected
coffee plantings; and (iii) provide incentives to small-
holder farmers, who achieved higher yields because of the
recent boom in coffee prices, to maintain those yields
despite lower coffee prices forecast for the next four
years. Within the implementation period, the target of
the project would be the active participation of approxi-
mately 70,000 registered coffee growers through the
provision and coordination of essential services to the
co-operative coffee sector. Components would include: (a)
rehabilitation of 400 existing factories, the construction
of 14 new factories, construction of 50 mechanical drying
units, and provision of improved training facilities for
factory staff; (b) provision of medium-term development
loans to farmers for the rehabilitation of their holdings;
(c) strengthening of CRF; (d) development of improved
coffee extension services and training; (e) strengthening
of MOCD services, and improved training facilities for
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii 
staff; and (f) strengthening of CBK's credit services
through incremental staff and facilities. The project
faces no special risks, although unfavorable weather
could affect production. To minimize risks that the
project institutions might fail to reach the expected
number of farmers with services and inputs, annual work
plans would be submitted to the Bank for review and
comment. Technical and commercial risks are low.
ESTIMATED COST:                                       ----US$ million-----
Local Foreign Total
Factory Development                              16.5     12.6   29.1
Farm Inputs                                       6.3      7.0   13.3
Coffee Research Foundation                        1.2      0.4    1.6
Ministry of Agriculture (extension
services, training and monitoring)              2.0      0.4    2.4
Ministry of Co-operative Development
(project implementation and training)           1.1      0.4    1.5
Co-operative Bank of Kenya (incremental
staff and facilities)                         0.09       0.01   0.1
Sub-total                                  27.2      20.8   48.0
Physical Contingencies                            2.7      2.1    4.8
Price Contingencies                               5.3      4.1    9.4
Total Project Cost                         35.2      27.0   62.2
Total Project Cost (net of taxes and duties)  30.2        27.0   57.2
FINANCING PLAN:                                       ----US$ million-----
Local  Foreign  Total
Government of Kenya                               8.7       -      8.7
Co-operative Societies                           11.5       -    11.5
Commonwealth Development Corporation              6.5      8.5   15.0
IDA                                               8.5     18.5   27.0
Total Project Cost                               35.2     27.0   62.2
Net Project Cost                                 30.2     27.0   57.2
ESTIMATED                                  --------US$ million---         …
DISBURSEMENTS:  IDA fiscal year    1980        1981     1982       1983    1984
Annual                0.4       6.8      7.2        7.2     5.4
Cumulative            0.4       7.2     14.4       21.6    27.0
RATE OF RETURN:      21%
APPRAISAL REPORT:   Report No. 2253a-KE, dated April 25, 1979
MAP:                 IBRD 13743



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KENYA
FOR A SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Kenya, on standard terms, for the
equivalent of US$27.0 million to help finance an agricultural development
project for smallholder coffee farmers. US$24.6 million of the proceeds of
the credit would be relent by the Government to the Co-operative Bank of Kenya
Ltd. (CBK) for a period to be determined by the Government, including 10 years
grace, with an annual interest rate of 7%. US$0.8 million of the proceeds
of the credit would be used to provide financial assistance to the Coffee
Research Foundation (CRF) and CBK, and the balance would be used to strengthen
services provided by the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the
Ministry of Co-operative Development (MOCD). In addition, a proposed loan
from the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC) for US$15.0 million
equivalent for 15 years, including 5 years grace, at 7% per annum, would be
used to finance part of the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report entitled "Kenya Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 2441-KE,
dated March 1979) has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A
summary of social and economic data is at Annex I. A Basic Economic Report
on Kenya is now under preparation--the mission to complete the report returned
from Kenya in mid-November.
Economic Structure and Trends
3.        During the first fifteen years of independence Kenya has had con-
tinuity in leadership and development strategy. That strategy has been to
promote rapid economic growth by means of public investment, encouragement
of both smallholder and large-scale farming, and the promotion of accelerated
industrialization through incentives for private (including foreign) in-
vestment in modern industry. With the death of President Kenyatta and the
tensions prevailing in the areas surrounding Kenya, there is inevitably some
uncertainty about the future. Nevertheless present indications are that
the main direction of Kenyan development strategy will be continued, albeit
with increased emphasis on poverty alleviation and social services.
4.        Kenya is a poor country with an economy still largely dependent on
agriculture. Average per capita income in 1977 was US$270 and agriculture
accounted for one-third of GDP on average during the period 1975-77. Agri-
culture provided about 60% of export earnings in 1977 and remains the major
source of livelihood for the 90% of the population which lives in rural areas.
1/   This section is substantially the same as that of the President's Report
on the Highway Sector Project (Report P-2498-KE of March 27, 1979).



5.        There has been significant growth and structural change in the
economy since independence. Between 1964 and 1977 total GDP grew at an annual
average rate of 5.8% although there was a sharp drop in the growth rate in
1974 and 1975 caused by droughts and the international oil crisis.   Popula-
tion grew at nearly 3.5% per annum over the same period, and real per capita
income, thus, increased by over one-third between 1964 and 1975, or at an
annual rate of about 2.3%. During the period 1964-77 manufacturing was the
most rapidly growing of the major sectors; value added in manufacturing grew
at 9% per annum. Agricultural output expanded at 4.2% from 1964-73, but grew
at only 2.3% per annum from 1973-77. Over the entire period 1964-77, average
annual growth of agricultural production was 3.6%.
6.        Despite Kenya's impressive post-independence growth record, a number
of problems have emerged which will make it difficult to sustain growth and to
reduce poverty.
7.        The most fundamental problem is the rapid growth of populition in
thI face of limited arable land. Of Kenya's total area (583,000 km ), 520,500
km is categorized as potentially agricultural, 13% being regarded as high
potential land, 6% medium and 81% low. Most of the high-potential land is
densely settled. Pressure on the land was alleviated during the years follow-
ing independence by the opening up of a large part of the land previously
owned by Europeans to settlement by Kenyan smallholders. However, with
population growing at 3.5% per annum pressure is mounting. This has resulted
in increasing subdivision and landlessness in high-potential areas and in
settlement in semi-arid areas ill-suited to farming.
8.        Rapid population growth is felt most seriously through the increas-
ing pressure on available agricultural land, but it creates other problems as
well. The non-agricultural formal wage sector (which employs less than 15%
of the total labor force) is unable to absorb all the new labor force entrants
because of its small base. Considerable budgetary pressure has also been
created because of the growing demand for social services. Finally, efforts
to improve the distribution of income are impeded because of the relative lack
of access to land and education for the children of the poorest sections of
the population.
9.        A second problem area has developed in the manufacturing sector.
The rapid growth of industry in the past has been largely based upon invest-
ments in simple import-substitution industries by multinational companies. To
a lesser extent manufacturing production has also catered to the export market
in neighboring countries, particularly in the protected East African Community
(EAC) market. However the scope for further industrialization along these
lines is limited as most of the easy import-substitution possibilities have
been exhausted and the EAC preference for Kenyan goods has been abolished.
The past pattern of industrialization has left the industrial sector increas-
ingly dependent on imported raw materials, components and spare parts and
therefore vulnerable in case of a shortage of foreign exchange. To maintain
growth it will be necessary to reorient industry toward increased use of
domestic inputs and increased production for export.



- 3 -
10.       An additional problem is the stagnation of export volume in recent
years. From 1964-72 the volume of exports expanded at an average annual rate
of 4.6%. Between 1972 and 1974 export volume increased by an additional 11%
but has not risen above the 1974 level. To some extent this is a reflection
of production problems in agriculture and industry, but it is also an indicator
of the need to direct more resources into foreign exchange earning activities.
Economic Performance 1974-78
11.       Kenya's growth performance since 1974 has been dominated by swings
in the country's international terms of trade. Thus, the growth rate fell
sharply during 1974-75 when the dramatic increase in petroleum and other
import prices required restrictive economic policies, accelerated rapidly
in 1976-77 as the impact of the "coffee boom" following frost damage in Brazil
worked its way through the economy, and began to decelerate in 1978 with the
decline in coffee prices toward more normal levels.
12.       Fiscal and monetary policies were, in combination with incomes
policy, reasonably effective in restraining the growth of aggregate demand
during 1974-76, thus protecting the balance of payments and keeping externally-
generated domestic price increases from getting out of hand. However, through-
out this period there were increasing pressures on the Government to expand
its expenditures emanating primarily from increased school enrollments and
abolition of fees for the first four years of education; concerns about
national security; and the need to replace EAC corporations with national
entities. With the "coffee boom" of 1976-77, the Government decided to
greatly expand budgetary outlays, both recurrent and capital, to ensure that
the additional revenues would be used for development purposes. As a result,
the budget deficit rose from 4.0% of GDP in 1976/77 to 5.5% in 1977/78. At
the same time, the monetary authorities were doing little to limit the effect
of rising foreign exchange reserve levels on commercial bank liquidity and
expansion of credit to the private sector. As a result, credit to the private
sector grew by more than 30% in both 1977 and 1978. The combination of the
expansionary monetary and fiscal policy and the high agricultural incomes
produced a resurgence of domestic demand and a rapid rise in import levels.
By this time coffee prices had passed their peak and begun to decline. As
a result the trade deficit rose sharply in 1978 and the foreign exchange
reserves were rapidly depleted. The balance of goods and non-factor services
deteriorated from +US$157 million in 1977 to -US$289 million in 1978, while
reserves fell by US$180 million.
Fourth Five-Year Development Plan, 1979-83
13.       The major objective of the Fourth Five-Year Development Plan is
alleviation of poverty through creation of income earning opportunities and
provision of social services to meet the basic needs of the population. The
Plan correctly identifies the key problems that Kenya faces and sets forth a
development strategy appropriate to their solution. It is sharply focussed,
explicit in its recommendations, and shows a sound awareness of constraints on
development.



-4-
14.       The Fourth Plan recognizes the strong link between agricultural
growth and poverty alleviation. One of the most significant changes pro-
posed in the Plan is increased access to land through legalizing subdivision
of high-potential large farms. In addition, the Plan proposes that a Natioral
Land Commission be established to review ways of encouraging land use inten-
sification and labor absorption. The Plan also proposes that marketing and
pricing policies pay closer attention to the structure of domestic and inter-
national prices and the marketing system be made more competitive and effi-
cient to improve prices to farmers. Research and extension services are to
be more closely linked to the needs of small farmers. Finally, in addition
to projects to increase larger scale commercial and smallholder production,
a series of integrated rural development projects in semi-arid areas is pro-
posed to redress the neglect of these areas.
15.       The major thrust of industrial policy will be to effect a transition
from import substitution to a strategy emphasizing industrial efficiency and
export diversification. This will involve further rationalization of tariffs
and elimination of quantitative restrictions on imports over a five-year
period. This policy will be very difficult to carry forward over the next
few years when, because of balance of payments problems, there is likely to
be considerble pressure to increase, rather than reduce, protection.
16.       The Plan proposes no fundamental change in Kenya's traditionally
liberal policy on foreign investment with the important exception that re-
view and approval of projects for which special concessions or Government
participation are being sought will rely more on economic criteria and
will be centralized in the Ministry of Finance. On the whole, the Plan calls
for a more limited role for Government in terms of direct participation and
intervention. However, efforts will be made to restructure industrial in-
vestment incentives to encourage employment and decentralization. Finally,
while there are doubts in Kenya about how dynamic a role the informal sector
can play in the development process, the Plan is more specific in its recom-
mendations for aid to small firms (provision of financial and technical sup-
port and ending of unnecessary licensing and other restrictions) than the
previous Plan.
17.       The Fourth Plan acknowledges the heavy burden rapid population
growth places on the economy and places high priority on the promotion of
family planning. The target for new acceptors during 1979-83 is 700,000,
compared to 280,000 recruited during 1974-78. In order to achieve this, the
number of field educators will be more than tripled (from 430 to over 1,300)
and the number of fixed delivery points doubled (from 315 to 630). Although
Kenya is doing more to promote family planning than most other African coun-
tries, the rate of population growth is projected to remain extremely high
(3.5%) because of strong cultural and traditional factors and even greater
efforts will be required to bring about a significant decline in fertility.
Economic Prospects
18.       In spite of the generally well-conceived policy measures proposed
in the Fourth Plan, it will be very difficult to attain the Plan's targets,
especially the target growth rate of 6.3% per annum. This is largely due to



-5-
balance of payments and budgetary problems which are likely to be more severe
and long-lasting than was foreseen at the time of Plan preparation.   The
balance of payments position is likely to remain difficult throughout the
Plan period for three reasons. First, the terms of trade are projected to
deteriorate through 1982, largely due to the falling coffee prices. Second,
there has been a significant increase in the level of commercial borrowing to
finance large expenditures for successors to the EAC corporations and other
large projects. Finally, prompted by growing political tensions in Eastern
Africa and the realization that the country had spent very little on defense
since independence, Kenya carried out a major program to re-equip its armed
forces in 1977-78. The equipment has been purchased on credit the repayment
of which will have a substantial impact on the balance of payments throughout
the Plan period.
19.       The budgetary situation will also be tighter than foreseen in the
Plan. First, the balance of payments problem will constrain the rate of
growth of the economy and of revenue. Second, the President has recently
announced several measures which are not included in the Plan but which will
have significant direct budgetary consequences. These measures include:
(a) provision of free milk for students in the first seven years of school;
(b) elimination of school fees for the fifth and sixth years of elementary
school; (c) initiation of a national literacy campaign; and (d) a 10% increase
in employment in the public and private sectors in exchange for agreed wage
restraint. Finally, the increased military expenditures will also increase
budgetary pressure.
20.       In order to deal with the balance of payments problem, the Govern-
ment has slowed the growth of credit, limited import license approvals, and
in December 1978 introduced import deposit regulations. These measures should
have some immediate impact on import levels, but it will be necessary to intro-
duce a more comprehensive program, including budgetary restraint to limit the
growth of aggregate demand, and measures to increase exports, in order to
bring the balance of payments into equilibrium over the longer run.
External Debt
21.       The recent expansion of Government and Government-guaranteed commer-
cial borrowing has adversely affected the debt service ratio which has risen
from 5% in 1977 to 17% currently including service payments on a notional 50%
share of the debt of the EAC corporations. The debt service ratio is expected
to remain approximately at this level until the mid 1980's and to decline
thereafter. Debt service payments to the Bank are 11.8% of total debt service
payments; the IDA share is 0.5%. The Bank's share of total debt service
payments is projected to rise to 19.5% by 1985 while IDA's share will rise to
0.9%. The Bank is presently holding 15% of Kenya's total debt and IDA 8%; the
Bank's share is expected to rise to 27% and IDA's to 14% by 1985. 1/ Because
of the long-term balance of payments constraint, Kenya's development program
1/   The expected rise in Bank exposure is due largely to anticipated repay-
ments of loans with short maturities. An additional factor, however,
is the gradual switch by other donors from loans to straight grants
(including conversion of some loans to grants).



will require substantial financing in excess of public savings and available
non-Bank Group external capital combined and we therefore expect to continue
our practice of financing a substantial portion of total project costs,
including some local costs when necessary.
Impact of the De Facto Dissolution of the East African Community (EAC)
22.       The major developments in the East African Community were outlined
in a report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and
more recent developments were outlined in a statement to the Executive Direc-
tors at the Board meeting held on January 14, 1979. Dr. Victor Umbricht, the
independent mediator appointed by the Partner States, is continuing his work
on appraising the assets and liabilities of the EAC corporations. The estab-
lishment of national corporations to replace the former EAC corporations has
in some cases required large expenditures (para 18) but the burden will hope-
fully be temporary, as the new corporations are expected to become self-
financing. The closure of the border with Tanzania has had some effect on
trade -- Tanzania was a large customer for Kenyan manufactured goods and
new markets are being developed. As Tanzanian exports to Kenya were small,
replacing these should not be a major issue except in specific commodities
(i.e. tobacco and cotton). The border closure has also had a slightly
negative impact on tourism, although Kenya is expected to overcome this by
developing beach resorts and game parks within Kenya.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
23.       Hitherto, Kenya has received 33 Bank loans, including three on
Third Window terms, and 26 IDA credits amounting to US$967.1 million, sup-
porting 51 operations. 1/ In addition, Kenya has been one of the benefici-
aries of 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million which have been extended for the
development of common services (railways, ports, telecommunications and
finance for industry), operated regionally for the three Partner States of
the East African Community. Annex II contains summary statements of Bank
loans and IDA credits to Kenya and to the East African Community Corporations,
and notes on the execution of ongoing projects as of March 31, 1979.
24.       The Bank has assisted the Government in its efforts to restructure
the economy through increased lending in directly productive sectors, par-
ticularly agriculture. While recent sector and economic work has also
focused on the adjustments which Kenya must make to deal with the changed
international economy, the upcoming Basic Economic Report is expected to
comprehensively address the issues of income distribution, population growth,
and appropriate long-term agricultural and industrial policy.
25.       Significant progress has been made in giving the Bank's lending
program a rural focus, and in concentrating on employment and income dis-
tribution objectives. Projects approved since July 1977 include the first
Integrated Agricultural Development Project aimed directly at small subsis-
tence farmers; the Rural Access Roads Project supporting labor-intensive
infrastructural developments; and an Irrigation Project which will open up
1/   This total includes the First Telecommunications Project and the Highway
Sector Project, both signed in April 1979.



- 7 -
significant new areas for settlement. The Bank also supported the tourism
sector in Kenya for the first time -- an effort intended to help Kenya
conserve its wildlife and exploit its foreign exchange earning potential.
The industrial lending program included a third loan to the Industrial
Development Bank and a Small Scale Industry Project. Recently an Engineering
Project (Olkaria Geothermal), a Narok Agricultural Development Project, a
Sugar Rehabilitation Project, a Rural Water Supply Project, a First Tele-
communications Project and a Highway Sector Project were approved. A second
integrated agricultural development project, a pilot scheme for development
of arid and semi-arid areas, and a third power project have been appraised,
and a third urban project, a fisheries project and a second population project
are under preparation.
26.       Overall, project implementation performance is satisfactory.  One
major exception was the Second Livestock Development Project which was suf-
fering from inadequate beef prices as well as organizational difficulties
reflecting in part the complexity of the project. The Government increased
beef prices substantially in early 1978 and prospects for utilizing the credit
have now improved. Progress on the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project has also
been slow due to administrative difficulties and reluctance of group owners
to participate. Finally, Kenya has experienced serious cost overruns, most
notably on the Nairobi Airport Project and road construction projects. The
Government of Kenya has made funds available to complete these projects.
International Finance Corporation (IFC)
27.       IFC has committed a total of US$36.8 million for four companies in
Kenya: Pan African Paper Mills, Ltd.; Kenya Hotel Properties, Ltd.; Tourism
Promotion Services (Kenya) Ltd.; and Rift Valley Textiles (Ltd.). A credit
line for medium- and small-scale enterprises was extended to the Commercial
Bank of Kenya. As of March 31, 1979, IFC held for its own account US$28.4
million comprising US$20.4 million of loans and US$8.0 million of equity.
A summary of IFC investments in Kenya is included in Annex II.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Background
28.       In spite of the rapid expansion of manufacturing in Kenya, agri-
culture remains the most important sector of the economy. As noted above,
it provides the livelihood for about 90% of Kenya's population, comprises
about one-third of GDP and generates about 60% of export earnings. The
average 1974-75 GNP per capita of the rural population was about US$70, less
than one-third of the national average; 40% of the smallholder population
earned less than US$50 per capita.
29.       Kenya's agricultural sector has a wide variety of production systems
which reflect the different ecological zones, patterns of land holding and
population distribution. A broad distinction can be made between the large
farming sector, including Government farms, and the smallholder sector which
employs the great majority of the rural population. The Government defines
small farms as 20 ha and below, and there are about 1.5 million smallholdings
in Kenya; of these about half are smaller than 2 ha, and occupy less than 4%



- 8 -
of cultivable land. Most smallholdings are farmed by their owners; about 20%
are considered experienced commercial farmers, another 20% are in a transi-
tional stage between subsistence and commercial production, and the balance of
some 60% are subsistence farmers. Maize is the staple crop, but smallholders
also produce beans, coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cotton, oilseeds, livestock, milk,
potatoes and fruit. Large and medium scale farms occupy about 2.7 million ha,
compared with 3.5 million ha for small farms. There are about 1,000 large
farms with holdings in excess of 400 ha each, and somewhat over 2,000 medium-
scale farms of 20-400 ha each. Virtually all production systems for these
farms are oriented to commercial markets, and involve a wide range of crops--
notably wheat, sisal and maize.
30.       Agriculture's share in total GDP declined from 40% in 1964 to 28% in
1977 (in constant 1972 prices), principally because of fast expansion in other
sectors, notably the manufacturing and service industries. Growth in agricul-
ture as a whole remains below the 1964-73 rate of 4.2% per annum, despite
Government efforts to develop the sector. This is in large part explained by
unfavorable weather conditions from 1973/74 to 1975/76, and even in 1976/77,
which was generally a good year, difficult weather conditions in some parts
of the country had an overall dampening effect on the sector's performance.
Agricultural Development Strategy
31.       The Government's development objectives for agriculture are (a) to
achieve self-sufficiency in agricultural products, (b) to increase both the
output and productivity of export commodities, (c) to diversify output to
spread the effects of price fluctuation, and (d) to develop the social and
physical infrastructure in integrated programs for both cash and food crops,
thereby raising incomes and living standards in the poorer parts of the
country. It is clear that both the large and small farm sectors will continue
to play a significant role in contributing to the rational growth of food
production. Services and projects thus aim to support the development needs
of both sectors.
32.       Particular emphasis is being placed on the Government's central
policy of self-sufficiency in essential food crops. Pricing policies and
small farm development projects since 1974 have encouraged surplus maize
production, ensuring a strategic reserve and developing export capacity.
In 1975, the program was extended to include sugar and wheat, and in 1977
the Government decided to speed up the drive for self-sufficiency in
cotton, tobacco and edible oils. Within the development strategy coffee
is another important enterprise for specific encouragement because of its
importance as a cash crop, its significance for exports, and its declining
productivity in recent years (para 46).
Government Services
33.       Government services to agriculture are delivered through five minis-
tries and 15 statutory production boards. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA)
has primary responsibility for agricultural development and farmer services.
The Ministry of Co-operative Development (MOCD) supervises co-operative organ-
izations and provides them with management advice. The Ministry of Lands
and Settlement is responsible for land adjudication, legal division and



-9-
consolidation of all farm land. The Ministry of Works and the Ministry of
Water Development provide and supervise crop extraction roads and rural water
supplies, respectively. The statutory boards involved in agriculture are
either general, as is the Maize and Produce Board, which trades in most food
crops, or crop-specific, for example the Coffee Board of Kenya (CBOK).
34.       Agricultural Extension Services.  Overall policy decisions and
administration are handled at MOA headquarters, but field operations are
directed from the provincial level and are organized and coordinated on a
district basis, under the District Agricultural Officer. Current extension
staff for crop development number about 7,000, and the average number of
holdings per officer is about 230. The principal problems of extension
services in the past have been poor communications, notably transport, an
unbalanced mix of specialist skills, lack of in-service training, and limited
continuity due to frequent transfers of personnel. A reorganization of
extension services in 1976 and several on-going development projects aim to
address these problems and to make extension services more effective.
35.       Staff Training for agricultural staff is provided by a network of
colleges and training institutions. In 1972, MOA initiated a training scheme
designed to update the training of all extension officers, particularly in
the technological aspects of crop and animal production, and under the Fourth
Education Project (financed in part by IDA Cr. 797-KE) MOA is expanding the
Faculty of Agriculture and Bukura and Embu Institutes of Agriculture. Farmer
Training Centers (FTCs), designed to introduce farmers to modern agricultural
techniques through short residential courses, also offer in-service training
for extension staff, and the Government hopes to establish FTCs in each of
Kenya's 42 districts. The number of trained staff for agricultural services
is still far from adequate, and is likely to remain so for the foreseeable
future; however, several active programs are underway to expand the capacity
of training institutions and to make their programs more effective.
36.       Agricultural research is the responsibility of a specific division
of MOA and is mainly conducted at 24 research stations situated throughout
the country generally reflecting priority production of the area concerned.
Coffee research, however, is the responsibility of the industry (para 43).
Agricultural Credit
37.       Five types of institutions provide agricultural credit in Kenya:
(a) commercial banks, providing working capital and development credit largely
to medium- or large-scale farmers; (b) the Agricultural Finance Corporation
(AFC), providing loans to large as well as small-scale farmers; (c) the
Co-operative Bank of Kenya (CBK), providing development and seasonal loans to
co-operative societies; (d) parastatal organizations such as crop or produce
boards, providing seasonal or medium-term loans mainly for development of
cash crops; and (e) other institutions such as the Kenya Farmers' Associa-
tion and Kenya Breweries Ltd. which are channels for suppliers' credit.
38.       The Central Bank of Kenya controls the banking system, which includes
a large commercial banking sector, and two principal parastatal organizations--
AFC and CBK--both of which operate on commercial lines. Of the total credit
available for agricultural production in 1975/76, over 50% was supplied by
commercial banks and nearly 10% by input suppliers mainly for large farm



- 10 -
operations. Approximately 20% each was supplied by AFC and CBK, the latter
principally to small-scale farmers. These credit funds represented loans to
180,000 farm businesses or approximately 15% of the total farms in Kenya.
39.       The bulk of commercial bank lending to agriculture is channeled
to large-scale farms and farming companies, and to corporations engaged in
agro-industrial activities. The principal constraints to increased commercial
bank lending for small and medium-size farms are the high cost of making small
loans and the lack of dependable farm management services.
40.       The Co-operative Bank of Kenya (CBK) was established in 1968 to pro-
vide medium and seasonal finance to co-operative societies and to act as an
outlet for societies' funds and members' savings.  It does not deal with in-
dividuals but lends to unions or societies which make loans to their members.
The major lending system of CBK is the Co-operative Production Credit Scheme
(CPCS) through which approximately 240,000 loans have been made since 1970.
CBK is also the major channel for funds under the Integrated Agricultural
Development Program (para 65); this program concentrates on developing systems
for assisting less progressive small farmers.
Agricultural Inputs
41.       Farmers obtain most agricultural inputs through several commercial
organizations. Of these, Kenya Farmers Association (Co-operative) Limited
(KFA) is the largest and is sufficiently well organized to meet the demand
for agricultural inputs for the foreseeable future. In 1975 Government
assumed responsibility for importing and distributing fertilizers to existing
retail outlets and introduced uniform fertilizer prices throughout the coun-
try. National seed requirements are supplied mainly by the Kenya Seed Com-
pany, in which the Government is a major shareholder. Pesticides required
for crop protection are supplied by several commercial companies (mainly KFA).
Building materials and other items required by the agricultural sector are
generally manufactured in Kenya, and are available through KFA and other
suppliers. A range of farm machinery is imported, assembled or manufactured
by a variety of commercial companies and retailed through outlets in strategic
centers.
The Coffee Sub-Sector
42.       Coffee growing, introduced in Kenya around 1900, has gone through
various phases. The industry initially developed along estate lines and by
1935 about 42,000 ha planted with Arabica coffee produced approximately 22,000
tons of washed coffee. From 1935 till 1950 the area under coffee declined
steadily to 24,000 ha, mainly due to poor prices. The sharp rise in prices
from 1950 onwards led to the third phase in coffee development in Kenya and
by 1955 production overtook the 1935 level to reach 23,000 tons. During this
phase the first major diversification of coffee production to smallholders
occurred. However, the process was slow and it was not until 1960 that small-
holder production became really significant, in both quantity and quality.
Mature smallholder hectarage surpassed estate hectarage by 1964, and small-
holder production overtook estate production in 1965/66. Today production
from the smallholder sector is about the same as that from the estate sector,
although average yields of the smallholder sector are much lower.



- 11 -
43.       Until 1963, the Government was responsible for coffee research in
Kenya. At that time direct responsibility for coffee research was handed over
to the industry, and in 1965 the Coffee Research Foundation (CRF) was incor-
porated. CRF's principal objectives are to promote research into and inves-
tigate all problems relating to coffee; its main source of funds is the Coffee
Board of Kenya (CBOK) which levies a cess on all coffee produced in the
country, but additional funds have been provided by Government or outside
agencies from time to time. Considerable effort has been devoted to produc-
tion of optimum varieties, and Kenya's crop has a reputation for quality on
world market. A permanent coffee breeding unit, established as part of the
CRF in Ruiru, is the sole supplier of coffee planting material in Kenya.
44.       Coffee is grown in the six main agricultural provinces, generally
at altitudes of 4,500-7,000 feet. Except for an area of about 100 ha of
Robusta in Western Kenya, Arabica is the variety generally grown. Coffee tree
density of 1,300-1,400 per ha is usual, but where irrigation is possible the
optimum density is about 2,200 trees per ha.
45.       During the past decade the area under coffee has decreased, although
since 1977 it has remained static at around the 86,800 ha. The decline was
attributed to (i) management problems associated with the transfer of produc-
tion from estates to smallholders, (ii) a coincidental rise in incidence of
Coffee Berry Disease, which seriously reduced yields and earnings, and (iii)
restriction on new plantings under the International Coffee Agreement which
ended in 1973. The relative areas grown by estates and smallholdings in 1977
were 27,800 ha (32%) and 59,000 ha (68%). Approximately 270,000 farmers are
registered as smallholders coffee growers with an average holding of 0.2 ha.
The remaining registered coffee estates (731 in 1977) have an average produc-
tive area of 40 ha.
46.       Production also declined from 1973 to 1975, largely because of poor
rainfall, escalation in input costs which led to low fertilizer and spray
applications, increasing problems with labor and handling, and comparatively
better prices and payment systems for alternative crops. The greatest scope
for increasing output from existing bushes is within the smallholder coffee
sector where average yields are well below potential (760 kg per ha on average
compared with 1,790 kg per ha on estates in 1977). The low average produc-
tivity is attributed to 23,000 ha of neglected coffee holdings which do not
qualify for access to adequate credit facilities. Both the CPCS scheme
(para 40) and the Kenya Planters Co-operative Union Limited (KPCU) credit
scheme provide only creditworthy farmers with agricultural supplies on credit;
lending criteria are linked directly to past production performance. A major
aim of the Government is to reduce this imbalance and to raise coffee earnings
of smallholders with neglected holdings.
47.       The marketing structure is centralized through CBOK which controls
the planting of coffee by a licensing system, takes delivery of all coffee
produced and sells it for export by auction. Its main intermediate agent is
KPCU. Smallholders deliver their cherry to the nearest co-operative coffee
factory; these factories are collectively owned by the farmers and run by
societies, membership in which is compulsory for farmers. The societies and
factories in each district are organized into a District Co-operative Union
which undertakes the transport of the pulped and dried parchment by lorry to



- 12 -
the nearest railhead or direct to the milling agents (KPCU or CBOK). These
agents hull, grade and prepare the coffee for sale. At auctions, normally
held every week in Nairobi, sales are made to private exporters.
48.       The milling agents make payouts three or four times a year to the
societies which, in turn, pay their members on the basis of cherry weight
receipts which were issued to the grower on delivery. Final prices are
calculated at the close of each crop year; after deduction of various market-
ing costs, taxes and commissions by CBOK, KPCU, the co-operative unions and
societies, the balance is paid to the growers.
49.       Coffee growers' co-operative societies are well established through-
out the country. However, there is a wide variation in the efficiency of
committees and staff of the societies. One of the main reasons for the poor
performance of farmers with neglected holdings (para 46) appears to be dis-
satisfaction with services supplied by coffee factories, societies and unions.
The capacity of machinery in coffee factories is often not capable of handling
the crop, and this results either in lower quality of coffee produced or in
farmers being turned away when trying to sell their crop. The same problems
occur when factory management is poor and overhead costs are high. In both
cases the result is a lower payout rate for coffee delivered, and in the end
the farmer often decides to neglect his coffee and spend more time on alter-
native crops. This trend can be halted only by ensuring the administrative
efficiency of co-operative organizations and by improving the facilities and
capacity of the co-operative factories.
50.       Coffee is Kenya's most important single agricultural commodity in
terms of its contribution to the gross marketed value of agricultural produce
and foreign exchange earnings. Its share in total annual export earnings has
been more than 14% since 1972; in 1976, the share increased to 27.8% and in
1977 to a record 42.6%. Coffee is also important in terms of employment
opportunities. Of about 900,000 people in regular wage employment in the
monetary sector in 1977, approximately 87,000 were permanent workers in
various parts of the coffee industry. An additional unknown number is in-
volved in casual employment, particularly during the picking season.
51.       Kenya's share in total world exportable production of coffee in
1974/75 was just under 2%. However, Kenya is an important supplier to cer-
tain countries, notably West Germany, the Netherlands, USA and Sweden, and
the quality of Kenya coffee is reflected in the high prices which it commands
on the export market. The volume of exports has risen from 53,725 tons in
1970 to 94,344 tons in 1977. Prices reached a peak in 1977 (KSh 43,330 a ton
compared to the 1976 average of KSh 24,060 per ton), and a gradual decline is
expected during the next four years as the supply situation eases.
52.       An export tax was imposed on coffee in 1963 at a relatively moderate
rate of KSh 400 (US$50) a ton, representing about 5% of value. The tax was
halved in 1967 and discontinued after 1973. In June 1977, an ad valorem
export tax of 15% of the value of auction sale proceeds above KSh 20,000
(US$2,500) a ton was introduced.



- 13 -
World Market and Prices
53.       World import demand for coffee is projected to grow at an average
rate of 2.7X a year up to 1990, while world coffee production is projected to
expand at an average annual rate of 3% from about 4 million tons in 1974 to
about 7 million tons in 1990. Prices are thus expected to decline from the
high 1978 level of about US$1.70 per lb to about US$0.98 per lb (1979 constant
prices) by 1982. However, the demand for Kenya coffee is expected to continue
to grow faster than the global demand, because of its high quality, and Kenya
should be able to continue to sell its production at high prices in future.
The potential rate of expansion of Kenya's coffee production is of the same
order of magnitude (3% per annum on average for the 1974-1990 period) as the
average expected expansion of world production. The rate of growth of pro-
duction resulting from the proposed project would average about 2.5% over
the project period.
54.       The six-year International Coffee Agreement which entered into
force on October 1, 1976 provides for the introduction of export quotas when
prices fall below specified levels (at present, US$0.775 per lb). However,
a possible triggering of the International Coffee Agreement quotas would not
affect Kenya's exports significantly, because the new quotas to be established
would be based on the volume of exports in the previous two years, and the
production build up under the proposed project would be progressive. The
International Coffee Organization has been advised of the project and has
raised no objections, since no new plantings are proposed and the rate of
production resulting from the project would match the anticipated growth of
demand for coffee.
Existing Agricultural Projects
55.       Since 1960, the Bank Group has provided assistance to the agricul-
ture sector in Kenya for 16 projects, covering agricultural credit, land
settlement and irrigation, as well as the tea, sugar, livestock and wheat
subsectors. The proposed project would extend Bank assistance to the Kenya
coffee industry at present given to coffee estates through a component of
the Group Farm Rehabilitation Project (Ln. 1093/Cr. 537-KE approved in 1975).
Progress under the Group Farm Project has been slow, largely because of diffi-
culties in obtaining agreement among group farm owners to join the project.
The objective of the coffee component was the rehabilitation over the project
period of 36 coffee estates owned by groups of farmers. Nine coffee farms are
at present being rehabilitated under the project. Loan commitments for these
farms have been heavier than expected, principally because of unexpectedly
heavy investment in dams for irrigation, and the total number of coffee farms
covered under the project may have to be reduced. Rehabilitation work on
participating farms, however, is proceeding satisfactorily and coffee farms
are achieving recoveries in yields.



- 14 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
56.       In March 1978 the Government requested that the Bank consider
financing a rehabilitation program for the smallholder coffee sector. The
potential for a project had been identified as early as 1973 but follow-up
was slow partly because of low coffee prices and partly because of directives
from the International Coffee Organization. The project was prepared by the
Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the preparation team worked closely with dis-
trict coffee working groups and the provincial and district authorities. The
Bank's Regional Mission in Eastern Africa was also consulted regularly during
preparation. The project was appraised in May 1978. Negotiations were held
in Washington in February 1979. The Government delegation was led by Mr. J.
Muliro, Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture. A Credit and Project
Summary is given at the beginning of this report, and a Staff Appraisal Report
entitled "Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project" (No. 2253a-KE of April 25,
1979) is being distributed separately. Supplementary project data are set
out in Annex III.
Project Description
57.       The proposed project would, over the period 1979-82, assist in the
rehabilitation of the co-operative coffee industry. It would aim to (i) im-
prove the quality of coffee produced by co-operative processing facilities;
(ii) rehabilitate about 15,000 out of 23,000 ha of neglected coffee plantings
owned by smallholder farmers who do not have access to sufficient input
supplies; and (iii) provide incentives for farmers, who achieved higher yields
because of the recent boom in coffee prices, to maintain those yields despite
lower coffee prices forecast for the next four years. All smallholder coffee
producing areas would be included under the project, and within the four-year
period the target would be the active participation of about 70,000 registered
coffee growers through the provision and coordination of essential services to
the co-operative coffee sector.
58.       Three of the Government's major objectives would be incorporated in
the proposed project: (i) it would be a national program offering consider-
able potential for increasing productivity and exports; (ii) it would provide
specific assistance to smallholders; and (iii) it would create additional
employment opportunities. Components would include:
(a) Rehabilitation of 400 existing factories, construction of
14 new factories, construction of 50 mechanical dryers,
and provision of improved training facilities;
(b) Provision of medium-term development loans to farmers
for the rehabilitation of their holdings;
(c) Strengthening of the Coffee Research Foundation;
(d) Development of improved coffee extension services and
training;



- 15 -
(e) Strengthening Ministry of Co-operative Development (MOCD)
services, including improved training facilities for staff;
and
(f) Incremental staff and facilities for the Co-operative Bank
of Kenya (CBK) to provide improved credit facilities in
areas under rehabilitation.
Appropriate provisions would be made for the operation and maintenance of fac-
tories, buildings, equipment and vehicles related to the project during and
after the project period (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.04).
59.       Factory Construction and Rehabilitation.  Funds would be provided
for the construction of 14 new 3-disc factories and the rehabilitation of a
further 400 factories. Approximately 50 factories would be totally rehabil-
itated, extensive rehabilitation would be necessary on a further 170 factories,
and partial rehabilitation would be carried out on the remaining factories.
Facilities would include bag stores, pulper discs, pulpers and extra drying
table spaces. Where climate and space availability are evident constraints,
mechanical drying facilities would also be provided. All factories would be
provided with recirculation systems or recirculation pumps in order to enable
them to comply with the Kenya Water Act (Cap. 372). Correct utilization of
the facilities would be ensured through an extensive factory-management train-
ing program, which would reach 1,180 coffee factory managers and 560 factory
clerks and produce recorders. CRF would also provide for training of 26
coffee factory technicians.
60.       Medium-Term Development Loans.  An estimated 70,000 smallholder
coffee farmers would obtain medium-term development loans from CBK through
co-operative unions for rehabilitation of their holdings. Only farmers with-
out access to sufficient input supplies for optimum production levels would
qualify for participation. Rehabilitati,on would include clearing of overgrown
plantings, establishment of proper weed control regimes, pruning, soil con-
servation measures, fencing, drainage, improved nutrition practices, pest and
disease control, and infilling of vacancies. It would take up to four years
to bring holdings back to optimum production. Thereafter, growers would have
established production levels which would entitle them to participate in
existing credit schemes.
61.       The Coffee Research Foundation (CRF) would be strengthened by
the provision of additional research facilities and staff (31) to increase
research into varieties, cultural methods and crop treatment. In addition,
training programs for coffee extension officers and factory managers would
be set up to transmit research findings rapidly into field practice.
62.       Extension Services and Training.  Existing extension services at
provincial and district level are restricted in number, facilities are inade-
quate and officers are not sufficiently trained to give the best advice to
coffee farmers. MOA coffee extension services would be strengthened through
the provision of training, office equipment, vehicles and staff. Specific
project-oriented in-service training programs in all aspects of coffee pro-
duction would be provided by CRF for coffee extension staff and specialized
coffee officers. Coffee farmer training would be undertaken through field
courses and demonstrations.



- 16 -
63.       Ministry of Co-operative Development (MOCD).  The project would pro-
vide office equipment, staff and vehicles necessary to expand and strengthen
MOCD. The main areas of activity to be strengthened are MOCD's responsibil-
ities for education, accounting, credit and savings, planning and management.
Additional officers (11) and support staff (50) would be employed to implement
the project efficiently. One of the best incentives to farmers would be to
maximize payouts; this would be achieved by a reduction in overhead costs
through more efficient management both in the unions/societies and in the
coffee factories.
64.       Co-operative Bank of Kenya (CBK) services in the coffee areas would
be strengthened and expanded in order to better serve the needs of farmers
participating in the project. Both additional field staff and vehicles
would be provided.
Project Implementation
65.       MOA is now implementing the Integrated Agricultural Development
Programme (IADP) as the major vehicle for encouraging smallholder development,
and the proposed project will be implemented as part of this program. IADP
is coordinated by a management unit, headed by the IADP coordinator, at
MOA and MOCD headquarters. The unit is supported by coordinators at provin-
cial and district level, and by four senior agricultural officers looking
after the specific disciplines required within IADP projects--Crop Production,
Animal Production, Land and Farm Management and Veterinary Services. MOA
would have overall responsibility for the project but under this overall
direction, MOCD would carry out aspects involving CBK, co-operative unions
and societies.
66.       Because of the scope of the project, a senior agricultural officer
with wide experience in all aspects of coffee production has been appointed as
Manager - Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project (SCIP). He will report to
the IADP Coordinator and will be a member of the IADP Coordinating Committee
(para 67). In addition, a Project Coordinator has been appointed in MOCD,
with responsibility for coordination of all coffee matters. The Manager -
SCIP will work in close consultation with the IADP Crop Production Coordinator
and the head of one of MOA's specialist divisions - the Industrial Crops
Division - who will advise on all technical matters relating to coffee pro-
duction and factory development. The Manager - SCIP will also liaise with
relevant departments and organizations outside MOA, especially with the
Project Coordinator in MOCD. Terms of reference for the Manager - SCIP and
for the Project Coordinator in MOCD have been approved by IDA. Moreover, the
Government is required at all times to fill these positions by persons with
appropriate qualifications and experience (draft Development Credit Agreement
Section 3.04(a) and (b)).
67.       To ensure coordination of the proposed project at the highest level,
representatives of the coffee industry would be appointed to the already estab-
lished Interministerial Coordinating Committee for IADP under the chairmanship
of the Permanent Secretary of MOA and would attend relevant meetings of the
Committee. CBOK, KPCU and CRF would be represented by their chief executives,
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(d)).



- 17 -
68.       At the provincial and district level, the present IADP coordinators
would ensure the smooth implementation of the project, with assistance from
specialist coffee officers. Under the project, funds would be provided to
bring the number of provincial coffee officers up to 5, and the number of
district officers up to 11. At farm level, implementation would be achieved
through normal extension services dealing with groups of farmers at sub-
location level. Staff to be recruited under the project have been agreed
with IDA, and terms of reference for key project staff would be satisfactory
to IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.04(a) and Schedule 5).
69.       Project development would be effected through annual work plans
prepared by the Manager - SCIP. Each plan would incorporate detailed pro-
posals for the coming year for factory improvements, farmer participation,
credit requirements, input requirements, infrastructural support activities,
training activities, monitoring/evaluation requirements and research activi-
ties. The plans would be reviewed by the IADP Coordinating Committee; the
first plan was submitted to IDA for review and comment in April 1979 and
subsequent plans would be submitted by March 15 of each year. Revisions would
be made to work plans to take into account comments which the Government
considered appropriate and the project would be carried out on the basis of
the revised work plans (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)
and Schedule 4).
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
70.       The total project cost is estimated at US$62.2 million equivalent;
the net cost excluding taxes and duties is estimated at US$57.2 million.
The project's foreign exchange component is about US$27.0 million, 43% of
total project costs. External financing consisting of an IDA credit of
US$27.0 million and a proposed loan from the Commonwealth Development Corpora-
tion (CDC) of US$15.0 million equivalent would finance about 73% of the net
project cost. This includes all foreign exchange costs and US$15.0 million
in local costs (additional details are found in the Credit and Project
Summary). Local cost financing is justified in view of the limitations on
domestic resources in Kenya (para 21). The co-operative societies would
contribute an amount of US$11.5 million equivalent towards the financing of
factory rehabilitation and construction and incremental working capital for
factory operation. Government would provide US$8.7 million equivalent to
finance all remaining local costs.
71.       The proposed CDC loan of US$15.0 million would be for 15 years,
including 5 years of grace, at 7% interest per annum and would be used to
finance factory rehabilitation and construction. US$24.6 million of the
IDA credit would be used for farm inputs (US$16.2 million including con-
tingencies) and factories (US$8.4 million including contingencies) (draft
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 7). IDA, CDC and Government funds
would be onlent by Government to CBK at an annual interest rate of 7% under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA;
signing of this Agreement would be a condition of effectiveness of the IDA
credit (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 3.01 (d) and 6.01(a)).
About US$1.6 million of the IDA credit would be applied to strengthening of
MOA and MOCD.   US$0.8 million would finance vehicles for CBK and assistance
to CRF and would be provided on terms to be determined by the Government
(draft Development Credit Agreement Section 3.01 (f)).



- 18 -
72.       Funds to be lent by the Government to CBK will be in turn onlent
by CBK to co-operative societies (both directly and through co-operative
unions) for factory construction and rehabilitation for up to 10 years,
including up to 18 months of grace, with interest to co-operative societies
at not less than 10% per annum (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section
3.02(b)(iv)). CBK would also provide medium-term development loans to farmers
through co-operative unions and societies; loans to farmers would be for up
to 7 years, including 4 years of grace, with interest at not less than 10%
per annum (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.03(b)(iv)). The
interest rates to be charged would permit a margin of 2% for CBK, and 1% for
the cooperative unions in those cases where funds are channeled through the
unions, and 3% for CBK if funds are lent directly to the co-operative societies.
The interest rates are in line with existing medium term agricultural lending
rates in Kenya. 1/ Repayments made to CBK by the co-operative unions and
societies would be credited to a revolving fund and would be used to give
additional loans for the improvement of coffee factories and farms and for
repayment of the loan to the Government. Government and IDA funds would be
repaid by CBK after the 10 year grace period, but the proceeds of the CDC loan
would be repaid in ten equal installments beginning in 1985.
73.       General interest rate policies, including agricultural interest
rates, are to be reviewed by the Government and discussed with the Bank Group.
The Subsidiary Loan Agreement would provide that modifications to interest
rates resulting from the review and discussions would be applied to any
subloans subsequently approved under the proposed project.
Procurement and Disbursement
74.       Most of the items to be financed under the proposed project would
not be suitable for bulk procurement under international competitive bidding.
However, there is adequate competition, both international and national, in
offering goods through normal supply channels. Fertilizers and chemicals for
the project, estimated to cost about US$10.0 million, and tools for farmers,
estimated to cost about US$2.3 million, would represent a small fraction
(about 10%) of the coffee sector's requirements; as it would not be practical
to establish special procurement channels for the limited requirements under
the project, these items would continue to be procured by the co-operative
unions and societies mainly from commercial firms; supplies are satisfactory
and prices competitive. Equipment and civil works for factory construction
and rehabilitation (US$33.0 million) would be procured by co-operative unions
following local competitive bidding procedures. Civil works would be too
small in scale and too scattered (414 construction sites) to attract inter-
national contractors, and major equipment suppliers are represented in Kenya.
Civil works costing not more than US$10,000 equivalent per factory would be
carried out by force account (aggregate value US$1.0 million). For construction
of housing and offices (US$1.0 million) local contractors would be employed by
1/   Inflation rates in Kenya (defined as increases in the GDP deflator which
is the suitable index in Kenya) have risen from an annual rate of about
13.5% in 1975 and 15.7% in 1976 and 19.6% in 1977. The inflation rate
is expected to moderate over the three year period 1978-80 from about
15% in 1978 to about 10% in 1980.



- 19 -
the appropriate institutions following local competitive bidding. Office
equipment for MOA and MOCD and research equipment for CRF would be purchased
following local competitive bidding procedures (US$28,000). Vehicles (50)
to be procured through bulk contracts for 10 or more vehicles would follow
international competitive bidding procedures; the total cost of the vehicles
to be procured under the project is estimated at about US$1.0 million. The
remaining US$14.9 million of the total project cost consists of the cost of
farm labor (US$3.5 million), transportation of coffee cherries and farm
inputs between farm and factory (US$1.0 million) and incremental staff and
operating costs (US$10.4 million).
75.        The proceeds of the IDA credit would be disbursed on the following
basis: (a) 32% of amounts disbursed by CBK for loans for factory construc-
tion and rehabilitation, including buildings and equipment; (b) 95% of amounts
disbursed by CBK for loans for farm inputs; (c) 40% of total expenditures for
construction of buildings other than factory buildings; (d) 70% of total
expenditures for vehicles and equipment, other than factory equipment; and
(e) 70% of total expenditures for project-related training.   It is proposed
that 57% of the amounts disbursed by CBK for loans for factory construction
and rehabilitation would be financed by CDC.
76.        To facilitate project start-up activities, retroactive financing
of up to US$450,000 from the IDA credit is recommended for expenditures
incurred after September 1, 1978 for preliminary project costs.
Accounts and Audits
77.        Separate project accounts would be maintained by each of the
executing entities under the project. The Financial Controller in the IADP
management unit would maintain accounts for all project items, including
funds handled under the credit components. The Project Accountant in MOCD
would maintain accounts for the strengthening and training of staff of MOCD.
In addition, MOA, CBK, the co-operative unions and societies involved in the
project, and CRF would maintain accounts relating to project activities.
78.        The present auditing arrangements of the institutions involved
in the project are satisfactory. The responsibility for auditing MOA and
MOCD accounts, as with all Government entities, rests with the Controller
and Auditor General. Accounts of co-operative unions and societies are
audited by the Audits and Accounts Division of MOCD, while the accounts
of other institutions involved in the project are audited by private in-
dependent auditing firms established in Nairobi. The accounts of all the
above institutions would continue to be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA, and the audited acounts prepared by the IADP management
unit would be forwarded to IDA, with the auditor's report, not later than
six months following the end of the financial year to which they relate
(draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 4.02 (b)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
79.        The monitoring and evaluation needs of the project would be the
responsibility of the Monitoring and Evaluation Section within the IADP Unit.
A recent mission sent to review the performance of this section concluded



- 20 -
that the existing monitoring and evaluation system is generally well con-
ceived. However, there are a number of ways in which it could be improved.
Recommended improvements have been discussed with MOA, and full implementa-
tion of the recommendations would be completed by July 1, 1979 or a later
date acceptable to IDA (draft Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.05 and
Schedule 6). In addition to the proforma reporting system, farm surveys
would be designed to (i) determine the project's effect on beneficiaries,
(ii) provide early indications of project constraints, and (iii) indicate
areas where services to smallholder coffee farmers should be adapted or
changed.
Benefits
80.       The proposed project would be of great importance to Kenya.  Since
1960, the percentage of top quality coffee produced has declined steadily.
This is attributable, at least in part, to the inadequacy of facilities at
the coffee processing factories. Under the project, 14 new factories would be
built and 400 existing factories would be rehabilitated, and training in the
correct utilization of the new facilities would remove a further factor con-
tributing to the decline in quality production. Agricultural credit, exten-
sion and training components would help up to 70,000 farmers to increase
their productivity and incomes. Kenya's foreign exchange earnings would be
boosted through the production of an additional 9,500 tons per annum of clean
coffee after a 7-year period, and a quality improvement which should result
in an average price increase of 6% in 1990. Incremental employment created
for farm labor would be equivalent to about 6,500 full time annual jobs. In
addition, the research component would continue Government efforts to ensure
the long-term growth of the coffee industry.
81.       One of the major benefits of the project would be the elimination
of heavy river pollution by coffee factory effluents, through the provision
of water recirculation systems and appropriate waste disposal. Soil erosion
on rehabilitated farms would also be prevented through small-scale on-farm
conservation works.
Economic Rate of Return
82.       The economic rate of return measuring incremental benefits of the
project as a whole is estimated at 21%. Benefits are derived from two sep-
arately identifiable sources: incremental production by project farmers,
and improved quality of coffee due to improved processing practices and
facilities. The rate of return on the agricultural production component alone
(excluding the costs and benefits of improved coffee quality) would be 20.5%,
while the rate of return on the factory component alone would be 22%. Cost
savings arising from the improved management of co-operative societies, al-
though high, have not been taken into account in the economic analysis. The
economic life of the project is assumed to be 25 years, and the rate of return
analysis includes all expenditures for capital investments, replacements,
operation and maintenance costs related to project components.
Risks
83.       Risks associated with rainfall and other natural conditions have
been taken into account in estimating project benefits. To minimize the risk



- 21 -
that project institutions might fail to reach the expected number of farmers
with services and inputs, implementation would be governed by annual work
plans which would be reviewed by IDA. Although farmers may adopt recommended
input packages less rapidly than anticipated, this would not significantly
affect the rate of return since most expenditures would be reduced by an
amount commensurate with the loss of incremental benefits.
84.       Technical risks regarding factory design and operations, and risks
of substantial delays in construction are low since (i) coffee factory tech-
nology is well known in Kenya, (ii) projections of the factories' performance
are based on the actual performance of coffee factories operating in Kenya at
present, and (iii) the project provides for training of factory personnel.
Risks of unsatisfactory management are further minimized by the fact that the
414 factories would be operated independently. Commercial risks are also
low.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
85.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Kenya
and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
86.       Features of the draft Development Credit Agreement of special
interest are given in Section III of Annex III to this report. Execution
of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and the Co-operative
Bank of Kenya Ltd. and fulfillment of all conditions precedent to the effec-
tiveness of the CDC Loan Agreement would be conditions of effectiveness of
the proposed credit (draft Development Credit Agreement, Sections 6.01(a)
and (b)).
87.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
88.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by I.P.M. Cargill
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 9, 1979






- 22-                                              ANNEX I
- TAWtAL DIDICOUO8 DATA SUE
REFRENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO.  M.)                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           582.6                                                  SAIS        SAME     NEXT RIOm
AGRICULTURAL     99.2                                lDST RCENT      GEOGRAPRIC   INCOME       INCOME
1960 1k    1970 a ESTIMATE          nGION is  GROUP 1       GLOUP a
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                100.0       160.0    270.0            223.6      182.9       432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL bQUIVALbNT)    143.0       135.0    174.0             86.7       88.9       251.7
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                        8.3        11.2      14.4
UR8AN POPULATION (PERCENT OP TOTAL)  7.3        9.9      13.0            13.6       15.0        24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EM.                      14.0        19.0      25.0            18.4       46.8        42.7
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    84.0       113.0    145.0             53.6      254.1        95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 US.                         46.0        48.4      46.5            44.4       43.6        44.9
15-64 US.                         49.2 ]p   48.0        50.9            52.7       53.3        52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.8 l       3.6       2.6             2.8        2.9         3.0
POPULATION GROWST RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                             3.0         3.1       3.5             2.6        2.4         2.7
URBAN                             5.8         6.5       6.1             5.8        4.0         8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    48.5        49.0      48.7            46.9       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    19.8        17.0      16.0            20.6       19.7        12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              ..         3.4       3.3             3.1        2.9         3.2
PAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TB3USANDS)      ..        30.9      48.4
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED iOMEN)    ..        2.2        ..             2.5       14.6        14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)           101.0       100.0      83.2            94.2       96.4       104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRMEINTS)                 103.0        98.0      91.0            90.1       92.3        ".5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)         75.0        71.0      59.6            55.2       50.0        56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE      32.0        29.0      22.8            17.1       13.9        17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE      ..         1.9        ..              ..         ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (yAS)    42.5         49.1      50.0            43.7       45.8        53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                         159.0          ..    129.0            138.4      102.7        82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        15.0      17.0            22.4       26.4        31.1
URBAN                              *-       100.0    100.0             66.3       63.5        68.5
RURAL                              ..         2.0       4.0            10.4       14.1        18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        50.0      55.0            23.9       16.1        37.5
URBAN                              ..        85.0      98.0            70.3       65.9        69.5
RURAL                              ..        45.0      48.0            14.2        3.4        25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        10540.Of.h  7810.01A  5800.0 Lj.    21757.5   13432.7         9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    2290. _f.b  1470.0o  1300.0 ,         3473.8     6983.3      2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           830.01f     770.0    760.0 L          645.4    1157.6        786.5
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           172.9      183.3       278.4
RRAt                               ..          ..        ..          1292.6    1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER NOSPITAL BED          ..          ..        ..            19.2       19.5        19.2
SUSING
AVERGE SIZE OP HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              ..         4.7        ..             4.9        5.2
URBAN                              ..         4.7        ..             5.0        4.8
RURAL                                         4.7                       4.7        5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOU
TOTAL                               ..         ..        ..              ..          .
URBAN                             2. .f                                            1.8         2.3
RURAL                               .           .         .
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
OTAL                                ..         ..        ..              ..       25.9        28.3
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..
RURtAL                             ..          ..        ..              ..        8.7         10.3



-23-                                            ANNEX I
Page 2
TASLS 3A
ETIA - SOCIAL IDICATRS DATA 
1UncEs cnOP  (ADJuvSD AVnAsG
- MmST URCZ    UTTATE)
SAM        gm       MmX  HIGHERE
YDST  CINT    GCIIORAIC    INOONN        INCUIR
1960 /b    1970 A  EWrUT   /b       RCGIO /e  GROUP Ld   GROUP a
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRILARY:    TOTAL                47.0        64.0    109.0             52.1       62.9        75.8
PEKALE              30.0        53.0    101.0             37.6       45.9        67.9
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 2.0 /I      9.0      13.0             8.0       14.4        17.7
FEMALE               2.0         5.0      10.0             5.0        8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PRECZNT OF SECONDARY) 12.0 Li     2.0       2.0             7.2        6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          42.0        34.0      33.0            43.2       38.5        34.3
SEOONDARY                        15.0        21.0      24.0            22.8       19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        ..        30.0      40.0            20.3       36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        8.0         9.0      10.0             3.9        3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER! THOISAND
POPULATION                        9.0        48.0      40.0            40.1       31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         ..         1.5       3.0             2.2        2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILS GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                13.0        14.0       8.0             3.9        6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATrZNDANCE PZR CAPITA  1.0         ..        ..             1.2        1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TROUSANDS)    3300.0      5100.0   6100.0
FEKALE (PERCENT)                 34.8        33.6 A   33.3             32.6       24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            85.8        90.0 ;   84.0             73.3       60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                5.1         7.1
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              41.2        40.6      39.2            42.0       39.8        37.8
MALE                               54.5        53.8      52.3            54.8       53.3        50.3
FEMALE                             28.2        27.4      26.1            27.3       19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.3         1.1       1.1             1.2        1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OP PRIVATE INCOM
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP ROUSEHOLDS    ..        20.2 /D                   25.7       20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCNT OF EOUSUCR.DS    ..        52.6   a                  55.1       45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OP SOUSEROLDS    ..         3.9        ..             5.8        5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OZ HOUSEOLDS     ..        11.7        ..            14.5       16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCLM
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          .,    122.0            108.8       88.5       155.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      93.0            74.1       71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY ICM
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..    144.0            124.4      100.8       143.7
RURAL                              ..          ..      78.0            59.6       42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..      25.0            26.8       46.0        22.9
RURAL                              ..          ..      80.0            47.6       48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTSZ
/a   The edjusted group averages for eaeh indicator are populatic-we0ighted geon_tric mean, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the    t populated coustry In sach group. Co_rage of countries mong the
iudicators dependa on availability of data nd is sot uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to ay year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimte, between 1973 and 1977.
/c Africa South of Sahara;  /d Low Incom  ($280 or lee  per capita. 1976);  /a Lower middle Income
(5281-550 per capita, 1976);  Lf  1962;  L&  Baed on complete *mUeration of non-African population,
and on a 10 percent sauple of rural African population age 0-14, 15-59 & 60 yers and over respectively;
/h  Registered, not all practicing in the country;   L  1972;  /1  Including teacher training at the
third level;  /h  Labor force age 15-50 yeara;   LI Labor force age 15-50;   /  staff estimate;
LI urban only.
September, 1978



- 24 -
DEFINITIONS OP SOCIAL  M1DICATORS                                         ANNEX   I
Hgs; The adjusted group averages for eacb indicator are population-weighted geometric mais, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Coverage of countries aeng the indicators depande on availability of data and ie not uniform Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to vater and *xereta diapoaal, housing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-vwighted geomtric mens vithout the "clusion of  xtrem   valuea.
LAND AREA (thousand  q. ba)                                                           Population par hospitel bed - total, urban. aod rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters,                     urban, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recant estimate of agricultural araa used temporarily              available in public and private general and specisliced hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                 habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishmenrs permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                          at leet one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
cars are not included. Rural hospitals, however, include health and mcdi-
GNP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimates at current market prices,               cal centers not permnntly ataffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same converion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);            sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accoemodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                           provide a limited range of mdical facilities.
Admissions Por hospital bed - Total number of admissions to or discharges
ENERGO  CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Annual concaption of coercial energy                   from hospitals divided by the number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natural gas and hydro-, nuclear and Seo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                HOUSiN
Average sise of household (Pnrsons por household) - total, urban, and rural-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                         A household consists of a group of individuals vho share living quarters
Total population. mid-year (millions) - An of July 1; if not available,                and their main  meals,  A boarder or lodger may or  y not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 date,                        the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                  hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability               Averaae number of persons Per room - total, urban  and rural - Average num-
of data among countries,                                                             ber of persons per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                     dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings exclude non-permanent structures and
Per  sq. k. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                 unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                     Access ta electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per aq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                Conventional dwellings with electricity is living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                of total, urban, and rural dwellings respectively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of aid-           EDUCATION
year population.                                                                  Adjusted enrollment ratios
Fosoiciion growth rate (percent) - total. and urban - Compound annual                Primary school - total  and female - Total and female enrollment of all uges
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-oge
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousand of                   different lengthe of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
mid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                 cation enrollment may exceed 100 percent eincs some pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate,                  above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thouand) - Annual deaths per thousend of mid-                  Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary educa-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       vides general vocational, or teacher training instructions for pupil.
Grosg reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                    excluded.
oporific fertility rates; usually five-year everages ending in 1960,              Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, and 1975.                                                                      clude technical, industrial, or other prograns which operate independently
Faily planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                      or as departments of secondary institutions.
-rroptors of birth-control devices under auspicee of national family             Pupil-teacher ratio - orimry. and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                    primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in tho c.rre-
Family Planning - users (percent of married woman) - Percentage of                     aponding levels.
narried woman of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control            Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) us
devices to a11 married women in same age group                                       a percentage of total adult population gged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                  CONSUMPTION
Indx  of food prductin per capita (1970-10) - lnden number of per                  PsMenger cars (per thousand ospulation) - Passenger cars comprise astor cars
capita annual production of all food coemodities.                                  meeting less than eight persona; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from              vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita           Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
pcr day.  Available supplies comprise dometic production, imports less            broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unliconsed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplias exclude animal feed, seeds,           receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets was in
qusntities used in food processing, and losssa in diatribution.  Re-              effect; data for recent years may not be comparable since most countries
quiromests were tatimated by FAO based on phyaiological needs for nor-             abolished licensing.
cal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body               TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcast to generts
weights, age and se. distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-               public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coos-
cont for waste at household level,                                                   tries and in yeara when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (arams per day) - Protein content of per               Newspaoer circulation (per thousand population) - Shows the average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of food is defined as                 tion of "daily general interest newspaper", defined an a periodical publi-
sbove.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for               cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It is considerod to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                be "daily" if it appears at least four times a  eek.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grooa should be animal protein.         Cinema annual attendance Per capita per year - Based on the .uab-r of tickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinemas and mobile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                  units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita proteia supply from animal mud pulse - Protein supply of food           EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grms per day.                                 Total labor force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including arced
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-              forces and unemployed but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to childrsn in this age group.                           tions in various countries are not comparable.
Pemale (percent) - Pemale labor force as Percentage Of tstal labor forc..
HEALTH                                                                               Agriculture (percent) - Labor force ia farming, forestry, hunting end fishbig
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                     as percentage of total labor force.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in 1960, 1970,              Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, construction, manufa-turing and
and 1975.                                                                            electricity, water and gas am percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under               Participation rate (percent) - total, mle, and female - Total, sale, end
one year of age per thousand live birhts,                                            smal  labor force as percentages of their respectiv- populatios.
Arcces  tc safe water (percent of population) - total, urban, and rural -              These ore ILO's  djuated participation rates reflecting Age-teo
Nunber of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                 structure of the populstion. sad 1ong time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but               Etonomic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and over ic
uncontaminated water such as that from protected borholss, springs,                  the labor force in age group of 15-64 yeats.
and sanitary wells) as percentages of their respective populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or stmadpost located  not mre                 INCOME DISTRIBUTION
rha.  200 mstors from a house my bh  consider d a- being within rem-              Percentage rf private income (both is cash mod kind) received by richeot 5
rsoablo access of that house,  In rural araas reasonable access would                percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorest 4C percent
imply that the housewife or uembers of the household do not have to                  of households.
upend s disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water ..oeds.                                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Acccss to ascreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and              fEtimated absolute poverty income level (US$ per c.aita) - urban asd rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by exocret                   Absolute poverty income level is that income level below which a ninimol
disposal as percentages of their respective populations.  Excreta                    nutritionally adequate diet plus essential non-food requirements is not
dispsnal may include the oullactiom and diaposal, with or without                    affordable.
treatment, of honan excreta and weste-water by water-borne systems                Estimated relative poverty income level (US$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the usa  of pit privies and similar installations.                                Relative poverty income level is that income level less than one-third
PoRulation Per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                  per capita personal income of the rountry.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                   Estimated population below poverty incom.e level (percent) - urban and rural -
Povjlation per nuradog person - Population divided by number of                        Percent of population (urban and rural) who are either "absolute poor" or
practicing mals and female graduate surses, practical nurse., and                    "relative poor" whichever is greater.
asoistant aurses.
Efono=ic and Social Data Division
Economic Analysis and Projectio.s Department



- 25 -
KLNYA
zc10lc D0Velo urnt Rita Sheet
19177
Utoal             .         .~~~~~~~~1e11s1"raz  Ptof.rted                      AeaoA.1   teof o*'.t', 1             are of
1972      1973     1974      1975      1976      1977      1918      1979     1980      1983      1990      a1rm   " 191769S3  °'     3-19_9      GDP
A9. r ode,.' Acfr.Jnts
(: 1lion CSS at 1976 price)
I. GDP                              263.5  3084.5   3216.4   3237.2   3415.5   3680.8   3847.8   4020.7   4222.2   4953.4   7440.2                4.3        5.5         6.0         100.0
2. Ci  s fr- T4 +45.9  *.53.3    -31.3   -102.7                                      253.7 '2   +26.8    *39.2    -96.3   -129.6   .124.3          -                      -            69
3*  Ct.y                            2969.4  31378    3183.1   3131.5   3415.5   3936.3   3874.7   3981.5   4125.9   4826.8    7316.0              '         5.1          6.1         106.9
4.  r- rts                          1205.7  1192.8   1440.5   1145.4   1127.6   1295.1   1438.8   1361.6   1434.0   1544.7   2212.1              -1.7        4.6         5.3          35.2
5. toPrto - Vol.v                    982.8  1033.5   1246.5   1084.0   1142.4   1184.2   1194.3   1203.6   1302.3   1518.8   2204.7               3.8        4.1         5.5          32.2
6. Laporto - TT adj"ted             1068.7  1106.8   1215.2    97S.3   1142.4   1440.0   1221.3   1164.4   1205.8   1390.1   2060.5               1.7        2.8        3.9           39.1
7.     U    GcC   Cp . TT adjeted    137.0    86.0    223.3    167.1    -14.8   -144.9    217.3    197.3    228.2    154.6    131.7   3                 -                .             3
S. Totl Co_soti.e                  2337.1  2523.0   2438.1   2639.8   2681.1   2923.9   3123.5   3170.8   3302.0   3834.5   5833.5               3.5        5.2         6.2          79.7
S.  :r.esteon                        768.6   69a.8    972.3    658.8    713.7    857.8    968.4   1007.9   10515.    1146.7   1614.2             .1.8        7.0         5.0          23.3
10. ::.tlotl S-rim.                   638.5   496.6    597.8    429.3    630.3    912.4    619.0    710.3    740.2    902.5   1437.6              0.3        5.'         6.9           24.8
11. DT.ti  S-ngs                      651.6   612.8    747.0    491.7    728.5   1002.6    751.1    810.7    823.7    992.2   1482.3               3.6       4.5          5.9          27.2
12. CF *c a  euroc US$               2019.9  2398.1   2847.9   3151.4   3415.5   4427.8   5307.9   6273.2   7048.7  10134.7  21821.0              14.0       16.8        11.6
8. Se-tor Outp.t
f1-ar. of GDP at the 1976 prtce)
1.    naf.ctuLre  Iod.try             10.8    11.4      12.0      11.9      13.3      14.1      14.9     15.4      15.4      15.9      20.1       9.4       8.2         9.6
2. AgrLeulture                        36.8    36.1       35.3     35.1      33.9      34.4      31.7     31.7      31.6      30.9      28.4       1.8       4.0          4.7
3. Oth.r                              52.4    52.5      52.7      53.0      32.8      51.5      53.4     52.9      53.0       3.2      51.5      4.1        4.7         5.5
C.  r,D'Cs
1. EO-rt  -rCe ladem                  57.0    66.3      80.2      88.9    100.0    132.6    125.1    126.7    129.4    151.4    222.4            15.0        6.1         5.8
2.  toSrt" cTd.I 52.4    63.1                           82.4       8.53    100.0    109.1    122.4    151.0    139.8    165.5    235.7          17.5         7.5        5.2
3. :re' of T-ja1                     108.8   103.1      97.5      90.3    100.0    121.3    102.2        96.7    912 A       91.5      94.4       -          - 
4. CDF  1faltor (VS1)                70.1    76.6       88.3     97.3    100.0    120.3    143.1    156.0    168.9    204.3    293.3             9.3       10.8         5.3
S. A...r9 go Fxao6. Rate
(L5s/IL6)                      2.800    2.857    2.800    2.700      2.390    2.416      2.700
D. Salactd Inldcctor.                        165-J 1976    1976-89   198-90
1. TC'R                                         5.0       4.4      4.5       3.9
2.  L-a°rt tLssticity                           1.0      4.4       9.8       0.9
3. Ae.ra4a D-..tl  S-eims Rate                19.0       20.3    20.9       21.0
4. A7,rsR 7at0l aSl-egs Pate                   18.6      18.4    19.0       20.5
S.  T        4-tlal S-GD-    Rte               0.22      -0.02     0.09      0.22
6.   ;rS1729.8                                           38.7    33.7       30.3
In.-;r,ett/GlY                            20.3       24.1    23.9       23.3
8.  8a.oWros G p/lGO                           0.7        3.9      3.0        .9          . A l
Cr. Rt
6.  ,lo,-nt                                    1970     1975      1976      1977         1970-77
I  Labor Terre Total                            ..    4.400.DOD
2.  W.40 fplo7eY..C                           644 500   619.100 857.500  902.900           4.9n
F.  7.511, TIracco                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pr"c.
7,9 MjllLon)                            1970171    1971172    1972/73    1973/74    1974173    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78
1. R  c.rr.Et Pave-n.e                       124.0      141.6 -     49.0      190.4      226.3      269.2     311.1      474.6
2. Ircurr..t Lnp.rdlt-re                      110.4      128.7     139.6      162.7      207.4      246.8     283.1      431.1
3.  R.curr..t S.rpl..                        +13.5      +12.9       44.4      *27.7      +18.9     +22.4      429.0      443.5
4.  3e1l;,nt Project
tEr.Lajo & Oth.r
L$ e.L n....  o Reelpts                     0.4        0.4       0.6        0.3        -          -         6.4        2.0
5. F.re.. lgnr-t.                              0.8        1.9        0.3        3.2        8.2.'     7.0       10.5       17.2
6. Sur7pl. A-ilable for
fineragim    Ie.a
FLn.r.",o irt                              14.7      15.1       10.5       31.5       27.4       29.4      45.9       62.7
7. 0.- 1o71ate  oenditres                      4.5       51.9       61.8       67.4       94.2     1:6.3      124.7      236.8
8. Oe.r.11 D.EfIct              ~fj                      -38.S     -5         -35.9      -4.        -96.9     -78.      . 174.1
9. Plsaaieg  f the DaflOlt
Exstrol t.ee,                            10.9       11.5      24.7       14.5       20.1      43.7       29.8       50.0
Loeg-ter 70rrovLng 8- .r..cleS            8.1      15.6       21.3       18.8       15.7      32.5       25.0       90.0
-aort-terr. SogrToca                    15.0        1.1        6.8       2.9       12,7       5i.3       29.7        5.5
*;rante                                  0.03       0.02       0.02        -          -                    -
Ch-4.1a i. Cash Mala...
(L-.a.s. -.                               -2.4       .8.5       +1.5       +3.6     .18.4      -32.0       -5.8      +28.6
1/ Bared on 1964 prIce-..                                                                                      t(U CPIA
.LI S-d .. 1964 p,k-                                                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Apr11 4, 1979



- 26 -
KEN-YA
Balance of Payments and Exter'al Assiatance
(Itillion US$)
Actual                                     Preliminary            Projection
1972      1973        1974       1975        1976       1977       1978        1979        1980       1983        1990
A.  Susmary of Balance, of Payment
1.  Exports (7ncl. NSF)                          560.0       69S.6      1005.5      963.6      1142.4      1569.7    1511.1      1541.3      1703.5     2325.1      4956.1
2.  imports (Inel. NFl)                           632.0      752.6      1237.3     1128.3      1127.8      1412.4    1780.2      1802.5     2025.8      2583.7      5269.8
3.  Resource Balne                                -72.0      -54.0      -231.8     -164.7        14.6       157.3    -269.1      -261.2      -322.3     -258.5      -313.8
4.  Net Factor Servieo Inom                      -34.1      -101.9      -101.1 -I111.          -130.4      -170.3    -229.0    -236.3       -248.2      -314.2      -495.8
4.1 Net Interest Payments of icbh:                -15.7      -16.5       -18.6       -21.4      -27.1       -30.7     -22.6      - 48.9     - 69.1      -115.6      -125.0
(Interest on Public N & LT Loans)           (-20.2)    (-22.1)    (-25.0)    (-26.2)    (-30.7)    (-38.8)   (-50.2)    (-67.6)    (-88.0)   (-146.8)   (-264.6)
4.2 Direct Investment Intoe  (Net)
4.3 Workers Remittance (Net)             )        -18.4      -85.4       -82.5       -90.4    -103.3       -139.6   -206.4    -187.4         -179.1     -187.1      -334.8
4.4 Other Factor Service Income (Net)  )
5.  Current Transfers (Net)                        38.1       22.2        19.3        50.0       32.3        71.3       72.2      109.6      136.4       167.1       343.7
6.  B31ance on Current Aeeount                    -68.0     -133.7      -313.6      -2i6.5      -83.4        58.2   -425.8       -387.9     -434.1      -405.6      -465.8
7.  Private Direct Investwnt                      42.8        89.4       116.5        3'.7       55.2      74.4        85.1        90.2      103.1       163.4       2777
8.  Capital Grants                                 44.4        8.3        22.9        30.6       40.3        40.0       6.0        16.8        27.0       57.3       117.9
Public N & LT Loans
9.  Disbursements 1|                               79.2       86.4        92.8       119.7      188.0       180.8     360.6       483.4      343.5       521.1       517.7
10.  Amortization 17 2/                           -13.7       -15.9       -18.3      -16.0       -30.9       -43.1    -206.4    -198.8       -202.2      -302.1      -322.6
11.  "et Disbursement j/                            65.5       70.5        74.5      103.7       157.1       137.7     154.2       284.6      341.3       219.0       195.1
12.  Use of IMF Resources                           0.0        -0.6        53.5       51.6        18.9        43.7       -           -   *       *          -           -
13.  Short-term  Capital Transeactions               5.6       15.1        31.1       31.1        17.4         7.7
14.  Capital Transactione, 2...i.                 -65.1       -17.6       -14.6      -24.3      -101.3       _45.7       _-                                             -
15.  ihange In Reserves (- * icereass)             -25.2      -31.4        29.7        -5.9     -104.2      -228.6    -180.5        -3.7      -37.3       -34.1      -124.5
B. Gr3nts and Loans Commitments
1.  Offieial Grants                               44.4         8.3        22.9       30.6        40.3        40.0      4n.0        45.2       51.1        73.7      151.5
2.  Public M & LT Loann                           101.0       98,1       170.1      396.0       211.9       321.2     496.4       512.9      536.4       619.6    1049.7
2.1 I8RD                                           29.0       34.0        10.4       193.5       31.0        84.0     156.0       155.0       103.0      130.0      211.6
2.2 IDA                                           28.0          -         33.5       25.5        14.0        36.0      61.0        54.5       94.5        77.5      141.1
2.3 Dhllttiateral                                    -         1.1         3.6         7.2       10.8        39.3      41.7        44.6       48.5        58.5       98.6
2.4 Governments                                    24.4       61.4       122.6        74.4       35.3        61.3     120.0       135.6       153.2      221.1      454.6
of ihich centrally planned econonmes          -          0.3         -          -           -           -         -          _           _ -
2.5 Suppliers                                       2.3        -           -          4.0        56.5         -        40.0        42.0       44.1        51.1       86.6
2.6 Financial -,stitutions                         17.3        1.6         -         91.4        64.4       100.7      50.0        50.0       50.0        50.0       57.2
2.7 Bonds                                                                                                              2 -7        3-  2      4-  -       3 -4
2.8 Public Loams, n.e.i.                                       -           -          -           -           -        27.7        31.2       4.1         31.4
3.  Other M 6 LT Loan. (where available)  /       33.0        23.2         6.9        3.6         7.5         -
C. Nemorand=s Items
1.  Grant Element of   ta1 cominuts               44.8        43.6        66.5       23.0        23.0        36.5      30.9       28.7        28.3        35.7       39.2
2. Average interest (Percent)                       4.3        4.3         2.1         6.9        6.4         5.2       5.7         5.9        6.0         5.3        4.8
3. Average Maturity (Years)                       29.2        27.6        36.7       24.6        17.5        25.6      21.9        20.9       20.9        23.9       24.4
1i  Includes financing of projected balance of paymnts daficit '19?8-1990) on sediu /hard blend terms.
2/ Includes repayment on military loans.
3/ Excludes technical assistance grants.
4/  Represents a notional 50 percent of loan citments for EAC projcets.                                                              ZA.CPl1A
5/  Represents grant element of loans.                                                                                               April 4. 1979



- 27 -
KENYA
Debt' and Creditworthineog
Actoal                                                       Pro$ected
1972      1973       1974       17-3       9_76      1977       1978        1979      !980           j"°         1990
A. 
(USS MllIion)
1. Total Debt OOtotendin  rwb    d of Perlod) if         475.1    5498         633.2      06.5      820.9      970.5    1105.2       1451.1      1868.3      2937.4      4416.8
2.  Tncluding tUndit2bor,ae  y                            7".2      £20.2      970.'    129.        1445.2    1765.5    1938.5       2351.4      U24.1       4173.5      89.
3. Fublic Debt Service   It                                33.8      38.9        4.6      U43.d       63.2       72.5     25ti.       24.4        290.2       4U.9        31.2
3.1 Intrert                                                20.2      22.1       25.0       26.2       30.7       38.8      30.2        *7.U        U0.0      1a6.2        24
4. Other H & LT Dabt Sxrvict                                ..        ..         *- ..                                        ..         ..          ..
*. Debt Surden
1.  Debt Service Ratio                                      6.0       3.8        4.4        4.3        5.5        4.8      11.0        17.3        17.0        1.3         11.8
2. Debt Service/CDP                                         1.7       1.6        1.6        1.4        1.9        1.6       4.7         4.2         4.1         4.4         2.7
3. Public Debt Service/Gover,aet lamas                      8.1       7.9        7.,        *.5        8.2        7.3      21.3        13.7        18.3        *1.7        13.2
C. Terms
1.  Interest on Ttal DOD/Total DOD                         4.3        4.0        3.9        3.8        4.0       4.0        4.5         4.7         4.7         5.0         8.0
2.  Totel Debt ServLa/ToUaI WOD                             7.1       7.1        7.0        8.3        4.2       7.5       23.2        18.4        15.3        15.3        13.3
D. Nenend r.Y Patio. for M 4 LT Debt
1. Gross Disburramnents/Dportm (incl. 1On)                 12.5      11.3        7.5       10.4       16.1      12.8       20.3        26.8        28.8        20.2         9.S
2. Set Traosfer/LIports (inctl. WS)                        10.4       9.4        8.0        9.2       13.9       10.9       *.7        15.t        16.8         '.3         3.?
3. bet Transfer/Gross Diabursemata                         82.7      81.6       80.3      86.4        83.6       76.2      42.8        58.9        62.8        42.8        37.7
E. Eonpaurs
1.  IBoD Diaburessents/Groae Total Di*emeate               39.9      49.1       33.0       83.4       45.2      24.9       13.5        13.4        39.0        21.5        32.8
2. Bank Group Disbursaments/Crnes Total Siabmramts    48.5           70.7       48.9       70.5       33.0      35.31..   19.3         UJ1         34.7        29.1        53.7
3.  III: DOD/Tot.l DOD                                     18.1      23.6       24.9      13.4        37.9       35.6      32.1        20          24.0        25.3        38.2
4.  bank Group DOD/Total DOD                               30.9      38.2       39.9       48.3       52.0      40.2       34.1        31.6        34.9        37.8        30.9
3.  IBRO Debt Service/Tetal Debt Suvi..                    21.6      28.7       21.2       34.3       4.1       4.3        11.8        13.48       18          17.8        33.0
6. Bak Croup Debt baS. i.tTecal Deat Eica                  23.1      30.S       28.8       36.4        8.4       30.1      12.3        14.2        15.4        18.U         3.
Outotandin  Amc.  31. 1U17                                      Oftatwima hea. 31. 1"3
Amunt           foc"Lme                                                 -       b u
F. External Debt iDiobursed Dll)
1. DRD                                                               276.5             28.5                                        743.S               23.3
2. Bank Sroup                                                        38t.5             40.0                                       1109.                37.8
3. Other )bWItlateral                                                 20.d              2.1                                        229.7                7.J
4. Go-ern:ents       .                                               403.6             41.6                                        944.3               33.1
of which centrally plawAd aceol_Z                               0.1              -
3. S.ppli.rt                                                          29.2              3.0                                        179.1                8.1
6. Finanial Inotitute                                                 84.6              8.7                                        327.0                 1.1
7.  Bonds                                                             44.1              4.3
8   rubli  Debt a.a.1.                                                  -                                                          1 4.3                3.0
9,  Total Public M & Li Debt C/                                      90.3             100.0                                      2"37.4               18.
10. Other M    LT Dbt 2/
1. Total Public Debt (in.l.  ndiabuteed)                             1751.1            180.4                                       41l3                143.1
12. Total M 6 LT Debt (intl. Undiblrm )                                 ..r...
1/  Intludes Kenya's share of a notioal 50 premnt of ZAC debt.
2/ Excludes nilitary debta.
l/  Includes cepasey t on lLitaUy la.



-28-                           ANNEX II
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN KENYA
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of March 31, 1979
US$ Million
YearaBorrowerrPurpose                                   Amo7unt (Less C~7cellations)
Ereaie #   Year  Borrower   Purpose                             Bankz-  TW    IDA-:  Undisbursed
Seven (7) Loans and twelve (12) Credits fully disbursed         96.0           74.1
224       1970  Kenya       Road Maintenance                                  12.6        1.7
826       1972  Kenya       Nairobi Airport                    29.0                       0.6
932       1973  Kenya       Highways                           29.0                       5.6
946       1973  IDB         DFC I                               5.0                       0.3
468       1974  Kenya       Population                                        12.0        1.5
477       1974  Kenya       Livestock                                         21.5       17.7
993       1974  Kenya       Tea Factories                      10.4                       3.9
1093       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                   7.5                       7.5
537       1975  Kenya       Group Farm Credit                                  7.5        4.7
1105       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                    8.0                       8.0
543       1975  Kenya       Site and Service                                   8.0        1.0
565       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry                            10.0        2.8
1132       1975  Kenya       Agriculture - Forestry             10.0                       6.2 2/
1133       1975  Kenya       Transportation - Pipeline          20.0                       0.3
1147       1975  TRDC        Hydroelectric Development          63.0                       8.6
1148       1975  IDB         DFC II                             10.0                       2.3
1167       1975  Kenya       Mombasa & Coastal Water Supply  35.0                         17.9
1184       1975  Kenya       Education III                      10.0                       8.9
650       1976  Kenya       Integrated Agri. Development                      10.0        8.9
1303-T     1976  Kerya       Integrated Agri. Development                10.0             10.0
1304-T     1976  Kenya       Wildlife and Tourism                        17.0             14.5
651       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                                 4.0        3.6
1305       1976  Kenya       Rural Access Roads                  4.0                       4.0
1389       1977  Kenya       South Nyanza Sugar                 25.0                      21.3
692       1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                           20.0       15.5
1390-T     1977  Kenya       Agricultural Credit III                      5.0              5.0
1438       1977  IDB         DFC III                            20.0                      17.8
722       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement                         6.0        5.4
1449       1977  Kenya       Bura Irrigation Settlement         34.0                      34.0
750       1977  Kenya       Small Scale Industry                              10.0       10.0
1520       1978  NCC         Second Nairobi Water Supply        30.0                      30.0
791       1978  Kenya        Second Urban   ,                                 25.0       25.0
1550       1978  Kenya       Second Urban                       25.0                      25.0
797       1978  Kenya       Education IV                                      23.0       23.0
S-12 3/    1978  KPC         Olkaria Engineering Loan            9.0                       9.0
1636 Z/    1978  Kenya       Sugar Rehabilitation               72.0                      72.0
1637 4/    1978  Kenya       Rural Water Supply                 20.0                      20.0
858 41    1978  Kenya       Narok Agricultural Development                    13.0       13.0
Total                            568.4    32.0 256.7       466.5
of which has been repaid         19.3       -    1.0
Total now outstanding            549.1    32.0 255.7
Amount sold                 11.8
of which has been
repaid                      8.9   2.9
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA 1/          546.2    32.0 255.7
TOTAL undisbursed                          303.2    29.5 133.8       466.5
1/ Prior to exchange adjustment.
2/ Includes US$3.8 million undisbursed grant participation.
3/ This Loan was declared effective on April 30, 1979.
4/ Not yet effective.



- 29 -                         ANNEX II
B. Summary Statement of Bank Loans for Common Services Guaranteed
by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda as of March 31, 1979
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan No.  Year  Borrower  Purpose                   Bank 1/    Undisbursed
------US$ million-----
Five loans fully disbursed                          93.4
638-EA   1969   EAHC      Harbours                 35.0           0.7
674-EA   1970   EARC      Railways                 42.4           1.9
865-EA   1972   EAHC      Harbours                 26.5           1.1
914-EA   1972   EAPTC    Telecommunications        32.5           5.4
1204-EA   1976   EADB      Development Finance    15.0             7.8
Total                                          244.8          16.9
of which has been repaid                      49.6
Total now outstanding                          195.2
Amount sold                       24.4
of which has been repaid    24.4            0.0
Total now held by Bank 1/                      195.2
Total undisbursed                               16.9          16.9
1/   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 30 -                        ANNEX II
C. Projects in Execution 1/
(As of March 31, 1979)
There are currently 30 projects under execution in Kenya.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Loan No. 993-KE - Tea Factories: US$10.4 million Loan of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: September 23, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Although international tea prices have dropped from the extra-
ordinarily high figures in 1976/77, growers continue to show considerable
interest in tea as a cash crop. The response to the fertilizer credit scheme
financed by the Commonwealth Development Corporation (CDC - the cofinancing
partner) for 1978/79 is slightly better than for the 1976/77 season. Yields
continue to rise, and from 1979/80 onward the appraisal projections are likely
to be exceeded. The project factory building program is behind schedule and,
due to cost escalations, funds will only enable 12 factories to be built
instead of 17 as originally envisaged. The OPEC Special Fund has recently
agreed to finance 3 factories under the project, and CDC has agreed to finance
construction of the remaining 2 factories under the project. CDC has also
advanced financing for their Fourth Plan, and by December 1979 a total of 15
factories (12 under the project and 3 others) will be operative. The standard
of Kenya Tea Development Authority's management continues to be high, and
although the Marketing Department problems are not yet resolved they are under
control. Disbursements are behind schedule due to the delayed factory build-
ing program.
Credit No. 477-KE - Livestock: US$21.5 million Credit of June 5, 1974;
Effective Date: December 2, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Project implementation has been slow and there have been problems
in organization, cost overruns and pricing. An in-depth review of the project
was undertaken in March 1976; the review mission's report was presented to the
Government in September 1976 and a series of discussions have been held since
that date. A new and satistactory livestock price structure was adopted in early
1978, removing the most serious constraint to ranch development and viability.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress on projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Some progress has been made in organization of the pastoralists in the range
development components, and Government services in ranch water development
planning and in the company ranch sector have been improved. Eight addi-
tional company ranch loans, six group ranch loans and two commercial ranch
loans were approved in the second half of 1978, and rehabilitation plans for
coast company ranches in financial difficulties have been made. Group ranch
loan processing remains slow, and unless there is a substantial improvement
in extension services in the pastoral areas, particularly in Masailand, the
project goals of adoption of more commercial and efficient livestock produc-
tion will be difficult to achieve. Agreement has now been reached concerning
compensation for income foregone due to grazing by wildlife on group ranch
areas in the Amboseli area. The supply of immature cattle to stock ranches
has improved significantly in recent months. The project continues to be kept
under close review.
Credit No. 537-KE/Loan No. 1093-KE - Group Farm Rehabilitation Project:
US$7.5 million Credit and US$7.5 million Loan of March 26, 1975;
Effective Date: September 30, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Project faces major problems. Few new farms have come under
rehabilitation in the past year for a variety of reasons: legal, social,
political, and financial. This slow progress of farm rehabilitation and
the recommendations of the Large Farm Sector Study (financed under the
Project) have prompted Government to make a major review of its policies
towards the Large Farm Sector. Although delays in reaching consensus on a
new policy have been encountered, Government expects to take a position on
the large farm sector in the near future. Upon clarification of Government
policy, the Bank and the Government expect to undertake a joint review to
see whether the original project objectives can still be attained.
Loan No. 1132-KE/Credit No. 565-KE - Second Forestry Plantation
Project: US$10.0 million Credit and US$10.0 million Loan of June 27,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The planting program is progressing fairly satisfactorily, but the
cumulative total to date is 20% below target, for a variety of reasons includ-
ing unfavorable weather. The building and road construction programs are both
considerably behind schedule. However, the backlogs may be made good during
the last two years of the project. Progress has been very slow in implement-
ing most of the covenants of the Credit Agreement, particularly regarding the
program to improve efficiency and production of the sawmilling sector, the
national land use study, the gazetting of nature reserves and new forest
reserves, and the study of stumpage rates for sawlogs. Government is now
providing adequate budgetary allocations, and procurement is proceeding
normally. The general implementation situation shows signs of improvement.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1303T-KE/Credit No. 650-KE - Integrated Agricultural
Development Project: US$10.0 million Loan and US$10.0 million
Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: March 15, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The changed focus of the project towards assisting large numbers
of subsistence farmers rather than progressive smallholder farmers has led to
a number of difficulties, but the project objective of improving the produc-
tivity and incomes of smallholder farmers continues to be met. The rates of
credit recovery and loanee reparticipation thus far have been disappointing.
However, in recognition of the financial consequences of unrecovered credit,
cooperative unions have been reducing the numbers of loanees they are prepared
to finance. Consequently the balance between numbers of loanees and infra-
structural support--staff, storage and transport--at union level has been
improving. Active efforts are now being made to expand and implement the
infrastructure components, including improvement of input supplies and market-
ing systems. Some adjustment to the administrative framework is required,
and discussions on this subject are ongoing.
Loan No. 1389-KE - South Nyanza Sugar Project: US$25.0 million
Loan of April 15, 1977; Effective Date: November 3, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Agricultural implementation proceeds satisfactorily with only minor
problems. Cane yields are higher than anticipated, probably because of excel-
lent and well-distributed rainfall during 1977 and the first half of 1978.
Building works were delayed due to shortage of cement, but the position has
improved and the factory should be completed on schedule in October 1979.
Recruitment of staff is underway, and training and research programs are under
preparation. A recent Government decision not to increase sugar prices in
1978 was reviewed with the Bank, and agreement was reached that the current
price levels were adequate to provide the necessary incentives to growers.
Credit No. 692-KE/Loan No. 1390T-KE - Third Agricultural Credit
Project: US$20.0 million Credit and US$5.0 million Loan of April 15,
1977; Effective Date: September 14, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Since mid-1978, the project's disbursements have been delayed due
to problems of (i) backlog at Agricultural Finance Corporation (AFC) in up-
dating loan reimbursement requests, and (ii) lack of consolidated information
on AFC's lending trends toward different categories of farmers. AFC is taking
steps to resolve these matters.  The current arrears situation - while still
uncertain because of temporary statistical and accounting problems in AFC -
appears to be deteriorating. To bolster this situation, AFC is recruiting
additional qualified loan officers. Consideration is also being given to the
introduction of an improved management accounting system.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1449-KE/Credit No. 722-KE - Bura Irrigation Settlement
Project: US$34.0 million Loan and US$6.0 million Credit of June 22,
1977; Effective Date: June 27, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Project implementation has been delayed, predominantly because of
late appointment of consultants. As a result of these delays, some components
are as much as a year behind schedule. Revised cost estimates indicate that
the project is likely to encounter serious cost overruns.
Loan No. 1636-KE - Sugar Rehabilitation Project: US$72.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1985
This loan is not yet effective.
Credit No. 858-KE - Narok Agricultural Development Project: US$13.0
million Credit of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
This credit is not yet effective.
EDUCATION SECTOR
Loan No. 1184-KE - Third Education Project: US$10.0 million Loan
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 17, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Physical implementation is about two years behind the appraisal
schedule, basically due to delays by the various Committees in approving
sketch designs for the 17 primary teacher colleges. The Government's
reluctance to finance technical assistance specialists from the loan proceeds
may further delay project implementation. The sessional paper on the report
of the National Committee on Educational Objectives and Priorities which was
tabled in Parliament in May 1978 is expected to be discussed in a full Cabinet
meeting in the near future. No major changes in the document are expected.
The Ministry of Works is now ready to go to tender for the primary teacher
training colleges, and the dialogue with the Government regarding the hiring
of required specialists is continuing.
Credit No. 797-KE - Fourth Education: US$23.0 million Credit of June 7,
1978; Effective Date: August 25, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Project Unit Staff are benefitting from experience gained in
implementing the Third Education Project. Consultant architects have been
appointed for the Faculty of Agriculture and the thirteen Nomadic Primary
Schools, and architects' briefs for the schools are in an early stage of
preparation. Planning for the Primary School Curriculum Review and imple-
mentation of technical assistance for the Faculty of Agriculture and the Kenya
Institute of Administration has started.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Loan No. 1167-KE - Mombasa and Coastal Water Supply; US$35.0 million
Loan of October 15, 1975; Effective Date: January 13, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Physical execution of the major parts of the project is about nine
months behind schedule, while completion of some of the smaller components
may be as much as 15 months late. Delays were due mainly to weak project
administration by the Ministry of Water Development, particularly in the
early stages.  Progress has now improved to an acceptable pace although lost
time cannot be recovered. Disbursements have recently improved to about 75%
of the appraisal forecasts. There is an estimated cost overrun of about 20%
(expressed in US dollars) to be covered from Government resources. Institu-
tion building is proceeding slowly due to difficulties in recruiting staff.
Steps are underway to audit the accounts of the Coast Province Water Branch
for the first time. Tariff measures taken by the Government have been
satisfactory.
Loan No. 1520-KE - Second Nairobi Water Supply; US$30.0 million
Loan of March 27, 1978; Effective Date: December 20, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Implementation started on schedule and is proceeding satisfactorily.
However, completion is now expected to be about four months behind schedule
due to difficulties with tender evaluations and delays by the Borrower
(Nairobi City Council) in making contract award decisions. Most supply con-
tracts financed by other donors and the first construction contract being
financed by the Bank have been awarded. Good progress is being made on
detailed design and tendering for the remaining contracts. Delays in conclud-
ing satisfactory arrangements for construction supervision could constrain
future progress. Bid prices to date have been favorable and the present esti-
mate of total project cost is very close to the appraisal estimate. Although
water supply and sewerage operations are in sound financial condition, the
Borrower has been slow in fulfilling financial covenants regarding external
audits, the engagement of an accounting consultant and the constraint on use
of water and sewerage revenues for other purposes.
Loan No. 1637-KE - Rural Water Supply Project: US$20.0 million
Loan of December 20, 1978; Closing Date: July 1, 1985
This loan is not yet effective. Some key project staff have already
been appointed, and recruitment efforts are underway to fill the remaining
posts. Consultants have been selected to assist with implementation of mea-
sures to strengthen the Ministry of Water Development, and the terms and con-
ditions of their employment are being finalized.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Loan No. 224-KE - Road Maintenance: US$12.6 million Credit of
December 28, 1970; Effective Date: March 18, 1971; Closing
Date: December 30, 1979
The project was substantially completed in early 1977, about a year
and a half behind schedule. The delay was primarily caused by a slow start
in construction of the regional workshops and camps due to unforeseen diffi-
culties in the location of sites, acquisition of land, and procurement of
steel. The Credit included US$2.2 million for headquarters and field staff-
ing and consultant services, but Government obtained most of these services
through bilateral arrangements. There was consequently a saving of US$1.8
million under the project, which the Government requested be used to purchase
additional workshop equipment and tools. Since this would assist in achiev-
ing the project's goals, IDA authorized using the remaining funds for this
purpose. With this revision, total project costs are expected to be as
appraised. The Closing Date has been postponed to December 30, 1979 to allow
sufficient time for completion of procurement.
Loan No. 826-KE - Nairobi Airport: US$29.0 million Loan of June 2, 1972;
Effective Date: July 7, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Construction of the new Nairobi Airport was essentially completed
in December 1977, and it has been open to traffic since March 14, 1978. The
loan is almost 98% disbursed. The airport is performing up to expectations.
Establishment of a commercial accounting system is now underway. The remain-
ing principal problem areas are in hiring and training sufficient staff for
operation and maintenance, both of which are constrained by a Kenya-wide
shortage of skilled personnel. A training program has been prepared by UNDP,
but its execution depends greatly on the effectiveness of recruitment efforts.
The Closing Date has been postponed to December 31, 1979 to allow time for
completion of disbursements for the training program. The project completion
report is under preparation.
Loan No. 932-KE - Highways: US$29.0 million loan of September 6, 1973;
Effective Date: November 9, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Implementation started eighteen months behind schedule due to
changes in design standards by the Ministry of Works and financial con-
straints.  Construction of 579 km of roads has been completed, and work on
two roads (the London Road-Nairobi Airport road, and the Kisiani-Bondo road)
is continuing. In view of heavy cost overruns, tenders for the construction
of two roads were delayed; agreement was ultimately reached to delete the
Thuchi-Nbuku (51 km) road from the project. The Closing Date, which was
postponed from December 31, 1977 to December 31, 1979, is likely to be post-
poned further to allow time for completion of construction of the Kisii-
Mogonga road which has recently gone out to tender; construction should begin
in mid-1979.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1133-KE - Mombasa-Nairobi Oil Product Pipeline Project:
US$20.0 million Loan of June 27, 1975; Effective Date: December 31,
1975; Closing Date: September 30, 1979
Construction was completed in October 1977 and commercial operations
commenced in January 1978 as originally planned. The final project cost
overrun is only US$9.5 million or 11%, the increase being primarily due to
escalation in construction costs. KPC's long-term financial prospects are
quite satisfactory although there could be cash flow problems in the initial
few years of operation because of the preponderance of short and medium-term
loans in the financing package. The Closing Date has been postponed to
September 30, 1979 to allow time for completion of disbursements.
Loan No. 1305-KE/Credit No. 651-KE - Rural Access Roads Project:
US$4.0 million Loan and US$4.0 million Credit of July 9, 1976; Effective
Date: October 7, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is about eighteen months behind schedule, due to delays
in recruitment of staff and procurement of tools, although costs are not
expected to increase. Economic evaluations for the eight districts in which
Bank-financed units would be set up have been reviewed and approved by the
Bank; seven construction units are now operating, and start up of the remain-
ing unit is expected shortly.   Through December 1978, 251 km of access roads
had been constructed. Labor intensive construction methods are being success-
fully applied and costs are in line with appraisal targets. The average out-
put per unit of 44 km per year is near the expected target of 45 km per year,
and output is expected to increase when all units become fully operational.
POPULATION SECTOR
Credit No. 468-KE - Population: US$12.0 million Credit of April 1,
1974; Effective Date: July 31, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The four-year population project forms an integral part of Kenya's
Five-Year MCH/FP program, FY1975-79. All of the IDA-financed components
of the project are proceeding satisfactorily. Nearly 99% of the construction
has been completed (only two out of 36 facilities are still in the final stages
of construction), and more than 75% of the equipment and furniture has been
procured. Some delays in furnishing, equipping and staffing of facilities in
rural areas are occurring, but arrangements to improve the situation, including
hiring of a hospital secretary or commissioning engineer, are being explored by
the Ministry of Health. Other elements of the project have been completed,
except for the study of the determinants of fertility which is in draft form.
Steps are being taken to ensure completion of disbursements by the Closing Date
of June 30, 1979. The program components financed by other donors and the
Government are also moving ahead and, with a few exceptions, are expected to
be completed as planned. However, management of the project/program continues
to be a pervasive problem.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
POWER SECTOR
Loan No. 1147-KE - Gitaru Hydroelectric Project: US$59.5 million Loan 1/
of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: January 29, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Construction of the project was completed satisfactorily in
June 1978 on schedule and within estimated cost.  On the basis of contracts
awarded for civil works and electrical and mechanical equipment, present esti-
mates show that the project cost in Kenya shillings is likely to be about 1%
lower than the appraisal estimate.  Due to the devaluation of Kenyan currency
in October 1975, however, the project cost saving expressed in US dollar
equivalent will be about 15% of the appraisal estimate. This will result in a
saving in the Bank loan of about US$4.0 million, in spite of the increase made
on June 15, 1977 in the percentage of civil works expenditures to be financed
under the Bank loan from 60% to 80%. At the request of the Borrower, US$3.5
million of the loan has been cancelled. Consultants' studies on possible
alternatives for future development and a long-term power development plan
are being reviewed by the Government and the Bank.
Loan No. S-12-KE - Olkaria Geothermal Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Loan of December 1, 1978; Closing DatE: June 30, 1981 2/
Drilling is proceeding on schedule, and specifications for the drill
rig and accessories have been completed and tenders have been issued. Miscel-
laneous supplies and equipment have been purchased under International Shopping
procedures.
INDUSTRIAL SECTOR
Loan No. 946-KE - Industrial Development Bank Project: US$5.0 million
Loan of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 26, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1979
The first Bank loan of US$5.0 million to IDB, which became effec-
tive on March 26, 1974 was fully committed in March 1978, two years behind
schedule. This delay was due to the cancellation prior to disbursement of a
number of projects previously approved. As at March 31, 1979, US$4.7 million
of this loan had been disbursed. The Closing Date has been postponed to
September 30, 1979.
Loan No. 1148-KE - Second Industrial Development Bank Project:
US$10.0 million Loan of July 25, 1975; Effective Date: October 9,
1975; Closing Date:  July 1, 1979
The second Bank loan of US$10.0 million became effective on October 9,
1975.  The loan was fully committed in August 1978 and US$7.7 million had been
disbursed as at March 31, 1979.
1/   Net of cancellation; US$3.5 million of the original US$63.0 million Loan
was cancelled on October 19, 1978.
2/   This loan was declared effective on April 30, 1979.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Loan No. 1438-KE - Third Industrial Development Bank Project: US$20.0
million Loan of June 22, 1977; Effective Date: November 10, 1977;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
This loan was declared effective on November 19, 1977. Two sub-projects
have been approved. As at March 31, 1979, US$5.9 million had been com-
mitted and US$2.2 million had been disbursed.
Credit No. 750-KE - Small Scale Industry Project: US$10.0 milion
Credit of November 28, 1977; Effective Date: June 26, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Measures to increase Kenya Industrial Estates' (KIE) capital have
been finalized. Key project staff have been recruited, but KIE's financial
staff requires further strengthening. KIE's guidelines for appraisal of
subprojects, revised to reflect IDA's comments, have now been approved. As
at March 31, 1979, four subloans had been approved.
URBAN SECTOR
Credit No. 543-KE/Loan No. 1105-KE - Sites and Services Project:
US$8.0 million Credit and US$8.0 million Loan of May 6, 1975; Effective
Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Overall project execution continues to be satisfactory but there are
mounting delays in implementation. Infrastructure has been completed for the
first 1,000 plots and most beneficiaries have constructed satisfactory houses.
Infrastructure for an additional 2,700 plots is about 30% complete and tender-
ing is underway for construction of infrastructure for the remaining 2,300
plots. Cost recovery continues to be good. One primary school is now opera-
tional, but all other community facilities are behind schedule. Two markets
have been tendered, and tender documents for the remaining four markets, two
community centers and a sports complex are ready for tendering. One health
center is under construction; however, the Bank does not plan to disburse
against its costs as its design was too expensive and was not approved by the
Bank. The design of the other health center should be submitted for approval
soon. Technical assistance components are completed or scheduled for comple-
tion in conjunction with the project. Project costs remain close to appraisal
estimates although minor cost overruns are foreseen for the remaining compo-
nents of the project.
Credit No. 791-KE/Loan No. 1550-KE - Second Urban Project: US$25.0
million Credit and US$25.0 million Loan of May 5, 1978; Effective Date:
October 3, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Progress in implementation of the project is generally satisfactory.
Consultants for detailed design and engineering of Phase I sites in all three
cities are making good progress. Appointment of consultants for Phase II
sites is substantially accomplished and design work should begin shortly.
The Housing Development Departments are operational in all three cities
(Nairobi, Mombasa and Kisumu) with most of the key posts filled in Mombasa
and Kisumu. Recruitment of other staff is underway. Progress in meeting



- 39 -                        ANNEX II
disbursement conditions is slow, and progress on studies included in the
project is also slower than expected. Municipal finance reforms have been
delayed pending Cabinet approval of a paper on the subject.
WILDLIFE AND TOURISM SECTOR
Loan No. 1304T-KE - Wildlife and Tourism Project: US$17.0 million LoL.i
of July 9, 1976; Effective Date: November 10, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982
After initial delays, project implementation is accelerating.
Officers for the Project Management Unit have been appointed, and six key
Wildlife Planning Unit positions have been filled. The Ministry of Works has
appointed various consultants for the design and construction of all physical
project components. The draft final report of the Tourism Pricing Study is
under review. Progress on the Very Large Herbivores Study has been delayed,
however, because of differences which have developed between the consultant
partners; the Government has requested that the primary signatory firm on
the contract prepare a revised proposal and a revised slate of consultants.
Satisfactory agreements have been reached with the Amboseli ranchers on
guaranteed minimum returns, thus meeting the disbursement condition relating
to this component. The anti-poaching units are fully staffed and deployed,
and initial effectiveness of the units appears satisfactory. Draft amendments
to the Wildlife (Conservation and Management) Act of 1976 to fulfill the
requirements of the supplementary letter giving detailed proposals for anti-
poaching operations have been approved by the Ministry of Wildlife and Tourism
and are now in the final stages of processing.
East African Community
There are currently five projects in execution in the East African
Community. 1/
Loan No. 638-EA - Second Harbours Project: US$35.0 million Loan
of August 25, 1969; Date of Effectiveness; December 16, 1969;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Loan No. 865-EA - Third Harbours Project: US$26.5 million Loan of
December 18, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: April 16, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1978
The Second Harbours project included financing for five general
cargo berths and a single bay tanker terminal for the Port of Dar es Salaam;
1/   Since October 1, 1977,the East African Community loans (excluding the
East African Development Bank) have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. The agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as proposed in a report to the Executive
Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and approved on January 12,
1978, is given in this annex. The Closing Dates for Loans 638-EA,
674-EA and 865-EA have passed. However, since the amount allocated
to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly identified under
the terms of the agreement signed on January 25, 1978, as proposed
in the above report (R77-312), we are continuing disbursements.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
two general cargo berths and a bulk cement wharf for Mombasa; tugs, lighters,
cargo handling equipment, offices, housing and general improvements for both
ports. The Third Harbours project included three new deep water berths,
modernization of two berths and a lighterage quay, a training school building
and central repair area for Dar es Salaam; modernization of several berths and
a ligherage quay, construction of a tug berth, cold storage facilities and a
training building in Mombasa and improvement of a lighterage quay in Tanga.
Construction of all major project elements has been completed and a joint
project completion report was issued in January 1979. Because of shortage
of funds under both loans, the following minor project elements have not
been submitted for Bank financing: the second phase of modernization of the
lighterage quay and a training school for Dar es Salaam; and modernization
of the lighterage quay and a training school for Mombasa. Locally financed
contracts have been awarded for these project elements with the exception of
the modernization of the lighterage quay in Mombasa. General cargo throughput
has increased above appraisal forecasts for Dar es Salaam, and cargo handling
productivity has improved with increasing throughput; however, port labor
productivity has stagnated in Mombasa where general cargo throughput has
declined considerably. Legislation to establish a Tanzania Harbours Authority
and a Kenya Ports Authority has been enacted. Management of ports in both
countries is competent. Some US$34.3 million of Loan 638-EA and US$25.4
million of Loan 865-EA has already been disbursed. The agreed allocation of
undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977 between the countries concerned is given
below:
For Loan No. 638-EA              (US$ million)
Kenya                            0.7
Tanzania                         0.6
Total                        1.3
For Loan No. 865-EA
Kenya                          1.7
Tanzania                       0.3
Total                     2.0
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million Loan
of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30, 1970;
Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-1972 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative and
political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the Executive
Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of the Loan to be



- 41 -
ANNEX II
used for consultant services and emergency investments in track material. All
three countries have now enacted legislation to establish their own Railways
Corporations. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds at October 1, 1977
among the various countries concerned is given below:
(US$ Million)
Kenya               2.0
Tanzania            3.8
Uganda              1.9
Total               7.7
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5 million
Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness - September 19, 1973;
Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and subscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items, except the microwave radio system, have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage in the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of head-
quarters. At March 31, 1979, about US$27.1 million of the loan had been
disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1977
among the countries concerned is as follows:
(US$ Million)
Kenya                2.4
Tanzania             3.5
Uganda               0.1
Total                6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0 million
Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7, 1976;
Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed, but there has been some improvement in
the state of the portfolio with the arrears affected portfolio falling from
50% as of June 30, 1977 to 43% as of March 31, 1978. Some US$7.2 million of
the loan has been disbursed to date, and the uncommitted balance amounts to
US$3.0 million.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
D. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT IN KENYA AS AT
March 31, 1979
Fiscal Year        Obligor               Type of Business   Amount in US$ Million
Loan   Equity   Total
1967, 1968
*        and 1973        Kenya Hotel Properties   Hotels                5.2      0.7     5.9
1970, 1974                              11
and 1977        Pan African Paper Mills--Pulp and Paper    13.1        6.3    19.4
1972           Tourism Promotion
Services                 Hotels               2.4       -      2.4
1976           Rift Valley Textiles
Ltd.                     Textiles             6.3     2.8      9.1
1977           Kenya Commercial Bank
Ltd.                     Capital Market       2.0      -       2.0
Total Gross Commitments                    29.0     9.8    38.8
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                     8.8      1.8    10.6
Total Commitments now held by IFC          20.2     8.0    28.2
Total Undisbursed                           1.3      -       1.3
/1   Excludes loan of US$4.1 million approved on December 21, 1978 but not yet
signed. Signature of loan is expected to take place in April 1979.



- 43 -
ANNEX III
KENYA - SMALLHOLDER COFFEE IMPROVEMENT PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.        Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare:              About 14 months
(b)  Preparation by:                     Ministry of Agriculture
(c)  Initial Discussion with Bank:       October 1976
(d)  First Bank Mission:                 March 1978
(e)  Appraisal Mission Departure:        May 1978
(f)  Negotiations:                       February 1979
(g)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:    September 1979
II.       Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III.      Special Conditions
(1) Government would ensure that appropriate provisions
would be made for the operation and maintenance of
factories, buildings, equipment and vehicles during
and after the project period (para 58).
(2) The annual work programs for implementation of the
project would be prepared and submitted to IDA for
review; the first year's work program was submitted
in April 1979, and for subsequent years during project
implementation, the work programs would be submitted
by March 15 (para 69).
(3) Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the
Government and CBK with terms and conditions satis-
factory to IDA and fulfillment of all conditions
precedent to the effectiveness of the CDC Loan
Agreement would be a condition of credit effective-
ness (para 71 and 86).
(4) Government would implement recommended changes to
monitoring and evaluation procedures by July 1,
1979 (para 79).



- *l; ,->) ~~~~~Fergusmn Gulf/ Q|L'i AG R / <-,
|iB~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 AK,.  TA el|ob
' ; Z ';C l/:r i S 3 , \ 1 ^ 9 \ i V f kRsAbi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  0'g .
,:0--(: :r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
t.e.r - e.t -t tveti s~~~~~L ,sVA L   L EY4  '   \ -
g e ! - a W 's ~~~~N 0  
,i : _ , of Zi  II  Z Ig 2i FP iit A;  iT                                                        e2SI k'
d; At  i -ir2^4sXc  pt t  fflrn ui  Xf;0e  EriS    3 S Vi +-<Ars4\  1    \\   <\  X         \                               --<LW;~~io
0~ ~~~~~EN   C      t AiNE i    L              ,,                 '''i
i::  : ;' F YTL es, ; ;L, :d. :;.:       tA  F>j,9\;_
| . : | t Lrw b Q ' ~~~~~E                                                                                        R    >NF  FiZC';;C,i0         *'Q'\|'~~\~~x-   x
0~~~~~~~~ E GC ;= ;  A!  i   ,   :;.'  l KII )
NrANrdaUN X i : ~~~~~~.                                        BU
NtEn       /     g f;                     \                               \ /                  It  Provinc al Cavitas~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
4'     " TrY                                                       Y\                                     .'M.A85                                   $lsgd7s4
T                                                 N/\K/t                rBBS                    rmr od
tieW,  !o4 NDl WY$tde\r                                                                                                     U7 io g  -ScOd r                    S d
ft~~~~~~~~~~~N csK                              NAprvttdlo                                                I 0 t   D 7Os / IDg
SXTwtxtz f . ~~~~~~~~~Af l  - R''  alwy
todbwwfwr;ns87w Rt wwI                                                                                              TAPI  Pi VERM
WarTtYanxandflszif!htsV   AZ              d, L    E     7m Y   P  g Dd    !J                                       ,-                        - XnenooflbUc
lIWI7NIOr                                                   T^LS'
{lttYttSN~~~~~~~~~~~~v                               twtJ tefyf\tO ltitbudr
§tttRYrVttFS099w    CoW                                                                                 Lare    aet 



