CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 914 KE
Developnent Credit                                 eement
(Smallholder Coffee Improvement Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 11, 1979
S-.~-'.~-,~


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 914 KE
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 11, 1979, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Commonwealth
Development Corporation a loan (hereinafter called the CDC Loan)
in an amount of about £7,500,000 (equivalent to about fifteen
miilion dollars ($15,000,000)) to assist in the financing of Part
A of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an
agreement (hereinafter called the CDC Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Commonwealth Development
Corporation;
(C) it is proposed that proceeds of the Credit and of the
CDC Loan, together with the funds to be provided by the Borrower,
should be made available by the Borrower in accordance with the
Financing Plan hereinafter aefined; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the


﻿-2 -
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "CBK" means the Co-operative Bank of Kenya Limited, a
body corporate established under the Co-operative Societies Act
(Cap. 490, Laws of Kenya).
(b) "CRF" means the Coffee Research Foundation, a body
corporate registered as a Company Limited by Guarantee under the
Companies Act (Cap. 486, Laws of Kenya).
(c) "CBOK" means the Coffee Board of Kenya, a board estab-
lished under the Coffee Act (Cap. 333, Laws of Kenya).
(d) "Co-operative, Society" means 'a society established as a
body corporate under the said Co-operative Societies Act being a
primary society as therein defined, membership of which is
restricted to individual persons.
(e) "Co-operative Union" means a district co-operative union
established as a body corporate under the sdid Co-operative
Societies Act, being a co-operative union as therein defined of
which the membership is restricted to primary societies.
(f) "Financing Plan" means the financing plan set forth in
Schedule 7 hereto, as the same may be amended from time to time by
the parties hereto.
(g) "IADP Agreement" means the Development Credit Agreement
(Integrated Agricultural Development Project) dated July 9, 1976,
between the Borrower and the Association.
(h) "IADP Unit" means the Unit described in Section 3.02 of
the IADP Agreement.
(i) "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture.
(j) "MOCD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Co-operative
Development.
(k) "Project" and references to "Parts" thereof mean the
Project and Parts thereof described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment.


﻿-3-
(1) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CBK puisuint to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, ahd such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(m) "Subsidiary Loan" means the Subsidiary Loan As defined
in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(n) "Work Plan" means a plan for carrying out a portion
of the Project which shall be or has been submitted by the Bor-
rower to the Association pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-seven million dollars ($27,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account, in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1984, or
such later date as the Association shall establish.     The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿71
4-
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each May 15
and November 15 commencing November 15, 1989, and ending May 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
May 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such
principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Sta. 's of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.U2 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
and cause it to be carried out with due diligence and efficiency
and in conformity with the provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement and appropriate agri-
cultural, engineering and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds referred to in the Financing Plan,
together with such other funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
(b) (i) Not later than March 15, 1980, and thereafter not
later than March 15 in each succeeding year, the
Borrower shall submit to the Association for its
review and comments a Work Plan covering the period
of 12 months commencing on the following July 1.
(ii) Each Work Plan shall set out the detailed proposals
of the Borrower for the carrying out of the Project
in the period to which it relates. For such pur-
pose, and except as the Association may otherwise
agree, such Work Plan shall satisfy the require-
ments described in Part A of Sch.dule 4 to this
Agreement, and contain the information described in
Part B thereof.
(iii) Upon the review and comments of the Association on
each Work Plan, the Borrower shall make such


﻿-5-
revisions thereto as may be appropriate, having due
regard to such review and comments, and, except as
the Association may otherwise agree, shall carry
out the Project in the year in question on the
basis of such Work Plan, as so revised.
(c) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its
other obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the
Borrower shall cause CBK to perform in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action, including
the provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources,
necessary or appropriate to enable CBK to perform such obliga-
tions, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which
would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(d) The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit
withdrawn under Categories (1) and (2) of paragraph 1 of Schedule
1 to this Agreement and the proceeds of the CDC Loan to CBK under
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Bor-
rower and CBK under terms and conditions which shall have been
approved by the Association.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(f) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit with-
drawn: (i) for procurement of vehicles included in Part B (2) of
the Project available to CBK; and (ii) for Part C of the Project
to CRF, in each case on such terms as the Borrower may determine.
Section 3.02. (a) Each loan made by CBK pursuant to Part A of
the Project shall be made on the basis of the appraisal report
relating thereto referred to in Part A.1 (8) of Schedule 4 hereto,
which shall be submitted by the applicant to CBK and shall estab-
lish the justification of the proposed loan.
(b) The agreements under which funds are lent by CBK to
Co-operative Societies (both directly and through Co-operative
Unions) for construction and rehabilitation of factories under
Part A of the Project shall, except as the Association may other-
wise agree, be on the following terms:


﻿-6-
I        II
(i) Disbursement period: up to 18 months;
(ii) Repayment period: up to ten years (including
grace period);
(iii) Grace period: up to 18 months; and
(iv) Interest rate to the Co-operative Society: not
less than  10% per annum;
and shall otherwise be on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) Each loan made by CBK pursuant to Part B of
the Project shall include a provision whereby the sub-loans to be
made by the Co-operative Society to coffee farmers shall each be
made on the basis of an evaluation to be carried out by MOA estab-
lishing the justification of the proposed sub-loan, copies of
which evaluation shall, upon its request, be made available to
the Association.
(b) The agreements under which funds are lent by CBK to
Co-operative Societies (both directly and through Co-operative
Unions) and by Co-operative Societies to coffee farmers for reha-
bilitation of coffee farms under Part B of the Project shall,
except as the Association may otherwise agree, be on the following
terms:
(i) Disbursement period: up to four years;
(ii) Repayment period: up to seven years (including
grace period);
(iii) Grace period: up to four years; and
(iv) Interest rate to the coffee farmer: not less than
10% per annum;
and shall otherwise be on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall appoint the staff indi-
cated in Schedule 5 to this Agreement under terms of reference
which, to the extent indicated therein, shall be satisfactory to
the Association. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
such staff shall devote substantially full time to Project activi-
ties.


﻿-7-
(b) The Borrower shall ensure at all times that there are
appointed to the positions of Project Manager within the IADP Unit
and the Project Coordinator within the MOCD, persons with appro-
priate qualifications and experience.
(c) The IADP Unit shall coordinate the planning, implemen-
tation, and evaluation of the Project, including preparation of
proposed Work Plans, procurement and distribution of farm inputs,
purchase of equipment, construction of buildings, Project staff-
ing, credit facilities, marketing of Project farmers' output,
and accounting for Project expenditures; and monitor closely
the implementation of the Project.
(d) The Interministerial Coordinating Committee described
in Section 3.03 of the IADP Agreement shall be responsible for the
approval of proposed and final Work Plans and quarterly reports on
the Project, review of Project progress and resolution of differ-
ences among agencies Darticipating in the Project in accordance
with the provisions of such Agreement.
For purposes of this Project, the chief executives of CBOK,
of the Kenya Planters Co-operative Union and of CRF shall be
appointed to the Interministerial Coordinating Committee.
In the event that any agency of the Borrower involved in the
Project fails substantially to comply with the Work Plan at the
time in forcc, the IADP Unit shall advise such agency accordingly
and consult with the agency involved. If this fails to resolve
the problem, the IADP Unit shall bring the matter to the attention
of the chairman of such Committee who shall promptly refer the
matter to the Committee for final decision.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take the actions described
in Schedule 6 to this Agreement by July 1, 1979, or such later
date(s) as the Association may agree, to improve the monitoring
and evaluation section of the IADP Unit.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-8-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and proce-
dures adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and
any relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Association at regular intervals all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its
cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it,
the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and
services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the
Association a report, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to
be derived from it, the performance by the Borrower and the
Association of their respective obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for the construction and operation of the facilities
included in the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
if the Association shall so request, evidence satisfactory to
the Association that such land and rights in respect of land
are available for purposes related to the Project.


﻿-VP
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained separate records adequate to reflect in accordance
with  consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices
the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of:
(a) the IADP Unit, for the entire Project;
(b) MOCD's Department of Co-operative Development for Parts
A (4), E (1) and E (2) of the Project;
(c) CRF for Parts A (4), C (1) and C (2) of the Project;
(d)/ CBK for Parts A (1), A (2), A (3), B. (1) and B (2) of
the Project;
(e) MOA for Part D (1) of the Project; and
(f) Each Co-operative Union and Society participating in the
Project for their respective activities in connection therewith.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause each of the
institutions referred to in Section 4.01 of this Agreement to
maintain records adequate to reflect, in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices, its operations
and financial condition.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) cause each such institution to
have the separate accounts respectively referred to in sub-section
(a) of this Section for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any caser not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A certified
copies of the accounts referred to in Section 4.01 (a) for such
year as so audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Associa-
tion such other information concerning such accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿IIMJ!J1  -     0                                                I  I-.                         -
-10 -
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause CBK to maintain
separate accounts reflecting all expenditures on account of which
withdrawals are requested from the Credit Account on the basis
of certificates of expenditure.
(b) The Borrower shall cause CBK to retain, until five years
after the Closing Date, all records (orders, invoices, bills,
receipts and other documents) evidencing the expenditures on
account of whgich withdrawals are requested from the Credit
Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure and shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to examine
such records.
(c) The Borrower shall cause CBK to: (i) have the separate
accounts referred to in paragraph (ca) of this Section for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing prin-
ciples consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable
to the Association; (ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than six months after the end
of each such year,, ,crtified copy of the report of such audit by
such auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation to
the foregoing, a separate opinion by said auditors in respect of
the expenditures and records referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section as to whether the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from
the Credit -Account on the basis of certificates of expenditure
have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
said separate accounts, records and expenditures and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (i) cause the factories,
buildings, vehicles, equipment and other goods included in the
Project to be operated and maintained in accordance with sound
agricultural and engineering practices; (ii) cause all necessary
renewals and repairs thereof to be made; and (iii) take appro-
priate administrative and financial measures for the purpose of
such operation and maintenance.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿17
- 11 -
(a) the Borrower or CBK shall have failed to perform any of
its respective obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement in
a manner materially and adversely affecting the carrying out of
the Project or the interests of the Association;
(b) the organization, powers or responsibilities of CBK
shall have been terminated or altered so as to affect materially
and adversely the carrying out by CBK of any of its respective
obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
(c) (i) subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the CDC Loan or the right of CBK
to withdraw the proceeds of the Subsidiary
Loan shall have been suspended, cancelled or
terminated in whole or in part, pursuant to
the terms of the CDC Loan Agreement or the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement, respectively, or
(B) the CDC Loan or the Subsidiary Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
m_,Lurity thereof;
(ii) subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if, in relation to the CDC Loan:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement; and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, The following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragrap. (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
.this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Borrower to
CBK; and


﻿-12-
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) (i) (B) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and CBK; and
(b) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
CDC Loan Agreement have been fulfilled save only the effective-
ness of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower
and CBK and is legally binding upon the Borrower and CBK in
accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date October 11, 1979, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
4.01, 4.02 and 4.03 and the provisions of Section 5.02 of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower for the time being
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.


﻿-13-
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Treasury
P.O. Box 30007
Nairobi, Kenya
Cable address:                      Telex:
FINANCE                            22003
Nairobi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
By /s/ John P. Mbogua
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Amounts disbursed by          6,500,000        32%
CBK for factory con-
struction and reha-
bilitation loans
(2) Amounts disbursed by         12,600,000        95%
CBK for farm input
loans, including labor
(3) Construction of                 300,000        40%
buildings under Part
C of the Project
(4) Vehicles and equip-             700,000        70%
ment (other than
factory equipment)
(5) Training under Parts            900,000        70%
A (4), C (2), D
and E (1) of the
Project
(6) Unallocated                   6,000,000
TOTAL                  27,000,000
2.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied


﻿-15-
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $450,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3), (4) and
(5) on account of payments made for such expenditures before
that date but after September 1, 1978.
4.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
5.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's
reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 2
The Project
The Project consists of the following Parts which shall be
carried out in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule,
Article III of this Agreement and Work Plans:
Part A:   Coffee Factory Construction, Rehabilitation and
Management (MOA and CBK)
(1) Provision of credit by CBK to Co-operative Societies,
directly and through Co-operative Unions, for, and con-
struction of, about 14 new 3-disc factories each having
the capacity to process not less than 120 tons of coffee
cherry per week at peak coffee production.
(2) (a) Provision of credit by CBK as aforesaid for, and
rehabilitation of, about 400 existing factories,
including resiting and rebuilding about 50 of
these.
(b) Provision of credit by CBK as aforesaid for, and
construction of, about 50 mechanical drying units
located within factories referred to in Part A (1)
or (2) (a) hereof.
(3) The provision of credit under Part A (1) and (2) hereof
shall include the financing of water treatment and
recirculation equipment and civil works sufficient to
enable the factories to comply with the Borrower's Water
Act (Cap. 372, Laws of Kenya).
(4) Training by CRF and MOCD of about 1,180 factory
managers, 560 factory clerks and produce recorders
and 26 factory technicians.
Part B:   Credit for Rehabilitation of Coffee Farms
(MOA, CBK, CBOK)
(1) Provision of credit by CBK to Co-operative Societies,
directly and through Co-operative Unions, for onlending
to coffee farmers to rehabilitate their coffee holdings.


﻿- 17 -
(2) Strengthening and expanding CBK's credit services
through appointment of additional staff and provision
of vehicles.
Part C:   Coffee Research Foundation (CRF)
(1) Provision of additional research facilities (including
la 3ratories, staff housing, vehicles, equipment and
staff) to CRF and improvement of the training facilities
at CRF's Jacaranda Farm.
(2) Developing and initial operation of training programs
for coffee extension officers and for the factory
managers referred to in Part A (4) to quickly transmit
research findings to farmers and factory managers.
Part D:   Extension Services and Training (MOA)
Strengthening coffee extension services of MOA through
provision of training, office equipment, vehicles and staff; and
training coffee farmers through field courses and demonstrations.
Part E:   Department of Co-operative Development (MOCD)
(1) Strengthening the Department of Co-operative Development
within the MOCD so as to increase the Department's
capacity to assist Co-operative Unions and Societies
participating in the Project through provision of staff,
office equipment and vehicles.
(2) Training of the factory clerks and produce recorders
referred to in Part A (4) and of Co-operative Society
managers and committee members.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1983.
<I1T


﻿-18-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender documents relating thereto, as the case
may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and detail and
containing such information as the Association shall reasonably
request; the Association will arrange for the publication of such
notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied
goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use shall be included.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Inputs and tools for use by coffee farmers financed out of
credit made available out of the proceeds of the credit may be
procured through normal trade channels or in accordance with
procedures applicable to agencies of the Borrower.


﻿- 19 -
2.   Civil works costing not more than $10,000 equivalent may be
carried out by force account.
3.   Miscellaneous equipment and supplies costing not more than
$10,000 equivaleat may be procured through normal trade channels
or in accordance with procedures applicable to agencies of the
Borrower.
4.   Vehicles which cannot be procured through bulk contracts for
10 or more vehicles and other goods and civil works not referred
to in paragraphs 1, 2 or 3 hereof shall be procured in accordance
with local competitive bidding procedures applicable to agencies
of the Borrower.
C.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of vehicles in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, vehicles manufac-
tured in Kenya, if any, may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of vehicles
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the
information required to establish the eligibility of a bid for
such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering vehicles manufactured in
Kenya if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such vehicles
includes a value added in Kenya equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such vehicles.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering vehicles manufac-
tured in Kenya.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other vehicles.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import


﻿-20-
taxes on vehicles to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on vehicles to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
vehicles offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the vehicles offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
vehicles if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such
price. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from
group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equiv-
alent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, or its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in suf-
ficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation


﻿- 21 -
and comparison of the bids received, and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.    Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension
or change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the pro-
visions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 4
Work Plans
(Section 3.01 (b))
Part A:   Work Plan Requirements
I.   Contents
(1) Project budget for the period covered including:
(a) in respect of each agency involved in the Project:
(i) proposed capital expenditures (e.g. on vehi-
cles, equipment, and civil works); and (ii) all
proposed recurrent expenditures on salaries, fuel,
repairs and maintenance directly attributable to
Project activities;
(b) proposed provincial administrative budgets and
district administrative budgets for the Project,
each detailing at the provincial and district
levels respectively the items specified in (a) (i)
and (ii); and
(c) estimated credit to be supplied by CBK for Parts
A (1), (2) and (3) and Part B (1) of the Project,
indicating for each Co-operative Society the
amount, allocated to Part A or B, interest rate and
repayment dates of each proposed loan to each Co-
operative Society.
(2) Work, procurement, staffing and training plans, includ-
ing programs for each district involved.
(3) Proposed table covering the categories of items listed
in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and indi-
cating, in respect of each such item, the amount of the
Credit proposed to be allocated thereto to cover the
percentage of expenditures to be financed out of the
Credit for the fiscal year to which such Work Plan
relates.
(4) Any proposed variation from the procurement procedures
described in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿- 23-
(5) The amounts to be lent to CBK pursuant to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement.
(6) The Work Plan shall include confirmation that each of
the Co-operative Societies included in the Work Plan is
capable of carrying out the project assigned to it
thereby in accordance with adequate financial and
administrative practices. Such confirmation shall be
given for each Society by MOCD, CBK, MOA and the Co-
operative Union of which such Society is a member.
(7) The Work Plan shall include provision for the ordering
of farm inputs by not later than six months before
anticipated date of use.
(8) Each loan included in the Work Plan to be made by
CBK pursuant to Part A (1), (2) or (3) of the Project
to a Co-operative Society (either directly or through
a Co-operative Union) shall be made on the basis of
an appraisal report establishing the justification of
the proposed loan, to be prepared by MOCD on behalf of
such Co-operative Society and submitted to, and approved
by, the Committee referred to in Part A4II (2) hereof.
II. Procedures
(1) Appointment of Coordinators.   Provincial  and  District
Project Coordinators shall be appointed not later than
June 1 preceding the participation of the district in
the subsequent crop season.
(2) District Work Plans shall be submitted to the IADP Unit
through the Provincial Coordinating Committee, referred
to in the IADP Agreement, by the District Agricultural
Officer (DAO) who shall, by signing the District Work
Plan, certify that it has been considered in full
committee and approved by a District IADP Coordinating
Committee, as so referred to, consisting of the DAO, as
chairman, District Co-operative Officer, District IADP
Coordinator, as secretary, Co-operative Union Manager,
District Development Officer and District Coffee
Officers.
(3) The proposed Work Plan signed by the head of the IADP
Unit shall be submitted to the Association by the IADP


﻿-24-
Unit, and shall also be signed by the chairman of the
interministerial coordinating committee, for IADP who
shall in this capacity, act as a representative of the
Borrower for purposes of Section 11.03 of' the General
Conditions, and who shall by so signing, certify that
the proposed Work Plan has been considered in full
committee and approved by such committee.
(4) By signing the Work Plan as aforesaid, the head of the
IADP Unit shall be deemed to have certified that the
confirmation referred to in Section I (6) hereof have
been duly given.
Part B:   Supporting Information to be Furnished
to the Association
(1) In respect of each disttict proposed to be assisted in
the period to which the proposed Work Plan relates,
the following:
(a) Name of district.
(b) Number of participating farmers and the basis of
their selection.
(c) Soil and water conservation measures proposed for
the location.
(d) Description of annual increase in physical devel-
opment (number of hectares).
(e) Description of exact input package recommended for
district.
(f) Quantities of farm inputs required.
(g) Names, locations, financial status, management,
supervision, and auditing arrangements for Co-
operative Society (or Societies) and Union(s)
which will supply farm inputs and marketing
services in each participating district.
(h) Location of each relevant input distribution and
marketing center, and maximum distances from par-
ticipating farmers.


﻿- 25 -
(i) Numbers of extension staff and ratio to partici-
pating farmers.
(j) Training program for farmers in current and subse-
quent years, and names of Farmer Training Centers
responsible for such training.
(k) Amounts of credit subdivided as to purposes, e.g.:
(i) fertilizers;
(ii) planting material;
(iii) insecticides and disease control inputs;
(iv) labor;
(v) tools; and
(vi) other.
(1) Adequacy of processing facilities and names and
capacities of participating coffee factories.
(m) Plans for construction and rehabilitation of coffee
factories in district involved.
(n) On request of the Association, a copy of the
Appraisal Reports referred to in Part A.1 (8) of
this Schedule.
(2) The following information aggregated from the foregoing:
(a) Number of districts.
(b) Number of farmers.
(c) Anticipated physical development.
(d) Inputs required, analyzed as to fertilizers, plant-
ing material, insecticides, disease control inputs,
labor, tools and others.


﻿- 26 -
(e) Credit amounts by source.
(f) Staff changes and appointments proposed.
(g) Aggregate processing capacity of factories
involved.
(3) All Project quarterly reports not previously furnished
the Association to and including the last quarter ending
prior to the submission of the proposed Work Plan.
I J


﻿- 27 -
SCHEDULE 5
Project Staffing (Section 3.04)
Agency/Post
MOA                        Level I'                      Level 1/
1 - Project Manager 2/      [L]     17 - Factory
2 - Provincial Coffee                     Technicians /   [J]
Officers /             [K]      1 - Accountant       [J]
9 - District Coffee                  3 - Accounts
Officers ./Z 3/        [J]           Assistants      [G]
4 - Provincial Factory
Engineers Z/$ 3/       [L]
CRF
4 - Research Officers                3 - Advisory Officers
2 - Field Officers                   2 - Technicians
1 - Training Officer                 6 - Field Assistants
2 - Laboratory
Assistants
CBK
3 - Field Loan Supervisors 2/
MOCD
1 - Assistant                       10 - Assistant
Commissioner                         Co-operative
(Project Coordi-                     Officers 2/     [G]
nator) .   2*        [L]   20 - Co-operative
1 - Senior Co-operative                   Assistants -V   [F]
Officer*               [K]      7 - Coffee Audit
1 - Accountant              [J]           Officers 2/     [K]
1 - (Transport) Pl nning
Officer 27  3*         [K]
1/   Standard Kenya Civil Service Job Grades.
2/   Terms of reference to be satisfactory to the Association.
3/   These officers shall be appointed prior to the Project start-
up activities in their respective Provinces and Districts.
*    These personnel shall be appointed by July 1, 1979.
qI


﻿- 28 -
SCHEDULE 6
Monitoring and Evaluation Section
of the IADP Unit
The Borrower shall take the following actions to improve the
monitoring and evaluation performance of the IADP Unit:
A.   Revising and Implementing of the Proforma Survey
(Agency Questionnaire)
1.   Revise forms to conform with basic information requirements
and recommend new timetables for submission (taking into
account the minimum requirements and minimum work loads on
the agencies).
2.   Present the revised forms to the Interministerial Committee
for approval.
3.   Discuss the revised forms with and train agencies' staff
responsible for the periodic completion of survey.
4.   Receive first agency reports and follow-up on delinquencies.
5.   Analyze and prepare aggregated report.
6.   Circulate the report or the proforma analysis to all manage-
ment heads and Interministerial Coordinating Committee.
7.   Subsequently consolidate reports with farm survey and prepare
semiannual analysis.
B.   Improving and Finalizing the Farm Survey System
1.   Determine software and hardware needs for processing the sur-
vey data.
2.   Obtain necessary personnel (hiring consultants - use of
central computer system or adapt to the Hewlett-Packard
system and test run first analysis).
3.   Prepare narrative analysis of processed data from survey to
attach to tabular materials.
4.   Circulate the report on the Farm Survey to all management
heads and to the Interministerial Coordinating Committee.


﻿- 29 -
C.   Other Improvements
1.   Employ under Part D of the Project a senior evaluator/analyst
to develop inter-active programs to compare proforma data
with farm survey data.
2.   Develop a capability for ad hoc field studies to react to
special problems.
3.   Consult key officials for their information needs, in parti-
cipating agencies and respond to their information require-
ments.
4.   Communicate -ertically with officials at the provincial and
district level both within MOA and CBK.
4


﻿Jx
- 30 -
SCHEDULE 7
Financing Plan
(expressed in millions of US$ equivalent)
Kenya
(including Co-
Category                perative Societies) IDA   CDC Total
A.   Factory construction
and rehabilitation
loans                            11.0         6.5 11.6 29.1
B.   Farm input loans                  0.7        12.6   -   13.3
C.   Construction of build-
ing under Part C of the
Project                           0.5         0.3   -    0.8
D.   Vehicles and equipment
(other than factory
equipment)                       0.3         0.7    -    1.0
E.   Recurrent costs (MOA,
MOCD, CBK, CRF)                   2.5          -    -    2.5
F.   Training                          0.4        0.9    -    1.3
G.   Unallocated                       4.8        6.0   3.4 14.2
20.2        27.0 15.0 62.2


