Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24794
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.4 MILLION
(US$4.48 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
INDEPENDENT STATE OF
SAMOA
FOR A
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND POSTAL SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
November 20, 2002
Global Information and Communication Technologies Department
East Asia and Pacific Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 09/09/2002)
Currency Unit = Western Samoa Tala (WST)
I WST = US$0.298
US$1 = WST 3.3557047
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARPU                Average revenue per user
BPIP                Borrowers project implementation plan
CAS                 Country Assistance Strategy
CQ                  Consultant qualifications
FDI                 Foreign direct investment
FMR                 Financial monitoring reports
FY                  Fiscal year
GDP                 Gross domestic product
GOS                 Government of Samoa
IC                  Individual consultant
ICB                 International competitive bidding
ICT                 Information communications technologies
IDA                 International Development Association
ISP                 Internet service provider
ITU                 International Telecommunications Union
LC                  Least cost
MOPT                Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
NPV                 Net present value
OBA                 Output based aid
PMT                 Project management team
PSC                 Project steering committee
QCBS                Quality and cost-based selection
RFP                 Request for proposal
SOE                 Statement of expenditure
TD                  Treasury Department
TOR                 Terms of reference
TSC                 Telecommunications Samoa Cellular
VAT                 Value added tax
WTO                 World Trade Organization
Vice President:    Jemal-ud-din Kassum
Country Director:    Klaus Rohland
Sector Manager:     Pierre A. Guislain
Task Team Leader:     Carlo Maria Rossotto



SAMOA
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND POSTAL SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                    Page
1. Project development objective                                                    2
2. Key performance indicators                                                       2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project   2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                       3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices               8
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                              10
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                   12
3. Benefits and target population                                                  13
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                   13
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                       15
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies       17
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                             17
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                                18
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                     18
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                        18
2. Financial                                                                       19
3. Technical                                                                       20
4. Institutional                                                                   20
5. Environmental                                                                   23
6. Social                                                                          23
7. Safeguard Policies                                                              24
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                  25
2. Critical risks                                                                  25



3. Possible controversial aspects                                                   26
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                          26
2. Other
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                        28
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                       27
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                        30
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                  35
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                       39
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary         40
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary  49
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                                                  59
(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements                        70
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                   77
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                 78
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                79
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                          81
Annex 11: Social Impact Assessment                                                     83
Annex 12: Summary of Financial Management Risk Assessment                              91
MAP(S)
IBRD 32090



SAMOA
Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Project Appraisal Document
East Asia and Pacific Region
CITPO
Date: November 20, 2002                           Team Leader: Carlo Maria Rossotto
Sector Manager/Director: Pierre A.Guislain        Sector(s): Telecommunications (50%), Postal services
Country Manager/Director: Xian Zhu               (40%), Law andjustice(10%)
Project ID: P075739                               Theme(s): Regulation and competition policy (P), Rural
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)  services and infrastructure (S), Other financial and private
sector development (S)
Project Financing Data
[ ] Loan    P(] Credit    [ Grant      [ Guarantee     [ ] Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): 4.48 million, equivalent SDR 34 million
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                            Local         Foreign        Total
BORROWER                                                       1.85           0.00          1.85
IDA                                                            0.00           4.48          4.48
Total:                                                         1.85           4.48          6.33
Borrower: INDEPENDENT STATE OF SAMOA
Responsible agency: MINISTRY OF POSTS AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS, SAMOA COMM LTD.
Treasury Department, Government of Samoa
Address: Private Bag, Apia, Samoa
Contact Person: Hinauri Petana, Financial Secretary
Tel: 685.34324 - 22984          Fax: 685.21312 - 24779          Email: hinauri@samoa.ws
Other Agency(ies):
Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications
Address: Private Bag, Apia, Samoa
Contact Person: Tua'imalo Asamu Ah Sam, Director
Tel: (685)26117           Fax: (685) 24671           Email: a.ahsam@samoa.ws
SamoaTel
Address: Private Bag, Apia, Samoa
Contact Person: Mark Yeoman, Chief Executive Officer
Tel: 694.22766           Fax: 685.23494            Email: myeoman@samcom.ws
Estimated Disbursements ( Bank FY/US$m):
FY          2003      2004       2005      2006       2007       2008
Annual      0.69      0.90       0.20       0.41      1.62       0.66
Cumulative     0.69       1.59       1.79      2.20       3.82      4.48
Project implementation period: five years
Expected effectiveness date: 04/15/2003  Expected closing date: 04/15/2008
OCS PAD F-r Ry Mh. 2XO



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
A. 1.1.    The objective of the project is to assist the Independent State of Samoa in improving the
performance of its telecommunications and postal sectors by (a) increasing competition and private
sector participation in the telecommunications and postal sectors, (b) strengthening its institutional and
regulatory capacities, and (c) enhancing the provision of these services in selected areas.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
Performance Indicators
A.2.1      The key performance indicators against which to measure the impact of the project are:
Indicators    2000    2001   2002    2003    2004   2005    2006    2007   2008
Total number of  10,600  11,500  12,500  15,000  20,000  26,000  35,000  40,000  46,000
customers (fixed
and mobile)
Number of     1,800  2,000   3,000   3,500  4,500   5,500   7,000  8,500   10,000
Internet
subscribers
Number of     1,450  1,500   1,500   1,800  2,400   3,200   4,200   5,000  6,000
telecomm
customers in rural
areas
Number of post  4.05    n.a.    n.a.   5.53    5.58    7.06   8.24    9.41   10.59
office mail boxes
per 100 inhabitant
(1)                             _
Postal quality of  n.a.  n.a    n.a.   85%     85%     85%     95%    95%     99%
service (2)                1
Number of     n.a.   24,286  20,000  17,000  14,500  12,000  11,000  10,500  10,000
inhabitant/full
postal service
outlet
Number of letter  4.5    5.4     6.3    6.9     7.6     8.8    10.1    11.I    12.2
item/inhabitant      I       I       I                      I
(1) Number of post office boxes actually in use
(2) Refers to the transit time between the moment the letter is deposited in the postal system and the moment it is
picked up by the recipient.
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: 20370-EAP Date of latest CAS discussion: Pacific Regional Strategy, May 2000
B.1.1.     There is no CAS for Samoa. A Pacific Island Strategy 2000, however, was discussed by the
Board. In the strategy, development of the postal and telecommunications sector is thought to be crucial,
and will create an environment in which Samoa can overcome the constraints shared with other small
states, including: economic and environmental vulnerability, changing global trade regimes, and lack of
- 2 -



institutional and human capacity. The potential for growth and job creation related to information
technologies and the Intemet is also consistent with the goal to provide sustainable and meaningful
economic and social opportunities and services.
Country Economic and Social Background.
B. 1.2.   Limited economic growth due to Samoa 's isolation and small size. Isolation and small size
have been recognized as key bottlenecks to developing the economies of small states. The report of the
Commonwealth Secretariat/World Bank Joint Task Force on small states, Small States: Meeting
Challenges in the Global Economy (Washington, April 17, 2000), underlines the economic and
administrative implications of isolation and remoteness, particularly when these are viewed in
conjunction with the small size of the countries. Samoa, with a population of just over 170,000, and a
land area of 2,935 sq. km, is included in the group of high-vulnerability countries--characterized by
highly volatile economic growth, dependency on a limited number of exports, and a lack of economic
diversification. Over the last five years, Samoa has enjoyed a relatively high growth rate (see Table B. 1).
However, gross domestic product (GDP) growth was unsteady, and the country was particularly
vulnerable to the contractions of the Asian economies from 1997 to 1999.
Table B.1: Gross Domestic Product
Series Name              1995  1996    1997   1998  1999    2000   2001
GDP in millions (constant 1995 $)  193.39 207.56 209.22 214.45 221.10 237.24  260.96
GDP per capita (constant 1995 $)  1,172  1,250  1,252  1,276  1,308  1,396  1,525
GDP per capita growth (annual %)  6     7      0       2     3       7      9
Source: World Development Indicators, World Bank, August 2002
B. 1.3.   An additional source of vulnerability is the high share of revenues from fishing over total
exports (around 55 percent). Development of the post and telecommunications sectors, and its impact on
job creation in the information communications technologies (ICT) industry, could benefit the growth of
the Samoan economy. On one hand it would allow Samoa to diversify its sources of income through the
development of ICT-based activities. These activities have business cycles that are unrelated to those of
traditional sectors, such as fishing. On the other hand, due to an expected fall in prices from more
efficient communications, the enhanced performance of the post and telecommunications sector will
reduce the economic isolation of the country, and will benefit major sectors of economic activity. At
present the government has recognized the potential of ICT to boost growth and employment. However,
the potential impact of ICT is currently constrained by the sector issues outlined in the next section.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Main Sector Issues
B.2. 1.   Limited coverage and access to the telecommunication network. Fixed-mainline telephone
penetration is 6.5 per 100 inhabitants, while on average penetration for other countries in the same
income class as Samoa is 12 percent, which would be equivalent to an additional 11,000 fixed-line
subscribers. Cellular penetration is around 1.7 percent, while penetration for other countries of the same
income class is over 5 percent. The existence of a waiting list for fixed-line and cellular services
(estimated to be in excess of 1,500 customers) confirms that there is room for growth. There is an issue
of access to communications services. For example, 75 percent of fixed lines are in Apia, the capital
- 3 -



city, where only 25 percent the total population lives. Fixed-line backbone infrastructure needs
upgrading and expansion. This constrains the coverage of both fixed line and cellular services,
especially in Savaii, where most of the island is without coverage. In addition to limited coverage
Samoa's network also suffers from poor quality of service, with 1.5 faults per line, per year (while an
efficient network in a developing country should have 0.1 faults per line, per year). The network is
congested and call completion rates are low. Both local access and long distance infrastructure need to
be upgraded, and are a constraint for service providers in the market.
B.2.2.    High communications costs hinder the competitiveness of the Samoan economy. The cost of
international voice calls is high and does not reflect the real cost of provision of service. For example, a
three-minute call from Samoa to the United States costs $4.20, while a similar call from Australia to the
United States costs $0.42. This contributes to Samoa's isolation and is a major obstacle to firms
operating in the export-oriented sectors. Leased lines are expensive at the domestic and international
levels. The retail price of a 64 kbps line is estimated to be 10 times more expensive than its cost. These
prices, through their impact on the operations of Internet service providers (ISPs), severely constrain the
growth of the Internet and ICTs in Samoa.
B.2.3.     Lack of adequate postal services. The collection and delivery of postal items by SamoaTel
are extremely limited, and well below the standards of universal service set by the Universal Postal
Union. There is no home or business delivery in Samoa; mail is delivered to mail boxes located in post
offices. Mail collection is limited to post offices, except for a few agents who pick up mail from office
buildings, and for individuals who are hired by companies to manage their mail. In Apia there is daily
delivery to post offices only, with once or twice weekly delivery to the other cities on the two main
islands. The postal network is limited; and aside from the Central Post Office, there are only six post
offices that are run by SamoaTel, and 29 points of service at which an agent holds the mail for local
residents to pick up at their convenience. Not including those points of service, the average number of
inhabitant per post office is 21,250, compared to 17,800 in Comoros; 2,400 in Fiji; and 11,500 in
Mauritius. Mail volume is fairly low with an average of six letters per capita, per year with a decreasing
trend, compared to 35 in Fiji, and 47 in Mauritius.
-4 -



Table B.2: Main Sector Indicators
Etlc  fcma etltme   NmilteraffIVie Operai          I       I        1        6          3         9         7         1        1        3
L    e .                                                         _ddcn  '  _
.i  servics                  M        M       NM        C         C          p         P          IM     M        MN
. msiic Long Disance         M        M       M         C         ...        P         P        M        M        .
lrtemaul ragDlitance sM               M       M         C         C          P        M         M        M        M
NdileArnag                   M        M       ...       C         C          P         C         C       M         D
Nhle DIgitia                         ...      M         C         C          P         P         C       M        D
Tdamty*             Mdnktdlwe liDil  per 10D     5.56     3.36    11.00     4.02      47.14      19.91     4.33     2199      1.35    25.56
misnljne/            hles       iparloo          1.67     Q117     9.25    1370    -7Z41        29.95      3677      17.34    .18     25.09
pa I1Oirralitanls   Cbhdentd                     7.23     3.53    20.25     17.72     119.55    49.86      810      41.33     153     50.56
Qw1tyofsenice,L *   fitnmteper l9mnidn Ulm       150      ...      10        ...        0        40         1         ...     ...      56
TepheAeessin t      Pry dedvd by dh1dIng mnan   4.6735   7.3478   0.5Q76   3.5500     1.000D    13892     6.9268    0.9709  1&1818    13574
lbnii Arm`          lI peFetradncdIarcivcty
by -mtIry nte
tsersp r dite          p     af ew ff te         state     ...    State      ...     Nrwity    Ivrnwnty  Nlnoity   hfrity    Sate      Stae
Iammbt              O(  eedp ofmadn opiata      Owned             Owed              Prhatized  Pivatzed  Pnwtized  Pnvatized  OWd     OWd
(22/%)    (36%)     (35%)     (490/o)
mpdy ljit(et T      1brddd v&W in gat and         Nit    Letter,   Nt        N       Letters    UpLto 2    Nit       Nit      ...   Collecdtai,
aWf dan    )        /mice   tl lten to be niad  defined  potae   defined  mmopey     Ptcards     Kgs      defined   defined          di"th
-..        .     . ________  ._____      _          POixee                     _______    ______              ____ba            afletters.
Penetriatln lewls   N   er of nmail itens per psm  6Q5    3.93     34.3     2.52        ...      ...      23.12      27.05   26.91     3669
. per                          _                _                                       .
st        R3tlio   _Nm_ber__d_a       __sper 10  06.5{    34.6     63.9     16.1       67.2  |42.01    |   281      53.2     0Q86|     37.9
Pene&glwf**        |pars                          _I                                                   I       , 
tet1ofCYtWdoan      Nmiterof SPpawAdeas           3        3        8        50         37        7         9         9        9        1
hltern%entrtiont     m  er of ireithnrad sper   297.28    17.81  |  I3       4        47918      31.1       1.2      52.86    0.89     26.05
*            j00h*Etas                  1       1         1      1          1          1         1         1         1      1
FtM*W   sM-9IM      NAmircafanipifersperI      9- 6        ...      5        19        483       1103       7         62       .        o 101
Sorces: EMCAgst 202 Repor, MbW  d C   DAr  abl se Report, I11Jdaams, UlPUdasaesW, Vld Dewnnt Incatism 201112, Neessk  sard
*M*tndp1y, D=Ducdy, P=3Prti Caipirth G=FWi Crnrpetnon
M' uen Ims/ pae 100 whniatants calcated ty &dirig then wars oftmnm telqehne Imes and the mole sublzrbrs bypq)Wlatc and niltplynrg by 1OD
'** Fautrateper 100rmn Ime is icalcLated byrvdmgtotal nuixer of reprted fiults fir the year lythctowni nuere ofn un innes m ineration ac nd ltiplyng by 100
mfirmtims of faults vary Sare oournies icldxic faulty custcnri  eqLaxp t Others dbstingish bAems repwtcd andctual fcind faults liee is also senemm
a distincdn bxe remidbtral and hbsmsms hnes Anoifer cnsidernn is the ti  pxod as scam ountnre rspt this axirncr ma mnratnly basis ocvwrled to yearly esmaies
*"T4Tdqephor Ars i the nral armas is a prnxy that has been calouated by udwhng the rmin leu plranm  raems fr the comtrys larges city by the
ntrn lime  ndeatniion ramt fr the oxity as a Wide.
*****  is nfer to rnho rercvs in use for briadmsts to the generalsmi p pcr, p 1(,) pple TIhe data fr Sami, Vanatu and Fiji ame 1997 figtmes
B.2.4.         Lack of competition in the telecommunication and postal sectors limits growth. The
performance of telecommunications and postal services in Samoa is severely constrained by the
traditional monopoly model that characterizes the sector. There is progress towards moving the sector
structure away from this model. In particular: (a) some private sector participation in the provision of
-5 -



cellular services has been introduced, through the award of a license to Telecommunications Samoa
Cellular (TSC), partially owned by Telecom New Zealand (but this operator has only marginally
deployed services using outdated analogue technology); (b) competition at the ISP level is in place, with
three service providers; (c) pay television services have been authorized; and (d) private express mail
courier services are available. Notwithstanding this progress, some features of the current market
structure (Table B.3) seriously hinder future growth. Specifically:
*   SamoaTel, the incumbent operator, enjoys monopoly rights on all fixed line telecommunications
services (local, long distance, and international services),
* TSC is the only provider of cellular services (including international),
* SamoaTel is the monopoly provider of basic postal services, and
*   the Internet market has no competition at the network access level.
The most challenging constraint is the lack of incentives to for TSC to be an effective competitor to
SamoaTel. The license awarded to TSC was poorly specified. It was vague in including coverage and
quality of service obligations. In addition, SamoaTel claimed not to have access to adequate financing
for infrastructure expansion which limited the development of a proper interconnection infrastructure.
As a consequence, the lack of adequate interconnection facilities in SamoaTel has been used by TSC as
an excuse for not expanding its own network. In addition, the lack of specific sector regulation has
prevented the Ministry of Posts and Telecommunications (MOPT) or the government from imposing
precise interconnection obligations on the operators.
Table B.3: Policy, Regulation, and Market Structure in Samoa's Post and
Telecommunications Sector
Function                    Responsibility        |  Market Structure
Post and telecommunications  Ministry of Post and
policy                       Communications
Post and telecommunications  Ministry of Post and
regulation                   Telecommunications (de facto,
SamoaTel)
Fixed telephony services (local,  SamoaTel                   monopoly
long distance and international),
voice and data
Cellular services            Telecom Samoa Cellular          monopoly
Basic postal services         SamoaTel                       monopoly
Express postal services      DHL, TNT, UPS                   open to competition
Internet service provision    CSL, I-pasifika, Lesa's telephone  open to competition
services                       (3 licensed ISPs)
B.2.5.    Lack of effective sector regulation. The sector's performance is also hindered by the lack of
adequate regulation. SamoaTel is entirely state-owned and plays the role of operator and regulator of the
sector. Although MOPT has some policy and regulatory attributions, lack of a regulatory framework and
legislation, and inadequate resources have limited its power to effectively regulate the sector. In the
absence of a regulatory framework SamoaTel performs certain regulatory functions that are normally
performed by a public sector policy and regulatory authority (tariff setting, interconnection regulation,
standard setting). This situation has created bottlenecks to sector development in the past, as evidenced
by the failure of SamoaTel and TSC to reach a proper interconnection agreement, thereby hindering the
-6 -



capacity of TSC to deploy a network covering Samoa in its entirety.
Government Strategy
B.2.6.    Government strategy for the telecommunications sector. The government strategy is based
on the belief that availability of efficient, reliable, and affordable telecommunications services is key in
promoting rapid economic and political development. Such services must be widely accessible and
affordable. The government is committed to implementing the sector reform necessary to address the
constraints to sector development. To ensure improved sector performance, the government recognizes a
need for deep changes affecting market structure, regulation, and the role of the institutions. The
objective of the government policy is to modernize and expand the telecommunications networks and
services, to enhance economic and social development, and to integrate Samoa internally as well as with
the global economy. The key elements of the sector reform program include:
(a) Increased competition. The centerpiece of the government's sector reform program is to increase
competition and private participation in the sector. The government intends to open the cellular
market segment to competition through a competitive tender process with a clear license regime.
(b) Strengthened regulatory capacity. The government is committed to completing the separation of
its policy making and regulatory functions from the operations of the sector. In this respect the
government corporatized SamoaTel and will strengthen sector regulation under MOPT.
(c) Expanded rural access. The government is committed to expanding rural access to
communications services and Internet applications.
(d) A privatized SamoaTel. The government is considering options to restructure SamoTel,
including privatization. However, its immediate focus is on the introduction of competition in
the sector and strengthening the regulatory framework, while preparing the company for
privatization. This will create the incentives and an enabling environment for privatization. In
addition, some organizational changes in SamoaTel, such as the appointment of management
with private sector experience, will prepare the company to face increased competition.
B.2.7.    The government is committed to this strategy and has implemented preliminary steps,
including the corporatization of SamoaTel, and the gradual separation of operations from policy and
regulation of the sector. In addition, the government has finalized, with assistance from the International
Development Association (IDA), a new sector policy that focuses on liberalizing the sector by promoting
private sector participation and competition. The sector policy provides a broad overview on the
Government of Samoa's (GOS's) plans for the development of the sector (copy of the sector policy is
available in project files).
B.2.8.    Government strategy for the postal sector. SamoaTel has exclusivity over postal services
and carries out most of the postal services in the country. The government's strategy for developing the
postal sector is based on five main initiatives: (a) to increase competition in the sector, through the
introduction of new service providers with specific service obligations, as well as to regulate the existing
service providers currently operating without licenses; (b) to modernize existing postal services through
product and pricing reforms; (c) to increase access to postal facilities through franchising of postal
agencies; (d) to leverage access to post offices and agencies by providing an expanded range of services;
and (e) to invest in human resources as a central enabler of the strategy. The adoption of a letter of intent
on additional reform objectives for its postal sector strategy and tariff regime for postal services has been
- 7-



included as one of the conditions of disbursement for SamoaTel's postal investment activities under this
project.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Sector issues to be addressed by the project
B.3. 1.   To help the government to implement its agenda, the project will address the sector's lack of
competition and inadequate regulation. By removing these bottlenecks, sector performance is expected
to improve considerably. The following decisions have been made to address the bottlenecks:
(a) Introduce competition through private participation in telecommunications. The project
helps to increase private participation in the provision of telecommunications and postal
services, and move the sector structure towards competition. The project approach for
telecommunications is focuses on the developing the cellular market. Since cellular services
are both a complement and a substitute to basic services, competition in this market segment
is likely to benefit the development of the telecommunications sector. The introduction of
competition in cellular services should stimulate TSC to improve its performance in the
cellular market, and SamoaTel to improve its performance in the fixed telephony market.
The cellular market in Samoa is far from meeting its potential for growth, due to: (i) the
absence of digital technology; (ii) limited coverage; and (iii) the absence of prepaid service.
International evidence shows that (under the right conditions) a potential market for a
country of Samoa's size is about 35,000 to 40,000 customers. The project addresses this
issue by assisting the government in the awarding of a digital cellular license. SamoaTel
would be prohibited from bidding, but it would be awarded a cellular license after two years,
if it complies with the obligation to provide interconnection to the private operators. The
terms of intereconnection will be determined in a study supported by the project, and
indicated in a reference interconnection offer. The introduction of a strong competitor in
cellular telephony will: (i) create pressures to improve SamoaTel's operational performance,
(ii) extend access considerably to telecommunications services, and (iii) create downward
pressure on telecommunications prices.
(b) Strengthen sector regulation. The project assists in the strengthening of MOPT's regulatory
unit, with ample regulatory attributions (over telecommunications, posts, and, possibly,
broadcasting), and access to outsourcing resources. This could be a first step towards the
future creation of a multisector regulatory agency, independent of operating companies. A
small, cost-efficient, and competent regulatory unit will be assisted by external experts to
enable the transition of the post and telecommunications sectors from monopoly to
competition.
(c) Prepare for the privatization ofSamoaTel. The project assists in preparing SamoaTel for
privatization and supports: (i) establishment of proper accounting in the company (including
separation of accounts for post and telecommunications activities), following international
accounting standards and practices, and completing SamoaTel's audit; (ii) implementation of
rates rebalancing for the main classes of services; (iii) analysis of privatization options for
SamoaTel, and (iv) recruitment of advisors for the sale of SamoaTel, if the government
confirms its intention to privatize SamoaTel. The project also assists the country's
reinforcement of the basic postal facilities, and contributes to supporting SamoaTel in the
diversification and modernization of postal products.
- 8 -



(d) Accelerate access to communications services in rural areas. New entry and competition in
telecommunications is expected to extend access to communications services to rural areas.
The investment in SamoaTel postal activities will also contribute to extending the outreach
of the postal services in rural areas. Two years after the inception of the project, a midterm
review will take stock of the progress of the telecommunications operators, and of
SamoaTel's postal activities in reaching rural populations. Consultants will provide options
to increase access to communications services beyond the level sustained by commercial
operators. These options will include a pilot for an output-based-aid (OBA) scheme that will
allow operators to bid for the minimum subsidy in a public tender process to reach unserved
areas of the country.
Strategic Choices
B.3.2.    Four strategic decisions were made to:
(a) Emphasize the introduction of effective competition through licensing a digital cellular
operator, while preparing the incumbent operator for restructuring, including options for
privatization. International experience shows that the introduction of competition is the best
tool for rapidly increasing sector performance. The alternative would be to modernize an
incumbent state-owned operator in the absence of competitive pressures. This option risks
the possibility of an indefinite reform process, few concrete improvements in sector
performance, and the potential for long delays in implementation. The Bank team supports
the option to restructure SamoaTel, including privatization, but believes that effective
competition will be the only practical trigger to sector reform.
(b) Focus on credible, cost-effective regulation rather than creating a complex institutional
environment. The project supports a simple, minimal, and competent regulatory institution.
The regulatory unit in MOPT is expected to perform the key functions of regulating a
telecommunications sector in its transition towards competition. For reasons of economies
of scale, it will also oversee the development of postal, and, possibly, broadcasting
regulation. This decision takes into consideration Samoa's small size and limited resources,
and the difficulties of creating a multisector or international regulator (see D. 1. 1.).
(c) Use OBA to promote additional private investment in rural areas. The project expects to
extend access to communications in rural areas through an OBA scheme, as a supplement to
the service provided by the market. The project assumes that most of the currently unmet
demand will be satisfied through deployment of market forces (i.e., the award of a digital
mobile cellular license), and through incentives to the incumbent operator to perform better.
The OBA scheme will be used to increase access beyond that offered by operators at
commercial terms.
(d) Embed incentives to invest in interconnection infrastructure rather than direct investment in
telecommunications infrastructure. The lack of proper interconnection facilities is one of the
causes for delay in the sector's development. The GOS has asked for Bank assistance in
providing the funds and expertise to overcome this bottleneck. But the Bank's policy in
telecommunications excludes direct financing of investments in public sector operators.
However, the project offers incentives for the incumbent operator to establish proper
interconnection terms (the award of a cellular license to a subsidiary of SamoaTel will be
conditional on the establishment of proper interconnection facilities).
- 9-



C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
C. 1.1.   A detailed description of the project components and estimated project cost breakdown are
provided in Annex 2 and Annex 3 (respectively). The project includes the following components: (a)
Competition and Sector Reform; (b) Regulatory Framework; (c) Corporate Reform of SamoaTel; (d)
Postal Sector Reform; and (e) the Project Management Team (PMT).
Indicative            Bank-     % of
Component                       Costs     % of    financing   Bank-
(USSM)    Total     (US$M)   financing
(a) Competition and Sector Reform                    0.73      11.5      0.55      12.3
(b) Regulatory Framework                             1.52      24.0      1.23      27.5
(c) Corporate Reform of SamoaTel                     0.79      12.5      0.59      13.2
(d) Postal Sector Reform                             3.19      50.4      2.03      45.3
(e) PMT                                              0.10       1.6      0.08       1.8
Total Project Costs  6.33    100.0      4.48     100.0
Total Financing Required    6.33     100.0     4.48     100.0
C. 1.2 The summary description of the five components of the project is provided below.
(a) The competition and sector reform component includes the following outputs:
*   the selection and award of a digital mobile cellular license through an open, transparent and
competitive bidding process,
*   revisions to the telecommunications and postal legislation to allow for more competition
including changes in existing regulations and preparation of new sector regulation, and
enable compliance with requirements on accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO)
on telecommunications services,
*   developing sample model licenses for new operators and amendments to the existing licenses
of TSC and SamoaTel, and
* the provision of technical assistance to elaborate on an implementable postal reform agenda.
This component will finance: (i) technical assistance to assist changes to sector legislation in order
to increase competition, in the accession to the WTO, and in the design of a postal policy; (ii)
engagement of advisors for the award of a digital cellular license; and (iii) professional development
(training, study visits).
(b) The tegulatory reform component assists MOPT to introduce effective regulation of the
telecommunications sector and strengthen the regulatory capacity of MOPT to carry out the
regulatory oversight functions of a modem, independent telecommunications regulator. This involves
- 10 -



the following outputs:
*   recommendations and drafting of new regulations in several areas of service interconnection,
licensing, numbering, and others,
*   the provision of new information systems within MOPT,
*   the installation of spectrum management equipment,
*   recommendation on sector regulation, including tariff oversight, and preparing a national
telecommunications frequency plan and its respective radio regulation,
*   the training and offering of professional development activities to strengthen MOPT
regulatory capacity,
*   monitoring and evaluating the effects of the telecommunications and postal sector reform
progress in poverty alleviation,
*   the preparation of a study on rural access to communications, with options to extend access
to communications beyond the level offered by commercial operators,
*   the design of a tender for OBA subsidy for providers of rural communications, if an OBA
piloting scheme is the preferred option to extend communications to rural areas, and
*   the award of OBA subsidy scheme, to providers of rural communications, through a
least-cost, market-based mechanism.
This component will finance: (i) technical assistance to establish necessary rules to ensure effective
competition; (ii) procurement of equipment and software to put in place information systems within
MOPT; (iii) technical assistance in the area of spectrum planning and frequency plan; (iv)
procurement of spectrum management equipment; (v) technical assistance to carry our monitoring
and evaluation of poverty impact; (vi) professional development; and (vii) piloting OBA for rural
communications.
(c) The component covering the Corporate Reform ofSamoaTel includes assistance to explore options
to privatize SamoaTel, and to carry out its privatization. This involves providing options to enhance
the corporate performance of SamoaTel, including options to restructure and privatize SamoaTel.
The project will finance the technical assistance and the studies to be carried out, including advisors
for privatization, if needed.
(d) The Postal Reform component will be carried out in two phases. Phase I will involve technical
assistance to the government to elaborate a postal sector strategy, including introduction of
competition, definition and implementation of an adequate regulatory framework, extension of
access, and review of the postal tariff regime. During this phase, the project will also provide
technical assistance to SamoaTel to prepare for competition through the definition and
implementation of a corporate strategy. It will also cover internal financial and management systems
design in order to provide the management with adequate management tools, including accounting
and cost accounting. A financial audit will be engaged and will provide for separate audits for postal
and telecommunications activities. Lastly, a comprehensive training program will accompany the
corporate strategy implementation by providing staff with a new approach to business through
exposure to private sector business management practices. Phase II will include the investment to
upgrade SamoaTel's postal capacity, both on the production side (sorting center at the Main Post
Office and mail boxes throughout the network) and the retail side (upgrading postal outlets and
counter organizations). This investment includes network information systems (hardware and
software). Phase I is regarded as a preparatory phase to bring Samoa's postal sector to the trend of
reforms, in which most countries have been engaged for several years. The conditions for
disbursement of SamoaTel's postal investment activities (Phase II) are summarized in section 'G' of
- 11 -



this report.
(e) The Project Management component will support the project steering committee (PSC) and the three
implementing agencies with the implementation of the project.
C. 1.3.   A midterm review of the project will take place two years after the project's inception. It will
determine, inter alia: (a) on a pilot basis, the scope and mechanisms to attribute OBA for rural
communications; (b) a method and timetable for privatization and related technical assistance needs; and
(c) the review of progress under the competition, sector reform, and the regulatory reformn components
including results of the review of tariff policies.
C. 1.4.   The total cost of the project is estimated at $6.33 million, including duties and local taxes,
with a foreign cost component of $4.48 million. The proposed IDA credit in the amount of $4.48 million
will finance about 70 percent of the total financing requirements of the project. The govemrnment will
provide $2.45 million to MOPT and the Treasury Department (TD) for technical assistance to strengthen
the policy and regulatory framework, prepare for the restructuring, including, privatization of SamoaTel,
and recruitment of PMT; $2.03 million will be provided in two phases by the govemment to SamoaTel,
under a subsidiary loan agreement, for which the onlending rate is 5 percent.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
C.2. 1.   On a policy level, the proposed operation will introduce amendments to the post and
telecommunications law to:
*   increase competition in the telecommunication sector,
*   expand MOPT's functions and responsibilities to cover telecommunication, postal, and,
possibly, broadcasting services,
*   include adequate telecommunications regulation in the areas of interconnection, spectrum
management, licensing, fair competition, and
*   establish a legal, regulatory, and institutional framework for the postal sector to identify
universal service obligations and the financing mechanisms to cover their costs, eliminate the
postal monopoly and extend competition, and improve performance through increased
private participation.
The project will also assist the govemment to elaborate a postal sector strategy.
C.2.2.    On an institutional level these refomis will translate into the strengthening of the regulatory
unit of MOPT, which will be composed of three or four specialists in access to outsourcing resources.
The regulatory unit will oversee post, telecommunications, and broadcasting operations and will be
responsible for key regulatory processes, including:
* spectrum management, allocation, and monitoring,
* licensing,
* interconnection,
* pricing of post and telecommunications services,
* numbering,
* universal service obligations in post and telecommunications, and
* tariff regulation.
The introduction of competition in the provision of postal services will also be complemented by the
- 12-



strengthening of SamoaTel's Postal Division.
3. Benefits and target population:
C.3. 1.   Increased competition and private participation in telecommunications, and investment in the
postal sector will have significant benefits to most types of telecommunications consumers.
C.3 .2.   The expected benefits of this project are:
*   The reduced price of communications services. The second cellular operator is expected to exert
pressure on the other players in the market for telecommunications tariffs, starting with tariffs for
cellular services. When competition in international services is introduced, the price of
international calls is expected to fall, since the current tariffs significantly exceed real costs.
*   Extended access of communications services. The reduced prices, the upgrade to digital cellular
technology, and the coverage obligations included in the license for a digital cellular operator
will increase the number of cellular subscribers. In addition, the OBA is expected to expand
rural access beyond the level that would usually not be provided by a commercial operator.
Samoa's rural and low income populations are expected to be the main beneficiaries of the
improvement of access to communications.
*   Higher regional integration and reduced isolation. The reduced costs for international
communications, and the possibility of cellular roaming will reduce Samoa's isolation and
provide a good basis for expanded regional integration. The capacity building activities
supported by this project is also expected to facilitate the participation of Samoan officials in
regional professional development activities.
*   Increased competitiveness of enterprises. The reduced price of communications services,
extension of digital cellular services and international roaming are benefits that the proposed
operation will have on the competitiveness of Samoan enterprises. Expanded rural access is
expected to facilitate the development of economic activities outside Apia.
*   Improved postal services to the benefit of households and businesses. The postal sector reform
will lead to effective delivery of traditional and new postal services to final users.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
C.4. 1.   The institutional and implementation arrangements consist of:
*   three implementing agencies (MOPT, TD, SamoaTel),
*   a component project manager within each of the implementing agencies,
*   the PSC, and
*   the PMT.
The PSC will be established within MOPT. The PSC will be chaired by the Director of MOPT and
comprise representatives of each of the other two implementing agencies and the Attorney General. The
PSC is responsible for providing top-level guidance and reviewing progress towards implementation.
The PSC will meet periodically during the project's execution to guide and maintain the progress of the
project, and to inform the Chair of the progress made in each of the components. Component project
managers in each of the three implementing agencies will be responsible for working with the PSC and
PMT, and coordinating project activities within each implementing agency. Each implementing agency
- 13 -



will be responsible for executing its respective component (Table C. 1.).
Table C.1: Responsibility for Imple entation
Component             Implementing Agencies
Competition and Sector Reform          MOPT
Regulation                             MOPT
Corporate reform of SamoaTel             TD
Postal Operator Restructuring         SainoaTel
Project Management Team                MOPT
The PMT will consist of consultants hired under the project, and will be responsible for project and
financial management, procurement and assistance to the three implementing agencies in project
implementation and reporting; and reporting on the progress of the project's implementation to the PSC.
Financial accounting will be done by a project accountant, who will also prepare financial monitoring
reports (FMR) for the project. The PMT will be headed by a manager, and be staffed with a procurement
officer and accountants. The PMT will conduct procurement workshop for the implementing agencies,
and provide continual support and oversee the project's implementation. The establishment of the PMT
is a condition of credit effectiveness.
- 14 -



TELECON\MUNICATIONS AND POSTAL SECTOR REFORM PROJECT
IPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENT
TELECOMMUNICATION & POSTAL
STEERING COMMITTEE     i
Chair: Director of MOPT             Treasury Departme
Financial Secretary of TD
CEO of SCI, Secretary of PSC
Attorney General
PROJECr MANAGENtENT TEAM
Project Manager
Procurement and lImplementation Support
__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
Financia Secretary                         Direcor                            Chief Executive Officers
TD        l                            MOPT                                    SCL
Ministry of Postal and TelecommunicarOon:  Samoa Communications Ltd
ITreasury Depai en!                    Poy L~g.Rdb, -1",ngV0 A~~-)PAS 
arten1.2 Ad-Wa5amd GSM L,ePRASE
21 Tel--nfin-ondi RePalo,y A,a tt4         Comand.1
M-                     ~~~~~ ~~~~~~4:12 US.)!
II Pfmtsion:uiDmlop-e              2.2 lainrton SYs                         41 CI p. Cooot Sttyand Imkento
I  Pnaztl on poon Std-              2.3 Spettnm Assmlf  & FO 5y  Pln      4  J 3 SCLUsd
Rcs mcm s of SCL                 2.4 Speeu- Monte!men! tq.,p-nl          4.2  Tr,alolg
3 2 Pnfim-zgo Adv                   2.5 Mmt- g & Ev.l..tio of Pov-y 1 mp.1l  4 2.1 P.f-ss,s D-vIp-el
S.l Pro o M- -r Co-oldt-            26 Pmfro-ol  Drlop-ct                   PHASE 11
2 7 PIol Ootpr-B-d A,d f EnRl R o-c1tCo- -  4.3  Po.M.l Id-tro tr.r
4.31 P.o.l Eq.,pn rITTEq.,p- -dSft
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
D. 1. 1.   Broader sectoral scope of reform to create a multisector regulatory agency. Samoa's small
size suggests that a regulatory agency responsible for multiple sectors will be a viable institutional
arrangement that would reduce the administrative cost of regulating different utilities. The project team
recognizes the importance of moving to a multisector regulator in the future. However, the government
has clearly signalled its intention to move ahead with telecommunications reform before the initiating the
reform of other utilities (e.g., water and energy). While telecommunications has the legal prerequisites
for a substantial regulatory reform that will attract private investment, other sectors, such as energy, and
transport. At the same time, Samoa's size, and the related need to reduce administrative burdens, was
taken into account. Rather than suggesting the establishment of an institutionally separate agency, the
project aims to strengthen the regulatory unit within MOPT, providing training and access to outsourcing
resources. Because there is a need for a regulatory function in the postal sector, and, possibly, in
broadcasting activities, this unit will also cover those industries. In the future, the unit could be merged
into a multisector regulator, when the development of other utilities will allow this to occur.
- 15 -



D. 1.2.   The regional approach to regulatory reform. A second possibility to reduce the
administrative burden of regulation would be to create a regional regulator, following the example of the
Organization of Eastern Caribbean States, which created a multicountry regulator. The project team saw
the merit to this approach, but excluded it, given the limited degree of political cooperation among
Pacific states at this time. Samoa will move to a competitive market in telecommunications before most
other Pacific countries. Through the outsourcing of regulatory functions advocated under this project,
some of the benefits of a regional regulator can be achieved. For example, providers of regulatory
expertise and services (e.g., in the area of spectrum management and monitoring), will be able to serve
several regulators in the region.
D. 1.3.   Accelerated transition towards privatization of SamoaTel. An alternative project design that
was considered and declined by the project team was to accelerate the transition of SamoaTel to
privatization. Given that considerable sector bottlenecks are related to the incumbent operator, the
improvements in efficiency that a private operator could bring would improve the sector's efficiency.
The Bank team recognizes the importance of privatization, and advised the govemment to move as
quickly as possible to a private SamoaTel. However, the comerstone of this operation is competition.
The project is intended to create pressure on the incumbent operator, through introducing effective and
sustainable competition. Far from reducing SamoaTel's profitability, increased competition will create
incentives that will ultimately lead to increased private ownership and private management. In this sense
the project contributes to preparing SamoaTel for privatization. In addition, the regulatory component of
the project addresses some of the necessary prerequisites for privatization, through the strengthening of a
competent sector regulator, and disentangles SamoaTel from the regulatory functions that it currently
performs. Support to implement SamoaTel privatization (through funds to hire transaction advisors) is
scheduled to take place after the midterm review.
D. 1.4.   Direct funding of interconnection facilities. The GOS made a request to invest directly in
the physical network of SamoaTel, particularly, in upgrading the interconnection facilities. This
investment would have solved one of the key bottlenecks in the sector development--the lack of adequate
facilities for interconnection. This request could not be accommodated, as the Bank's policy explicitly
excludes direct investment in the facilities of a telecommunications operator. To tackle the
interconnection issue, three activities have been included in the project design: (a) technical assistance
funds to advise on the regulatory and technical issues of interconnection; (b) technical assistance to
address the modification of the SamoaTel license, and in that context, to provide for explicit obligations
imposed on SamoaTel to interconnect; and (c) in the license terms of the new digital cellular operator,
the right to invest in interconnection facilities will be included. Along with these activities, the project
will introduce an additional incentive for SamoaTel to invest in interconnection facilities and to provide
interconnection to all players in the market. SamoaTel will be authorized to introduce digital cellular
services only after the regulator has declared that it has provided satisfactory interconnection facilities
and services.
- 16 -



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                     Project                (PSR) Ratings
____________ I _________ *(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation  Development
Bank-financed                                                 Progress (IP)  Objective (DO)
Infrastructure, Transport        Infrastructure Asset             S            HS
Management Project
(P052293)
Infrastructure, Transport        Second Infrastructure Asset
Management Project
(P075523). Planned.
Other development agencies
International Telecommunications  Technical Assistance on
Union (ITU)                      Spectrum Management and
Spectrum Allocation, 1999.
Asian Development Bank           Financial Sector Program Loan
Council of Regional Organisations in  Information and
the Pacific ICT Working Group    Communications Technologies
for every Pacific Islander
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
D.3. 1.   The Bank is involved in ongoing discussions and projects related to telecommunications and
postal sector reform in about 50 countries. Bank teams are currently assisting governments in
implementing privatization reform and opening the telecommunications sector to competition. During
the planning of this project, the following key lessons from international experience have been taken into
consideration:
(a) Competition is the driver of sector reform. A pro-competitive framework and rapid
transition of a multioperator environment tends to increase service coverage, quality, and
affordability of service faster than a state monopoly operator, or a private monopoly.
Privatization of the incumbent operator is necessary in the long-term, but effective reform
requires early liberalization;
(b) Capacity to regulate is necessary to enable fair competition, as problems can and will
develop over time--particularly on interconnection, and pricing of noncompetitive services.
It takes time to build the capacity to regulate. As a consequence, in capacity-deprived
environments, it is essential to pay close attention to the inclusion of legal provisions in key
contractual documents when transactions occur (award of new licenses, privatization);
(c) Speed is key to telecommunications reform. The design of this operation is intended to
achieve a quick win in the opening of the cellular market, as a cornerstone of sector reform.
(d) Postal reform initiatives should cover competition and sector regulatory issues as well as the
thorough modernization of postal services, and increased autonomy and commercial
- 17-



flexibility of the incumbent operator.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
D.4. 1.   The government recognizes the importance of postal and telecommunications reform as a
key factor in economic development, social inclusion, and enhancement of the welfare of the population.
It has taken important initial actions to reform the telecommunications sector. The Postal and
Telecommunications Services Act of 1999, mandates separation of the policy and regulatory functions
from operations, and created SamoaTel. The government recognizes the need for assistance to
successfully implement a comprehensive reform program, and has sought Bank assistance to do so. The
Bank responded to the government's request by sending a team to Samoa in May and November of 2001,
with the goal of assessing the sector, confirming the govermment's commitment to sector reform, and
identifying the key elements of possible Bank support. Samoa's interest in and need for Bank assistance
was reconfirmed by the Secretary of the Treasury in a letter of August 2001, addressed to the Country
Director. In September 2002, Samoa's Cabinet formally endorsed the conclusions of the May 2002
mission, approving the project, and formally establishing the PSC. The intention to proceed to a
comprehensive reform of the postal and telecommunications sector has been also reiterated by the
intention of the government to accede to the World Trade Organization (WTO).
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
D.5. 1.   The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's strategy for the telecommunications and
postal sector, which calls for shifting the government's role from ownership and operations to policy
making and regulation, promoting competition, efficiency, and service quality, and increasing private
sector participation in investments and provision of services. The project will make an important
contribution to the development of policy and regulation in the Samoan telecommunications and postal
sector and facilitate continued dialogue with the Bank on sector development. The successful
implementation of the proposed project will enable competition and private investments for sector
expansion. This in turn will: (a) reduce the cost of access; (b) enhance telecommunications
connectivity; (c) improve the quality of services available; and (d) ensure provision of affordable access
to ICT in rural and semi-urban areas. The proposed project is also a model for improving and
modernizing the postal and telecommunications sector in small island economies in the Pacific. The joint
focus of the proposed project on post and telecommunications can advance both sectors without limiting
the reform to the telecommunications sector, where most of the pecuniary benefits are likely to be for the
government and the private sector.
E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
o Cost effectiveness
o Other (specify)
E. 1.1.   A cost benefit analysis is included in Annex 4. International experience shows that sector
reform similar to that supported by the project usually results in large economic gains, especially in terms
of consumer and producer welfare benefits and increased fiscal revenues. In this case the estimated
cumulative net benefit is likely to be over $3.5 million by 2008, and is expected to gradually increase in
the years after the closing date of the project. Additional indirect benefits (which are more difficult to
quantify) will be associated with the gains in competitiveness for Samoan enterprises, and with wider
social benefits.
- 18 -



2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
E.2. 1.   Historical financial performance. The financial summary for SamoaTel is provided in
Annex 5. The financial management capacity of SamoaTel is provided in Annex 6(B) under the financial
management risk assessment report.
E.2.2.    SamoaTel was corporatized in 1999 to provide post and telecommunications services in the
country. Since its corporatization, SamoaTel has maintained a healthy profitability in its business, with
net profit margin at 43 percent in fiscal 2001. SamoaTel is predominantly in the telecommunications
business, and derives 96 percent of its revenues from telecommunications activities, with postal services
providing less than 4 percent of total revenues. Profitability in telecommunications remains strong,
contributing to most of the company's profits, whereas postal services are stated to operate at near
break-even levels.
E.2.3.    SamoaTel's financial position is healthy, given strong liquidity and low gearing. SamoaTel
is currently capitalized at a nominal Tala 100, comprising 100 ordinary shares at Tala I each. These
shares are 100 percent owned by the govermnent. The government has injected into the company a
capital contribution amounting to Tala 15.8 million. However, the government contribution has yet to be
capitalized. During negotiations agreement was reached that the government will capitalize its
contribution to equity and this is a condition for disbursement of IDA credit to fund the investment
portion of SamoaTel's postal reform component under this project.
E.2.4.    Currently SamoaTel does not have a costing system that is capable of producing accounting
information on different business lines and activities. The project will provide technical assistance to
SamoaTel to implement a cost accounting system.
E.2.5.    SamoaTel has a modest amount of debt, totaling Tala 34.5 million as of June 30, 2001.
These funds were lent to SamoaTel by the government following its corporatization in 1999. However, a
formal agreement has not yet been finalized that specifies the terms and conditions for such lending have
not yet been finalized. During negotiations agreement was reached that the government will finalize the
terms and conditions of the unsecured loans to SamoaTel; and that this would be a condition for
disbursemcnt of IDA credit to fund the investment portion of SamoaTel's postal sector component under
the project.
E.2.6.    In 2001 SamoaTel maintained a conservative gearing of 52 percent. Its net earnings provide
a healthy debt service cover of 6.4 times. The company's liquidity is good, with a current ratio of 3.6 and
a liquidity ratio at a comfortable 2.8. The company maintained a healthy cash balance of Tala 23 million
at the end of FYO I. Management of net current assets however needed some improvement, particularly
trade accounts receivables. These receivables (Tala 8.9 million for telecommunications operations as of
June 30, 2001) amounted to 122 days (or four months) revenues, which is high by industry standards, and
reflects billing delays and collection problems. During negotiations agreement was reached that
SamoaTel will prepare an action plan to reduce its accounts receivables to two months of annual
revenues by the end of fiscal year 2005, and, thereafter, adopt such report, taking into consideration
comments from the Association. This is a condition for disbursement of IDA credit to fund the
investment portion of SamoaTel's postal sector component under the project.
E.2.7.    Financialforecast. The financial projections, including the key assumptions used, are
provided in Annex 5. As the company consolidates its position in the telecommunications services
-19-



market and expands its activities in a nascent postal market, it is expected that its overall financial
performance will remain good and the financial position remain sound. Net profit margin is forecast at
25 percent by fiscal 2007. Return on capital employed will decline gradually from the current 17 percent
to 12 percent by end of the period; this reflects the high level of investment in capacity. Liquidity and
solvency will remain strong, especially after 2004 when the postal business begins to provide good
returns and accumulated profits increase. The current ratio will increase from the current 3.6 to a healthy
level over 9 by 2007. Long-term debt to equity is forecast to further reduce to 0.3 by 2007, reflecting a
gearing of just 20 percent. The debt service ratio is well above the threshold defined in the credit
covenant, with cash eamings at 3.4 times debt service needs in 2003, and increasing thereafter to 4.6 by
2007. The self financing ratio is forecast to be 127 percent in 2003, improving thereafter to 154 percent
2007, as internal cash generation improves, and is well above the minimum 20 percent agreed at
negotiations.
E.2.8.    Onlending terms to SamoaTel: SamoaTel will borrow part of the credit through a subsidiary
loan. The principal of the subsidiary loan amount shall be onlent and repaid in Tala by SamoaTel;
SamoaTel will pay interest on the principal amount of the subsidiary loan at a rate agreed at 5 percent at
negotiations; repayment is 20 years, including a five-year grace period on the principal, and SamoaTel
shall pay a penalty charge at a rate of 2 percent on any outstanding arrears under the subsidiary loan.
E.2.9.    Financial covenants and conditions for SamoaTel's postal investment under this project are
summarized in section 'G' of this report.
Fiscal Impact:
E.2. 10.  The fiscal impact is expected to be considerable. Its major components are: revenues from
the sale of the digital cellular license, estimated around $1.5 million; and additional fiscal revenues from
the additional growth of the mobile market, in the amount of $400,000 annually. These include corporate
taxes and value-added-tax.
3. Technical:
E.3.1.    Technical viability of the project is closely associated with the capability of the different
agencies to handle the technical aspects of regulatory and licensing processes. To minimize technical
risks, the following requirements have been built into the project's design:
(a) Technical training programs will be offered within the professional development and training
activities for the regulatory unit;
(b) Procurement of the radio spectrum will be on a turnkey basis, and it will include engineering,
installation, commissioning, system training, one-year guarantee, and multiyear operational
support; and
(c) The presence of a technical expert will be made a requirement for the selection of PMT.
4. Institutional:
The institutional and implementation arrangements consist of:
* three implementing agencies (MOPT, TD, SamoaTel),
*   a component project manager within each of the implementing agencies,
*   the PSC, and
- 20 -



* the PMT.
4.1 Executing agencies:
E.4. 1.1.  The implementing agencies for the project will be the TD, MOPT, and SamoaTel. There are
challenges in implementing this project, particularly for MOPT. The Borrower's Project Implementation
Plan (BPIP) was discussed during negotiations. Terms of reference and other procurement documents
for the calendar year 2003 are being prepared by the Borrower in consultation with the Bank, and are a
condition for project effectiveness. In addition, the project design provides for specific training on
procurement and financial management to be offered to the staff of MOPT and SamoaTel. The emphasis
on professional development and capacity building of this operation will be crucial for its successful
implementation.
4.2 Project management:
E.4.2. 1.  The PSC will be established within MOPT. The PSC will be chaired by the Director of
MOPT and comprise representatives of each of the other two implementing agencies and the Attorney
General. The PSC is responsible for providing top-level guidance and reviewing progress towards
implementation. The PSC will meet periodically during the project's execution to guide and maintain the
progress of the project, and to inform the Chair of the progress made in each of the components. The
component project managers within each of the three implementing agencies will be responsible for
dealing with the PSC and PMT, and coordinating project activities within each implementing agency.
Each of the implementing agencies will be responsible for executing its respective components.
E.4.2.2   The PMT will consist of consultants hired under the project and will be responsible for
project and financial management, procurement and assistance to the three implementing agencies in
project implementation and reporting, and reporting on the progress of the project implementation to the
PSC. Financial accounting will be done by a project accountant, who will also prepare financial
monitoring reports (FMRs) for the project. The PMT will be headed by a manager, and staffed with a
procurement officer and accountants, and will conduct procurement workshop for the implementing
agencies and provide continued support and oversee the project's implementation. The establishment of
the PMT is a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.3 Procurement issues:
E.4.3. 1.  An assessment of the implementing agencies, procurement capacity was conducted by a
Bank procurement specialist during the April 2002 mission. The details of the procurement assessment
are provided in Annex 6(A). The overall responsibility for the execution of the project lies with the TD
of the Ministry of Finance, which is the representative of the GOS for the project. The TD has good
experience handling World Bank financed projects, but will need additional resources to handle the
increased demand under this project. MOPT and SamoaTel are not experienced in the implementing
World Bank financed projects, or with other projects financed by international donors. However,
SamoaTel will maintain one relevant staff to manage its part of the project and will be provided with an
adequate number of qualified staff. The assessment revealed that two out of the three implementing
agencies under the project have no experience with procurement for Bank-financed projects, and
therefore they are not familiar with the Bank's procurement guidelines. MOPT's and SamoaTel's
inexperience in implementing Bank financed projects constitutes a "high" procurement risk, in the
absence of the mitigation actions proposed in Annex 6(A). The actions, coupled with the existing
transparent and comprehensive government procurement regulations, and the TD's experience will reduce
the procurement risk. Given the weak procurement capacity in MOPT and SamoaTel, it was agreed that
PMT will be recruited to assist the three agencies in project management, procurement, financial
- 21 -



management, and implementation support.
4.4 Financial management issues:
E.4.4. 1.  The financial management capacity assessment of the implementing agencies was conducted
by a Bank financial management specialist during the April 2002 mission. The details of the financial
assessment are provided in Annex 6(B). An examination has been conducted on overall country risks
that relate to the potential impact on project financial management of factors arising from the project's
operating environment, i.e., country rules and regulations relating to public financial accountability. It
was noted that recent legislation has introduced significant changes in improving public financial
accountability and transparency, including budgeting systems. It was also noted that government
accounts are currently up-to-date and are being independently audited. The Borrower is also in
compliance with the audit covenants in an existing Bank financed project [Infrastructure Asset
Management Project (WE PE 52293)]. The overall inherent country risks are given a moderate rating.
E.4.4.2   The risk is moderate at the TD, and substantial at both SamoaTel and MOPT. SamoaTel
recently took important initial steps towards the strengthening of financial systems and controls,
including the introduction of a job costing system. The SamoaTel accounting system does not appear to
be geared to provide comprehensive costing and management accounting information to support pricing
decisions, especially for the postal business group. Assistance from an external specialist will be
provided under the project to address these issues and review of accounting policies. Accounting
capacity at MOPT appears to be less than that required for the project. In order to mitigate the potential
risks on financial management issues, and to strengthen capabilities, the PMT will assist in preparing
quarterly FMRs, assessing progress in the implementation of key actions and performance indicators; and
preparing withdrawal applications and FMRs.
E 4.4.3.  Considering the inherent risks and the project design features discussed (see Annex 13) , the
following financial management and disbursement arrangements are recommended for the project:
E.4.4.4.  An overview of funds flow is given below. Detailed procedures are given in Annex 6B.
(a) Payments to third parties will be initiated by the project implementation agencies (SamoaTel,
MOPT, or Revenue Finance), based on duly approved contracts. Individual payment
vouchers will be verified by the component project management team, and submits for
approval and payment to the Finance Division. Payments will use funds in the Special
Account and will be remitted by the Finance Division through normal banking channels.
(b) Withdrawal applications to replenish the Special Account will be prepared monthly by the
project Accounting Units at Revenue Accounts Division, and each such application will be
supported by a completed financial management report and certified by the Deputy Secretary
Revenue, copies of the Special Account Bank statement, a bank reconciliation statement for
the Special Account and other documents that the Bank may prescribe.
(c) The quarterly financial management reports to be prepared by project management team will
include summary financial accounting information, procurement and implementation
information in formats to be prescribed and agreed between the Borrower and the Bank, as
well as cash flow forecasts for the following quarter.
(d) Individual expenditures exceeding 50 percent of the Special Account may be submitted
directly to the Bank.
- 22 -



E.4.4.5.  Accounting and reporting. Each implementing agency's accounting capacity has been
assessed to be somewhat lower than required. Accordingly, it is proposed that project accounting will be
maintained by the PMT, using a stand-alone accounting software, and based on generally acceptable
accounting standards that are applied consistently. The project accountant and team will be trained by
Bank staff in the required accounting procedures.
E.4.4.6.  Auditing. A combined audit of financial statements, the Special Account and the financial
management reports will be conducted by an auditor acceptable to the Bank.
5. Environmental:                Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
E.5. 1.1.  The environmental impact of the proposed operation is expected to be negligible.
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
NA
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft: NA
NA
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
NA
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
NA
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
None.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
E.6.2. 1.  The GOS has held discussions with private and public stakeholders on the various policy
options behind the project design, particularly in the areas of competition and regulation.
E.6.2.2.  The debate with the stakeholders helped the Bank team to identify key components of the
operation. For example, the issue of regulatory reform emerged and the stakeholders agreed to the
project design and proposed reforms. Additional issues emerged from the discussion were the need for
an open, transparent, and nondiscriminatory framework for interconnection, and the need to develop light
regulatory solutions, in view of Samoa's size. There was consensus on the need to broaden the functions
of the future regulatory authority beyond those identified initially in the spectrum management function.
E.6.2.3   Key regulatory decisions that affect the postal and telecommunications sector will be made
available to the public as well as key sector documents (policy statements, licenses, and sector
regulations).
- 23 -



6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
E.6.3.1.  During project preparation, nongovernmental organizations and civil society organizations
were briefed on the project to explain its benefits and to learn how they expect the proposed project to
affect their lives.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
E.6.4. 1.  The area of institutional and regulatory capacity devotes special attention to the need to
involve key stakeholders and users in elaborating regulatory decisions. In this way user populations have
been targeted and are given the opportunity to express their concerns and views on how the regulation of
the sector will remove key bottlenecks to service. In addition an embedded poverty alleviation module
has been discussed with the client and included in project design (see Annex 12).
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terms of social development outcomes?
E.6.5. 1  The performance of social development will be monitored through an embedded poverty
reduction module that has two main objectives: (a) to assess at regular intervals the project's effect on
reducing poverty, and (b) to provide feedback to beneficiaries on how to take into account
poverty-related issues in other project components, including the licensing of new telecommunications
operators, the deployment of smart post offices in rural areas, and in the elaboration of regulations for the
sector. In particular, it will provide some of the key inputs needed to launch the pilot OBA for rural
communications. A detailed analysis of the social impact assessment of this project is given in Annex 12
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                   Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)          O) Yes S No
Natural Habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                 (U Yes * No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                   t )  Yes * No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                     U ()Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                 (9 Yes * No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                  (9 Yes * No
Involuntary Resettlement (OPIBP 4.12)                         () Yes * No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                            (DYes * No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)  ( Yes * No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)*      (U Yes * No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
NA
- 24 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
F. 1.1.   By focusing on the award of a cellular license, the project introduces a strong competitor in
an untapped market, with the incentive to increase revenues through the potential offer of international
voice services. If cellular bids are properly designed and managed, they have a lower risk of failure since
they can attract interested investors. Sustained competition is also be possible thanks to the
improvements in the regulatory framework, to which the project devotes special attention.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                   Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Lack of adequate equipment for             H        The project has created incentives for
interconnection.                                    SamoaTel to establish proper interconnection
facilities, and will assist with specific technical
assistance.
Government does not agree on opening       S        The mission asked for government commitment
up the cellular market through an open,             on this point in a letter sent to the Financial
competitive, international bid.                     Secretary. During the mission the Financial
Secretary and the Prime Minister explicitly
assured commitment on this point. The
commitment to award the cellular license is
included in the sector policy of the GOS.
TSC attempts to subvert digital licensing  M        GOS, through the Attorney General, obtained
process by asserting exclusivity.                   an independent legal opinion of GOS's rights
under TSC joint venture. The opinion indicated
that TSC's exclusive rights were limited to
analogue services in a certain frequency band
and further outlined options of GOS for
mitigating possible claims by TSC.
Lack of market response on the digital    M         If no operator will bid for the new digital
cellular tender.                                    cellular license, SamoaTel will be allowed to
develop digital cellular services through a
subsidiary company, if the government agrees
on an accelerated privatization timetable.
From Components to Outputs
Identification of a highly reputable      M         Technical assistance provided.
advisor available to spend several months
a year in Samoa.
Capability to handle, transparently and   M         Technical assistance provided.
competently, the selection process for a
digital cellular provider.
Capability to understand and implement    M         The Bank will assist in the design and
the complex administrative procedure                implementation of the tenders for smart
behind smart subsidies.                             subsidies.
- 25 -



Overall Risk Rating                        M        I
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
F.2. 1.   There are two main risks that have the potential to undermine the success of the project. The
first risk concerns interconnection. The GOS asked for World Bank financial support to invest in
interconnection facilities. However, the Bank's policy excludes investment in telecommunications
operators, and thus the project does not fund interconnection facilities. The obligation to provide
interconnection to all players in the market will be included in the revised license text for SamoaTel, and
the project provides for a specific activity to address this issue. The new SamoaTel license will also
provide for the publication of a reference interconnection offer. Embedded in the project's design are
incentives for SamoaTel to invest in interconnection facilities. The project will also provide technical
assistance with interconnection. Notwithstanding that these two decisions will help to mitigate the risk,
it is important to emphasize that they do not eliminate the risk. The success of the cellular tender
depends on the existence of proper interconnection, and insufficient interconnection facilities might
undermine sector development and the success of this operation.
F.2.2.    The second risk with the potential to undermine the project relates to the possibility of TSC
claimning exclusive rights. However, several steps have been taken to mitigate this risk. First, the project
team has reviewed the license of TSC, and has concluded that it only applies to analogue services. This
conclusion was confirmed in a meeting with Samoa's Attorney General. In addition, an opinion provided
to the GOS by an independent international telecommunications lawyer confirmed that TSC's license is
limited to analogue services only and that any exclusivity claims TSC will be limited to analogue
cellular. However, as a party to the TSC joint venture, GOS may have certain contractual obligations to
TSC. The opinion also outlines GOS's options under the joint venture. GOS understands these options
and is committed to pursuing them to realize the project's objectives.
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
(a) Establishment of the PMT;
(b) Each implementing agency shall install accounting software acceptable to IDA and their
relevant staff shall have received training in the use of said software;
(c) The Borrower shall adopt bidding documents for goods and requests for proposals for
consultants for the carrying out of the part of the project in calendar year 2003;
(d) SamoaTel shall adopt request for proposals for consultants for the carrying out of its
respective part of the project in calendar year 2003; and
(e) The subsidiary loan agreement has been executed on behalf of GOS and SamoaTel.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
(a) The Borrower shall make available to SamoaTel part of the proceeds of the credit on a
onlending basis, to enable it to carry out part of the activities under the project, in accordance
with term and conditions satisfactory to IDA, which terms shall include:
- 26 -



(i) the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be onlent in Tala; and repaid in Tala by
SamoaTel to the Borrower in an amount equivalent at the time of withdrawal to the
amounts withdrawn from the Credit Account,
(ii) SamoaTel shall pay interest on the principal amount of the subsidiary loan withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time at the rate of 5 percent;
(iii) SamoaTel shall pay a penalty charge at the rate of 2 percent on any outstanding arrears
under the subsidiary loan agreement, and
(iv) the principal amount of the subsidiary loan shall be repaid in 20 years, with a five-year
grace period on the principal.
(b) The Borrower shall submit audit of the project's financial statements within six months after
the end of each fiscal year;
(c) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a PSC, a PMT, and financial management systems
in each of the three implementing agencies;
(d) The Borrower shall, by June 30, 2005, prepare and fumish to IDA for its review and
comments, the OBA guidelines, which will include the procedure and criteria for the
allocation of subsidies to basic communications service providers, and, thereafter, finalize
such guidelines taking IDA's comments into consideration, and adopt and implement such
guidelines as so finalized;
(e) The Borrower shall prepare and furnish to IDA, for its review and comments, a letter of
intent on additional reform objectives to its postal sector strategy and tariff regime for postal
services, in a manner and substance satisfactory to IDA, and, thereafter, finalize and adopt
such strategy and regime taking IDA's comments into consideration;
(f) The Borrower shall submit a midterm review report by April 15, 2005; and review said
report with IDA by July 15, 2005;
(g) the Borrower shall, by April 30 of each calendar year, commencing on April 30, 2004, until
completion of the project, prepare and furnish to IDA, for its review and comments a
summary report integrating the results of the activities performed under its respective parts of
the project, including an annual training program, and, thereafter, finalize such report taking
into consideration IDA's comments;
(h) SamoaTel shall submit audit of its financial statements within six months after the end of
each financial year; the audits will be completed by external auditors;
(i) Except as IDA otherwise agrees, SamoaTel will produce, for each of its FYs after its FY
ending on 2003, funds from internal sources equivalent to not less than 20 percent of the
annual average of SamoaTel's capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for
that FY, the previous FY and the next following FY ending in 2004. Before December 31 in
each of its FYs, SamoaTel will, on the basis of forecasts prepared by SamoaTel and
satisfactory to IDA, review whether it will meet the before mentioned requirements in
respect of such year and the next following FY and shall furnish to the IDA a copy of such
review upon its completion. If any such review shows that SamoaTel will not meet said
requirements for SamoaTel's FYs covered by such review, SamoaTel will promptly take all
necessary measures including, without limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
tariffs with the prior approval of the Borrower, if required in order to meet such
requirements;
(j) SamoaTel will not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of SamoaTel for the FY
immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later 12-month period ended prior
to the date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at least 1.3 times the
estimated maximum debt service requirements of SamoaTel for any succeeding FY on all
debt of SamoaTel, including the debt to be incurred;
(k) SamoaTel will prepare and submit to IDA by March 31 of each calendar year, commencing
on March 31, 2003, a business plan, including budget for its next FY and rolling financial
- 27 -



forecasts for the next three years, including income statement, balance sheets, and sources
and uses of funds and a report on measures taken to reduce its arrears and the results of said
measures;
(1) SamoaTel shall submit a midterm review report; by April 15, 2005, and review said report
with IDA by July 15, 2005; and
(m) SamoaTel shall by March 31 of each year, commencing in 2003, until completion of the
project, prepare and furnish to IDA for its review and comments a summary report
integrating the results of the activities under its part of the project, including an annual
training program, and, therefore, finalize such report taking into consideration IDA's
comments.
Conditions for Disbursement for Goods Under SamoaTel's Postal Investment
(a) The Borrower shall adopt a letter of intent on additional reform objectives to its postal sector
strategy and tariff regime for postal services;
(b) SamoaTel shall provide to IDA a Corporate Reform Report, including:
(i) evidence that the government has converted retained earnings of SamoaTel in the amount
of Tala 15.8 million into SamoaTel's equity,
(ii) evidence that the government and SamoaTel have formalized the terms and conditions of
the existing unsecured government loans to SamoaTel;
(iii) evidence that SamoaTel has established a cost accounting system to enable it to prepare
management accounts separate for its post and telecommunications businesses.
(Technical assistance is provided under the proposed project to assist SamoaTel in
implementing cost accounting system); and
(iv) An action plan to reduce its accounts receivables to two months of annual revenues by
the end of FY05, has been adopted by SamoaTel.
(c) SamoaTel to submit an independent audit report of its financial statements for the FY03.
H. Readiness for Implementation
LI 1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
start of project implementation.
1  1. b) Not applicable.
Li 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
3 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
L 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
3 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
L 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies
with all other applicable Bank policies.
- 28 -



Carlo Maria Rossotto            Pierre A.Guislain               Xian Zhu
Team Leader                     Sector Manager/Director         Country Manager/Director
- 29 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Key Performance      Data Collection Strategy
Hierarchy of Objectives       Indicators                                  Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:  Sector Indicators:     Sectorl country reports:  (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Rather than a CAS for    * rate of economic growth government statistics  favorable macroeconomic
Samoa, there is the Bank's                                               scenario
Pacific Strategy 2000,   * rate of job creation
Reform Agenda (Table 6),
which identifies
telecommunications as a
priority. The Strategy also
explains that: "The Bank's
lending program [ ... ] will
entail a sectoral focus on
[...] measures to adress the
remoteness and isolation
faced by the Pacific,
including in the transport
and telecommunications
sectors and a focus on
strengthening the private
sector's capacity to play a
greater role in these areas."
Project Development     Outcome / Impact         Project reports:        (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:              Indicators:
The objective of this     * 16,000 and 30,000     * statistics on sector  sustained government
operation is to assist the  basic cellular service  development to be    commitment in favor of
GOS in implementing a       subscribers by 2007     produced regularly by  sector reform
comprehensive sector        (versus current 9,500   MOPT
reform agenda, that focuses  and 3,000)
on: (a) introducing
competition and private   * 10,000 Internet
participation in            accounts by 2007
telecommunications and      (versus current 2,000)
postal sectors; (b)
advancing regulatory
reform and developing
sector institutional
capacity; and (c) extending
access to basic
communications, postal
services, and the Intemet.
- 30 -



Output from each        Output Indicators:     Project reports:       (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
Competition and Sector   * amendments to the    * copy of the approved  * sustained support from
Reform.                    laws approved by       amendments to be        cabinet to adopt the
cabinet by 09/15/03    transmitted to IDA.     changes in the legal
framework.
* issue second digital  * text of the license
cellular license, with  awarded to be
international gateway  transmitted to IDA.
by 12/15/03
* new Postal sector     * MOPT report
strategy to be published
by 2/2/2004
Regulatory Reform        0 new sector regulations,  * copy of regulations to
together with new       be transmitted to IDA
licenses for existing
operators introduced by
11/3/03
* pro-competitive       * advisor in place     * capacity and
interconnection regime                         commitment of MOPT
in effect from 11/17/03                        to handle inter-
connection conflict and
* announce frequency    * copy of the plan to be  set requirements
allocation plan and     transmitted to IDA
information of
spectrum allocated by
09/15/04
* computerized spectrum
management and
monitoring system
awarded by 05/12/04
* tariff rebalancing plan
approved by MOPT by
12/15/04
Prepare SamoaTel for     * study on restructuring/  * copy of the study to be
Privatization/             privatization options  transmnitted to IDA
Restructuring              completed by 04/05/05
* privatization advisors  * advisors in place
appointed by 02/08/06
Postal Sector Reform     * 40 percent           * reports by SamoaTel   * SamoaTel capability to
- 31 -



infrastructure upgrade  on infrastructure       implement planned
completed by 12/31/04   upgrade, product        investment
development and
human resources
upgrade to be
transmitted to IDA
* increase delivery of
letters per person per  * MOPT statistics
annum from 5.8 to 10
items by 12/15/05
* planned HR training
for the first year to be  * SamoaTel report on
completed by 12/31/04   training activities
* cost accounting in
place by 12/15/04     * MOPT report
Project Components /    Inputs: (budget for each  Project reports:      (from Components to
Sub-components:         component)                                      Outputs)
1. Competition and
Sector Reform
1.1 Policy and Legal                    $240,000 amendments to Postal and  sustained cabinet support
Reform (including                               Telecommunications
WTO accession)                                  Services Act approved by
cabinet
publication of postal sector
policy
1.2 Advisor to award a                  $426,667 digital cellular license  transparency of the tender
digital cellular license                        awarded                 process
1.3 Professional                         $66,667 professional development
development                                     activities organized
2. Regulatory Reform
2.1 Telecommunications                  $746,667 key regulations adopted
Regulatory Assistance
2.3 Information systems                 $100,000 information system     MOPT availability of
introduced              skilled HR
- 32 -



2.4 Spectrum assessment                $126,667 consultant report finalized  MOPT availability of
and frequency plan                                                    skilled HR
2.5 Spectrum                           $250,000 equipment in place    MOPT availability of
management equipment                                                   skilled HR
2.6 Monitoring and                      $63,333 contract signed with  MOPT availability of
evaluation of poverty                          consultants             skilled HR
impact
2.7 Professional                       $126,667 professional development
development                                    activities organized
2.10 Output-based aid                  $100,000 OBA scheme implemented
(provision of subsidy)
3. Preparation of
privatization of SamoaTel
3.1 Privatization /
Restructuring options                  $120,000 consultant report     interest in SamoaTel by
study                                                                  international investors
3.2 Privatization advisors             $633,333
4. Postal Reform/
Phase I
4.1.1 Corporate Strategy               $246,667
and Implementation
4.1.2 Legal                            $293,000
4.1.3 SamoaTel's Audit                  $33,333
4.2 Training to SamoaTel               $200,000 training activities organized SamoaTel provides
sufficient time allocation
for staff training
Phase II
investment progress report
4.3 Postal Infrastructure            $2,416,667 from PMT               capability of SamoaTel to
implement advisors'
recommendations
PMT established
- 33 -



5. Project management                  $100,000                        PMT given adequate
team                                                                   resources for M&E
Grand Total                          $6,330,000
- 34 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
The objective of the project is to assist the Borrower in improving the performance of its
telecommunications and postal sectors by (a) increasing competition and private sector participation in
the telecommunications and postal sectors, (b) strengthening its institutional and regulatory capacities,
and (c) enhancing the provision of these services in selected areas. In addition, the project will provide a
basis for IDA to continue the dialogue with all the major stakeholders (TD, MOPT, SamoaTel, the
private sector, and key customers) on telecommunications and postal policy, regulatory issues, and
practices.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$0.55 million
The Competition and sector reform component will assist MOPT in implementing GOS's policy
to introduce competition in Samoa's posts and telecommunications. This includes, inter alia, the
following:
(a) Package 1.1: Policy and legal reform (including WTO accession). Technical assistance to
identify the necessary reforms in the legal and regulatory framework, in order to implement the
government's sector development policy and also assist the government in drafting a WTO offer
in the telecommunications sector. This activity will also include assistance to finalize postal
sector policy. The method of selection will be quality and cost-based selection (QCBS),
estimated at $180,000.
(b) Package 1.2: Advisors for the award of a digital cellular license will be provided to MOPT to
award a digital mobile cellular license to a private operator through an open, competitive
intemational tender. The advisors' main task will be to assist MOPT to: prepare tender
documents and procedures for the selection of a digital cellular operator; launch and administer
the tender process for the selection of a digital cellular operator; identify possible investors
interested in the digital cellular license; and evaluate the offers made by investors. The method
of selection will be QCBS, estimated at $320,000.
(c) Package 1.3: Professional development (training, study visits) to strengthen MOPT to develop
and implement a comprehensive policy reform agenda for the telecommunications sector, that
includes, inter alia, technical cooperation arrangements with relevant policy agencies in other
countries, information sharing and formal and informal contacts, and advice; seminar and courses
offered by private firms, universities and associations; study tours for senior policy officials;
organization of seminars/workshops in Samoa. Training is estimated at $50,000.
Project Component 2 - US$1.23 million
The component for Regulatory Reform will assist MOPT to introduce effective regulation of the
telecommunications sector and to strengthen the regulatory capacity of MOPT to carry out the regulatory
oversight functions of a modern and independent telecommunications regulator.
(a) Package 2.1: Regulatory assistance providing advice to MOPT on regulatory matters, including
areas such as interconnection, tariff licensing, competition, and numbering regime. Technical
assistance will be provided to MOPT to establish the necessary regulation to ensure effective
- 35 -



competition. This will include assisting in the design of an institutional plan for the development
of MOPT, including an assessment of training needs and a plan to implement the training; advice
on human resource issues, and an assessment of MOPT's staffing requirements; data collection,
and statistics for the sector; and to ensure wide access and diffusion of these statistics, guidance
to MOPT on rural and environmental issues (as well as design of the OBA subsidy scheme for
rural communications). The method of selection will be QCBS, estimated at $560,000.
(b) Package 2.2: Information systems in MOPT. Funding will be provided for procurement of
equipment and software for MOPT's information systems. International competitive bidding
(ICB) procedure will be followed. The estimated cost is $95,000.
(c) Package 2.3: Spectrum assessment andfrequency plan. Technical assistance will be provided to
strengthen MOPT in institutional and organizational reform and to assist MOPT to: (i) prepare a
national frequency allocation plan and relevant radio regulations; (ii) establish spectrum
management and monitoring processes and procedures; (iii) establish an appropriate spectrum
pricing policy; advise and assist the implementation of institutional changes to organizational
structure, management, procedures and administration of MOPT in carrying out the functions of
planning, monitoring, and enforcing the attribution of rights to the radio spectrum; and (iv) assess
the system requirements for radio spectrum management and monitoring and prepare the tender
documents for procurement. The method of selection will be QCBS, estimated at $95,000.00.
(d) Package 2.4: Spectrum management equipment: Funding will be provided for the procurement,
installation, and commissioning of state-of-the-art computerized spectrum management and
monitoring facilities to facilitate the efficient use of the radio spectrum. The equipment will be
procured following ICB. The estimated cost is $240,000.
(e) Package 2.5: Monitoring and evaluation ofpoverty impact. An evaluation will be carried out on
the effects on poverty of the telecommunication and postal sector reform program. An individual
consultant will carry out this assignment. The method of selection will be individual consultant
(IC), estimated at $50,000.
(f) Package 2.6: Professional development of the regulatory unit. The project will fund the training
of MOPT's staff, to enhance its regulatory capacity and human resources. The regulatory expert
(package 2.1) will finalize a complete training plan for MOPT's staff. Training is estimated at
$95,000.
(g) Package 2.7: The Pilot for OBA for rural communications will consist of a subsidy for providers
of rural communications with the scheme being administered by MOPT. The OBA for rural
communications will be implemented, on a pilot basis, once competition in the sector is
introduced, and the perimeter of the commercially viable areas is better defined. The
implementation will cover three activities: (i) a study to assess options to extend
communications in rural areas, (ii) after the midterm review, if agreement is reached on the OBA
option, a tender will be launched to providing a subsidy to rural communications providers, (iii)
based on the results of the tender, the OBA subsidy will be allocated. The project will also fund
the subsidy on a pilot basis. The method of selection will be QCBS, estimated at $95,000.
Project Component 3 - US$ 0.59 million
The component for the Corporate Reform of SamoaTel is designed to develop and assess
options to enhance the corporate performance ofSamoaTelforprivatization, including options to
- 36 -



restructure and privatize SamoaTel by recruiting advisors.
(a) Package 3.1: Restructuring/privatization options study. Technical assistance will be provided
to complete an assessment of the options to privatize SamoaTel, including options to restructure
the company.
(b) Package 3.2: The project will provide funding to the TD to finance the work of thefinancial
advisors to privatize SamoaTel.
Project Component 4 - US$2.03 million
Bank support to Postal Reform will be carried out in two phases: Phase I will involve technical
assistance to the government to elaborate a postal sector strategy, including introduction of competition,
definition and implementation of an adequate regulatory framework, extension of access, and review of
postal tariff regime. The policy and legal reform for the postal sector is included in the project
component 1 (package 1. 1.). During Phase I the project will also provide technical assistance to
SamoaTel to prepare for competition through the definition and implementation of a corporate strategy.
This corporate strategy for postal services will be built on the basis of a market study (covering
customers and competitors on the different segments). The corporate strategy will also focus on internal
management and financial systems, including the general and cost accounting systems distinguishing
between the telecommunications and the postal activities of SamoaTel. It is important that SamoaTel
acquires better knowledge of the cost structure of its postal services, the main cost drivers to rationalize
its production, and basing its tariff policy in a cost-oriented manner (together with comparisons of
competitors tariff practice). Rationalization of its operations also covers the network management:
SamoaTel will determine the most cost-effective way to reach out in rural and remote areas by defining
franchising options and an adequate outsourcing policy. A first financial audit will be engaged to
provide the stakeholders with a clear baseline for telecommunications activities on the one hand, and
postal activities on the other hand. This baseline can also be used to assess, along the implementation of
the project, that financial standards for borrowing under this project are met. And lastly, a
comprehensive training program will accompany the corporate strategy implementation by providing
staff with a new approach to business by exposing them to private sector business management practices.
Under the training postal staff will be exposed to best international practice (study tours), and provide
them with essential commercial management skills (marketing, customer services, cost accounting,
financial management, human resources management). Phase lI will include the upgrading of
SamoaTel's postal capacity. SamoaTel's postal production tool and retail network will need a general
upgrade since it has suffered from several years of insufficient investment in maintenance and
modernization. The Main Post Office's sorting area and mailboxes will be upgraded. Internet access will
be available to the public through an Internet cafe. District post offices and their mailboxes will be
upgraded. Together with a marketing strategy update, postal outlets will benefit from a modernization
plan. Investment in new information systems, such as standard and customized hardware and software,
will allow the retail network to be linked to improve internal management capacities, and develop new
services and products. This is possible thanks to a better understanding of customer needs. Phase I is
regarded as a preparatory phase to bring the Samoa postal sector to a trend of reforms in which most
countries have been engaged for several years. In this regard it can be considered a transitory period to
make up for the insufficient legal and institutional upgrade. On the other hand, Phase II covers
commercial-oriented actions and these investments will yield returns. The funding will be borrowed by
SamoaTel.
Phase 1: Assistance ($0.58 million) will be provided to SamoaTel in the following areas:
- 37 -



(a) Package 4.1: Commercial services
(i) Package 4.J1.1: Corporate strategy and implementation ofpostal services which will
include cost accounting including identification of accounts structure and redesign of
internal systems to hook into cost-accounting framework; marketing, product
rationalization and product development; study on outreach of SamoaTel. The method
of selection will be QCBS, estimated at $185,000.
(ii) Package 4.1.2: Legal (development and negotiation of franchise and outsourcing
agreements). The method of selection will be QCBS, estimated at $220,000.
(iii)Package 4.1.3: SamoaTel audit. The method of selection will be least-cost selection,
estimated at $25,000.
(b) Package 4.2: Training
(i) Package 4.2.1: Professional development (training, study visits) will include
professional development specific to postal activities, estimated at $150,000:
*   seminars and courses offered by private firms, universities, and associations,
*   study tours for senior staff of SamoaTel on postal matters,
*   off-shore tenure at foreign postal companies, and
*   organization of postal seminars/workshops in Samoa.
Phase II: Goods ($1.45 million) will be provided to SamnoaTel for the investment portion of this
component.
(a) Package 4.3.1: Postal equipment/IT equipment and software. The package will provide
postal equipment and facilities for upgrading the postal infrastructure, including IT
equipment and software, Internet kiosk facilities including access terminals and
management system for use in post offices by customers. ICB procedures will be
followed. The estimated cost is $1,450,000.
Project Component 5 - US$0.08 million
(a) Package 5. 1: Project management. Technical assistance to support the PSC and
implementing agencies to assist in the project's implementation. The project will finance
the PMT to be procured through consultant qualifications (CQ).
- 38 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Component                 US $million   US $million   US $million
Competition and sector reform (MOPT)                        0.16          0.48          0.64
Regulatory framework (MOPT)                                 0.25          1.06          1.31
Corporate reform of SamoaTel                                0.17          0.52          0.69
Postal sector reform (SamoaTel)                             1.00          1.76          2.76
Project management                                          0.02          0.06          0.08
Total Baseline Cost                                         1.60          3.88          5.48
Physical Contingencies                                     0.03          0.08          0.11
Price Contingencies                                        0.22          0.52          0.74
Total Project Costsl               1.85         4.48          6.33
Total Financing Required                1.85         4.48          6.33
Local        Foreign        Total
Project Cost By Category                 US $million   US $million  US $million
Goods                                                         0.98           1.78         2.76
Services                                                      0.77           2.40         3.17
Training                                                      0.10           0.30         0.40
0.00                        0.00
Total Project Costs'      1.85           4.48         6.33
Total Financing Required       1.85           4.48         6.33
Identifiable taxes and duties are 0 (US$m) and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 6.33 (US$m) Therefore, the project cost shanng ratio is 70.77%
of total project cost net of taxes.
- 39 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Overview
1.    The proposed project will offer the following benefits: (a) increased fiscal revenues, or revenues
to the GOS; and (b) wider economic benefits, to the whole economy. The cost-benefit analysis is given
below and reflects these two classes of benefits.
2.     Considering the more narrow fiscal analysis and the broader assessment of the impact of the
project on the whole Samoan economy, the benefits far exceed the costs involved. In particular, if the
cellular market in Samoa will replicate the growth pattern of other similar projects or reform initiatives,
the benefits for the government and for the Samoan economy are likely to be considerable.
3.     The main forces driving the benefits of this operation are:
(a) Telecommunications (cellular) market growth. The introduction of competition in the
cellular market will stimulate market growth. The new competitor will pay a price for the
license and will commit to invest in a new digital cellular network, extending coverage of the
population in Upolu and in Savaii. The benefits from cellular market growth are:
(i) the price paid for the license by the investor,
(ii) the foreign direct investment (FDI) associated with network expansion,
(iii)the higher subscriber growth,
(iv) the increased access to cellular telephony for the Samoan population, as a result of
expanded service coverage,
(v) higher fiscal revenues, arising from value added tax (VAT) on an enlarged number of
subscribers, and
(vi) other positive fiscal revenues, associated with additional profit tax.
(b) Development of the postal service. The investment in SamoaTel will contribute to the
improvement of efficiency of postal operations and to the expansion of the postal service,
which will increase:
(i) postal volume, including letters and parcels, and
(ii) access to postal service, and Internet in the smart post offices.
(c) Telecommunications and postal sector development will also bring indirect benefits to the
Samoan economy. Better telecommunications and postal infrastructure will indirectly effect
sources of benefits for the Samoan economy by:
(i) reducing Samoa's economic isolation vis-d-vis the global economy,
(ii) lowering the cost for Samoan enterprises, particularly for export oriented firms,
(iii) enabling other productivity gains, related to a better telecommunications and postal
infrastructure, and
(iv) reducing poverty, as a consequence of expansion of communications service to rural
areas.
4.     The main costs of the project are:
-40 -



(a) technical assistance costs to implement legal and regulatory sector reform,
(b) administrative costs related to the award of telecommunications licenses, including the cost
of recruiting an investment advisor for the digital cellular license,
(c) start-up costs to establish a regulatory unit in the MOPT,
(d) investment in SamoaTel postal infrastructure, and
(e) other project management costs, including salaries of public officers.
5.     The cost benefit analysis includes the direct benefits from the growth of the telecommunications
and postal market. The indirect benefits are not included in this analysis, for two reasons: these benefits
are more difficult to forecast in monetary terms; and an ex-post assessment of these benefits is more
appropriate, and will be conducted during the project. Particularly, a poverty reduction assessment has
been built into the project design (see Annex 12). The cost benefit analysis shows that the benefits of the
project are greater than its costs, even when ignoring indirect benefits, which only strengthen the results
of the analysis. The analysis assumes that the only costs are the costs of the project, i.e., there is no
additional cost related to the policy reform supported by the operation.
Fiscal Analysis
6.     Based on the reforn program's implications on government revenues, the impact will be highly
positive.
7.     The tender for the selection of a digital cellular operator is expected to bring the government
revenues estimated at $3.06 million (Tala 10 million).
8.     Introducing competition in the digital cellular market will catalyze change in the sector by
accelerating the subscriber growth rate. The model assumes that introducing competition with cellular
penetration will increase from 1.81 percent in 2002, to over 12 percent in 2007. This growth is
consistent with the experiences of countries with similar GDP per capita.
9.     The larger market base will induce operators to reduce prices, which will consequently reduce
the average revenue per user (ARPU), which in the model decreases, both for fixed (-37 percent in five
years), and mobile (-30 percent) users. The subscriber growth, coupled with a decrease in the ARPU, is
expected to generate a substantial growth in the teleconmmunications market, which has the potential to
grow from the current $9.6 million, to over $16 million in 2007. The effect of competition can be
estimated in 30,000 additional customers. This estimate is based on the comparison between the historic
growth rates of the sector, in terms of subscriber growth, and the higher growth rate expected in a
competitive market. These additional customers, holding the same assumptions of reduction in the
ARPU, are likely to bring in up to $4 million in taxes, in the form of VAT.
10.    Although most of the benefits brought about by competition will be on the mobile side of the
market, the model assumes that the enlarged cellular market, thanks to positive network externalities, will
also have a positive effect on the growth of the fixed-line business. The growth rate of fixed line
business is expected to accelerate by 0.5 percent annually.
11.    Other positive fiscal revenues, associated with additional profit tax.
12.    On the postal side, the improvements in SamoaTel's infrastructure will bring about increased
volume and revenue generated by the improved quality of service, as well as in diversified products and
services. Volume is expected to rise (at an average annual pace of about 15 percent), allowing the annual
- 41 -



ratio "letter items per person" to increase from 5.8 in 2001 to 10 in 2006. Revenues will consequently
increase but at a more moderate pace, as SamoaTel will have to adjust its tariff policy in accordance with
its client-segments. Large mailers may be able to negotiate reasonable discounts in exchange for the
deposited volumes or shared work (e.g., concentrating the mail at one convenient physical location for
SamoaTel to pick-up, or to do some preparatory sorting for SamoaTel).
13.     These additional fiscal revenues, along with the upfront fee paid for the digital cellular license,
$7.5 million in net present value (NPV), in terms of direct revenues brought to the state. If these
revenues are contrasted with the costs of the project to the government, it shows that the project is
expected to generate a net positive fiscal revenue in the first year driven by the price paid for the cellular
license. The second year of the project is characterized by the investment costs to upgrade SamoaTel
postal facilities, as well as by the costs to upgrade the sector regulatory framework. These costs will
bring down the cumulative fiscal impact of the operation in year 2. From year 3 onwards, the indirect
additional fiscal revenues will increase, together with a reduction in project costs, to increase overall
fiscal gain to $1.9 million by the end of the project's time frame.
14.     The following table indicates fiscal benefits and costs in NPV, as well as the cumulative effect.
As shown, even taking the narrow perspective of the benefits generated to government revenues, the
project is expected to have a positive impact. These results are strengthened by the following section,
which accounts for the additional benefits apart from govermment revenues.
Table 4.1: Fiscal Analysis, Fiscal Gains (NPV)
2003        2004         2005        2006        2007        2008
Price paid for the license         3,058,104           0           0           0           0            0
Additional fiscal revenues from the
cellular sector                      189,490     347,189     754,125    1,224,933   1,550,549    1,707,714
Additional SCL postal revenues        96,000     104,000     139,000     424,000      450,000     470,000
Additional SCL telecommunications
revenues                              10,000      20,000      40,000      50,000      100,000     200,000
Overall fiscal revenues            3,353,594     471,189     933,125    1,698,933   2,100,549   2,377,714
Overall fiscal revenues (NPV)      3,353,594     448,752     846,372    1,467,602   1,728,127    1,863,001
Costoftheproject                   1,173,000    1,319,000    555,700    2,153,000   1,638,833     152,000
Costoftheproject(NPV)              1,173,000    1,256,190    504,036    1,859,842   1,348,272     119,096
Cumulative Fiscal Gain (NPV)       2,180,594    1,373,155   1,715,491   1,323,250   1,703,106    3,447,011
15.         The following graph depicts fiscal costs and benefits, as well as the cumulative net fiscal
gain, all in NPV. The project is expected to be associated to net fiscal gains for the whole period. The
fiscal revenues will have an initial peak, associated with the proceeds from the sale of the cellular
license, to be followed by a reduction of the fiscal gains, due to the investments in the postal
infrastructure in years 2 and 3. Near the end of the project, in years 4 and 5, the net fiscal gains will be
driven by the long-term fiscal revenues generated by the higher sector tumover and by profit taxes paid
by the private sector operators.
Graph 4.1: Net Fiscal Gains
-42 -



Fiscal Gains (Net Present Value)
4,     00000,0M  -    ----- -------------------------- r -          4,000,000
- OveraU fisc revenues (WI)
3,500,000----- -        -         t d the prCect ()  ---- L --------- 3,500,000 >
EL
> 3~~~()(~~~)  - ~~OjiuIateRscalGEn(W )
> 3,000,000         --------- ,    (eF6cbGa3,000,000 a
Z                   I500,000  --                 I-         ------   -  Z500,000
0  Zooo,ooo         --  - - -  -- -- --  I- - - -- - - ,-i------_-     Z000,000 
2 1,500,000 _-                          r                              1,500,000 3
o               I                   I         !                    _
1,500.00                      -- -   - -            -                00,0
2003      2004                2006     27        2008
Impact on the Post and Telecommunications Sector
15.    The estimated additional benefits are related to this operation, in terms of benefits to the post and
telecommunications sector, and indirectly, to the Samoa's economy. Since the fiscal analysis shows that
the fiscal benefits alone exceed the costs of the project, these additional benefits for the sector and the
economy as a whole, strengthen the case for this operation.
17.   In addition to the price paid for the cellular license, the presence of a new competitor on the
digital cellular market will bring FDI associated with network expansion. The amount of FDI is expected
to be $3.37 million in five years (Tala 11 million).
18.    A consultancy completed by Andrew Simpson and Associates, has carried out preliminary
estimates of the breakdown of network infrastructure costs, indicated in Table 2.2.
Table 4.2: Network Infrastructure Costs ($)
Units  Unit Cost 
BSC                                          1      $0.45    $0.45
MSC (incl HLR)                               1      $0.56    $0.56
BTS                                          8      $0.14    $1.12
Software and licencing                       1      $0.42    $0.42
Billing system and server                    1      $0.17    $0.17
Backhaul from BTS to MSC (2 x El)            8      $0.02    $0.18
Backhaul from MSC to I'G (1 x El)            1      $0.01    $0.01
Point of interconnect to fixed network (2 x El)  2  $0.06    $0.12
BTS synchronization                          1      $0.06    $0.12
Ancillary                                    1      $0.22    $0.22
Total network                                              $3.37
-43 -



19.    This investment in network infrastructure, coupled with the impact of competition, in terms of
prices and business behavior, will accelerate customer growth. The model provides for a growth in
mobile teledensidy from 1.82 percent (2001), to 12.28 percent (2007). This growth will bring overall
penetration to 21.98 percent.
20.    The network expansion will also expand coverage. Currently about 75 percent of Savaii's
population is not covered by mobile communications, and a part of this population is not covered by any
type of service. The new mobile license will include precise license requirements. The network
expansion is expected to reduce substantially the percentage of the population without phone access.
The presence of rural pilots will also enhance the access to communications in rural areas.
Graph 4.2: Expected Growth of the Cellular Market
Competition in cellular
will drive penetration growth
25.00%
-4--Fixed Fne penetration
20.00%     --4 -dbIlepenetrafion   -  -- - - - - -- - - - - - - - -  - -. -
-ar- Overag penetration                 I
I      I, ,                   1
llI        I             - I      I      I
10.00%  -_                  ---  --  ------
5.00%  - ---- - - - , - - -  l- - - -  r - -- - - - - - -  T - - - - - - - - - - - - -I- - - - - -
0.00% 
2000   2001    2002   2003    2004    2005   2006   2007
21.    As a result of accelerated subscriber growth and improved coverage, the revenues of the
telecommunications sector are expected to grow from $9.6 million to $16.5 million. Revenues from
telecommunications as a percentage of GDP should also increase, from 3.91 percent to 4.94 percent by
the end of the project.
-44 -



22.    On the postal side, volume growth is expected to increase at an average annual growth of 15
percent approximatively, as shown in Table 2.3:
Table 4.3.: Postal Volume Forecast
2000/01   2001/02    2002/03   2003/04    2004/05   2005/06
Letter
Domestic           222,542    255,923   294,312   338,459    389,227   447,611
International
outbound          222,190   255,519    293,846   337,923    388,612   446,903
inbound           513,631    590,676   679,277   781,169    898,344   1,033,095
Parcels
Domestic           0          100       115       132        152       175
International
outbound          2,262      2,601     2,991     3,440      3,956     4,550
inbound           21,132     24,312    27,947    32,139     36,960    42,504
TOTAL    1,001,032  1,129,288  1,298,488  1,493,262  1,17,251  1,974,838
Source: SamoaTel
Revenues will increase at a lesser pace than volume, at a conservative 8 percent rate the first two years,
then at 10 percent (twice the annual GDP growth rate), as shown in Table 4.4.
Table 4.4: Postal Revenue Forecast
2000/01    2001/02   2002/03   2003/04    2004/05   2005/06
Postal revenues    1.199      1.295     1.399     1.538      1.962     1.861
(Mns WST)
Source: SamoaTel
Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Project Benefits
(a) the price paid for the license by the investor,
(b) the FDI associated with network expansion,
(c) higher subscriber growth,
(d) increased access to cellular telephony for the Samoan population, as a result of expanded
service coverage,
(e) higher fiscal revenues, arising from VAT on an enlarged number of subscribers,
(f) other positive fiscal revenues, associated with additional profit tax,
(g) increased postal volume,
(h) increased access to postal service, and
(i) increased revenues to the state (SamoaTel's divident to the state).
- 45 -



Project Costs
(a) technical assistance costs to implement a legal and regulatory sector reform,
(b) administrative costs related to the award of telecommunications licenses, including the cost
of recruiting an investment advisor for the digital cellular license,
(c) start up costs to establish a regulatory unit in the MOPT,
(d) investment in SamoaTel postal infrastructure, and
(e) other project management costs, including salaries of public officers.
Main Assumptions:
*   annual growth rate of the population = 2 percent
*   annual growth rate of the population in Upolu = 3 percent
*   annual GDP growth rate = 4.99 percent
*   digital cellular license awarded in Ql 2003
*   price paid for the license = T$10 million, or $3.057 million
*   historic customer growth rate (fixed and mobile) = 6.8 percent
*   fixed line penetration growth in the hypothesis of sector reform = 4.5 percent in 2003, 5.5
percent in 2004 to 2007
*   mobile penetration increases from 1.82 percent in 2001 to 12.28 percent in 2007, thanks to
competition.
*   overall penetration increases from 9.19 percent in 2001 to 21.98 percent in 2007
*   telecommunications revenues as a percentage of GDP = 3.91 percent in 2001
*   telecommunications revenues as a percentage of GDP are increased to 4.93 percent in 2007,
as a result of reform.
*   ARPU- (annual) - mobile = $293 in 2002
*   ARPU (annual) Mobile declines by 30 percent between 2003 and 2007
*   ARPU - (annual) - Fixed = $674 in 2002
*   ARPU (annual) Fixed declines by 37 percent between 2003 and 2007
*   exchange rate Tala/$= 3.27
- 46 -



Xl'VCE                                                                                                          52t'SStl Pi9g   t't   t't  D'i1  t I > ll S9n n
IXSOS       QlX'tAt  IP aN'oI   5 tw,u     5- sSW'vu
pwwffS     4"i:4FG C7 V ti twl-  5 W'l6-0  I                                                                             H
bhtSi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F Ce b;8f  Ibe  '6EO  Yi6   tl16 f              -YAHC                  dtiDS 0 fe4 9 g"'
951f 611 .15  Y9;  1,11S  tin iol;; IS  flf ftw I I   SLStI   ttIYss t M S   I    DS6 G9'S  (Mlcb I' hSv  fuu )  '  Dt  '  SPi
161S      ;Qi         LIZS<S                SKi         9X         Ms;        OM          WsS                       >   ;t
6.fics     LzmS       95n        ZOKS                   9MttS'64                         vOsI                       DtIbID
OW6S       7Z         z1te       ;,-s'L GOP)            oo;Yb      Asl'        tQUtI     tIWi                         >sf
91 Ub 1    SMv 1      ;6esr      -1ro-1) I    ['9       I grM      t9g'W1     .9fwZt      (WEI                     ,al:
IxCl.       ie? T3x   51' It      %ft-6     'biV-L      MUS'       TsIZ        b2t        9.                        ,>zj@
181tr DI    oz        fan4f      %0-8        1,trss     6 b61      %L9 L      %9El        tWE %%)esm
fit+R3bbOI birsfli7l  stP6 16o 1  6406" I    491466vo fw  -6rt"Ws 1  6]vlx6w6gl bIffr6t9l  o   lr.-6jl  8ia3R.IU;u 
9ZL,990,101 t  LCI'6HS*9tO'I  WvsTozl5il)l  ItUOVIO" . s  I S  IlsbS  190'Er5'tt<  s9s''zttIl  utr'W9I E1zWitet  , I  :!RY  jlk 
ISL'Lfl    Sil't51I   EtCl'Sl    StLitSI     GbLoot I   ZL):,l     Zgb'<      tef I      tESC ( 91 1                   I&
IE6~~~~~~t'Si8     Zi8'( Wreil  OLi'-;SI  9wm       1)t'tt'51 1C9'IZ   I   t;89f.11    WIl Il Ol)tI IT,
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~mtm                          Fe"   D      z        t os o ett , ;>, i, 
b.utbqdWWMt DIFW tSlja-P Ml,u



Sensitivity analysis / Switching values oficritical items:
License Price is Zero; Annual fees = $200,000
2003         2004          2005         2006          2007         2008
Price paid for the license              200,000       190,476      181,406      172,768       164,540      156,705
Additional fiscal revenues from the
cellular sector                         189,490      330,657       684,014     1,058,143    1,275,641    1,338,038
Additional SCL postal revenues           96,000       104,000      139,000      424,000      450,000      470,000
Additional SCL telecommunications
revenues                                 10,000       20,000        40,000       50,000       100,000      200,000
Overall fiscal revenues                 495,490      645,133     1,044,420     1,704,910    1,990,181    2,164,744
Overall fiscal revenues (NPV)           495,490      614,412       947,320     1,472,766    1,637,327    1,696,133
Cost ofthe project                     1,173,000    1,319,000      555,700     2,153,000    1,638,833      152,000
Cost of the project (NPV)              1,173,000    1,256,190      504,036     1,859,842    1,348,272      119,096
Cumulative Fiscal Gain (NPV)           (677,510)   (1,319,289)    (876,005)   (1,263,082)    (974,027)     603,010
- 48 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
SamoaTel
Background
1.     SamoaTel was incorporated under the Companies Act 1955 of Samoa in 1999, following the
reorganization of the postal and telecommunications sector. The company currently provides post and
telecommunications services in the country, essentially all services provided earlier by the MOPT of the
GOS. SamoaTel is currently fully state-owned, and the country's prime minister is its chairman.
Operating authorities of the board have, however, been delegated to its board of directors, as provided in
its Articles of Association.
2.     SamoaTel is an implementing agency for the project, under which it will receive IDA funds from
the government through a subsidiary loan to be onlent to SamoaTel by Samoa for purposes of executing
specific project components relating to postal reform.
3.     This financial due diligence was carried out during a mission in April 2002. The purpose was to
assess SamoaTel's financial state, and was been carried out on the basis of unaudited financial statements
for 2000 and 2001, furnished and certified by its management. This report may be read in conjunction
with a financial management risk assessment report prepared for the project, wherein the financial
management capacity of SamoaTel has been assessed.
Historical Financial Performance
4.     SamoaTel maintains its accounts based on the New Zealand Accounting standards, consistently
applied and on a historical cost basis.
5.     A summary of the historical financial statements are provided in Tables 5.1, 5.2, and 5.3.
SamoaTel currently derives 96 percent of its revenues from telecommunications activities, with postal
services providing less than 4 percent of total revenues. Telecommunications revenues grew by 15
percent in 2001 compared to the previous year, and provide most of the profitability for the business.
Postal services, net of international settlements, contributed only Tala 1.2 million 2001, down from Tala
1.3 million in the previous year. SamoaTel currently does not have a costing system capable of
producing management accounting information on different business lines and activities. The project
will provide technical assistance to assist SamoaTel to implement a cost accounting system.
6.     Business profitability remains strong overall. Net operatiing margins improved from 49 percent of
revenues in 2000 to 56 percent in 2001. This was mainly derived from the telecommunications business,
whereas postal services were stated to be operating at near break-even levels. Net profit margins also
showed a similar improvement, from 38 percent in 2000 to 43 percent in 2001. These margins were
achieved without receiving government subsidies, and hence reflect strong business fundamentals.
Profitability in relation to gross capital employed and shareholders' capital has been maintained at
healthy levels in its two years of operation, as summarized below.
-49 -



Table 5.1: SamoaTel's Historical Financial Performance Indicators
Year 2000         Year 2001
Profitability
N_et profit margin        %                38%               43%
Net operating margin      %                49%               56%
Return on assets                           21%              21%
Return on shareholder     %                33%              31%
equity
Return on capital         %                9%               17%
employed
Liquidity         Current ratio            to 1              5.8               3.6
Acid test ratio          to 1               5.4              2.8
Activity indicators
Fixed asset turnover   no. times            0.7              0.8
Inventory turnover     no. times           25.4              13.9
R eceivables            no. days            180               122
Working capital        no. times           2.49              4.27
tumover
Leverage          Long-term debt to
e quity ration           to 1              62%               52%
Gearing                   %                62%               52%
Interest coverage       times               4.9               6.4
Debt service ratio      times               4.7              6.1
Historical Financial Position
7.     SamoaTel is currently capitalized at a nominal Tala 100, comprising 100 ordinary shares at Tala
1 each. These shares are owned 100 percent by GOS. Its net worth, including free reserves, stand at
Tala 31.7 million, giving a-book value of Tala 317,570 per share. The terms for capitalizing the
government contribution amounting to Tala 15.8 million has not been formalized. It was agreed at
negotiations that the government will capitalize its contribution to equity and this is a condition for
disbursement of IDA credit to fund the postal investment under Samoa Tel's postal reform component
under the project.
8.     SamoaTel has a modest amount of debt, totaling Tala 34.5 million as of June 30, 2001. This
comprises the balance outstanding under long-term loans from international lenders and development
agencies that were granted to the GOS for postal and telecommunications activities, and were onlent to
SamoaTel following its corporatization in 1999. However, the formal agreements specifying the terms
and conditions for such onlending have not been finalized between GOS and SamoaTel. It was agreed at
negotiations that the government willfinalize the terms and conditions of the government loans to
SamoaTel and this is a condition for disbursement of IDA credit to fund the postal investment under
Samoa Tel's postal reform component under the project.
9.     SamoaTel has maintained a conservative gearing of 52 percent in 2001, reflecting long-term debt
- 50 -



to equity ratio of 1.1: 1. The interest charges on this loan, as provided in the accounts, are covered a
healthy 6.4 times by net earnings, providing some room for SamoaTel taking on some more debt as its
business grows. The company's liquidity is good, with a current ratio of 3.6 to I and a liquidity ratio at a
comfortable 2.8 to 1. The company maintained a healthy cash balance of Tala 23 million at the end of
FY01.
10.    SamoaTel has a fixed assets base of Tala 36 million at net book value, mostly comprising
telecommunications equipment (Tala 28.4 million) and a building with a book value of valued at Tala 6
million. Its fixed assets were acquired by transfer from MOPT according to the terms of its operating
license.
11.   Working capital employed in the business has been maintained at Tala 12 million, which is 41
percent of the turnover for 2001. However, this includes trade receivables amounting to Tala 9.99
million which is high in relation to sales. These receivables include Tala 8.9 million for
telecommunications operations alone, which amount to 122 days (or four months) revenues. This is high
for telecommunications operations, and reflects billing delays and collection problems. The mission also
noted that substantial amounts have been written off in two years from delinquent debtor accounts,
amounting to Tala 3.3 million in 2000 and Tala 4.3 million in 2001. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that Samoa Tel wilifurnish to IDA an action plan to reduce its accounts receivables to two
months of annual revenues by the end of FY05, and that this be a condition of disbursement of IDA
credit to fund the investment portion of Samoa Tel's postal sector component under the project.
12.   Overall, SamoaTel has maintained a healthy profitability in its business, with much of its profit
accruing from its telecommunications business. Its financial health can be classified as good, given
strong liquidity and reasonable gearing. However, key issues outlined above need to addressed to ensure
continued good financial performance and sound financial position.
- 51 -



Table 5.2: SamoaTel's Historical Income Statements (in Tala)
2000                             2001      l        .       l
Revenue
24,950,798                       28,589,513
Telecommunications
Postal                  1,342,496                         1,199,160
Interest received         185,211                          666,959
Other income              486,458                        2,1984,804
Total_                                 26,964,963                       32,641,436
Expenditure
Depreciation            2,691,923                         3,340,04 
Audit fee                  85,000                           65,148
Interest on loans       2,659,054                         2,583,513
Other operating        11,191,666                        12,698,839
Total                                   16267,643                       18,687,548
Profit before tax                        10,337,320                       13,953,888
Tax                           30%         3,143,091            29%         4,046,627
Net income                                 7194,229                        9,907,261
Dividend                                  1,145,711
To retained earnings                      6,048,518                        9,907,261
Cumulative
retained                                                                   15,955,779
earnings
- 52 -



Table 5.3: SamoaTel's Historical Balance Sheets (in Tala)
As of June 30    Actual Reported        2000         Actual Reported        2001
Current Assets
Cash at bank                11,871,898                          23,205,150
Stocks and WIP               I,033,797                           2,136,259
Trade debtors              13,025,992                            9,994,355
Income tax refund           1,164,387         27,096,074         6581,321         41,917,085
Fixed assets                                  35,228,220                          36,037,518
Total assets                                  62,324,294                          77,954,603
Current Liabiliti .es
Accounts payable              574,504                            1,028,586
Other creditors               286,417                            1,906,208
Provision for VAGST           662,126                             441,750
Current portion of            707,449                            2,899,779
termn loan.
Accrued employee
expenses                      120,376          2,350,872          115,077          6,391,400
Term loan         _                          35,827,980                          34,465,771
Deferred tax                                  2,295,69                            5,340,423
liability
Net assets                                   21,849 748                          31,757,009
Share capital
Authorized, paid-up              100                                 100
Government
contribution               15,801,130                          15,801,130
Retained earnings           6,048,518                          15,955,779
lotal equity                6,048,518        21,849,748        15,955,779        31,757,009
Financial Forecasts
13.    Key assumptions in preparing the financial forecasts include the following:
(a) Revenue growth in telecommunications businesses is assumed to grow strongly, at 15
percent in 2002, before gradually tapering off to 10 percent in fiscal 2006/07, as competitive
activity strengthens in the market. Double digit growth is still considered feasible, given the
untapped market potential. In the postal business segment, growth in revenues is assumed to
become strong in 2003/2004 (10 percent) and beyond, in response to the completion of
investments in capacity contemplated in this project.
(b) Operating expenses are forecast to grow at about 20 percent p.a. through the early forecast
period, reducing to 15 percent p.a. thereafter. This trend is to account for an increase in
support services and related overheads in the early years, in line with increased coverage in
both telecommunications and postal segments.
- 53 -



(c) Capital expenditure. SamoaTel management has aggressive investment plans for the next few
years, involving capital expenditure amounting to Tala 60 million over the next six years.
This includes investment in the postal component under the this project over this period. It is
assumed that this capital expenditure will be financed from internal generation of funds,
except for the IDA credit proposed under this project. No further debt will be required.
(d) Working capital controls are assumed to gradually improve, as debtor monitoring and
collection efficiencies are introduced. Trade debtors, in particular, are expected to reduce
gradually from an average outstanding from four months sales to three months by FY03 and
to two months by FY05.
(e) The existing loan of SamoaTel, amounting to Tala 34.4 million will be gradually repaid, at
about Tala 3 million a year. At this repayment rate the loan will be fully repaid to GOS in
about 10 years. Since currently this loan is not covered by a formal agreement, this
assumption needs to be validated with GOS. It has been assumed that this loan will continue
to bear interest at 8 percent p.a. in the future, in line with the past practice.
(f) IDA credit will be provided to SamoaTel in two parts. The funds to support technical
assistance and training to prepare SamoaTel for competition and meet the financial standards
to borrow under this project, such as implementation of a cost accounting system and
preparation of separate management accounts for postal and telecommunications businesses,
will be provided as a subsidiary grant from the government to SamoaTel. The funds required
to finance the postal investment component will be onlent in local currency to SamoaTel, and
the foreign exchange risk on the IDA loan will be borne by the GOS, not SamoaTel. The
currency exchange rate has been assumed at Tala 3.3 per US dollar through the forecast
period. This onlent loan will be limited to $1.45 million corresponding to the amount
earmarked for postal reform. The financing charge to SamoaTel for the onlent IDA loan will
also be at a comparable cost of 5 percent, including commitment fees.
14.    Evaluation of forecasts. The attached forecasts indicate the following:
(a) SamoaTel will grow from a turnover of Tala 32 million ($10 million) currently to Tala 61.5
million ($18.5 million) by FY07. Net earnings after tax will reach Tala 10.7 million ($3 million)
in that year.
(b) The net profit margins will be reduced from 43 percent to 25 percent by 2007. Operating
margins will be lower than the current level of 56 percent, to reflect the likely impact of stronger
competition.
(c) Return on capital employed will decline gradually, from the 17 percent currently to 12 percent by
end of the period, reflecting the high levels of investment in capacity. The productivity of this
investment will need to be carefully watched in future.
(d) Business liquidity and solvency will remain strong, especially after 2004 when the postal
business begins to provide better returns and accumulated profits increase. Current ratio
increases from 3.6 now to a healthy level over 9.1 by 2007. Accumulated cash balances will
remain strong through the period.
(e) Long-term debt to equity is currently at 1.1 to 1. This modest gearing level is forecast to further
- 54 -



improve to 0.3 by 2007, reflecting a gearing of 21 percent.
(f) Debt service ratio is well above the threshold, with cash eamings at three times debt service
needs in 2002 and increasing thereafter to 4.6 by 2007.
(g) Self financing ratio is forecast to be over 200 percent in 2002 reducing thereafter through to 154
percent in 2007, yet well in excess of the minimum level of 40 percent as intemal cash
generation improves.
(h) The major risks to SamoaTel meeting these forecasts will be the risks arising from the phasing of
physical investments in postal and telecommunications capacity and a slower growth in its
market share once competition in telecommunications becomes strong. The business plan
presented is aggressive though considered achievable. The phasing of investment will need to be
carefully planned in line with the actual realization operating results.
- 55 -



Table 5.4: Income Statement
lmnnilif
(mTUanilli                    _-
FY     FY bre- Y [km - FY F ae FY FaYP FY Fae FY R       FY
NTI vES v     Jn aB J    O      Oi a- (i13 t  06                     7 c    AB
Td=n       241t   2   -  32=    37.14  41.6=          521   57. =   6S1
J1S        13      1.     1 ,'   138    1.51   1.T   ZZ    27     33
01r           _ Q  I  au  Q40  Off    0Q      Qff Q0X  Q0C 071
O hrirrme   04     21    0 Q6     6     OA Q0     _ 0  0  0f 0f 0_
Tdbi          269-    3261  35.1L   39.61  4431   4951   55 X   61.4_  67.7
lapfim      2d     3-3_    480   5.0    64      75       ___ 9.41 _  1021
IAtfw       au _   0      0      0       010 _ Q L    Q112 015       Q 10
cta n lns   2 6  '   2    22 ___  2     i1.    1.7    1.     I.     1.4
_ uqTirg   11.1  u-=     147 =  17.C =  2124   25=    2931 _  33X. -
= Ttd   _       1661 _ 1 2 _  2L __ 2541  29.3 _ 3491   39.74 _  449= 5Q6
FuBditddeMm        10    14_1v L__     14211  14 -    146-   159 _  16.4  17.11
Tx,c 1         31, 3.14 29P/ 40_  3.9   4;     437    4      47     49!    5L
FuitAf&rIK         7   _103      928   9.95_   102   10Z    11.1_   11     12(
IDAdxd        1614 114   2_ 1.8= 2Y-/ 1.9      4    - 2242 2 20P 2   2 23-2CP, 24
To1bmkanr1         6     1 __   7.4?    7.R    817 i   1_ i_     _  9   _   9.
_    _  -    _    _   1631  23_ 274  31 _  3911 4__ 9__      =   ffi21_ 75
- 56 -



Table 5.5: Balance Sheet
Ghtdb3 k  lima     2=IED       27,a1R82     2efl3        WRB         3122M
aSPx    1gB3w       MMi         23W         z9B          23%Y .7
TrcbdBos  %5B;  i   p         41lT3g                ig440                    e  1 8if 2
kuboLrdbVl(  T7,W74 6   4W77       0 4%          41lg         Q44         4At
Td;"    37,9M     T<7,sB ;79                 E7!Bm1 2                 hi
2RB WD5A7d 43172 ,:h
TAxnsb       l m        7X           Wm=         IQ8     l    av2fiw        man SB 
QnetRMknd
TerrkEn  707,4     2w7          3al(D       3mll=        3m           300
kAmideom2
ep3lo     Ws  23w   1157 6MO,4 5       @    7    3 57Q19a 7    W57,07  2      79
lbni         3-g7U'     3^7ZI        2M7I2j771                23E415M      ZrX2LIM
Datbt          2M       53D          53U3         3m=E    
NAb           tAM       3MAN                     45    SM             aE
AtoWFidLp  10         i 
GAmthi   Wo        1=
Pda'il   WISB     i5gW          41=         3Q740D       3wS1%B       -I15
Eb4 Z$\PE 3twias _ } _ _ 5B _ _~~~1    5           M~
labas   3jE27,gD  35!7,GD   ~~~~~~~~~314E5M7  31435771   7123
lsLmaftutb                           3(11D        313l    3=D               g0
BalEsmtt                             2M771       ZA57Z        230=     
- 57 -



Table 5.6: Financial Performance Indicators
S% OMLfXWMUM7E
RnrWdd Flonnwkks
Yenr2MD Yh.2_D1  YeEr> Na2XB         Y         Yew2X   Yew=6    YarZI7    'Y2IJB
fltW   K                  _    _
Ru*aifty
Nt    Mrgittn          %       38o/0    OX        H//o  4    340,     310      2E       2PR 2)0/           Z3
NqnirWnvgn             %       49/0     T',       440/      410       37 D(     2       310/     2         29 M
Rbmuaes                %       21%      210      19O       1I9!      19      1j7O      170     1,        i9,
PmnalskEgy             %       33%/o   310/       23%       2P'       18O      16,     19'      14W       13,
Pdunlep TpqU          %        9/0   17 D/      16"        is,/(   140M      13/v    13/      VY,       110
OjErtFJio             To1       58      3          3E        47        8E       7.C      ac       91 
AjdTestRafio          To1       54       2e        35        44        6        6        7.4      84        9
FetPTuroA  e         rnm       0.7      G8        09         1.0      1.0      1.1       12       1.3      1.5
retayTurme           m&m       254     139        145       149       152      155      145      134      123
R   a;ydm            rum dch,  180 )     Z         la         9        94       S        6 l                6
V%trlTryCwTui        mrTs      249     427       1Q97       1Q37      5E 2      61      841      7.57      690
LrUtmI     BbtoEit    To1       1.6     1.1        Q7         Q!       Q4  Q         Q        Q             Q
9md                    %       61/o     MD/(      42D/I      391/     310/c    23/      240/      21O      170M
IrlaeoAd              Tm        49      65         6E        7.7       8        9.C      9!       91        11.
DE  &wmrf                          39X i72 52276         5,0B72   4,%Xl    A724671  4,761, 2  4,727V   4,4878a
1tsi                               15,a8 8ep1805a 17,17a752 181a7aM       laWa,917 2:182Q748  21,9M8967 2Z87,E9
ItMcDFpio             Tn-S     47       40         30        34       37        4.0      44       4.6       51
Saf Rrdr               %                         21?!       12PM      79'N 1qt   R      1v       1
AgC-Wp3ysmnArg                                Q01,787    7,61,50            983817   97a7,117  87rqTD
RrS tt                                       ,K24       9,6hi55   7,315,9M  14,9B7,097 I1M5210l 135K865E
I_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  .   _              -        -        -         -     _ _ _ _
- 58 -



Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Procurement
A. 1.  Procurement laws and regulations. The Country Procurement Assessment for Samoa has not
been carried out by the World Bank, but there are existing procurement guidelines and functions issued
by the GOS that are stipulated in the Treasury Regulations and Instructions 1977; Public Finance
Management Act 2001; Procurement guidelines and functions are issued through Treasury circulars to
the government departments and state-owned enterprises. There are also policies and procedures that
have been adopted by Samoa, for civil works and Procurement Policy and Procedures Manual dated May
29, 2000. The Tender Board within the TD of the Ministry of Finance, is in the process of preparing a
procurement manual for departments and stakeholders. The financial guidelines of the TD also set the
approval authority within each responsible officer in each ministry. It has a paragraph that discusses the
use of donor's funds. It stipulates that responsible accounting officers will comply with conditions of aid
and loan agreements, and outlines the approval authorities' threshold for aid funded expenditures.
Approval thresholds are currently at: Tala 50,000 Director, Tala 75,000 Financial Secretary, Tala
100,000 Minister of Portfolio, Tala 200,000 Minister of Finance, Tala 500,000 Tenders Board, and above
to cabinet prescribed in the Treasury Instructions 1977/1998, B4.
A. 1.1. Samoa is the recipient of donor funds, and most of the donor-financed procurement is carried out
by the donor in consultation with the government appointed counterpart. Therefore, Samoa's present
practices in government purchases are generally consistent with Bank guidelines and have been carried
out with due consideration of economy, efficiency, and transparency. Several consultant firms have
confirmed to the Bank team that, lately, the selection processes carried out by the GOS and state-owned
enterprises have improved and have been fair and transparent. There are local legal channels and legal
counsel to handle contract disputes within the country. The Chairman of the Tender Board encourages
written complaints, that are handled by the Tender Board Committee along with the concerned
departments and dealt with within two to three weeks.
A.2.   Procurement capacity assessment. Bank procurement accredited staff carried out an assessment
of the three lAs. The TD and MOPT are govemment agencies and SamoaTel is a state-owned enterprise
incorporated under Samoa's Companies Act 1955, established and operating in Samoa pursuant to
Samoa's Post Office Act 1972, Postal and Telecommunications Services Act 1999, SamoaTel's Deed of
Licence 06/30/99 and 04/06/00, and SamoaTel's Articles of Association dated June 30, 1999. Under
Samoa's law, all of the lAs are allowed to undertake government procurement following national law and
regulations as well those covered by the Bank loan/credit agreements.
A.2.1. The overall responsibility for the execution of the project lies within the TD of the Ministry of
Finance, which is the representative of the GOS for the project. The TD has good experience handling
Bank-financed projects, but will need additional resources to handle the increased demand under this
project. Besides, capacity building for TD staff on Bank procurement guidelines and disbursement
procedures were also conducted under the Health Sector Reform Project.
A.2.2.  The MOPT does not have experience in implementing Bank-financed projects or other projects
financed by international donors. Based on the current status of staff assignments, the assessment shows
that, at present, MOPT does not have enough capacity to implement the project, so its capacity should be
enhanced.
- 59 -



A.2.3.  SamoaTel does not have experience in implementing Bank-financed projects or with other
international donor financed projects. However, SamoaTel is recruiting (from its funds) a procurement
officer to manage the procurement program for the project. The capacity of the procurement officer
along with that of SamoaTel's finance and technical staff should be enhanced through training.
A.2.4.  The assessment revealed that two out of the three lAs under the project have no experience
with procurement financed by the Bank, and therefore have no knowledge of the Bank's procurement
guidelines. The inexperience of MOPT and SamoaTel in implementation of Bank-financed projects,
would constitute a high procurement risk, in the absence of the mitigation actions proposed below.
These actions, coupled with the existing transparent and comprehensive government procurement
regulations, as well as a good experience in the TD will substantially reduce the procurement risk.
A.2.5. Summary of Findings
Assessment               TD                     MOPT                 SamoaTel
Present         Good. Past experience with  low - needs          low - needs
procurement     implementing Bank-financed  strengthening        strengthening
capacity        projects. In addition, capacity
building for TD staff was
conducted under the Health
Sector Reform Project.
Shortcomings    need additional staff      No experience in      No experience in
managing Bank-funded  managing Bank-funded
projects, or other    projects, or other
international         international
donor-financed projects.  donor-financed projects.
- 60 -



A.2.6.   The following action plan is proposed to mitigate the high risk:
Actions Proposed                 Responsibility      Proposed
Completion Date
Capacity Enhancement:
1. Adding capacity: (a) the establishment of the PMT  TD        by credit
should be completed for credit effectiveness; (b) TD to         effectiveness
add resources to handle the increased demand under this
project and (c) each IA shall have appointed a component
project manager for credit effectiveness.
Procurement Training
2. Training on procurement will be provided by Bank staff  Bank  project launch and
during the project launch workshop, and during                  supervision mission.
supervision.
3. Procurement training will be provided by PMT to the  PMT     during project
procurement/finance and technical staff in each IA.             implementation.
4. Procurement forum once a year to be conducted by the  TD     annually
Samoa Tender Board
Enhanced planning and controlling mechanisms
5. The procurement plan was confirmed during      Implementing  agreement on
negotiations. An updated procurement plan will be sent  agencies/PMT  procurement plan
on a quarterly basis together with the project progress         was reached during
report. This will be required for each new fiscal year.         negotiations;
procurement plan
will be monitored
and updated by
IAIPMT on a
quarterly basis.
6. Procurement bidding documents for goods and    Implementing  by credit
request for proposals for consultants to be carried out in  agencies  effectiveness
calendar year 2003 should be prepared and ready for
the start of project implementation.
7. Procurement supervision will be conducted every year  Bank   during
and the procurement plan will be monitored on an ongoing        implementation
basis.
8. A draft BPIP was developed in collaboration with the  IAs/PMT  completed prior to
implementing agencies to be disseminated to the steering        negotiations
committee and all project team members. The BPIP
contains a section on procurement that covers at least the
following issues: roles and responsibilities of the parties
involved in the procurement process; all agreed
procurement procedures applicable to the project; agreed
requirements and procedures for procurement planning
and execution of the contracts with a time bound
implementation plan; procurement audit and review
system (external, by project, internally within the
organization of the units, or by the Bank).
- 61 -



9. User friendly format for the procurement report (as part  Implementing  completed prior to
of the BPIP agreed with the Bank) was developed prior to  agencies/PMT  negotiations.
negotiations. The sample format acceptable to the Bank
should be attached to the BPIP.
10. Cases of collusion and other fraudulent and corrupt  Borrower/Bank  during project
practices will be reported and investigated by the              implementation.
Borrower and the Bank and remedial actions will be taken.
B. Procurement
B. 1.   Guidelines. Procurement of goods and related services funded by the World Bank in this
project will follow the Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January
1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the Procurement
Guidelines). Employment of consultants shall be based on the Guidelines for Selection and Employment
of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers of January 1997, revised in September 1997, January 1999 and
May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines).
B.2.    Procurement plan and standard documents. A project procurement plan providing a time line
of the procurement packages has been prepared. The agreed procurement plan will be updated and sent
to the Bank on a quarterly basis together with the project progress report, requiring Bank's prior no
objection. The BPIP was finalized during negotiations. Project specific standard bidding documents as
agreed with the Bank will be used for all international competitive bidding (ICB) contracts. The standard
request for proposals and contracts for selection of consultants (July 1997, Revised April 1998, July
1999) will be used. Agreement was reached during negotiations on the use of standard documents. The
Request for Proposals required during the first year of project implementation (calendar year 2003) will
be prepared and ready for the start of project implementation, and is a condition of project effectiveness.
- 62 -



,t _, - ,, ~~A*  '. M. ' FA'>. ,1v*                   '' , -M   - ''  - ,..t .'
M[p  l1 Fft.adLEg Rkan(mdU*U9AmElrc   E     =    gm   ot    u
Myr     VAwgt OIf ams    42 aB           QW    mnOUB
uC6G    l3RdsdAdi4e rt4q4s                ErfEfl  maS       2
ab>7                               M
a0O
FELAKN
llpI    Mdeumt&aWRUi kyAEt      CB   GC;  7,jffi  %M   il W   UB w
KR      22k*r>mSn                91  IC    0=ffo             u
myr     23,Omnmrrt&umf           G$  Cat  125ifi  oiol  cu  GY
MW      24     rrEdt~ETt        gQ   IC    no    Om   o      u
MYr     25Mntrg.TdErua-dRmrly7   d;  IC   ffi6E7  Dim  ca   em
NOTr    26Rdmo Drut (rtU34Vs              14     (W    gY   a tB
M Yr    2 7 P OddfQ Rr C (   s   c 6 1C qE 10O  5 C 6  af   Om;
abRS                               %4
03A
W         ffME3WSAM
ID     31 RKfrifiolbn&Ar4tjgcf anTd  c7  Ca (    oUs  cum    11K
ID     32RKE&Ais                 CB3 CaB  ffl=3 1      am   (B
SI>RS                              m
aYO4
FCURSC?RIE
41    g^ii Si
M-      4tl1 pabSr&Wa-d*Eil     c9   CRS2       ISMfi V1M   61
ML     4121E4A~~                CI c10     ZBM R333   V1 "M  5Z;B
SL     41.38nTesAdt              di1     3WB         4Z3   9BM
sn     42Tri
SL     421 Rdflb OM4t(FTr^\"2                 :315    45M   402
R      SDFECW+E
43bW Rtmu
ML      431 ITaW k outa dm%we    g3  ICB 24W     V     7/iB  VlIr
abTdW                             3s
aFNr95
HR0NR43B_TO
Nvpr   51 RX1-3ug"A              cl2  MD   M=   1v    oV    4UMz
abw1
rdSCj9
-63 -



B.3.      Implementation arrangements. The institutional and implementation arrangements consist
of: three implementing agencies (MOPT, TD, SamoaTel); a component project manager within each of
the implementing agencies; PSC; and the PMT. Each of the implementing agencies will be responsible
for executing its respective component(s) as shown below:
Component              Procurement Type      Implementing Agencies
1- Competition and Sector      consultancy services         MOPT
Reform                            and training
2. Regulation                   goods, consultancy           MOPT
services and training
3. Corporate Reform of         consultancy services           TD
SamoaTel
4. Postal Refonn                goods, consultancy         SamoaTel
services and training
5. Project Management Team     consultancy services          MOPT
B.3. 1.   The PSC will be established within MOPT. The PSC will be chaired by the Director of
MOPT and be comprised of heads of each of the other two IAs and the Attomey General. The PSC is
responsible for providing top-level guidance and reviewing progress towards implementation. The PSC
will meet periodically during project execution to guide and maintain the progress of the project and
serve to inform the chair of recent progress made in the various components and are useful in updating
the overview of the project. The relationship between the implementing agencies in implementing the
project is outlined in C.4. I of this report.
B.3.2.    The component project manager within each of the three implementing agencies will be
responsible for liaising with PSC and PMT, and will coordinate the project activities within each
implementing agency.
B.3.3.    The PMTwill consist of consultants hired under the project and will be responsible for
project management, procurement and financial management; assisting the three implementing agencies
in project implementation and reporting; and report on the progress of project implementation to the
PSC. The PMT will be headed by a manager, and will be staffed with a procurement officer and
accountants, conduct procurement workshop for the implementing agencies and provide continued
support and oversee the project's implementation. The establishment of the PMT will be a condition of
credit effectiveness. The PMT's principal task is managing and coordinating the implementation of the
project components and ensuring that the objectives of the Telecommunication and Postal Sector Reform
are met. The main roles include: (a) facilitating procurement of goods and services; (b) providing
assistance to all agencies on project management, procurement, supervision of implementation and
technical advice as required; (c) acting as the liaison officer of the project with the Bank and also with
other department units within the government such as the TD/MOPT/SamoaTel; (d) providing training
and other capacity building programs for project sustainability; and (e) ensuring that all objectives of the
project have been met, and that regularly consolidated project reports are provided to the PSC/TD for
forwarding to the Bank.
B.4.   Procurement Methods
B.4. 1.  Goods comprising of three packages ($2.77 million equivalent, including contingencies). The
- 64 -



project supports the procurement of the spectrum management and monitoring equipment; information
system, and equipment for postal infrastructure. The award of contracts to supply goods will be the
responsibility of MOPT and SamoaTel with assistance by the PMT hired under the project.
B.4.2.  Contracts for the purchase of goods will be procured through ICB procedures in accordance
with the Bank's Procurement Guidelines (see B. 1.).
B.4.3.  Consulting services comprising 12 consultancy assignments ($3.17 million equivalent,
including contingencies). Consultancy services will be contracted following procedures in accordance
with the Bank's Consultant Guidelines (see B. 1.). Consultants services estimated to cost more than
$200,000 per contract must be advertised in the national newspapers and in "Development Business",
before preparing the shortlist. The shortlist may be comprised entirely of national consultants for
contracts estimated at less than $100,000. However, if foreign firms have expressed interest, they will be
excluded from consideration.
B.4.4.   Ouality and cost-based selection (OCBS). It is envisaged that most of the consultant services
packages under the MOPT, SamoaTel, and TD components will be procured through quality- and
cost-based selection. The aggregate cost is estimated to be about $2.9 million (with contingencies).
B.4.5.  Least cost selection (LC). Services to carry out SamoaTel's audit are estimated to cost less
than $50,000 per contract and will be hired under the least cost selection method.
B.4.6.  Consultant qualifications (CO). PMT consultants are estimated to cost less than $100,000 per
contract and will be hired under the CQ method.
B.4.7.  Individual Consultants (IC). An individual consultant under the MOPT component for
monitoring and evaluation of poverty impact assessment will be hired following the selection of
individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant
Guidelines. Only one contract is envisaged and its cost estimate is $0.07 million.
B.4.8.   Training, workshop and seminars ($0.39 million equivalent, including contingencies). MOPT,
SamoaTel, and the TD will submit an annual training plan to the Bank for its review and clearance.
Training, workshops, and seminars for MOPT, SamoaTel, and TD staff will be at selected institutions
and universities. This training program is subject to the Bank's clearance on course content, course fee,
and number and details of staff to be deputed. The Bank will review annually the progress in
implementing each yearly training plan, with adjustments made as needed.
C. 1.   Prior review ofprocurement decisions by the Bank (see Table B). It is expected that about 96
percent of total expenditures would be subject to prior review.
C.1.2.  Goods valued at $100,000 or more will be subject to prior review by the Bank. The contracts
below the prior review threshold for goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 will be subject to post
review as per procedure in the Bank's Guidelines (para 4 of Appendix 1).
C. 1.3.  Consultant services: the following will be subject to prior review by the Bank:
(a) terms of reference for all consultancies,
(b) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to cost more than $75,000, and
(c) contracts for the employment of individuals estimated to cost more than $50,000.
- 65 -



C. 1.4.  All other contracts below the thresholds are subject to the random post review conducted
annually by the Bank to cover at least 20 percent of contracts implemented in that period. The sampling
should be selected in such a way that priority be given to lAs with low procurement capacity and the
need for more assistance.
- 66 -



Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category               ICB             NCB            Other'        N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                               0.00             0.00           0.00           0.00        0.00
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                               2.77             0.00           0.00           0.00         2.77
(1.78)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)       (1.78)
3. Services                            0.00             0.00           3.17           0.00         3.17
(0.00)           (0.00)         (2.40)         (0.00)       (2.40)
4. Training                            0.00             0.00            0.39          0.00         0.39
(0.00)           (0.00)         (0.30)         (0.00)       (0.30)
Total                               2.77              0.00           3.56          0.00         6.33
(1.78)            (0.00)        (2.70)         (0.00)       (4.48)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
2' Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related
to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
- 67 -



Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category  QCBS   QBS     SFB     LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost'
A. Firms              2.97    0.00    0.00    0.03     0.10    0.00   0.00     3.10
(2.25)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.02)  (0.08)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (2.35)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.07    0.00     0.07
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.05)  (0.00)  (0.05)
Total  2.97    0.00    0.00    0.03    0.10    0.07    0.00     3.17
(2.25)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.02)  (0.08)   (0.05)  (0.00)  (2.40)
Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines), Commercial
Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
- 68 -



Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Contract Value                              Contracts Subject to
Procurement Method         Procurement            Prior Review
Expenditure Category       Threshold                Method                Threshold
(US$ thousands)                                (US$ millions)
1. Works                        NA                     NA                     NA
2. Goods                >$100,000 and above            ICB                  >$100,000
all mandatory(3 contracts)
.______________________  .______________________               ($2.77   m illion)
3. Services              >$100,000 and above     QCBS + short list          >$75,000
all mandatory(9 contracts)
($2.97 million)
<$100,000             CQ + short list          >$75,000
all mandatory (I contract)
($0.1 million)
<$100,000             LC + short list           >70,000
all mandatory (1 contract)
($0.03 million)
<$100,000*          based on individual        >$50,000
consultants qualifications  all mandatory (1 contract)
($0.07 million)
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  96 percent
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:       High
Frequency of procurement supervision missions proposed: One every 12 months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 69 -



Annex 6(B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Financial Management
1. Summary of the Financial Management Assessment
1.1.  Financial management and disbursement arrangements for the project are being designed within
the following key themes:
(a) Simplicity in FM systems, considering the project size and nature, and limited capacity at project
implementation units;
(b) Identification of financial risks associated with the project implementation, and building in basic
financial accounting controls to mitigate these risks during supervision; and
(c) Fully leverage existing financial management systems of the GOS.
1.2.  In designing the financial management systems, we have considered the following project
features:
(a) At $6.33 million (IDA credit component $4.48 million), the project is small;
(b) The composition of project expenditure includes a predominance of consulting fees and
procurement of goods; and
(c) The project implementation will likely occur at a single location, Apia, except for the postal
reform component, which will involve project activity at multiple locations throughout Samoa.
1.3.  The organizational arrangements for project implementation are expected to include the
following key features:
(a) a steering committee, comprising all key stakeholders, at the apex level;
(b) a project management team, hired as an external consulting firm, to supervise project
implementation and procurement administration;
(c) three implementing agencies to implement the three main distinct components of the project; and
(d) GOS systems for arranging disbursements and project accounting, primarily through the TD and
Central Bank of Samoa.
1.4.  Risk analysis for financial management. The mission met with key staff at the TD, Finance, and
Accounting Divisions, the Controller and Chief Auditor, Central Bank of Samoa and SamoaTel. Based
on the discussions, a risk analysis exercise was conducted to identify significant financial management
risks associated with this project. Considering the project structure, the risk assessment is summarized
below:
1.5.  Inherent country risks.
(a) The risks relate to the potential impact on project financial management of factors coming from
the environment in which the project will operate, such as country rules and regulations.
(i) Budgetary systems for timely compilation of departmental and national budgets is in place.
Budgets are prepared for both financial and physical outcome parameters. Mechanisms are in
place to link these budgets to the national economic strategy (SES). Quarterly reporting of
actual realization is also in place. Recent legislation (e.g., the Public Financial Management
- 70 -



Act) introduces significant changes in improving public financial accountability and
transparency in the country. The TD is taking the lead in implementing these changes.
(ii) Government accounting is on a double-entry system and maintained on a modified-cash
basis, according to international accounting standards. Accounting systems at the TD's
Accounting Division are computerized, and an upgrade is planned for the 10-year old system.
Financial results are reported at quarterly intervals, as required by law. Such reporting is
up-to-date. However, government accounting is currently centralized at TD. Accounting
capacity is poorer at line ministries and departments due to capacity constraints.
(iii)Auditing. Institutional independence for the Chief (External) Auditor is provided by the
country's constitution. The Audit Office is a member of INTOSAI, the international
professional body of Supreme Audit Agencies. The audit scope includes financial
compliance, and is being gradually extended to performance audits also. Extensive pre-audit
checks are exercised on all budget payments processed by the Finance Division of the TD.
Audit reports are publicly disclosed after these have been tabled at parliament. Regular
training programs are arranged to upgrade skills available.
Audits of public accounts have been in arrears, though the arrears are gradually being
reduced-the audit report for the fiscal year to June 30, 2001 was expected to be submitted to
the parliament before June 2002.
In view of the discussion given above, the overall inherent country risks are rated as moderate. The risk
rating moves along a graded scale: high, substantial, moderate, and low.
1.6.   Risks inherent in specific project entities relate to financial management risks inherent in entities
involved actively -in project implementation or management.
(a) We have considered financial management risks at Treasury, SamoaTel and the MOPT.
(b) SamoaTel informed the mission that recently it took important steps towards the
strengthening of financial systems and controls, including the introduction of a job costing
system, advice by Deloitte on the development of a distributed cost model in preparation of
interconnection and the restructuring of the accounting function and hiring of additional
qualified accounting personnel. Notwithstanding this progress, average skill and qualification
mix needs to be upgraded. The beneficial impact of this may be felt in future years. In
particular, SamoaTel should develop project and cost accounting skills. The SamoaTel
accounting system does not appear to be geared to provide comprehensive costing and
management accounting information to support pricing decisions,- especially for the postal
business group. Assistance from an external specialist may be necessary for this.
(c) Financial controls may get weakened by limitations imposed by an old accounting software
in use (1994 vintage), and some accounting policies that may need to be reviewed, such as
accounting for inventories of stamps and collections.
(d) Accounting capacity appears to be stronger at TD. Accounting systems are computerized,
and the financial statements are up-to-date. Payment processing controls appear tight, with
pre-audit of all transactions by Audit; and adherence to international accounting is
maintained. Recent audit reports have been unqualified.
(e) Accounting capacity at MOPT appears less than that required for the project.
(f) Given the existing financial management capacity at these units and the needs of the project,
we summarize the risks as moderate at TD, and 'substantial' at both Samoa Tel and MOPT
1.7.   Inherent risks specific to the proposed project, and the proposed action plan. Given the inherent
risks and the project design features discussed earlier, we suggest the following financial management
- 71 -



arrangements for the project.
(a) Funds flow. Payment to third parties will be initiated by each project implementing agency
based on duly approved contracts. The detailed procedures are outlined below:
(i) project counterpart approves invoice submitted by consultant/supplier;
(ii) implementing agency accounts officer prepares payment voucher based on approved
invoice and obtains Head of implementing agency's certification (apply B4 Schedule for
level of authority);
(iii) implementing agency accounts officer submits certified payment voucher/approved
invoice to PMT after recording in its accounting system;
(iv) PMT account verifies payment voucher/invoice against contracts and records in
accounting system;
(v) PMT accountant submits payment vouches/invoice (and contract if first payment) to the
TD (Finance Division). Copy of voucher retained at PMT for follow up;
(vi) Finance Division verifies payment voucher/invoice and passes to Accounting Division
(if paid out of Government Advance Fund account, or Finance Division verifies
payment voucher (with supporting vouchers) and submit with authorization letter to the
Central Bank of Samoa for processing of telegraphic transfer from the Special Account.
In each case, a copy of remittance instruction sent to PMT, with discharged vouchers;
(vii) PMT uplifts all cheques from Treasury (Accounts Division) and obtains special account
statements from Finance Division; and
(viii) If direct payment method is used, PMT prepares withdrawal application and passes to
TD for verification and certification before submitting to IDA for payment (with
payment voucher/approved invoice/contract).
(b) Withdrawal applications
(i) for replenishment of the Special Account a withdrawal application will be prepared
monthly by PMT (with supporting documents) and submitted to TD (Finance Division)
for verification and certification before submitting to IDA; and
(ii) withdrawal application for reimbursement will be prepared by PMT on a quarterly basis
(with support documents such as SOE statements or FMR reports) and submitted to TD
for verification and certification before submitting to IDA.
(c) Quarterly financial reports will be prepared by PMT and included in the overall quarterly
progress reports submitted by PMT to PSC and IDA.
(d) Suggested disbursement methods apply for each category.
(i) Goods
* small foreign currency expenses - use Special Account
* large foreign currency expenses - use direct payment method
(ii) Consultancy
* large foreign currency expenses - use direct payment method,
* small foreign currency expenses - use Special Account (replenishment withdrawal
application), and
* local currency expenses - use GAF A/C (reimbursement withdrawal application)
- 72 -



(iii) Training. Use of government advance funds accounting (reimbursement withdrawal
application) for all expenditures
i. Project accounting will be maintained using stand-alone accounting software. The
accounting procedures must allow for these minimum basic financial controls:
*   reconciliation of disbursements recorded in project accounts with banking
statements relating to the Special Account,
*   monitoring of unspent balances against each procurement contracts,
*   a check on serial numbering of payment vouchers,
*   comparison of actual expenditure against budgeted amounts for each
subcomponent of the project, as well as for line-item expenses such as goods,
civil works, and consulting fees;, and
*   monitoring of physical progress of implementation.
1.8.  Project reporting requirements, monitoring and evaluation arrangements. The project reporting,
monitoring and evaluation arrangements will include: (a) quarterly financial management reports; (b)
annual IDA supervision missions; (c) joint PSC/IDA annual progress reviews and a midterm review
(about two years after the date of effectiveness of the credit); and (d) an implementation completion
report to be prepared by IDA and the government within six months of the project's closing.
1.9.  The annual and midterm reviews will be conducted by the IDA, TD, MOPT, and SamoaTel on
the basis of a report prepared by the PMT that includes: (a) assessment of progress in the
implementation of key actions and performance indicators (see Annex 3); (b) verification of the
continued validity of the design assumptions in light of implementation experience and the evolving
environment; and (c) identification of remedial actions that might prove necessary to achieve the
objectives of the project. Bank supervision missions, including financial management will be undertaken
yearly after the receipt of project audit reports. Quarterly FMRs will however be reviewed during the
year.
1.10  Covenants related to the financial management systems are included in section G of this report,
and state specifically that:
*   The Borrower shall submit audit of its project accounts within six months after the end of each
fiscal year.
*   SamoaTel shall submit audit of its financial statements within six months after the end of each
financial year.
* SamoaTel to submit up-to-date external audits of its historical accounts
*   SamoaTel to establish a cost accounting system to enable it to prepare management accounts
separate for its post and telecommunications businesses. Technical assistance is provided under
the proposed project to assist SamoaTel in implementing cost accounting system.
*   SamoaTel to fumish annual financial projections for its postal business as well as corporate level
projections. These will be the basis for assess of the impact and viability of postal investment to
be supported under the project.
2. Audit Arrangements
2.1.   A combined audit of the financial statements, the Special Account and the financial management
reports will be conducted by an auditor acceptable to the Bank. The terms of reference for the audit has
been agreed upon during negotiations.
- 73 -



3. Disbursement Arrangements
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$million        Financing Percentage
(I)Goods:                                 0.30          100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
(a) under Part B of the Project                        local expenditures, (ex-factory cost) and
90% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(b) under Part D of the Project            1.26         100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures, (ex-factory cost) and
90% of local expenditures for other
items procured locally
(2) Consultants' services                  1.71         80% for foreign individual consultants;
(a) under Parts A, B, C and E of the                    75% for local individual consultants and
Project                                                 local firms; and 67% for foreign firms
(b) under Part D of the Project           0.37           80% for foreign individual consultants;
75% for local individual consultants and
local firms; and 67% for foreign firms
(3) Training                              0.13                        100%
(a) under Parts A and B of the Project
(b) under Part D of the Project           0.13                        100%
Unallocated                                0.58
Total Project Costs                       4.48
Total                                     4.48
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
3.1.   At least initially, withdrawals from the credit account will be made using transaction-based
disbursement procedures which include full documentation of expenses and SOEs. SOEs will be used
for the following expenditures: (a) for goods under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent each,
and (b) for consultants' services contracts costing less than $75,000 in the case of firms, and less than
$50,000 or equivalent in case of individuals and (c) training. A decision on moving the project to project
management report based disbursements may be made once the capacity of the implementing agencies to
meet all project management report requirements is fully established.
Special account:
3.2.    A Special Account for this project is proposed to be opened at the Central Bank of Samoa and
maintained in US dollars. The Special Account will have an initial authorized allocation of $150,000,
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of Special Drawing Rights 1,300,000, on which
occasion it may be increased to $250,000.
3.3.     The staffing arrangement for financial management for this project will include staff with the
following job descriptions, and will be located at the PMT:
- 74 -



*   Project accountant to supervise the financial accounting, coordinating inputs from
Implementing agencies for preparation of FMRs, helping monitor physical implementation and
verifying FMRs,
*   Accounts staff to process and verify payment requests against procurement contacts,
monitoring financial commitments and unspent balances against contracts, and
*   Accounts staff to maintain the project financial accounting using the software package and
conduct key reconciliations such as bank reconciliation.
3.4.     Agreement was reached during negotiations on the following steps to establish the resources
and systems required to implement the financial management arrangements for the project:
Action                         Res onsibility    Tar et Date
Agree on terms of reference for audit             Treasury            at
negotiations
Establish the PMT                                 Treasury            by credit
effectiveness
Agree on formats for FMRs with PMT and IA         PMT                 at
SamoaTel            negotiations
MOPT
Establish the accounting software to be used acceptable  Borrower     by credit
to IDA                                                                effectiveness
Conduct training and orientation workshops for    Borrower            by credit
accounting staff                                                      effectiveness
- 75 -



iImTdemnam  ati(s amid  i Se hIfmnNfed
IflHVFN   ROM       REVB4E  RvNE IIIaNRAr-   Ik
GE'M      NWWRVEN  A0 1-NIS  FlN4   cis
T,lD      T1E4 'I FAM 
Agy.
2 rIs Pq)ntMMt d       2
frmispead pj/s o.
3. PafinnalonfpWrl
uxixtbeQaZandcM=  aw *orL      3
Vc*anfrdRdqPtyVn suJ
4 Sex1Vcum, Aathall rfiig
dxnutsi toRD/ Acuns
5. Vmfyar2xidI = FmiRenut W
6 PcrffirwtDQmd/&Fhts,5
wdiaWcrof3nWr&
a Fpsrniz iniaty,
wrfisri vxdAhoid 
tsaidinhm     &
RqxzeWikdmAfam riaTrt,
&FprtdthEcxFM.
bi h1y*t1oca1G0fixnfirp atsmlc~aI                        1
arrW, d&SA Wdi&iApiastoI3E,.IDA
cirrnbsmutpofMdSCEc
C.firpjy4uts rn%cffethddrd4 iuWhhKii
AgikmtoDUM widifiuU aFxxduk 1
7. Sxdcmpieditafhucrisand
toMforrcmudg I jpytoRActs
& T1msacfi~1mr=dxlinNcmncd 18
- 76 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                    Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)             11/01/2001                  11/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     06/01/2002                  03/25/2002
Negotiations                                    10/07/2002
Planned Date of Effectiveness                  01/01/2003
Prepared by:
Carlo Maria Rossotto
Preparation assistance:
Andrea M. Ruiz-Esparza
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                    Speciality
Carlo Maria Rossotto              Task Team Leader, Regulatory Economist
Rajesh Pradhan                    Lead Financial Analyst
Kashmira Daruwalla                Procurement Specialist
David Satola                      Senior Legal Counsel
Isabelle Andress                  Senior Postal Policy Specialist
Andrea Ruiz-Esparza               Program Assistant
Andrew Simpson                    Consultant
Rajesh Vasudevan                  Consultant
Patricia Miranda                  Counsel
Bjom Wellenius                    Peer Reviewer
A. Shanmugaraja                   Peer Reviewer
Peter Smith                       Peer Reviewer
Malcolm Webb                      Legal Consultant
Rajiv Sondhi                      Financial Management Specialist
Vivek Suri                        Country Economist
- 77 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower's Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Financial Management System Capacity Assessment
2. Procurement Capacity Assessment
C. Other
Revised National Communications Sector Policy, November, 2002.
Commonwealth Secretariat/World Bank Joint Task Force on small states entitled Small States: Meeting
Challenges in the Global Economy (Washington, April 17, 2000).
Pacific Islands Infonnation and Communication Technologies Policy and Strategic Plan, April, 2002.
International Telecommnunications Union, Spectrum Management Assessment, 1999.
Ministry of Post and Telecommunications, Corporate Plan 2000-2003
Samoa Communications Limited, Strategy 2001
Bell Gully, Barristers and Solicitors, Letter to the Attorney General of the Independent State of Samoa
and Technical Annex, June 20, 2002.
Articles of Association of Samoa Communications Limited, June 30, 1999
Including electronic files
- 78 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
1 3-Junl-2002
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in US$ Millions                                 disbursements
Project ID     FY    Purpose                                         IBRD          IDA                           Cancel.    Undisb        Orig   Frm Rev'd
P064926         2001 WS-Health Sector Management Pnoject                   0.00       5 00                             0 00       4.56       110        000
P052293         1999 WS-Infrast Mgnt(APL)                                 0.00       14.40                             000        4.13       431        253
Total:        0.00       19 40                             0 00        8.69        5 41       2 53
- 79 -



SAMOA
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
April - 2002
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity   Quasi   Partic
1998               PIIF MedCen Samo              0.43    0.00     0.00    0.00    0.43    0.00    0.00    0.00
2000               PIIF NBS                      0.00     0.00    0.09    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.09    0.00
1995               PIIF Wilex Cocoa              0.27    0.00    0.00     0.00    0.27    0.00    0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:         0.70    0.00    0.09     0.00    0.70    0.00    0.09    0.00
Approvals Pending Commitment
FY Approval        Company                         Loan     Equity    Quasi     Partic
2002               PIIF SamoaVCF                    0.00      0.00     0.40      0.00
Total Pending Commitment:        0.00      0.00      0.40     0.00
- 80 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
East    Lowiri
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            Asia &   middle-
Samoa     Pacific   Income      Development diamond'
2000
Population, mid-year (millions)                       0 17     1,853     2,046                 Life eXpectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                   1,430      1,060    1,140
GNI (Atlas method, US$ billions)                      0.24      1,964    2,327
Average annual growth, 1994-00
Population (%)                                         0.5        1.1       1.0
Labor force (%)                                                   1.4       1.3     GNI          .                  Gross
per                            primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1994-00)                               capita          .           enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)
Urban population (% of total population)                22        35        42
Life expectancy at birth (years)                        69        69        69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                23        35        32
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)               .        13        11           Access to improved water source
Access to an improved water source (% of population)    99        75        80
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    19        14        15
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschool-age population)   100       119       114        -     amoa
Male                                                 101       121       116             -Lower-middle-income group
Female                                               100       121       114
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1980     1990       1999     2000
Economic ratlos-
GDP (US$ billions)                           0.15     0.20       0.24     0.24
Gross domestic investmentGDP
Exports of goods and se vices/GDP                          ,    34.4      32.7                     Trade
Gross domestic savings/GDP
Gross national savings/GDP
Current account balance/GDP                            3 6        2 4       34      Domestic
Interest payments/GDP                         1.3      0.5        0.4      0.4       omes             -         Investment
Total debt/GDP                               38.8     45.7       80.5      83.6    savigs
Total debt service/exports                   11 3      5.3        8.5      10.7
Present value of debt/GDP                       ,        ,       50.3
Present value of debtexports                                    146.0
Indebtedness
1980-90  1990-00     1999      2000    2000-04
(average annual growth)
GDP                                  1.0      2.4      5.3        4.0                        Samoa
GDP per capita                       0.7      1.8      4.8        3 6        ,          --- Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services                12.1      3.2        1.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1980     1990       1999     2000      Growth of Investment end GDP I%)
(% of GDP)
Agriculture                                                      17 4      186
Industry                                                        26 1      26
Manufacturing                                                  15.9      14.9 o ,
Services                                                         56.5      56.8    -s      as   at    97    98   99   Nm
Private consumption                                                                -!t
General government consumption                                                                -00     I          GOP
Imports of goods and services                                   59.9      82.0
1980-90  1990-00      1999,     2000      Growth of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)
Agriculture                                            1 3        1 1      2.9   .-
Industry                       *00                               4.1      10.1     4
Manufacturing                                                                     20 .  .  _ 
Services                                               9 0       8 0       7 3      o - /5
Private consumption                                                               .20 ;    95   g     97   98          00
General government consumption                                                     40 ?
Gross domestic investment                                                                     -Exports     -OImports
Imports of goods and services                          9.1      15.9      46.7
Note: 2000 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 81 -



Samoa
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1980     1990      1999      2000     Inflation (%)
Domestic prices
(% change)                                                                        30
Consumer prices                              32.9     15.3       0.3      1.6     20
Implicit GDP deflator                        22.0     11.9       4.9      3.2     10
Government finance                                                                 o
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                            l                                9     97     o    99o
Current revenue                                .        ..      37.3     32.5     -10
Current budget balance                         ..       ..        ..       ..                  GDP deflator      CPI
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..        ..      0.3     -0.7
TRADE
1980     1990      1999      2000      Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ..       9          ..       ..    120
Other food                                    .        ..       ..100
Cocoa                                                                            so. . .. 9
Manufactures                                  .8
60
Total imports (cid                              .      70          *               6.
Food                                         ..40
Fuel and energy                                         .                  ..    20
Capital goods                                 ..      ..                   .      
94   95   96   97    99   99   oo
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..
Import pnce index (1995=100)                   ..        .         ..       ..                *Exports      * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1980     1990      1999      2000      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(US    o m gllions)
Exports of goods and services                 26       44         80       76     10.
Imports of goods and services                 72       95        140      126
Resource balance                             -46       -50       -61       -50
Net income                                     -3       5          1        1      6
Net current transfers                         36       52         66       58     42     1    111                .
Current account balance                                 7          6        8      2
Financing items (net)                          ..       4          ..       ..     o
Changes in net reserves                        2       -11        ..        ..        94    9s   94   97    99  99    00
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)         ..       ..        68       68
Conversion rate (DEC, locallUS$)              0.9      2.3       3.0       3.3
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1980     1990      1999      2000
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composition of 2000 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed          60       92        192      197
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0
IDA                                          6       18         44       47
G 50         -      B .,s47
Total debt service                              5        5         7        8
IBRD                                         0        0          0        0
IDA                                          0        0          0        1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                              9       20          6        ..          E: 9
Official creditors                          10       12         -3        2                 ..          '
Private creditors                           -2        0          0        0                 *        -
Foreign direct investment                    0        7          2
Portfolio equity                             0        0          0        ..                        D: 91
World Bank program
Commitments                                  0       15         14        5      A-IBRD                     E -Biiateral
Disbursements                                2        3          0        6      B - IDA  D - Other multilateral  F- Private
Principal repayments                         0        0          0        1      C- IMF                     G - Short-term
Net flows                                    2        3          0        5
Interest payments                            0        0          0        0
Net transfers                                2        3          0        5
Development Economics                                                                                               9/13/01
- 82 -



Additional Annex 11
Towards A Social Assessment And Social Impact Analysis
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
1.    The success of a Bank project in the information infrastructure sector depends on the initiative's
potential to reduce poverty. A key feature of the proposed project is its integrated design to ensure the
availability, access, and absorption of ICTs across Samoa. The principle themes for the comprehensive
reform agenda include increasing private participation in telecommunications and posts; nurturing a
credible pro-competitive regulatory environment; improving the incumbent telecommunication operator,
SamoaTel, and expanding communication services in rural areas by a smart subsidy scheme through
competitive bidding.
2.     The social sector performance indicators to quantify the anticipated project impact (improve
access, create buying power, tailor local solutions and shape aspirations or choices of peoples) are from
the thematic areas of connectivity (increased community access and improved networked connectivity);
content (greater local content and applications creation) and capacity (increased human capacity building
and knowledge creation). these three thematic areas are considered to be the key building blocks for not
only expanding the use of information and communication technologies, but also for universalizing the
benefits. These constitute a critical threshold to ensure improved abilities for systematic assimilation and
dissemination of relevant and timely information through low cost electronic networks.
3.     This annex will illustrate the main operational features of the integrated embedded poverty
reduction module. This module is designed to ensure that the central themes of the reform agenda that of
broadening and deepening the sector and institutional reform covering the entire ICT sector, increasing
access to information infrastructure and supporting ICT human capacity building, are articulated in the
specific development contexts, in terms of effects on income; effects on augmented physical quality of
life index and effects on levels of economic vulnerability - the criteria for defining an less-developed
country.
- 83 -



Strategy for Samoa Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
i
\\Strengtiten   _        . . .,      ~~~Accerss nI(
Competition  )) iRegulatory  ,I f .t, i                           m
at elcnologies
F,
Technical Assistance  National  Awarding Smart   Technical Assistance  Strengthened Readiness for
to MOPT for Clear  Regulatory   Subsidies through  to SCL         e-development through:
Rules/Roles      Agency (NRA)   competitive bidding
Increased Community
c Transparent Tender  Competitive  Franchises for   Report on        Access and improved
Interconnection  SMART post offices  Privatization options  network connectivity
Commercially      Regime        and Multi-purpose  and appointment of
Attractive License              Community        Advisors         Increased Capacity and
Computerized   Telecenters                       knowledge creation
Spectrum
Management     Universal Service                Increased Generation of
Provision                        local content / ptlications
Integrated Embedded Poverty Redudi
4.      The embedded module for this reform project is to adapt the principles of poverty and social
impact analysis with the social assessment practices present at the Bank, helping policy makers
understand the impact of policy reforms and public actions on social and poverty outcomes. The module
is envisaged to provide the basis for all processes and activities relating to policy setting of objectives,
institutional framework, institutional development needs, procurement,and stakeholder identification and
participation. It will be the centerpiece in incorporating the principles of social analysis into the project
design by internalizing the conceptual framework of social assessment into every programmatic activity
(design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation). The module is also expected to facilitate the
poverty and social impact analysis of consequences of specific policy interventions (before, during, and
after) on the well-being of different social groups, feeding into the various other aspects of project
design.
5.      The success of the embedded poverty reduction module is proportionate to the capacity at the
implementing levels to comprehensively operationalize the range of activities proposed.
*    Capacity (appointment of consultants and drafting their terms of reference TORs): The project
team will draw on the expertise and collaborate closely with the EASES SMU unit for the
selection of consultants and drafting their TORs. The consultant's familiarity with Samoa, and
particularly with the social and cultural structures and institutions that characterize it will be
critical for the success for the module. The consultants will analyze how Samoans organize
themselves and make decisions at the local and community level and provide inputs for the
segments of the methodology;
*    Methodology (causal links between specific interventions and poverty impacts): Qualitative
indicators will supplement the current set of quantitative variables and these selected indicators
are to be quantified. This will aim at establishing causal links between specific interventions and
their impact on poverty reduction. The data are to be both sex disaggregated and regions specific;
*    Baseline data (fine grained analysis at the local levels): In carrying out their assistance, the
- 84 -



consultants will include multiple stakeholders from various social groups to maximize the
perspectives of site specific information. Also, to measure outcomes and impacts the module
will have a good baseline from which to measure progress. An assessment of the extent that such
a baseline already exists might be required.
With the aim of internalizing the poverty reduction component into each activity of the project, the
following sections can be considered the starting points for the activity modeling phase. The aim
being to outline a preliminary list of key social monitoring and performance indicators and the
consultants will work to complement quantitative indicators with qualitative assessments to capture
the impact the project is making on poverty. This module will provide inputs for the different
activities of the project; and it will contribute to the design of the OBA scheme. The consultants will
work with the MOPT staff and will play a central role in the elaborating the key inputs for:
*   designing the scope of the OBA scheme and its inputs to the other project components,
*   defining the mechanism of the smart subsidy scheme, and
*   defining specific elements of the OBA tender.
Connectivity
6.    With the availability of telecommunications to the rural population across the nine islands of
Samoa the development benefits are expected to be considerable. The biggest development benefit of
connectivity through pay phones is that they reduce the cost of communication relative to other services
such as transportation. The network externalities from connectivity is expected to boost the producers
returns by enabling the rural phone users to compare rural prices with the city market levels, increasing
the bargaining power with the middlemen and also improving the level of primary and preventive health
care related applications.
7.     Given the country-specific details, the first step could be to establish a network of community
pay phones charging a fee for the use of the telephone with a percentage of it as wages for maintaining
the telephone. Once a threshold is achieved, bottom-up policy initiatives could be rolled in whereby
these pay phones/service nodes are encouraged to develop an ICT component in response to market
opportunities through market based microfinanced intermediaries for the purchase of PCs and Internet
connectivity investments.
- 85 -



Table 11.1: Increasing Telecommunication Competition Through A Wireless License
PERCENTAGE OF POPULATION COVERED WITH ACCESS TO AT LEAST ONE PHONE
1. Minimum requirement
2. Bid Average
3. Actual Implementation
PERCENTAGE OF ROADS COVERED
1. Minimum requirement
2. Bid Average
3. Actual Implementation
TELECOM REVENUE (share of GDP)
MOBILE REVENUE (share of total)
TOTAL TELEPHONE PENETRATION
1. Public Nodes
*  Health Clinics
*  Schools
*  Churches
2. Private Telephone Franchisee
*  Community Payphones
*  Rural Telecenters
*  SMART Post Offices
AVERAGE REVENUE PER FRANCHISEE PER TELEPHONE LINE (BUNDLE OF VIRTUAL
TELEPHONE SERVICE INDEX)
NUMBER OF MARKET BASED MICRO-FINANCE INTERMEDIARIES CREATED USING
IDENTITY SYSTEMS FROM TELECOMMUNCIATIONS PROVIDERS
8.     Internet service in Samoa is open to private sector operators and there are currently three ISPs
serving the market (lesamoa.net, talofa.net and ipasifika.net). There are considerable social benefits or
the cost performance factors to be garnered from adopting the required regulatory interventions for
closing the availability gap (income levels) and the rural urban gap (spatial level). An all new proposed
subsector performance indicator proposed is the rural/urban gap bit minute index.
9.    The proposed index is a proxy for assessing the underlying demand within rural areas of Samoa
(outside Apia) to communicate with urban Samoa and the outside world. This proxy is similar to the bit
minute index that expresses the relationship between international Internet supply and demand, taking
international telephone traffic as a proxy for demand. It is the relationship of Mbit/s of international IP
bandwidth to billions of minutes of international traffic both incoming and outgoing. A Bit-Minute Index
corresponding to 1 means that the demand for Internet capacity is satisfied, while any amount under 1
indicates existence of latent demand for Internet connectivity and related applications.
10.    With increased information infrastructure the impact of Internet Telephony could present
opportunities to the Samoan economy, by providing affordable international communications services to
- 86 -



the population and to local enterprises. Note that nearly half of Samoans live or work in New Zealand,
Australia, or the United States. With applications for the use of Internet telephony emerging in markets
where the prices of international communications are very high, typically when international services are
provided in a monopoly situation, Internet Telephony is seen as a strong substitute as the providers of
Internet Telephony can undercut existing prices by as much as 80 percent.
11.    The central theme of the postal sector reform agenda include elements of market liberalization
and corporatization of SamoaTel-the public postal entity. The objectives of the reform agenda in this
component is for a synergistic approach in order to augment the strengths and reach of typical postal
services with the flexibility and speed of electronic media to create a network of smart post offices
offering a wider range of value added communication products.
12.    Increasing the quality and productivity of the retail and delivery networks and merging them with
the electronic media and Internet would enable the system to provide a universal level of communications
with an increased availability and access to information, a prerequisite for poverty reduction. It would at
the same time significantly contribute to improve: business processes, productivity at both the micro and
macro levels, social development, cohesion, and nation-building. This network of smart post offices is
envisaged to be the logistical interface to the physical flows, financial flows, and the data flows. This
will lead to the sector performance marked by regulatory reforms and corporatization, targeted
investments through a combination of instruments, improved quality of service, higher mail volume, and
eventually improved financial performance.
Table 11.2: Increasing Postal Connectivity And Services
ACCESS INDICATORS
I . Postal outlets per 100 inhabitants (City / Rural/ PO Box)
2. Postal outlets per sq km
3. Collection letter boxes per 100 inhabitants
4. Collection letter boxes per sq km
PHYSICAL FLOW INDICATORS
I . Number of deliveries per week
2. Number of collections per week
3. Household - Household (compound annual growth rates)
4. Household - Business (compound annual growth rates)
5. Business - Household (compound annual growth rates)
6. Business - Business (compound annual growth rates)
FINANCIAL FLOW INDICATORS
1. Number of Trusted Third Party Transactions
2. Number of giroPost Accounts and Revenue raised
3. Number of Money Orders issued and Revenue raised
4. Number of Collect on Delivery Articles and Revenue raised
DATA FLOW INDICATORS
I . Outsourcing - Number of Franchises for service delivery
2. Number of and revenue generated from ePost Account Holders
3. Intemet Connection Rates (US$ per minute)
Content
- 87 -



13.    The local content and applications creation component ensures an integrated social (poor,
women, natural resources) component in the project, with a participatory approach to ensure an
accelerated diffusion of technology. The aim here being the extension of access to basic
communications, postal services, and the Internet in rural areas value addition to raw information, use of
local languages and multimedia to facilitate illiterate users, are some of the highlights of this project
subcomponent. There have been theoretical and empirical studies proving that ICT spur economic
growth through promoting connectivity and exchange of information.
14.    Samoa has a high literacy rate (97 percent), so a family in an urban, peri urban and rural area
with access to electricity and phone lines will typically face about five barriers: local language (minimal
content available on the Internet in Samoan languages); site specific information (minimal content
available on the Internet relevant to their daily lives); content creation (complete absence of an economic
stake or incentive for inputting local knowledge and creating local databases); income generation (the
Internet offering almost no opportunities for local wealth creation) and cost factors (high costs for
Internet connectivity and affordability of hardware). The PAD highlights how the project will lower cost
performance ratios and raise connectivity levels for all ICT related applications.
15.    Smart subsidies will provide access to basic communications, posts, and Internet services in the
rural areas, but will also help create local content and applications. This will allow technological tools to
be used for access. The smart subsidy scheme relies on market forces with the competitive bidding
determining which of the operators can provide services at the least cost to the state. With the market
driven by competition, the successful entrants /operators are free to design their business and
implementation strategies subject to minimal prerequisites as mentioned in the tender documents.
16.    One such prerequisite for the successful bidder to employ for the smart post offices and the rural
telecenters component being a site specific participatory needs assessment as the method for tracing and
value addition to the preexisting site specific information linkages in rural areas.
- 88 -



Table 11.3: Increasing Local Content and Applications Creation
SMART SUBSIDY SCHEME
Total Number of localities / village clusters in Samoa
Number of localities / village clusters selected for pilot phase
Number of participating private institutions
Number of localities/ village clusters covered
Number of inhabitants covered in the localities / village clusters
CONTENT CREATION
Number of local content databases created
* Education
* Health
* Other similar disaggregated sectors
Number and size of local web pages created
* Education
* Health
* Other disaggregated sectors
Number and Frequency of hits
Number of local radio broadcasting programs created
Number of women operators, translators and trainers
Number of local education and training courses introduced
USE PATTERNS
% usage pattems across localities / village clusters in established nodes
Voice and VolP
Fax
SMS
Radio broadcast formats
Data (Agriculture, Education, Employment, Health, Govt entitlements)
APPLICATION & CONTENT DEVELOPMENT
Subsidies for Technical support component
Subsidies for Infrastructure investment component
Subsidies for Training investment component
Capacity
17.     In addition to traditional arguments of infrastructure bottlenecks ( percentage of Internet
subscribers to the total telephone lines) and affordability factors (mobile to the Intemet price ratios) as
being the principle causes for the digital divide, another dimension that the project attempts to internalize
into all the programmatic activities of its four components through the integrated embedded poverty
reduction module is the capacity-building dimension for creating a vibrant Samoan networked society.
18.     The working hypothesis here is that the digital divide is not always about infrastructure and
affordability, but includes the capacity of the network society that in turn is a function of language
factors, literacy factors and learning factors. Based on the assumption that not everybody have the
potential to use the Internet in its conventional form via a personal computer, the strategies for increasing
access and connectivity include providing training, connecting online institutions such as the statutory
organizations, schools and churches and simultaneously experimenting the use of a variety of
infomediaries such as community radio Internet.
19.     The specific case of Samoa poses a lot of promise for the quick penetration and uptake of
Internet. The Samoan population is bilingual with English and Samoan as the national languages. In
schools, Samoan is the medium of instruction through the first 6 years of primary education switching to
English for secondary education as the other official language of wider communication. The country is in
- 89 -



a strategic position to leverage the content on the web. The content including software development
content, access content and web content. With less diversity, a single language site specific content
would be more relevant across the entire population making it easier to achieve economies of scale. It can
be concluded that more the number of languages used in a country, the less economy of scale in
developing Internet content and less likely that the content would be available for lesser used languages.
The integrated embedded poverty reduction module also offers the scaling up operations to facilitate the
creation of an official Pan Pacific standard for keyboard input methods across its 2,700 islands.
20.     If we went by literacy statistics for Samoa where over 97 percent of the adult population is
literate, almost everyone would use the Internet in the case of ready availability and access to the
required tools. There have been studies that distinguish basic literacy levels with computer literacy
levels, using newspaper circulation as a more reliable proxy for potential Internet users. Educational
attainment and levels of educational enrollment are also important indicators of potential users.
Table 11.4: Increasing Capacity of Samoan Networked Society
SPATIAL DETAILS
Total Number of localities / village clusters in Samoa
Name of the locality / village cluster in Samoa
Number of schools in locality / village cluster
Number of children covered in locality / village cluster (age and sex disaggregated
data)
Number of Primary Healthcare Centers in locality / village clusters
Number of households covered in the localities / village clusters
ENGLISH LANGUAGE PROFILE OF SAMOAN INTERNET USER (SEX
AND AGE DISAGGREGATED DATA)
Excellent
Good
Fair
Limited
None
LITERACY PROFILE OF SAMOAN INTERNET USER (SEX AND AGE
DISAGGREGATED DATA)
Literacy Levels
Internet Penetration
Number of Newspapers per I 00
Number of Radios owned per too
Number of Televisions owned per 1 00
LEARNING PROFILE OF SAMOAN INTERNET USER (SEX AND AGE
DISAGGREGATED DATA)
Educational Attainment
Doctoral
Masters
Bachelors
High School
Primary School
Private Training Programs
Number of private training courses introduced
- 90 -



Additional Annex 12
Summary Financial Management Risk Assessment
SAMOA: Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project
Financial Management Risk Assessment - A Summary
INHERENT RISKS       ASSESSMENT                       COMMENTS
A. Country Issueswm
Budgetary procediares  Moderate       System for timely compilation of departmental budgets is
in place. Budgets are prepared for both financial and
physical outcome parameters. Mechanisms are in place to
link these budgets to the national economic strategy (SES).
Quarterly reporting of actual realization is also in place.
Treasury is taking a leading role in this process.
Public Sector Accounting Substantial  Government Accounting is on a 'double-entry' system on a
Standards                             "cash" basis. Accounting systems at treasury Finance are
computerized, yielding only moderate risks. However,
accounting capacity at line ministries and departments
appears to be poorer, due to capacity constraints.
Auditing Arrangements  Moderate       Institutional independence for the Chief (External) Auditor
is provided by the country's Constitution.
Regular training programs are arranged to upgrade skills
available.
The arrears in the audit of public accounts are being
gradually reduced - the audit report for the fiscal year to
June 30, 2001 is expected to be submitted to Parliament
before June 2002.
Extensive pre-audit checks are exercised on all budget
payments processed by Treasury Finance Division. Audit
scope includes financial compliance, and is being gradually
extended to performance audits also.
Audit reports are publicly disclosed after being tabled in
Parliament.
Banking System        Moderate        The Central Bank of Samoa has as its primary function
management of macro monetary conditions and
supervision and regulation of the banking sector in Samoa.
The Bank regularly publishes audited financial statements.
B. Project Entity Specific  Treasury  SCL      MoPT              COMMENTS
Accounting Capacity:     Moderate   Substantial High  Skill mix appears to be better at
Staffing and organization                             Treasury. At SCL, average skill and
qualification mix needs to be upgraded,
- 91 -



for which some steps have recently
been taken. The beneficial impact of
this may be felt in future years.
Organization appears to be short on
__________________________  _________                 project and  cost accounting  skills.
Funds Flow                Moderate Substantial N.A.   Central disbursement arrangements
from the Treasury will facilitate better
control, given the size of the Project.
Audit Arrangements        Moderate Moderate   Moderate All entities will be subject to audits by
the Controller and Chief Auditor.
Computerization of        Moderate  Substantial High  Treasury Finance Division accounting
accounting, accounting                                systems are computerized, and the
policies.                                             financial statements are up-to-date.
The SCL accounting system also does
not appear to be geared to provide
comprehensive costing and
management accounting information to
support pricing decisions, especially for
the postal business group. Extemal
specialist assistance may be necessary
for this.
Weaknesses in financial controls may
get exaggerated by limitations imposed
by an old accounting software in use
(1994 vintage), and some accounting
policies that may need to be reviewed.
Examples include the non-accounting
for stamp stocks, and control over
I__ __ __ __ __ ___ __I___ __ __   I________dom estic  debtors.
Arrears in audited financial Low      Moderate     Moderate
statements.               .
Project Specific Risks'  ASSESSMENT      COMMENTS       PROPOSED RISK MITIGATION
MEASURES
1. Organization Structure.  Substantial *  Weak capacity at  Involvement of Treasury at Apex level
PIU's (especially  (Steering Committee) will lend weight
(The risk of the Project              MoPT) will heighten to the project organization.
Organization not                      this risk.
adequately supporting                                   Separation of PIU's into 3 entities,
project activity and related          Project management aligned with the major beneficiaries,
financial management).                 experience at SCL  will incentivise implementation.
appears limited and
is non-existent at  Use of external professional project
MoPT              management consultant, with prior
- 92 -



experience in implementation of Bank
financed projects, to supervise and
ensure implementation may reduce the
risks somewhat.
* With these measures risk could be
reduced to Moderate levels.
2. Procurement          Substantial #                  Reduce prior review limits.
administration                                         Procurement of equipment should be
subject to prior review. (#A more
(Risk of collusion)                                    detailed assessment is in the
Procurement section.)
Two tier Operating Authorities for
procurement decisions, based on
packet value, will strengthen control
and reduce risk..
3. Completion of Project  Moderate    About 37% of     Use of third party Project Management
work & services.                      project expenditure, team to supervise implementation may
relating to Postal  help mitigate the risk of poor
(Risk of the actual project           component, is likely implementation. Use of Financial
implementation not meeting            to be implemented  Management System (FMR) based
the requirements contracted           at multiple locations disbursement will facilitate close
and paidfor)                          around the country. monitoring of implementation
I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _____by  the  Bank.
4. Receipt of Project Goods. Moderate  Imported equipment Technical consultants may be required
will need         for verification of specifications.
(Risk of goods paidfor not            arrangements for  Use of Financial Management System
meeting contracted                    verification of   (FMR) based disbursement will
quantities or specifications)         technical        facilitate close monitoring of
specifications on site implementation by the Bank.
before payments are
released.
5. Funds flows,         Moderate       Verification of  Disbursements to third parties will be
disbursements                          payment vouchers initiated by PIUs, but will be
at Treasury will  thoroughly verified and checked
(Risk of erroneous                     help reduce this  extensively at Treasury before
payments, or payments not              risk.            payment. All payments will be by
warranted by or in excess oj                            bank transfers or cheques only.
value of work done,
unauthorized disbursements                              Disbursements from Special Account
from Special Account)                                  to be FMR based. Withdrawal
applications to be prepared by
- 93 -



Revenue Accounts. Annual audits of
Project Account and Special Accounts.
Monetary threshold limits for Direct
Payrnents to be determined (indicative
$ 100,000)
On-lending arrangements between
GOS and SCL to be agreed for the
Postal component.
6. Project monitoring and  Substantial **  Earlier project  An alternative standalone system must
reporting                                 financed by the   be developed or located, that provides
Bank and under    for at least the following basic
(The risk of lapses in                    implementations   financial controls: sequencing controls
project implementation and                uses an           on vouchers, double entry accounting,
expenditure not being                     off-the-shelf     bank reconciliation, monitoring of
promptly identified and                   software (MTX)    progressive contract balances, and
reported.)                                that has some     generation of Financial Management
limitations.      Reports (FMR). These measures will
help mitigate the risk and reduce this
I___________________I________     Ito Moderate **.
7. Accounting policies and  Moderate                        Government accounting policies will
procedures                                                  be acceptable. Considering
weaknesses in accounting capacity at
(The risk of incorrect                                      SCL and MoPT, it is recommended
financial reporting due to                                   that Revenue Accounts is designated
inappropriate accounting                                    the Project Accounting Unit.
policies, standards and
practices)
8. External Audit         Moderate                          Project expenditure should be subject
to annual audits by Controller & Chief
(The risk of audit ofproject                                Auditor. A Combined audit of Project
financial transactions and                                   Accounts, SOE disbursements and
accounts not meeting                                         Special Account should be conducted,
acceptable standards)                                       and the audit report submitted no later
than 6 months following the end of the
fiscal year.
Rating Scale: High, Substantial, Moderate, Low
_______ _____________
W Inherent Risks relate to the impact on the Project of factors arising from the environment in which the Project will
operate, such as country rules and regulations and the environment of the specific entity.
Entity Specific Risks relate to the risks inherent in the Project Implementation Units (PIU).
These are risks inherent in the Project, arising from the Project design and implementation arrangements.
- 94 -



IBRD 32090
17240                              172A20                             17200                              171 'AO
SAMOA
GAGAIFOMALIGa           ;                                                TELECOMMUNOCATOONS AND
FAISFAALO P.--                     :            GAGA'EMAUGQ                              POSTAL SECTOR REFORM              PROJECT
FLAUOVAISIGANO.                          |
----UNPAVED ROADS
; > tl 1~ ' -t, > / t ' ' ; X Sou,th PciSc  UNPAVED ROADS
.1 F VAISIGANO  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~   ~   ~  ~~~~ce~                             N-~      RIVERS
ALATAUA                                                                                                              ELEVATIONS (IN FEET):
10-999
1000-1999
',IXrl  1 \ t  t FA'ASALELE'AGA                            2000-3999
4000 AND ABOVE
SATUPAkiTEA                                              :                                                     SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
-1340'                                         -\\I                   21                                                 NATIONAL CAPITAL
. V biST                P \ AL ULI                                              -------  SUB-DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
- - -;'--.,FAI  /                                                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
t _______                                                           \ \ W -AINTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY (INSET)
<  tt  +,#e--_,'' ,,tl-,, *, 5,,9<iFAIEFX\  -"'GAGAtEMAUGA I
--      ~~~~~~SATUPA'ITEAAAUSG
PALAULI               ''                          F            1SIA(
La 172'40' IGA I \ ALFilll | f OF2EATA qi - / . / 1  Gbp fZ puT
6  t  t->4tAXDS  TUVAW                                  TAI .T,  .  0                                           ATUA.u             ,
'N M.   I, (0)- 7 _
.MARSHALEIRSL                                                                                                             3 12 1
- (S  ,N         SNorth Pacific
Ocen                                      SAMEL S. SEOFONOTI
_   j   XAtAND  tUi               172'20'                          172;00'                            171;40'                   SEPiEMSER'200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A'NA~ 
FEDERATED STATES
OF MICRONESIA                                                                                                                                   rPILAO
1400~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
IA                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIRIBATI                      GA GA'EMAUGA II   TA~4AAO4
~~  1~,,~~OtIOMLND  TUVALU'J`   (147)
----- ------                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATUA  TAIWG
VANIUATU0            10) _ od C,,k                                                               I
AUSTRALIA  ~ ~ ~ ~   14,001,~~   G17  1 US                                                                                  1410NZ5            1
5080118 Paciftc      t                                                                                    K1001401080 0  4II   8a12f;6
Ococn ~~~~~~~~~ NEW  ~~~~ceo
-%IZEALAND 
172'20'                  I ~~~~~~~~~72'00'                  171'40'
SEPrEM48E8 2002



