Report No. 23796
Report No: I075739 <--Please check for duplicates!
Integrated Safeguards Data Sheet (Initial)
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 02/28/2002
Section I - Basic Information
A. Basic Project Data
Country: SAMOA Project ID: P075739
Project: Samoa Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project        Task
Team Leader: Carlo Maria Rossotto
Authorized to Appraise Date: September 9, 2002 IBRD Amount ($m):
Bank Approval: December 10, 2002         IDA Amount ($m): 3.25
Managing Unit: East Asia Pacific Region
Global Information Communications Technology Department, Policy Division          Sector: CC
- Telecommunications & Informatics
Lending Instrument: Technical Assistance Loan (TAL)       Status: Lending
I.A.2. Project Objectives:
The proposed project will improve performance of the Information and
Communications Technology (ICT) sector through increased competition,
private participation, and effective regulation. Its objective is to
assist the Government in the implementation of a comprehensive reform
agenda, which focuses, inter alia, on: (a) introducing competition and
private participation in post and telecommunications; (b) advancing
regulatory reform and developing sector institutional capacity; and (c)
extending access to basic communications, postal services, and the
Internet in rural areas.
I.A.3. Project Description:
Components:
Increase competition and private participation in the provision of
telecommunications services
Prepare Samoa Communications Limited (SCL) for privatization
Strengthen ICT regulatory framework
Improve spectrum management and monitoring.
Extend rural access and increase diffusion of postal services
Provide support to the Project Coordination Unit
I.A.4. Project Location: (Geographic location, information about the key
environmental and social characteristics of the area and population likely
to be affected, and proximity to any protected areas, or sites or critical
natural habitats, or any other culturally or socially sensitive areas.)
N/A.
B. Check Environmental Classification: C (Not Required)
Comments: N/A.



C. Safeguard Policies Triggered
Policy Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP/GP 4.01)          No
Forestry (OP/GP 4.36)    No
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04)     No
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37)       No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)         No
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12)     No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)     No
Cultural Property (OP 4.11)       No
Projects in Disputed Territories (OP/BP/GP 7.60)*          No
Projects in International Waterways (OP/BP/GP 7.50)        No
*By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice
the final determination of the parties' claims on the disputed areas
Section II - Key Safeguard Issues and Their Management
D. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues. Please fill in all relevant questions.
If information is not available, describe steps to be taken to obtain
necessary data.
II.D.la. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the
proposed project. Identify and describe any potential large scale,
significant and/or irreversible impacts.
N/A.
II.D.lb. Describe any potential cumulative impacts due to application of
more than one safeguard policy or due to multiple project component.
N/A.
II.D.lc Describe any potential long term impacts due to anticipated future
activities in the project area.
N/A.
II.D.2. In light of 1, describe the proposed treatment of alternatives (if
required)
N/A.
II.D.3. Describe arrangement for the borrower to address safeguard issues
N/A.
II.D.4. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for
consultation and disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on
potentially affected people.
N/A.
E. Safeguards Classification. Category is determined by the highest impact
in any policy. Or on basis of cumulative impacts from multiple safeguards.
Whenever an individual safeguard policy is triggered the provisions of
that policy apply.
I S1. - Significant, cumulative and/or irreversible impacts; or
significant technical and institutional risks in management of one or more
safeguard areas
I S2. - One or more safeguard policies are triggered, but effects are
limited in their impact and are technically and institutionally manageable
-2 -



[XI S3. - No safeguard issues
I SF. - Financial intermediary projects, social development funds,
community driven development or similar projects which require a safeguard
framework or programmatic approach to address safeguard issues.
F. Disclosure Requirements Environmental Assessment/Analysis/Management
Plan:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of distributing the Exec. Summary of the EA to the ED
(For category A projects)       Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework:      Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Indigenous Peoples Development Plan/Framework:   Expected         Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Pest Management Plan:    Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Dam Safety Management Plan:      Expected        Actual
Date of receipt by the Bank      Not Applicable  Not Applicable
Date of "in-country" disclosure Not Applicable   Not Applicable
Date of submission to InfoShop   Not Applicable  Not Applicable
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected,
please explain why. N/A.
Signed and submitted by          Name    Date
Task Team Leader:        Carlo Maria Rossotto     01/07/2002
Project Safeguards Specialists 1:
Project Safeguards Specialists 2:
Project Safeguards Specialists 3:
Approved by:     Name    Date
Regional Safeguards Coordinator:         Glenn S. Morgan 02/19/02
Sector Manager/Director:         Pierre A.Guislain        01/07/2002
For a list of World Bank news releases on projects and reports, click here
-3 -



