Report No. PID10846
Project Name             Samoa-Telecommunications and Postal (@)
Sector Reform Project
Region                   East Asia and Pacific Region
Sector                   Telecommunications & Informatics
Project ID               WSPE75739
Borrower(s)              DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY
Implementing Agency
Address MINISTRY OF POSTS AND
TELECOMMUNICATIONS, SAMOA COMM LTD.
Treasury Department, Government of
Samoa
Address: Private Bag, Apia, Samoa
Contact Person: Hinauri Petana,
Financial Secretary
Tel: 685.34324 - 22984
Fax: 685.21312 - 24779
Email: hinauri@samoa.ws
Samoa Communications Limited
Address: Private Bag, Apia, Samoa
Contact Person: Philip H. Bell, Chief
Operating Officer
Tel: 685.22766
Fax: 685.23.494
Email: philipg@samoacom.com.ws
Environment Category     C
Date PID Prepared        February 6, 2002
Projected Appraisal
Date                     September 9, 2002
Projected Board Date     December 10, 2002
1. Country and Sector Background
1.01 Limited economic growth due to Samoa's isolation and small size.
Isolation and small size have been recognized as key bottlenecks to the
developing the economies of small states. The report of the Commonwealth
Secretariat/World Bank Joint Task Force on small states entitled Small
States: Meeting Challenges in the Global Economy (Washington, April 17,
2000), underlines the economic and administrative implications of
isolation and remoteness, especially in conjunction with the small size of
the countries. According to the report, Samoa is included in the group of
"high vulnerability" countries--countries that are characterized by highly
volatile economic growth, dependency on a few economic exports, and lack
of economic diversification. As shown in the following table, over the
last five years, Samoa has enjoyed a relatively high growth rate, compared
to other countries of the region. However, the degree of variability in
GDP growth was very high, and the country suffered from the contractions
of the Asian economies in the years 1997 to 1999.               Source:



Economist Intelligence Unit.1.02. An additional source of dependence is
the high share of revenues from fishing over total exports. In 2000,
revenues from fishing amounted to 24.74 million tala, out of 45.12 million
tala total exports. ICT could have a benefit on the growth of the Samoan
economy. On the one hand, it would allow Samoa to diversify its sources
of income, through the development of ICT based activities, whose business
cycle is highly uncorrelated with traditional sectors, such as fishing.
Second, the enhanced performance of the ICT sector, thanks to expected
fall in prices from more efficient communications, would reduce the
economic isolation of the country, having a positive externality on all
major sectors of economic activity. At present, the government has
recognized the potential of ICT to boost growth and employment. However,
the potential impact of ICT is currently constrained by the following
sector issues.1.03. The market structure in the telecommunication and
postal sectors limits growth. The performance of telecommunications and
postal services is severely constrained by the particular market structure
in place in the country. Samoa Communications Limited (SCL) is a monopoly
provider of most telecommunications services and has an exclusivity for
the whole of the postal services in Samoa. Some progress to move the
sector structure away from the traditional monopoly model has been
implemented. In particular: (a) some private sector participation in the
provision of cellular services has been introduced, through the award of a
license to TSC, partially owned by Telecom New Zealand, which has only
marginally deployed services, using outdated analogue technology; (b)
competition at ISP level is in place, with three service providers; and
(c) pay television services have been authorized. Notwithstanding this
progress, some features of the current market structure might hinder
future growth. In particular:SCL enjoys monopoly rights on all fixed line
telecommunications services (local, long distance, and international
services);TSC is a monopoly provider of cellular services (including
international cellular voice);SCL is monopoly provider of basic postal
services;There is limited competition in the Internet market at network
access level (while there is competition at service provision level, with
three private ISPs, SCL is the only operator at the network operator
level).In the postal sector, mail volumes is fairly low with an average of
6 letters per capita, per year, compared to 35 in Fiji, and 47 in
Mauritius, with a decreasing trend. Despite the theoretical monopoly held
by SCL through its exclusivity license, most business mail seems to be
handled directly by individuals with low qualification hired by individual
companies as a "social obligation". The international courier activities
are liberalized de facto and DHL, TNT, and UPS are all present in Samoa.
They have also entered the domestic cross-town market.      Table 1, Policy,
Regulation and Market Structure in Samoa Post and Telecommunications
Sector.FunctionResponsibilityMarket StructurePost and Telecom
PolicyMinistry of Post and CommunicationsPost and Telecom
RegulationMinistry of Post and Communications (de facto, Samoa
Communications Limited)Fixed Line Telephony Services (Local, Long Distance
and International)Samoa Communications LimitedMonopolyCellular
ServicesTelecom Samoa CellularMonopolyBasic Postal ServicesSamoa
Communications LimitedMonopolyExpress Postal ServicesDHL, TNT, UPSOpen to
CompetitionInternet Service ProvisionCSL, I-pasifika, Pro-comOpen to
Competition (3 licensed ISPs)1.04. Samoa has particular challenges in
establishing effective regulation. SCL is entirely state-owned. Although
the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications has some policy and regulatory
power, inadequate expertise and resources have limited its power to
-2 -



effectively regulate the sector. As a consequence, SCL, the incumbent
operator, due to superior technical knowledge, is performing regulatory
functions that would normally be attributed to public sector policy and
regulatory authorities (tariff setting, interconnection regulation,
standard setting). The Prime Minister, who is also Minister of Post and
Telecommunications, is a member of the Board of SCL. In addition to those
issues, Samoa is facing some additional challenges, due to its size and
geographical position. Modern regulation of telecommunications in a
competitive environment requires the State to move out of direct provision
of services, and to focus on policy and regulatory matters. This is
usually achieved through the establishment of an independent regulator, an
agency which can oversee and discipline the development of the sector and
foster competition. The agency is usually separate both from the pressures
of the operators and from government intervention. In Samoa, the
operator, fully owned by government, is the main source of technical
knowledge in the sector. It can therefore influence and sometimes
directly perform regulatory functions. International best practice would
suggest the establishment of a separate regulator, with financial and
administrative autonomy, and access to the best technical knowledge.
However, as mentioned above, Samoa's size discourages the creation of the
complex administrative structure needed to establish a telecommunications
sector regulator. The possibility, recently developed by the OECS
countries, has been to create a regional regulator, serving different
islands. This possibility, however, is not practical in the Pacific in
the short term, due to limited regional cooperation, especially on a
political level. Size and isolation remain peculiar bottlenecks to the
development of effective regulation in the country.1.05. There is no
actual regulation and competition monitoring in the postal sector, as
illustrated by the numerous actors intervening in a theoretical
monopolistic sector. There is no definition of universal service
obligations (USO) and universal service provider, hence no mechanisms to
finance USO costs, to monitor prices and quality of service for the
universal service, or conduct a dialogue with the consumers. 1.06. High
communications costs hinder competitiveness. The particular market
structure of the telecommunications and postal sector, and the challenges
in establishing effective regulation, resulted in major constraints to
sector development. Certain services are offered at a much higher price
than found in international good practice, specifically, international
voice calls, and domestic and international leased lines. The cost of
international voice calls is very high and does not reflect the real cost
of provision of service. For example, a three-minute call to the US costs
$4.2, while a three-minute call from Australia to the US costs costs
$0.42. It is clear how this fact increases the isolation of the country
and is a major obstacle to firms operating in export-oriented sectors. A
second area is access to leased lines, which is very expensive both at the
domestic and at the international level. The cost of a 64 kbps is
estimated to be 10 times more expensive than global best practice. These
costs, through their impact on the operations of Internet service
providers (ISPs) severely constrain the growth of the Internet and ICT in
Samoa. 1.07. Network coverage is limited.    Fixed line penetration is 5.8
percent, while average penetration for countries in the same income class
as Samoa is 12 percent, which would be equivalent to an additional 11,000
fixed line subscribers. Cellular penetration is around 1.7 percent, while
penetration for countries of the same income class is 5 percent, and it is
growing fast (at an average rate of 64 percent per year). The existence of
- 3 -



a waiting list for both fixed-line and cellular services indicates the
presence of high room for growth. There is also a serious issue of access
to communications services. For example, 75 percent of fixed lines are in
the capital, Apia, while only 25 percent of the population lives there.
Fixed-line backbone infrastructure needs serious upgrading and expansion.
This dramatically constrains the coverage of both fixed line and cellular
services, especially in Savaii, where most of the island is without
coverage. In addition to limited coverage, Samoa's network also suffers a
serious issue of quality of service. Fixed-line infrastructure needs to
be upgraded; evidence of this is the high faults rate. Improvement in the
backbone infrastructure would increase the quality of service and would
have beneficial effects on all operators in the market.1.08. Postal
services suffer from a poor quality of service and an absence of regulated
competition. The collection and delivery of postal items by SCL are
extremely limited, well below standards of universal service acknowledged
by the Universal Postal Union or, for instance, the European Union. The
latter prescribes collection and home delivery of mail five days a week at
a satisfactory level of quality for an affordable price. In Samoa, there
is no home delivery, and collection of mail is limited to post offices,
and to a few agents going to business buildings to pick up their mail and
to individuals hired by companies to manage their mail. There is daily
delivery only in Apia, with delivery to the others cities of the two main
islands taking place once or twice a week. Many sector issues have been
identified by SCL: largest business customers consider that dealing with
the postal system is complicated and time-consuming, that SCL's postal
activities are not trustworthy (lost and stolen items, transit time),
that SCL's product and service range does not answer their need, that
staff is not customer-oriented. The postal network is very limited: aside
from the Central Post Office, there are only six post offices run by SCL
and 29 points of service in which an agent agrees to hold the mail that
local residents come and pick up at their convenience. Not including
those points of service, the average number of inhabitant per post office
is 21,250, compared to 17,800 in Comoros, 2,400 in Fiji, and 11,500 in
Mauritius.1.09. Because of the absence of regulation, competitors have
been able to enter the postal market with two approaches: (a)
international couriers such as DHL, TNT, and UPS, are providing businesses
with professional postal services and skim the inter-city market where
profit is to be made; (b) local businesses hire local employees with low
qualification to handle their mail because SCL fails to answer their need
and to fulfil a perceived "social obligation". If Apia receivesfairly
good postal service, rural areas are left behind. The GOS needs to set
objectives for the development of its postal sector, and to define a
policy expressed first by the legal and regulatory framework regarding the
definition of universal service (US), financing mechanisms and the
implementation of the regulatory policy to allow for more transparency and
a level playing field competition.1.10. Government strategy in
telecommunications: The government is committed to implement a sector
reform agenda necessary to addresses the bottlenecks to sector
development. To ensure dramatic improvement in sector performance, the
government recognizes a need for deep reforms affecting technology, market
structure and the role of the institutions. The government is undertaking
key actions to finalize and implement a sector reform program. The key
elements of the sector reform program will include, inter alia, the
following:(a) Increase competition: The centerpiece of government sector
reform program will focus on increasing competition and private
-4 -



participation in the sector through both management and financing of the
sector. The government intends to open the mobile segment through an open
and competitive tender process with a clear license regime;(b) Strengthen
regulatory capacity: The government has decided to separate its
operational, policy making, and regulatory functions as this is critical
for ensuring a level playing field in a multioperator environment.
Accordingly, the government has corporatized SCL and will establish a
regulatory body with a broader mandate beyond the spectrum management
function to regulate the sector. The regulatory function will be
independent of the operators and will have the authority and technical
knowledge to counterbalance the power of the incumbent operator;(c) Expand
rural access: Rural access to communications is poor and the government
is committed to expand rural access and to increase diffusion of ICT.(d)
Privatization of SCL: The government has expressed its intention to
privatize SCL in the medium term. The immediate focus is the introduction
of competition and strengthening the regulatory framework.1.11. The
government is finalizing a new and progressive sector policy statement
which focuses on liberalization of the sector by promoting private sector
participation and competition. A consultant is assisting the government
in the finalization of the policy statement. It is expected that the
policy statement will be issued within three months. Issuance of a policy
statement will be required prior to negotiations of the proposed
credit.1.12. Government strategy in the postal sector. The government is
committed to improving the provision of postal services to its citizens
and aims at a three-fold strategy: (a) to insure that international
standards for postal universal service apply in Samoa, (b) to allow
increased private sector participation in order to accelerate the growth
in the postal sector through regulated competition; and (c) to enable the
SCL's postal services to join the information technology revolution and be
an active player in increasing access to IT for all Samoans.
2. Objectives
2.01. The proposed project will improve performance of the Information
and Communications Technology (ICT) sector through increased competition,
private participation, and effective regulation.2.02. The objective of
this operation is to assist the government in the implementation of a
comprehensive reform agenda, which focuses, inter alia, on: (a)
introducing competition and private participation in post and
telecommunications; (b) advancing regulatory reform, and developing sector
institutional capacity; and (c) extending access to basic communications,
postal services, and the Internet in rural areas.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
3.01. The proposed project is consistent with the Bank's strategy for the
telecommunications sector, which calls for shifting the government's role
from ownership and operations to policy making and regulation, promoting
competition, efficiency and service quality, and increased private sector
participation in investments and provision of services (OP 4.50). The
project will make an important contribution to the development of policy
and regulation in the Samoan telecommunications sector and facilitate
continued dialogue with the Bank on sector development. The successful
implementation of the proposed project will enable competition and private
investments for sector expansion. This will in turn (a) reduce the cost
of access; (b) enhance telecommunications connectivity; (c) improve the
quality of services available; and (d) ensure provision of affordable
- 5 -



access to ICT in rural and semi-urban areas. In addition, Samoa would
avoid the risk of becoming a casualty of the "digital divide" and the
proposed project would also serve as a model for improving and modernizing
the ICT sector in small island economies in the Pacific and elsewhere.
4. Description
4.01. The project, a lending operation with substantial grant
contribution, is expected to cover the following three components:    (a) to
increase competition and private participation in the provision of
telecommunications services; (b) to strengthen the existing regulatory
framework in the area of ICT; (c) to extend rural access and increase
diffusion of ICT; and (d) to provide support to the PMU.
Increase competition and private participation in the provision of
telecommunications services.
Prepare SCL for privatization
Strengthen regulatory framework.
Improve spectrum management and monitoring.
Extend rural access and increase diffusion of postal services
Provide support to the Project Management Unit (PMU).
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
BORROWER                 2.75
IDA                      3.25
Total Project Cost       6
6. Implementation
6.01. A Project Coordination Unit, composed of the Treasury, Ministry of
Post and Communications, and SCL will be established and will supervise
the development and overall implementation of the proposed operation. Each
beneficiary agency will be responsible for the management and
implementation of their specific component.
7. Sustainability
7.01. By focusing on the award of a cellular license, the project aims at
introducing a strong competitor in the market, with an untapped market to
exploit, and an incentive for higher revenues, due to the postential of
offering international voice services. Cellular bids, if properly designed
and managed, face no obstacle in finding interested investors, and present
a low risk of failure. Sustained competition will also be possible thanks
to the improvements in the regulatory framework.7.02. By assisting in the
establishment of a low-cost, lean Regulatory Unit, the project will not
impose administrative and institutional burderns on Samoa. The Regulatory
Unit will be designed to be financially self-sufficient, through the
contribution from the operators of the sector. From international
experience, a fraction of 1 percent of sector revenues is enough to secure
competent and independent regulation. If, due to its small size, this
percentage is set at 1 percent for Samoa, it will not be as high as to
hinder the viability of commercial companies, but will bring in enough
revenues to allow sustainability of the Regulatory Unit over the long term.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
8.01. Lessons learned and accepted as international best practice in
implementing telecommunications reform are included in the design of this
operation. These include:Sufficient attention should be devoted to
- 6 -



training and developing adequate human capacity to undertake the program
of reform. In this regard, the project includes a component consisting in
providing training for the new regulatory agency.Attention should be paid
to the sustainability of the regulatory institutions put in place. The
project provides for a self-sufficient implementation vehicle located in
Samoa, to undertake the development of the project.The introduction of
effective and sustainable competition is the driver of sector reform. Even
in a small and isolated country like Samoa, competition is expected to
bring the same benefits, in terms of higher sector efficiency, lower cost
and better quality that it has brought to more lucrative markets.Private
participation can be very effective in the provision of rural access.
Several experiences show that the private sector can be adequately
stimulated to provide services in low income rural areas, through an
output-based aid scheme. The proposed project is designed as to provide
extensive access to basic communications, post and Internet services in
rural and unprofitable areas, through a 'smart subsidy' scheme.Speed is
key to telecommunications reform. Telecommunications reform requires a
political-institutional system capable of facing the pressures of the
incumbent operator and of other actors which resist institutional change.
For this reason, speed is key. Once the agreement to proceed to sector
reform is obtained by the government, speed in the implementation of the
reform is key to avoid that resistance to change is institutionalized. In
an environment like Samoa, resistance to change can severely harm the
development of the sector. The design of this operation is intended to
achieve a 'quick win' in the opening up of the cellular market, as a
preliminary result that can open the door to further liberalization and
consolidation of the regulatory reform effort.Postal reform initiatives
must be ambitious and should cover sector regulatory issues as well as
thorough modernization of the postal services and increased autonomy and
commercial flexibility of the incumbent operator.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues        10.01. The environmental impact of the proposed
operation is expected to be negligible.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Carlo Maria Rossotto
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 473-7354
Fax: 522.3001
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
-7 -



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending
February 22, 2002.
- 8 -



