Page  1
CONFORMED 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3724 WSO 
 
Project Agreement 
 
(Telecommunications and Postal Sector Reform Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
SAMOATEL 
 
Dated January 28, 2003 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3724 WSO
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated January 28, 2003, between INTERNATIONAL 
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and SAMOATEL. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith 
between the Independent State of Samoa (the Borrower) and the Association, the 
Association has agreed to make a credit to the Borrower in an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to three million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 3,400,000) (the Credit), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on condition that SamoaTel agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
(B) 
by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between the 
Borrower and SamoaTel, part of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the 
Development Credit Agreement will be relent to SamoaTel as a Subsidiary Loan on the 
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
WHEREAS SamoaTel, in consideration of the Associati
on’s entering into the 
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
Definitions
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General 
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth. 
 
Page  3
-2- 
 
ARTICLE II 
Execution of the Project 
Section 2.01. (a) SamoaTel declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, 
shall carry out Part D of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with sound administrative, financial, postal and technical practices and standards, and 
shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the carrying out of
 
Part D of the Project. 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Association and SamoaTel shall otherwise agree, SamoaTel shall carry 
out Part D of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, and consultants’ services required for Part D of the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. 
Section 2.03. (a) SamoaTel shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and Part D of the Project. 
(b) 
For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, SamoaTel shall: 
(i) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, 
and furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after 
the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Association and SamoaTel, a report 
designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and 
(ii) 
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with SamoaTel on said report. 
Page  4
-3- 
 
Section 2.04. SamoaTel
 
shall: (a) enter into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with 
the Borrower in accordance with Section 3.01 (b) of the Development Credit Agreement; 
and (b) duly perform all its obligations under said Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as 
the Association shall otherwise agree, SamoaTel shall not take or concur in any action 
which would have the effect of abrogating, amending, assigning, repealing, suspending or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 2.05. (a) SamoaTel shall, at the request of the Association, exchange 
views with the Association with regard to progress of Part D of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, 
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit. 
(b) 
SamoaTel shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part D of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of Credit, or the performance by SamoaTel of its 
obligations under this Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Management and Operations of SamoaTel 
Section 3.01. SamoaTel shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, postal, telecommunications and 
technical practices and standards, under the supervision of qualified and experienced 
management assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers. 
Section 3.02. SamoaTel shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering, financial and technical practices. 
Section 3.03. SamoaTel shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks and 
in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice. 
 
ARTICLE IV 
Page  5
-4- 
 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a)  SamoaTel shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance with 
accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, adequate to 
reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to Part D of the Project. 
 (b) 
SamoaTel shall: 
(i) 
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each Fiscal Year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Association, consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Borrower and 
the Association;  
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for such year as so audited, and (B) 
an opinion on such statements and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such records, accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may 
from time to time reasonably request. 
Section 4.02.  
(a) Without limitation upon SamoaTel’s reporting obligations set 
forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement, SamoaTel shall prepare and 
furnish to the Association a Financial Monitoring Report, in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for Part D of the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
Page  6
-5- 
 
(ii) 
describes progress in implementation of Part D of the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by 
said report, and explains variances between the actual
 
and 
planned Project implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under Part D of the Project, as 
at the end of the period covered by said report. 
(b)  
The first Financial Monitoring Reports shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than 45 days after the end of the first calendar quarter after 
the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the incurrence of the first 
expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
thereafter, each Financial Monitoring Report shall be furnished to the Association 
not later than 45 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such 
calendar quarter. 
Section 4.03.  (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, SamoaTel shall 
produce, for each of its Fiscal Years after its Fiscal Year ending on 2003, funds from 
internal sources equivalent to not less than twenty percent (20%) of the annual average of 
SamoaTel
’s capital expenditures incurred, or expected to be incurred, for that Fiscal Year, 
the previous Fiscal Year and the next following Fiscal Year ending on 2004. 
(b) 
Before December 31 in each of its Fiscal Years, SamoaTel shall, on the 
basis of forecasts prepared by SamoaTel and satisfactory to the Association, review 
whether it would meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (a) above in respect of 
such year and the next following Fiscal Year and shall furnish to the Association a copy 
of such review upon its completion. 
(c) 
If any such review shows that SamoaTel would not meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for SamoaTel’s Fiscal Years covered by such 
review, SamoaTel shall promptly take all necessary measures including, without 
limitation, adjustments of the structure or levels of its tariffs with the prior approval of 
the Borrower, if required in order to meet such requirements. 
(d) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i) 
The term “funds from internal sources” means the difference 
between: 
Page  7
-6- 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations, consumer deposits and consumer 
contributions in aid of construction, net non-operating 
income and any reduction in working capital other than 
cash; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, adequate maintenance and taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes (excluding provision for 
depreciation and other non-cash operating charges), debt 
service requirements, all cash dividends and other cash 
distributions of surplus, increase in working capital other 
than cash and other cash outflows other than capital 
expenditures. 
(ii) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(iii) 
The term “working capital other than cash” means the difference 
between current assets excluding cash and current liabilities at the 
end of each Fiscal Year. 
(iv) 
The term “current assets excluding cash” means all assets other 
than cash which could in the ordinary course of business be 
converted into cash within twelve (12) months, including 
accounts receivable, marketable securities, inventories and pre-
paid expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses within 
the next Fiscal Year. 
(v) 
The term “current liabilities” means all liabilities which will 
become due and payable or could under circumstances then 
existing be called for payment within twelve (12) months, 
including accounts payable, customer advances, debt service 
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes and dividends. 
Page  8
-7- 
 
(vi) The 
term 
“debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on debt. 
(vii) 
The term “capital expenditures” means all expenditures incurred 
on account of fixed assets, including interest charged to 
construction, related to operations. 
(viii) 
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, 
on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the Association. 
 
Section 4.04.  (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
 
SamoaTel shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of SamoaTel for the 
Fiscal Year immediately preceding the date of such incurrence or for a later 
twelve-month (12) period ended prior to the date of such incurrence, whichever is 
the greater, shall be at least 1.3 times the estimated maximum debt service 
requirements of SamoaTel for any succeeding Fiscal Year on all debt of 
SamoaTel, including the debt to be incurred. 
 
(b) 
For the purposes of this Section: 
 (i) 
The term “debt” means any indebtedness of SamoaTel 
maturing by its terms more than one (1) year after the date on 
which it is originally incurred. 
 
(ii) 
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan 
contract or agreement or other instrument providing for such 
debt or for the modification of its terms of payment on the 
date of such contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) 
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement 
providing for such guarantee has been entered into. 
 
(iii) 
The term “net revenues” means the difference between: 
Page  9
-8- 
 
(A) 
the sum of revenues from all sources related to 
operations and net non-operating income; and 
(B) 
the sum of all expenses related to operations including 
administration, adequate maintenance, taxes and 
payments in lieu of taxes, but excluding provision for 
depreciation, other non-cash operating charges and 
interest and other charges on debt. 
 (iv) 
The term “net non-operating income” means the difference 
between: 
(A) 
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and 
(B) 
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the generation of revenues in (A) above. 
(v) 
The term “debt service requirements” means the aggregate 
amount of repayments (including sinking fund payments, if any) 
of, and interest and other charges on debt. 
 
Section 4.05.  SamoaTel shall prepare and furnish to the Association for 
its review and comments, by March 31 of each calendar year, commencing March 
31, 2004, until completion of the Project, its proposed business plan and budget 
for its next Fiscal Year, and rolling financial forecasts for the following three (3) 
years, including income statements, balance sheets and sources and uses of funds, 
and a report on measures taken to reduce its arrears and the results of said 
measures. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
Page  10
-9- 
 
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of 
SamoaTel thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: 
(i) 
the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall 
terminate in accordance with its terms; or 
(ii) 
the date twenty (20) years after the date of this Agreement. 
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with its 
terms before the date specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall 
promptly notify SamoaTel of this event. 
Section 5.03. All this provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly 
given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telex or facsimile to the 
party to which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. Deliveries made by 
facsimile transmission shall also be confirmed by mail. The addresses so specified are: 
 
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
 
 
248423 (MCI) or 
(202) 477-
6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
 
 64145 (MCI) 
 
For SamoaTel: 
Page  11
-10- 
 
Chief Post Office 
 
Private Bag 
 
Apia, Samoa 
 
Facsimile: 
 
685
24000
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of SamoaTel, or by 
SamoaTel on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be 
taken or executed by the Ambassador of Samoa to the United Nations
 
or such other 
person or persons as SamoaTel shall designate in writing, and SamoaTel shall furnish to 
the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person. 
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first 
above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION 
 
By  
 
 
/s/  
Christian 
Delvoie 
 Authorized Representative 
 
SAMOATEL 
 
By  
 
Page  12
-11- 
 
/s/ 
 
Tuiloma Neroni Slade 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  13
-12- 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
Procurement 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A
:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank 
in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 
1999 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
Part B
:
International Competitive Bidding
Goods shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
Part C
:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  14
-13- 
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in 
September 1997, January 1999 and May 2002 (the Consultant Guidelines), paragraph 1 
of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto and the following provisions of Section II of 
this Schedule. 
Part B
:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall 
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Consultant Guidelines, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof 
applicable to quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
Part C
:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
Least-cost Selection
Services for the carrying out of audits under Part D of the Project estimated to 
cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D
:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1. Selection 
Planning
A
plan for the selection of consultants, which shall include contract cost 
estimates, contract packaging, and applicable selection criteria and procedures, shall be 
furnished to the Association for its review and approval prior to the issuance to 
consultants of any requests for proposals.  Such plan shall be updated every three (3) 
Page  15
-14- 
 
months during the execution of the Project, and each such updating shall be furnished to 
the Association f
or
its review and approval.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be 
undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3 and 
5
of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply. 
Page  16
-15- 
 
SCHEDULE 2 
Implementation Program
 
Project Management
1. 
SamoaTel shall: (a) maintain, until completion of the Project, one relevant staff 
to manage Part D of the Project, within SamoaTel, with terms of reference satisfactory to 
the Association and provided with qualified staff in adequate numbers, funds and 
resources as shall be required to enable him/her to liaise with PSC and PMT, and 
coordinate the carrying out of Part D of the Project; (b) establish, and thereafter maintain 
until completion of the Project, a financial management system, acceptable to the 
Association; (c) install an accounting software, acceptable to the Association, and 
thereafter train the respective staff in the use of said software; and (d) prepare and furnish 
to the Association, in a manner and substance satisfactory to the Association, requests for 
proposals for consultants pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
the carrying out of audits under Part D of the Project during the calendar year of 2003, 
and, thereafter, finalize and adopt said request for proposals. 
Project Implementation
2. 
For purposes of improving selected postal offices facilities under Part D of the 
Project, SamoaTel shall, prepare and furnish to the Association, in a manner and 
substance satisfactory to the Association, for its review and comments: 
(a) independent audit of 
SamoaTel’s financial statements for the Fiscal Year 
2003; and 
(b) SamoaTel’s Corporate Reform Report, which report shall include: (i) 
evidence, satisfactory to the Association, that: (A) retained earnings
 
of
SamoaTel in the amount of Tala 15.8 million have been converted into 
SamoaTel’s equity, in the name of the Borrower; (B) the terms and 
conditions of unsecured loans to SamoaTel have been agreed and entered 
into between the Borrower and SamoaTel, including interest rates and 
repayment terms; and (C) cost
 
accounting systems for the 
telecommunications and postal services have been established within 
SamoaTel; and (ii) an action plan to reduce SamoaTel’s accounts receivables 
to two (2) months of annual revenues by the end of Fiscal Year 2005; and 
thereafter, adopt such report taking into consideration the comments of the 
Association. 
Page  17
-16- 
 
Monitoring and Reports
3. SamoaTel 
shall: 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 5 to 
the Development Credit Agreement, the carrying out of Part D of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about April 15, 2005, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of Part D of the Project during the 
period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of Part D of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by July 15, 2005, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of Part D of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter. 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, and except as 
provided for in paragraph 3 (b) above, SamoaTel shall, by March 31
 
of
each calendar 
year, commencing March 31, 2004, until completion of the Project, prepare and furnish 
to the Association, for its review and comments a summary report integrating the results 
of the activities performed under Part D of the Project, including an annual training 
program, and, thereafter, finalize such report taking into consideration the comments of 
the Association.
 
