Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MI };(JIUI i'!'1A]o~ I_Ul _ '-    _g gL          C      Ig
Report No. 9436-POL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
MAY 20, 1991
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
Country Department IV
Agriculture Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be _e by re_pients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Zloty (Zi)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(Zlotys per US$)
1987        1988        1989        1989         1990        1991
-            -(June)                (De)                    (May)
265         430         850        4990         9500       sll0O
WEIGHTS AND M':ASURES
Metric System
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADP   - Agricultural Development Project
AEDP  - Agroindustries Export Development Project
ASAL  - Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan
BFE   - Bank for Food Economy
CB    - Cooperative Bank
CDA   - Cooperative Development. Agent
CDU   - Cooperative Development Unit
DC    - Dairy Cooperative
1;CU   - European Currency Unit
EDI   - Economic Development Institute (of the World Bank)
EEC   - European Economic Community
ETP   - Economic Transformation Program
FIDL  - Financial Institutions Development Loan
GBW   - Gospodarczy Bank Wielkopolski
CDP   - Gross Domestic Product
HC    - Horticulture Cooperative
IBRD  - International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB   - International Competitive Bidding
IMF   - International Monetary Fund
LCB   - Local Competitive Bidding
LIBOR - London Interbank Offered Rate
MAFE  - Ministry of Agriculture and the Food Economy
MLT   - Medium- and Long-term
NBP   - Narodowy Bank Polski (National Bank of Poland)
OED   - Operations Evaluation Department of the World Bank
PAID  - Project Appraisal and Implementation Division of NBP
PB    - Participating Banks
PC    - Personal Computer
PCBU  - Polish Cooperative Banks Union
PSA   - Peasant Self-Aid Cooperative
RC    - Rural Cooperative
RCB   - Regional Cooperative Bank
RCSU  - Regional Cooperative Service Unit
ROC   - Regional Organizing Committee (of cooperative banks)
SCC   - Supreme Cooperative Council
SOE   - Statement of Expenditure
ST    - Short-term
TA    - Technical Assistance
POLAND - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Chapter                                                                  Pare No.
Loan and Proiect Summary                                              1
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                          1
II.  THE RURAL SECTOR AND THE FOOD ECONOMY                                 2
A.    Economic Outlook                                                2
B.    The Rural Sector                                                2
C.    The Food Economy                                                3
D.    Bank Role in the Food Economy and Related Projects              7
E.    OED Findings Related to the Project                             8
III.  RURAL COOPERATIVES                                                    8
A.    Background                                                      8
B.    Current Situation                                               9
C.    Issues Relevant to the Project                                 11
IV.  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR                                                 12
A.    Overview                                                       12
B.    Cooperative Banks                                              15
C.    Bank for Food Economy                                          18
D.    Credit Demand                                                  20
V. THE PROJECT                                                           21
A.    Project Objectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement          21
B.    Summary Project Description                                    21
C.    Detailed Features                                              22
D.    Project Cost and Financing                                     28
E.    Procurement                                                    29
F.    Disbursements                                                  30
VI.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                               31
A.    Organization and Management                                    31
B.    Institutional Development                                      32
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
C.    Credit Operations                                             37
D.    Reporting and Evaluation                                      43
E.    Accounts and Audit                                            44
F.    Bank Supervision                                              44
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS. RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT                    45
A.    Benefits                                                      45
B.    Risks                                                         45
C.    Environmental Impact                                          45
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                               46
A.    Assurances                                                    46
B.    Conditions                                                    47
C.    Recommendation                                                47
ANNEXES
1.    Rural Cooperatives and Cooperative Restructuring
2.    The Financial Sector
3.    Technical Assistance for Development of Cooperative Banks
4.    Capital Fund for Cooperative Banks
5.    Project Cost - Institutional Development
-;.   Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the IBRD Loan
7.    Implementation/Monitoring Schedule and Credit
Monitoring Indicators
8.    Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
MAP   IBRD20500R - POLAND
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission to Poland in
January 1991, comprising Messrs. G. Ablasser (Task Manager), G. Luhman, L.
Pohlmeier, 0. Sacay (Bank); J. Enters (Bank Consultant); T. Burley, J.
McCarrick (EC Commission); J. Greeneisen (Agricultural Cooperative Development
International of the United States); and R. Phillips (National Cooperative
Business Association of the United States). Contributions to the report have
also been made by Messrs. C. Warnaars (Bank), C. Cronberg, P. Stock, R. Wiebe
and C. Truitt (Consultants).



AQRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Prgject Summary
Borr"w r:                Republic of Poland.
Beneficiaries:           Private sector investors.
Am2unt:                  US$100.0 million equivalent.
Terms:                   Seventeen years, including five years grace period at
the standard variable interest rate.
Implementing Agencies:  National Bank of Poland (NBP) and Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Economy.
Onlending TerMs:         Government would on-lend, through NBP, US$100 million
equivalent to the participating financial
intermediaries with a maturity of between two and
twelve years including a grace period not exceeding
three years; the maximum subloan size would be US$5
million. Loan funds would be onlent either in local
currency at NBP's basic rate, which is adjusted
periodically to approximate market rate, or in US
dollars at a floating rate linked to the six-month
London Interbank Offered Rate. Onlending rates would
be reviewed semi-annually by NBP in consultation with
the Bank.
Proiect Ob_ectives:      The project is designed to support private farmers and
promote other private sector activities in rural
areas, primarily through the restructuring of high-
priority rural cooperatives (e.g., cooperative banks
and marketing, dairy and horticulture cooperatives).
More specifically, the project would: start
transforming existing rural cooperatives from social
sector organizations to member-controlled, market-
oriented business enterprises; help develop rural
commercial enterprises by improving access to credit;
and provide investment funds for business and
institutional development in rural communities.
Proiect DescriRtion:    The project would comprise (i) institution-building
activities for about 2,400 rural cooperatives and
cooperative banks through: (a) technical assistance
aimed at strengthening individual agricultural
cooperatives and primary cooperative banks and
creating a suitable apex structure at regional and
national levels, and (b) establishment of a Capital



aii -
Fund for cooperatlve banks; and (Ui) a credit program
to provlde medium- and long-torm credit for
investments ln agriculture, agrolndustry and other
rural productive sectors. Farmers, individual
entrepreneurs, private cooperatives, private
enterprises as well as former state enterprises which
have been privatized would be eligible for borrowing.
Project Benefits:        The main benefit wQuld be the creation of viable rural
cooperative institutions to serve the private sector,
with particularly favorable impact on rural financial
intermediation and agricultural marketing. Broader
access to credit would help stimulate a supply
response and, by sup?orting new business entrants,
contribute to creating a competitive economic
environment. The project also would create alternative
employment opportunities and, through its positive
overall effect on economic efficiency, make the
country more competitive in international markets.
Proiect Risks:           The main overall risk is adverse changes in
macroeconomic conditions which could affect the entire
agriculture sector and the demand for credit. This
risk will be mitigated in the context of the intense
country dialogue as well as the preparation and
implementation of SALs and other loans that are
central to the reform effort. The main project risk is
that subloans will not be fully or promptly repaid.
This could occur because there is little experience
with lending to private farmers and small businesses
in a free market environment.    address this problem,
banks' risk management capabii  , would be improved
through the project's manageme;.c and training
assistance and the application of sound lending
criteria. There is also a possibility that institution
building will not be as successful as anticipated, in
which case the technical assistance approach may have
to be modified in the course of project
implementation. Another risk is that progress with
overall financial sector reforms is slow, hindering
institutional development of cooperative banks. While
this would affect project disbursements, the project
would continue to be implemented by the accredited
non-cooperative banks already involved in lending
under existing projects, with the proposed technical
assistance.



v iii -
Costs. Financing and Disbursement Summary
Estimated Proiect Costs:
Component                        Local   Foreign   Total       Foreign  Total
-----(US$ million)-----      Exchange Costs
....  -(X)-
Farm Investmant                   12.0      28.0     40.0        70         22
Agroindustry                       10.0     50.0      60.0       83         34
Rural Enterprises                  18.0     22.0      40.0       55         22
Institutional Development         11.6       8.6     20.2        43         11
Capital Fund                      20, -0       20.0               0        _. 
TOTAL                              71.6    108.6    180.2        60        100
Financing Plan:
Source                           Local   Foreign   Total  Percentage of Project
-----(US$ million)-----      Total For.Exchange
Costs _   Costs
IBRD                                  -    100.0    100.0        56         92
Financial Intermediaries          25.0         -     25.0        14          0
Subborrowers                      15.0         -     15.0         8          0
Technical Assistance Donors        11.6      8.6      20.2       11          8
Government (Capital Fund)
- Budgetary sources              5.0         -      5.0         3         0
- External sources              150          -     15.0       --A         Q
TOTAL                              71.6    108.6    180.2       100        100
Estimated Completion Date: December 31, 1994
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year
1992        12i          1994         1995
--------------(US$ million)-------------
Annual                           5.0        30.0         40.0        25.0
Cumulative                      5.0         35.0         75.0       100.0
Rg:  IBRD 20500R - POLAND



POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Under its Economic Transformation Program (ETP,, the Polish
Government is according high. priority to the development of the rural sector,
which accounts for about 40% of the country's population. The rural economy
has a potential for employment creation which can offset some of the
unemployment occurring in the urban areas. Agriculture assumes special
significance in rural areas with a share of about 12% of GDP, 20% of exports
and 28% of the total labor force. A joint Polish-EEC-World Bank task force on
agriculture, which visited Poland during May-July 1990 (para. 2.26),
identified priorities for action. Consistent with these priorities the
proposed project, for which the Polish Government has requested Bank
assistance, is aimed at assisting Poland in the reform of rural cooperatives,
including rural cooperative banks, as key institutions that channel resources
to the rural sector, and providing funds for the rural sector.
1.02      There are some 8,000 rural cooperatives involved in banking, input
distribution and output marketing, production and processing. The 1,665
cooperative banks, constituting Poland's principal rural financial
institutions, are being reformed as part of an ongoing transformation of the
national financial system involving a more efficient intermediation between
savers and investors in a market economy, with assistance by a range of
multilateral and bilateral agencies. Cooperatives had been forced under the
previous system to serve as an instrument if state policy and, as such, did
not have a truly cooperative character or an ability to function efficiently.
The cooperatives now need to be transformed into private sector, member-
controlled institutions ("real" cooperatives) consistent with the Government's
program for the establishment of a market economy. The project is designed to
assist this process.
1.03      The project was identified following Bank economic and sector work,
including the findings of the joint Polish-EEC-World Bank task force.
Preparation was undertaken in the fall of 1990 by the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Economy (MAFE), cooperatives and other concerned Polish authorities
and agencies in cooperation with the World Bank, assisted by the EEC's PHARE
program and the National Cooperative Business Association and Agricultural
Cooperative Development International of the United States. Appraisal took
place in January 1991. The project would be implemented through NBP and
partlcipating intermediaries, and HAFE, through a regional service network
under a proposed Cooperative Development Unit (CDU) and the national
organization of regional cooperative banks together with associated
cooperative organizations.   Implementation would span a three-year period
(January 1992-December 1994).
1.04      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$180.2 million, of
which US$108.6 million (60%) is in foreign exchange. A Bank loan of US$100.0



- 2 -
million to Government would fx.aance part of par.icipating financial
intermediaries' medium- and long-term lending to the rural and food economies
during the project period. The remaining investment resources would be
provided by the financial intermediaries and investors. A request has been
made to the EEC for grant assistance to undertake institution building
activities under the project which are estimated to cost US$20.2 million and
to help establish a US$20.0 million equivalent Capital Fund; bilateral donors,
among them the United States, also have indicated willingness to support these
project components.
II. THE RURAL SECTOR AND THE FOOD ECONOMY
A. Economic Outlook
2.01       Background on the Polish economy, past economic performance, recent
economic trends and the Government's adjustment efforts, as well as social
indicators are fully described in a Country Economic Memorandum entitled,
"Poland: Economic Management for a New Era" (Report No. 7999-POL of January
19, 1990), and a Country Brief on Poland (Document No. SECK)1-5 of January 4,
1991).
2.02       The Bank and the IMF have supported and continue to support the ETP
in Poland to establish a market economy and to foster sustainable and
equitable growth. The current situation of the rural economy and agriculture
is described below.
B. The Rural Sector
2.03      The rural sector, for purposes of this project, comprises all areas
and communities that are not urban, i.e., all villages and towns with a
population of less than about 20,000 and the surrounding countryside. Poland
has 42,000 villages, of which 82X have less than 500 inhabitants. The rural
sector continues to be an essential component of the national economy with
about 15 million inhabitants, representing 40X of the total population and 36X
of the population of productive age. The rural focus is emphasized in the
project because (a) the rural population is relatively large, and (b) the
rural economy has taken on a special significance as a result of Government's
economic restructuring program and its resulting adverse transitional effects
on industry and the cities, and particularly the expected temporary return-
migration to rural areas.
2.04      While rural population has remained stable, the share of farm
population has been decreasing. In 1988, about 411 of the rural population
worked outside agriculture, compared with about 16X in 1950. Furthermore,
part-time farming has been increasing rapidly and, in 1988, only 20X of farm
families derived their income exclusively from farming, and 40X mainly from
farming. The acute shortage of housing in the cities is n imajor reason for
the high percentage of the urban area labor force residinU in rural areas.  Of
the active population employed in agriculture, 851 work on private farms.
Outside agriculture, only 8X work in the private sector, although there is an



-3-
additional significant and growing percentage engaged in the informal private
sector.
2.05       Thte rural economy is relatively depressed, offering a quality of
life that has long been regarded as wanting, especially among young people.
The rural population is older than the national average due to migration to
urban areas, is less educated, has poorer health care, and is demographically
unbalanced, with an atypical surplus of men over women. There are also
regional differences in rural population density, with the biggest
concentrations occurring in the Center and the South. Village-level
infrastructure (e.g., water supply, sewerage systems, telecommunications,
quality of schools and other public facilities, etc.) is seriously deficient.
Among the farming population, a subsistence attitude, risk minimization and an
ambivalent stance towards the State have characterized economic behavior. In
the non-farm population, the prevalence of the public sector has stifled
private initiative and reduced productivity.
2.06      Despite the existence of significant social, economic,
institutional and material constraints (para. 2.05), the rural sector in most
regions offers good prospects for recovery and future growth. The principal
prerequisites for tI':a are: maintenance of a favorable macroeconomic framework
to provide better stability in price signals, assistance directed at human
resources development currently being formulated by Government, effective
institutional restructuring, and an expanding infusion of investment capital
as part of a conscious effort to stimulate private initiative.
2.07      The Government is pursuing a multi-sectoral rural development
strategy. Agriculture is an important part of this strategy, but the major
growth sectors in many areas will not be in primary production. In the near-
term, the transition towards a market economy needs to be accelerated, meaning
quick privatization and demonopolization of rural enterprises and institutions
in the public sector, and the establishment of new private economic units on a
competitive basis whose size should be left for market forces to determine.
Paralleling this, the changes underway in the industrial and other sectors are
expected to create expanding opportunities for rural 4 -onomic activities
outside agriculture, responding to locational, environmental and labor force
advantages. The present project would assist in these developments in the
rural areas by fostering increased savings mobilization, normalizing private
access to institutional credit under competitive conditions and contributing
to the nurturing of an atmosphere of rural renewal based on modern technology
and efficient business practices, all with due concern for the resulting
effects on the natural environment.
C. The Food Economy
2.08      The customary Polish concept of "food economy" comprises
agriculture, and all other entities providing inputs or services to, or
processing output from, agriculture.



-4-
The Agriculture Sector
2.09       Polish agriculture contributes about 12% of GDP and a similar share
of direct exports, or close to 20% of exports if agroindustrial exports are
included, and employs 28% of the country's labor force. About three-quarters
of agricultural land belongs to private farmers, who also produce about three-
quarters of total agricultural output but only about 50% of marketed
agricultural production. The remainder is accounted for by social sector
agriculture. There are about 2.7 million private farms (counting units
greater than 0.5 ha), averaging 5.2 ha in size. Twenty-one percent of all
agricultural land, and 57% of all farms, are in units of less than 5 ha.
Moreover, private farms are highly fragmented, making it difficult to
introduce modern production technology and increase factor productivity.
2.10      About 58% of agricultural land is under cereals, 29% is under
potatoes and forage crops and the remaining 13% under sugar beets, rapeseed,
fruits and vegetables and other various crops. Crop yields are relatively low
compared with the potential in the country and with West European levels,
particularly for potatoes and sugar beets. Besides small farm size,
restricted availability of production inputs had been the main reason for low
productivity in recent years.
2.11       Farm production systems are dominated by livestock production.
About two-thirds of the total land area is devoted to the production of animal
feed. Production is highly traditional and labor intensive, and lack of high-
nrotein feed supplements has constrained livestock productivity. Poland has
about 18 million cattie, 20 million pigs, and 4.5 million sheep.
2.12      Agricultural trade, including processed food, contributes
significantly to the country's economy. The agricultural trade balance
generally has been improving since 1987 and culminated in an export surplus of
US$1.3 billion in 1990 compared with US$0.4 billion in 1989. In 1990,
agricultural exports amounted to US$2.3 billion, representing an increase of
26% above exports during the previous year, while agricultural imports
declined by 28% to US$1.0 billion. Exports traditionally have accounted for
about 5% of total agricultural production. About 40-50% of agricultural
exports have beon live animals and livestock products, 35-45% crops and crop
products and about 15% fishery products. The largest agricultural import
categories have been cereals and animal feeds, accounting together for about
30-40% of such imports, followed by tropical products with a share of about
15%. Exports of agricultural and food products to the hard currency area are
not subsidized, and import duties are low. Besides import barriers facing
Polish exports in foreign markets, product quality has been a major export
constraint. Proposed project investments would help to alleviate the latter.
2.13      Before 1989. agriculture in Poland was heavily subsidized through
low-interest credit, cheap inputs and support for exports. This subsidization
was sharply curtailed under the ETP. Food subsidies, agricultural input
subsidies and credit subsidies were sharply reduced, and export subsidies were
nearly eliminated. These changes, together with lagging adjustments in output
prices due to reduced domestic demand and poor price transmission from



- 5 -
international marktts, reduced profitability of farming in 1990 and sharply
curbed credit demanC, esp-cially for the purchase of seasonal inputs.
Indications towards year-end 1990 were, however, that price-cost relationships
had been adjusting slightly in farmers' favor and that th_ farm investment
climate was improving. But the poor marketing infrastructure and continuing
monopolistic-oligopolistic institutional arrangements in marketing remain a
serious constraint to agricultural growth. The strengthening of marketing
cooperatives under the proposed project would be an important step in
alleviating this constraint.
2.14       Outdated technology and an aging capital stock are major stumbling
blocks to progress in agriculture. Machinery and equipment are primarily of
domestic origin, of poor quality, and designed for the larger farms in the
social sector, and therefore are not well-suited for small farms. Until some
years ago, private farmers, especially small farmers, had access neither to
credit nor to machinery supplies. Private machinery repair and spare parts
facilities barely exist, and cocperative and state-owned facilities perform
poorly. Farm buildings are in need of modernization. Ocher investment needs
include land improvement and consolidation, which are required on a large
scale in many areas in the country. Rehabilitation of orcnards has been
lagging, and investments in accelerated reforestation and afforestation of
marginal areas are desirable from an environmental point of view. Transport
capacity is also insufficient.
2.15       The need for investment capital in Polish agriculture is
substantial but demand in 1990 was inhibited by prevailing macro-economic
conditions (para. 4.28). Nonetheless, selective uptake of credit has
continued and can be expected to expand rapidly given an amelioration of
current conditions. The present project would contribute to the mobilization
of a range of capital sources commensurate with the anticipated broad spectrum
of rural investors, and hence permit allocation of funds according to the
assessment of viability by the banks and the ability of investors to assume
the risk of borrowing. A line of non-directed credit, as provided under this
project, is deemed most appropriate for meeting such circumstances.
Agroindustry/Agribusiness
2.16      Agroindustry in Poland comprises farm input industries and food
processing industries. Together with distribution channels for agricultural
inputs and output, the food processing industry is being accorded highest
priority for restructuring and private sector development.
2.17       Farm input industries in the past have tended to be large-scale
state-owned units, such as those for fertilizer, chemicals and machinery
production. Facilities in these industries are generally obsolete and not
well-maintained. Some new facilities, such as fertilizer plants, are under
construction. This project is not intended to finance rehabilitation or new
construction of this type of large plants. It would, however, finance
smaller-scale private investments in production or service facilities, which
might include parts of state enterprises transferred to the private sector.



2.18      The food processing industry is comprised of mostly social sector
enterprises. There are some 10,200 production units employing about 420,000
persons. About 1,400 plants belong to large state enterprises, while the
remaining 8,800 plants are relatively small and belong to cooperatives.
Industry branches with predominantly state ownership include cereals, sugar,
potato, oilseeds, tobacco, meat, fish, beer and spirits, and cold storage.
The cooperatives are dominant in dairies and bakeries.
2.19       Food processing plants are also in relatively poor condition
generally, with buildings in need of repairs and with outdated and obsolete
equipment requiring replacement.   Facilities often do not meet acceptable
standards of hygiene, environmental protection, and employee health and
safety, largely because of the enterprises' lack of financial resources.
Installed processing capacity, except for rapeseed processing, generally is
not a constraint. The entire food industry is just not geared to the market
economy. Operating efficiency is low and monopolistic positions have allowed
many enterprises to increase margins after price liberalization, rather than
reducing costs through increasing efficiency. The initial response to this
situation has been a flurry of investments in mini operations, particularly in
meat processing, both by farmers and other private individuals, contributing
to a decline in capacity utilization in the large plants. The poor state of
the food processing industry represents a major constraint to the development
of the entire agricultural and food sector.
2.20      Agribusiness other than farm input industries and food processing
is basically agricultural trade. This is presently dominated by the extensive
institutional network provided by the agricultural cooperatives in terms of
buying and selling points, transport and storage facilities. Indeed, until
the end of 1989 agricultural service cooperatives were the only institutions
providing input and marketing services to private farmers. As detailed in
Chapter III, the agricultural cooperative element of Polish agribusiness is in
urgent and comprehensive need of restructuring.
Privatization in the Food Economy
2.21       State ownership of food economy enterprises extends to nearly the
entire farm input industry, 1,400 of the 10,200 food processing plants, and to
1,271 state farms. Government has declared its intention to privatize these
enterprises, with highest priority being given to the food processing
industry. A Privatization Law was enacted in July 1990, and a new Ministry
for Ownership Change was established the following September. Cooperative
properties are not covered by this law and are not withi.. the competence of
the iu!w Ministry. Progress to date has been slow. Small privatization has
advanced rapidly but few medium- and large-scale enterprises have been
privatized so far. The process is expe--ed to accelerate after adoption of a
suitable strategy (expected by early 1992). The Bank will be involved in it
through the proposed Privatization and Restructuring Project. Government is
not targeting any state farms for privatization in 1991. However, two
industry branches in food processing, sugar plants and the grain industry
(storage and milling), have been selected for initiating privatization in
1991.



2.22       It is important that privatization proceed as quickly as possible
to facilitate enterprise investment decisions. Investing in existing state
enterprises potentially poses the dual risk of mis-allocating scarce capital
resources in the absence of a clear vision of the enterprises' future, and of
delaying privatization in light of a temporarily enhanced financial enterprise
liquidity situation. Loan funds under the current projecL thus would not
finance investments in state enterprises that have not undergone any review
and for which decisions concerning future ownership and operation have not
been made. Only wholly or majority privatized state enterprises would be
financed under criteria spectflually laid out for this purpose (para. 6.32).
D. Bank Role in the Food Economy and Related Proiects
2.23       In 1989, the International Finance Corporation of the World Bank
Group provided US$17.5 million equivalent for the modernization and expansion
of export oriented enterprises in the cooperative sector engaged in processing
of fruits and vegetables, and, in 1990, a line of credit of US$32.6 million
equivalent, through the Polish Export Development Bank, to finance investments
in export-oriented private enterprises.
2.24       In February 1990, the Executive Directors approved the first two
World Bank loans for Poland: the Industrial Export Development Project (Loan
3166-POL; US$260.0 million) and the Agroindustries Export Development Project
(Loan 3167-POL; US$100.0 million). These projects were aimed at improving the
convertible currency trade balance of Poland by increasing the volume, quality
and value added of industrial and agroindustrial exports to convertible
currency markets. Loan proceeds can be used for financing investments in the
rehabilitation, modernization and expansion of enterprises processing
agricultural raw materials. The Industrial Export Development Project
includes loan funds for technical assistance to (i) strengthen the banking
system, (ii) support the restructuring of industry and the introduction of
international accounting standards and auditing practices, and (iii) support
measures to stimulate the development of the private sector.
2.25       Initial implementation of the agroindustries project was slower
than anticipated (as was the case for the industries project, as well),
because of a decline in demand for livestock feed (which affected the feed
import component) and procurement delays. However, nearly U$50 million of the
loan now has been committed, and while disbursements amount to only U$17
million at present, they are expected to accelerate shortly. Because of major
changes in the economic environment, particularly liberalized prices and
trade, and the growing private sector, modifications in the project were
recently introduced to include investments aimed at both foreign and domestic
markets, and to expand opportunities for participation of private enterprises.
(Similar modifications were introduced in the industries project.) Experience
to date suggests that the project will have a significant impact on the
restructuring of social sector enterprises to enable them to compete in a
market environment, and on the growth of private enterprise. The Bank for
Food Economy, which is the main participating bank, has undertaken appraisals
of several agroindustry investments and has d6monstrated that it can do so in
a satisfactory manner.



- 8 -
2.26       In 1990, the World Bank convened a task force, jointly with experts
from Poland and the EEC, to develop recommendations for an agricultural
strategy. Its recommendations are an important element in Government's
efforts to formulate a national strategy for the sector, and in the Bank's
lending framework for agriculture which inter ajja includes an agricultural
sector adjustment operation, expected to be appraised in the fall of 1991.
2.27       For 1990, the EEC granted ECU 200 million to Poland, of which ECU
100 million was allocated for agricultural development. Of this ECU 100
million, about ECU 50 million was for pesticide imports, ECU 20 million for
feed concentrate imports and thz remaining ECU 30 million for equipment and
other materials. The counte_- rt funds generated from the sale of these
commodities are being used [c    vestment activities (in local currency) in
the agriculture sector.  Fc:    1, the EEC's plans include ECU 15 million for
support to Polish agricult-    i-sstitutions, focusing on policy advice,
agricultural restructuring,  .rL'   operatives, rural financial institutions,
extension services, and coordinLcs.on of technical assistance in agriculture; a
portion of these funds would support the institutional development component
of this project.
E. OED Findings Related to the Project
2.28       OED performance audits of recently-completed agricultural credit
projects have noted that investments by subborrowers generally have been
viable but that the performance of financial intermediaries often has been
disappointing, as indicated by factors such as low subloan recovery rates. In
addition, intermediaries frequently were weakened by subsidized irterest
rates. In contrast, the successful cases were characterized by both sound
investments by suibborrowers and effective performance by intermediaries
resulting in good subloan recovery rates. A specific weakness of recent
agroindustry projects has been deficiencies in enterprise management. These
fan.tors have been taken into consideration in the design and processing of the
proposed project, which would focus on the institutional development of the
entire cooperative system in the rural sector, thus strengthening not only
cooperative banks, but also cooperatives providing production inputs and
services to farmers as well as purchasing output. These improvements in input
supply and marketing would enhance the viability of investments, and further
strengthening of intermediary lending guidelines would upgrade the appraisal
of enterprises and investments. Project subloans would be granted at market
interest rates.
III. RURAL COOPERATIVES
A. Background
3.01      The first cooperatives in Poland were established in the middle of
the 19th Century. Between the two world wars, many new and different types of
cooperatives developed and flourished. After 1945, the State became involved
in existing cooperatives, arnd initiated the establishment of both new
cooperatives and different types of cooperatives, all subject to varying



. 9 -
degrees of state control. Until recently, all primary cooperatives were
grouped by subsectors into some 400 regional unions, which, in turn, were
members of 17 central unions. Membership in these secondary and tertiary
cooperative organizations was obligatory. The cooperatives in various
subsectors have been, and still are, represented nationally by the Supreme
Cooperative Council (SCC).
3.02      At the end of 1989, cooperatives representing 15 million members in
all subsectors contributed about 11% to GDP and employed almost 1.8 million
pecple. The cooperative movement now consists of about 15,000 primary
cooperatives (about 7,000 in urban and 8,000 in rural areas), and thousands of
cooperative enterprises which were previously controlled by secondary and
tertiary cooperatives (Cooperative Unions). The subsectors of rural
cooperatives (RCs) comprise about 1660 Co;ierative Banks (CBs), 2,000 Peasant
Self-Aid Cooperatives (PSA), 320 Dairy Cooperatives (DCs), 140 Horticulture
Cooperatives (HCs), 2,000 Cooperatives of Agricultural Circles, and 2,000
Agricultural Production Cooperatives.
3.03       The performance of state-controlled cooperatives has generally been
unsatisfactory. Primary cooperatives have not been sufficiently service-
oriented and have not responded adequately to member needs and priorities.
Cooperative unions have tended to operate with excessive costs, often
undertaking, at the request of state authorities, activities not relevant to
the activities of village level cooperatives. The support services provided
to primary cooperatives, such as management advice and organizational
assistance, have been of poor quality.
3.04      Government envisages cooperatives to be an integral part of the
private sector in the future, especially in agriculture. This requires a
major restructuring of the cooperative sector, involving liquidation of non-
viable cooperatives, a change to some non-cooperative form of ownership of
others, and the transformation to "genuine" cooperatives of the remaining
units. Genuine cooperatives are owned and controlled by its members and
provide services to member clients. Transformation of cooperatives,
therefore, includes: (i) obtaining firm commitments (e.g., in terms of equity
contributions) from those members who intend to continue participating in and
doing business with their cooperative, and (ii) restructuring the cooperative
in such a way that it will provide efficient services by responding to
priority needs of the reestablished membership. The project would support the
transformation process of existing cooperatives, facilitate the formation of
new ones, assist primary cooperatives in establishing a service and apex
structure, and support Government in developing a conducive environment (e.g.,
revised cooperative legislation) for the development of genuine and efficient
cooperatives.
B. Current Situation
3.05      A significant amendment to the cooperative law of 1982, passed on
January 20, 1990, aimed at fundamentally restructuring and democratizing the
cooperative sector through (a) the election of new member representatives at
the level of primary cooperatives, and (b) the liquidation of all cooperative
unions at the regional and national levels and transfer or sale of their



- 10
assets to new owners. While a step forward, the cooperative restructuring
initiated under the 1990 cooperative law amendment is inadequate in its
concept and rather poor in its implementation. For example, the elections of
cooperative representatives were inadequately prepared and organized with the
result that only a minority of members participated and the effect on the
composition of cooperative supervisory councils and management boards was not
very significant. The implementation of the liquidation of cooperative
unions, while aiming at dismantling monopolies, has had an overall negative
effect. Liquidation of the unions made orphans of numerous enterprises which
were previously operated by them. Furthermore, the near-complete
restructuring of ownership of union assets has resulted in a fragmentation of
vital industrial and service chains, and raises doubts as to the
sustainability of new ownership structures. Finally, the 1990 law amendment
did not allow for the establishment of new cooperative service and apex
organizations until mid-1991, and this provision results in primary
cooperatives not receiving any support services in the interim.
3.06      The sub-sectors of RCs most important for agricultural and rural
development, and therefore for cooperative restructuring within the ETP,
include: Marketing (PSA), Dairy (DCs), Horticulture (HCs), and Rural Finance
(CBs) (discussed in Chapter IV). Criteria for determining priority subsectors
for cooperative restructuring relate to the extent that cooperatives: (i)
provide essential services to agriculture and rural areas; (ii) are either the
dominant (CBs, DCs), or important actors (PSA, HCs) in their respective
subsectors; and (iii) have substantial potential for becoming fully member-
controlled as well as sustainable and efficient organizations.
3.07      Marketing Cooperatives (PSAs) have the most extensive institutional
network, with more than 100,000 retail outlets and production collection
points. In addition to input/output marketing and primary agroprocessing,
PSAs operate as producers of and retailers for consumer goods, and are
involved in some social activities. The key issue in the restructuring of
PSAs will be the focussing of their activities on member needs and the
rationalization of activities. By distinguishing between the two main
member/user groups, i.e., farmers and consumers, PSAs need to regroup their
activities into (i) farm services and (ii) village services, by separating
these activities within the organization of each PSA, or by splitting PSAs
into two different cooperatives. The rationalization of PSA activities
includes the issue of concentrating on and subsequently improving key
services, networking or subcontracting auxiliary services, and phasing out
activities unrelated to the core activities and services. For example, key
farm services include the provision of essential inputs, and market outlets
for the main agricultural products. The processing of most of these products
might be best handled by State Farm processing units which are being
privatized, or by emerging small private sector entities, which could be sub-
contracted. The project would help address these issues (para. 6.09).
3.08      Dairy Cooperatives, operating some 750 plants, control the entire
dairy industry. These cooperatives vary in size from very large dairies
servicing major cities with a full product range, to small creameries which
produce only butter. DCs are faced with the urgent need to consolidate,
through amalgamation around key regional and urban markets, with the aim of



. 11 -
reaching economies of scale and an attractive product mix, as well as
improving product quality. Other issues include the rationalization of milk
collection, averaging out seasonal production peaks, stock management, and
financing. Restructuring DCs and rationalizing the dairy Industry is a most
urgent issue since this sector is presently faced with (i) reduced demand for
dairy products and (ii) increased competition from low-priced EEC imports.
The project would help restructure this group of cooperatives (para. 6.09).
3.09      Horticultural Cooperatives account for about 35  of the marketing
and primary processing of horticultural products. The key issue facing HCs is
to maintain, and possibly increase, their market share by rationalizing crop
marketing, and to improve processing and exporting by networking with private
companies and privatized enterprises, with the dual objective of reducing
costs and improving quality. These much needed adjustments will be
facilitated by the relatively high degree of market orientation and member
involvement these cooperatives have already reached in comparison to other
RCs. The project's technical assistance component would also aim at helping
this subsector group.
C. Issues Relevant to the Proiect
3.10      Restructuring and Service Needs of Primary RCs.  RCs have an
extensive institutional network in subsectors crucial for agricultural
development. To the extent that cooperatives have the commitment and the
capacity to adjust to market conditions, transform into member-controlled and
user-oriented organizations, and improve operations, their institutional
network offers an excellent opportunity to contribute significantly to the
privatization of agriculture in upstream and downstream sectors. However, RCs
are presently facing the enormous task of transforming and adjusting to the
new economic environment, market conditions, and member demands without any
guidance or support. While awaiting the emergence of the new service and apex
structure (para. 3.12), primary cooperatives in priority sectors need to be
supported by an interim structure providing services relevant to their
transformation and adjustment process. These interim structures, the
Cooperative Development Unit (CDU) and the Regional Cooperative Service Units
(RCSUs), would be provided by the project (paras. 6.03-6.04). There are three
main types of support needed by RCs. First, effective strategies for
generating member loyalty and commitment through meaningful participation and
involvement need to be developed and implemented, while focussing cooperative
services on member needs. Second, managerial, financial, organizational, and
technical skills and expertise need to be strengthened in order to reorganize
cooperative enterprises and to improve their efficiency. Third, RCs require
support to participate effectively in efforts aimed at restructuring the
subsectors they are operating in. Services relevant to these three areas in
need of support would be provided by the project (para. 5.08).
3.11      The project would focus on cooperatives, whose membership has
exerted some control through the election process and has either elected a new
or confirmed the existing Supervisory Council and management, and, as such,
have demonstrated commitment to undergo complete transformation. These
cooperatives are characterized by the initial changes which have been made to
improve their operations and by the adoption of rudimentary market-driven



* 12 .
business practices. Other cooperatives, where little change has been
introduced in either leadership, management, or business practice, are likely
to disappear, either by liquidation or change of ownership (e.g., becoming a
joint stock company).
3.12      Need for a Service and Apex Structure.  RCs require a new service
and apex structure which would: (i) provide on a permanent basis the support
services required by primary cooperatives, (ii) operate central marketing and
processing enterprises in the upstream and downstream sectors of primary
cooperative activities, and (iii) represent cooperatives on policy and
structural issues relevant to cooperative activities and organization,
including the restructuring of agricultural subsectors in which RCs are
operating (see Annex 1). It is not possible at this stage to decide on the
future structure of the Polish cooperative movement, since _ needs to evolve
according to the requirements of primary cooperatives, and che establishment
of secondary cooperatives should be left to the initiative of the primary
cooperatives after they have addressed the most urgent issues of their own
organization. The same applies to the eventual establishment of new central
unions or federations. However, primary cooperatives need advice on the
design, composition, and timing of a new secondary and tertiary structure.
The project would provide such advice, as well as support for the management
of enterprises, which have been taken over by RCs from the previous union
structure, until such time as efficient and sustainable management structures
for these enterprises has evolved.
3.13      CooDerative Legislation.  While adequate for initiating project
activities, the present cooperative legislation needs to be substantially
improved. Legislation needs to be enacted which provides an overall framework
defining the general nature and basic structure of the cooperative movement
and the constituent cooperatives. The need to urgently and fundamentally
change the cooperative legislation is fully accepted within the cooperative
movement and Government. Based on the assumptions that an additional
amendment addressing the most urgent issues could be passed quickly through
Parliament, and that completely new cooperative legislation would require
considerable time to draft, various amendments were drafted and presented to
Parliament in January, 1991. Parliament, however, did not consider the
proposed amendments, and constituted a Commission, which was charged with the
task of reviewing the amendments and drafting an entirely new cooperative law.
The project would assist in drafting new cooperative legislation (para.
5.09(b)].
IV. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR
A. Overview
Background and Bank Strategy
4.01      The Government's broad objective is to establish an efficient and
broadly-based financial sector, with an effective banking system at its core,
as a fundamental component of a competitive market economy. In order to



- 13 -
achieve this objective, an extensive program has been introduced to transform
the financial system, based on three principal elements: (1) efficient
monetary and credit policies; (2) strengthening of the banking system; and (3)
deepening of the financial system through the development of financial markets
and non-banking financial institutions.
4.02      Support for this major program of financial sector reform is being
provided by multilateral agencies, such as the IMF, the Bank, and the EEC, and
by bilateral institutions, such as central banks. Bank strategy is to assist
the overall reform effort while addressing also the specific needs of the
urban and rural economies. The ongoing Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) (Loan
3247-POL; US$300 million) is supporting overall policy and institutional
reforms, and the proposed Financial Institutions Development Loan (FIDL) would
mainly fvcus on the strengthening of the nine commercial banks (which deal
primarily with the commercial and industrial sectors). The proposed Private
Sector Development Project would focus on smaller enterprises in the urba
sector and would provide support services to the enterprises, as well as
support for banks which deal with these enterprises. The proposed
Agricultural Development Project (ADP) would complement these efforts in the
rural sector through support to the cooperative bank (CB) system and support
services to rural enterprises (cooperatives).
4.03      Reform of the financial sector will have an important impact on the
viability and effectiveness of the CB system and the Bank for Food Economy
(BFE), which would have primary responsibility for implementing the project's
credit component. (Commercial banks would be encouraged to participate in the
project, but they have shown little inclination to lend to rural clients, to
date.) At the same time, the strengthening of the CB system under the project
would upgrade the rural part of the financial sector and facilitate its
integration into the national financial system. The project would thus be
part of, and contribute to, the overall Bank strategy for supporting financial
sector reform.
Current Situation
4.04      The financial system continues to be dominated by banks.  There are
5 formerly specialized banks (including BFE for social sector agriculture and
agroindustry), 9 commercial banks (formerly part of the National Bank of
Poland--NBP), at least 6 regional cooperative banks under formation, 1660
primary cooperative banks, and over 60 newly-licensed banks. The Government
is organizing a bank restructuring program following diagnostic studies
(including audits according to international standards) to determine the
status of banks, in conjunction with the restructuring/privatization of social
sector enterprises. Implementation of the action plans which result from
these studies could be supported under various Bank operations in the future.
4.05      Interest rates have been adjusted and progressively made more
flexible, beginning in August 1989. Rates were standardized at the beginning
of 1990, although preferential rates were subsequently re-introduced for
certain programs, including some in agriculture (see below). NBP now adjusts
its basic rate periodically to a level designed to be positive in real terms
in relation to projected inflation. (The current rate in nominal terms is 59X



- 14
per annum. Inflation in January and February 1991 substantially exceeded 100%
on an annualized basis but is expected to decline. For 1991 as a whole,
inflation is projected at 35%.)
4.06      Preferential credit for the food economy is mostly short-term (ST)
credit, in the case of domestically-financed programs (subsidized out of the
budget) which are directed primarily for crop purchases and secondarily for
farm production inputs. (The input credit program was introduced in April
1990 with an interest rate of 54% on an annual basis, when the NBP basic rate
was 150% per anntm (p.a.). The crop purchase program was introduced in August
with an interest rate of 20% p.a., in comparison to the prevailing NBP rate of
34% p.a.) Medium- and long-term (MLT) preferential credit is provided mostly
under foreign a..sistance programs, financed with funds generated by food
assistance imports. (The major program carried an interest rate of 75% of the
NBP rate in 1990.) Preferential credit reached a peak of about 46% of total
ST credit and approximately 11% of total MLT credit outstanding for the food
economy as of end-November 1990. Under FIDL, preferential credit for all non-
government sectors would be limited to 30% of total credit in 1991 and 25X in
1992. In addition, the subsidized portion of the interest rate on
preferential credit for the food economy would be limited to 35 percentage
points for working capital loans and 30 percentage points on loans for
commodity purchases (all ST). This portion would be reduced over time in the
context of the subsidy rationalization program under the proposed Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan. In order to track preferential food economy credit, a
monitoring system is to be introduced with technical assistance provided under
ADP (para. 5.13).
4.07      Improvements in the legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework for
financial institutions are being introduced. For example, a new banking law
and laws on collateral security and deposit protection are being prepared with
assistance of the Legal Advisory Group chaired by the Bank and are expected to
be adopted next year, as agreed under F_DL.  Bank regulations are being 'ssued
by NBP with assistance from the IMF and the Bank of France, and these
institutions are also assisting in the strengthening of NBP's bank supervision
capacity. A number of initiatives are being undertaken to improve the
infrastructure of the banking system, in areas such as clearing systems,
accounting and auditing standards, and computerization programs.
Issues
4.08      Interest Rate Policy.   Loan funds under the proposed project would
be onlent in US dollars and in zlotys (para. 6.33). The two major issues
concerning the interest rate on zloty funds are the appropriateness (in terms
of market conditions) of NBP's basic rate for project credit, and the adequacy
of credit demand at the h!gh nominal basic rate currently prevailing. The
first issue of whether the basic rate is appropriate would be addressed
through a requirement for consultation on the on-lending rate between NBP and
the Bank (para. 6.33). With respect to the second issue, demand is expected
to rise as inflation declines in the context of the growing stabilization of
the economy resulting from the ongoing macroeconomic program agreed with the
IMF and the Bank. (In any case, funds would also be available in dollars.)
(Overall demand for project credit is discussed in para. 4.28.)



- 15 -
4.09      Credit Policy.  Project credit would not be subsidized, and
therefore non-project preferential MLT credit would compete with project
credit on unequal terms. Various measures are being taken to address this
problem. Under the major foreign assistance credit program, the proposed
interest rate would be set at 90% of the NBP basic rate (compared to 75% in
1990). In addition, market terms are being proposed for the forthcoming EEC
credit line of ECU 27 million (US$ 36 million) for the food economy
(implementation of which is scheduled to begin mid-1991). Therefore, little
preferential MLT credit will remain, and hence will not have a significant
effect on project credit.
4.10      Legal. Regulatory. and Supervisory Framework.  The CB system and BFE
will both be affected by forthcoming changes in banking legislation,
regulations, and supervision, which will force them to strengthen their
operations. At present, all banks are subject to the same requirements,
regardless of their size or range of functions. However, existing
requirements on minimum capital and deposit reserves, for example, may not be
appropriate to small, limited-service banks such as CBs. Supervision of the
CBs, which had been the responsibility of BFE in the past, was interrupted in
1990 when BFE's role as the central union of CBs was eliminated. The banking
legislation needs to be broad enough to allow NBP the flexibility to issue
regulations which accommodate the requirements of banks such as the CBs. This
issue is being addressed in part under the proposed FIDL. NBP is establishing
a unit in its Bank Supervision Department for prudential supervision of CBs
and is building up appropriate capacity at its provincial branches for such
supervision. In the meantime, arrangements are being worked out with regional
cooperative banks and BFE concerning shared responsibility for prudential
supervision of local CBs. The proposed ADP would provide technical assistance
to review the legislative, regulatory, and supervisory framework and ensure
that it meets the special requirements of the CB system [para. 5.11(a)].
4.11      Banking Infrastructure.  The improvements being introduced in
banking infrastructure will benefit the CBs and BFE substantially, provided
that care is taken to ensure that they are integrated into the var4-,.:
systems. A particular issue concerns the relationship of the CBs to a
possible future deposit insurance system. Recommendations resulting from the
review being undertaken of Government deposit guarantees (primarily on savings
deposits in state banks) should accommodate the needs of the CBs. This matter
is being reviewed under the proposed FIDL.
B. Cooperative Banks
Background
4.12      The cooperative banks (CBs) and the BFE dominate rural finance.  In
the past, the CBs were the only financial institutions serving the private
sector within the food economy, and they remain the predominant providers of
financial services to private farmers and private rural enterprises. (One of
the 1660 CBs or a branch of a CB is present in every community in the
country.) The BFE served the social sector part of the food economy and acted
as an apex bank for the CBs who were forced to keep part of their deposits in



- 16 -
BFE. The forced link between BFE and the CBs is now broken. In the future,
the CB system is likely to expand its role as it develops an independent
superstructure enabling it to serve larger-scale clients, and competition with
BFE will probably increase as BFE expands its operations within the private
sector and among medium-scale clients.
4.13      In the long term, an integrated nationwide cooperative banking
system would be developed which would be instrumental in mobilizing rural
savings and channelling these resources to productive agricultural and rural
ventures. An integrated system would achieve significant economies of scale
and support activities that the banks cannot individually undertake. It could
reduce costs of borrowed funds, spread risk and greatly increase lending
potential. Linking the cooperative banks into a nationwide system would
increase both efficiency and competitiveness.
4.14      Present plans are to introduce a three-tiered cooperative banking
system (local, regional and national), based on the local CBs which are
uniquely suited to the needs of the rural population. Local CBs are
organizing private sector regional cooperative banks (RCBs) as a secondary
level structure. (The RCBs are being formed as joint stock banks, but only
CBs are allowed to hold voting shares, and each CB has one vote, regardless of
the number of shares it holds.) A regionalized structure enables banks to
respond to the specific needs of each region, allow efficient allocation of
resources within and among regions, and provide access to member institutions.
4.15      The Polish Cooperative Banks Union (PCBU) (a private sector entity)
was formed in early 1991 to coordinate activities of RCBs, serve as a channel
for development assistance, and represent the cooperative banking sector.
PCBU also serves as a forerunner to a National Cooperative Bank, which will be
formed eventually. What is envisaged is a cooperative banking system
developed from the bottom up which is fully owned and controlled by its
members, operating primarily with its own resources and serving the needs of
its members. This is in line with the approach of developing credit
institutions as rural financial intermediaries rather than merely serve as
channels for external funds. It highlights the need to diversify from
specialized agricultural lending to financing of the entire rural sector, if
financial viability is to be achieved.
4.16      The CB system would be a major focus of the institutional
development component of the project, which would support the formation of the
superstructure and the strenythening of the local CBs consistent with the
vision for the future described above. The CB system would also play an
important part in implementing the credit component of the project.
Current Situation
4.17      The amendment to the cooperative law at the beginning of 1990
formally dissolving all unions or existing cooperative apex structures
eliminated BFE's role as the central apex bank for the CBs. However, the CBs
were left with no mechanism for liquidity management or access to NBP
refinancing, and therefore some 1580 have signed agreements with BFE which
essentially continue the previous apex arrangements on a contractual basis.



- 17 -
At the same time, groups of CBs have started to form independent RCBs, as
noted above. One such bank, Gospodarczy Bank Wielkopolski (GBW), has begun
operations in the Poznan area with some 230 member CBs, and at least five
other RCBs are in the process of formation. A regional organizing committee
(ROC) of cooperative banks has been formed in each region where an RCB is
being established, and each ROC has elected a representative to the Polish
Union of Cooperative Banks at the national level, which was formed to support
and coordinate the establishment of RCBs. As the RCBs are formed and start
operations, it is expected that most CBs will become members and terminate
their association with BFE, while a minority will remain with BFE.
4.18      At the level of individual CBs, efforts are proceeding to assert
member control, raise capital, and strengthen operations. Over the past 45
years, selection of supervisory and management boards was influenced by the
local party apparatus, and the composition of these boards has now begun to
change. In some cases, CBs are already supervised and managed by competent
individuals who represent the interests of the members, and these CBs are
proceeding to exploit the opportunities of the new environment. In other
cases, the composition of boards will change over time as new leaders emerge
and are installed through annual elections. As explained below, CBs were
unable to bAild up equity because of confiscatory taxes and mandatory
contributions, and the value of members' shares was eroded by inflation. In
order to begin rebuilding the equity base, progressive CBs have begun to take
measures such as requiring additional contributions from members, although
greater efforts are needed (paras. 4.21-4.22). CBs generally recognize the
necessity of improving their capacity to operate effectively in a risky,
competitive market environment and have been attempting to take advantage of
limited opportunities for staff training, but much more is also needed in this
area and would be provided under the project [para. 5.11(b)]. Resources of
CBs are primarily deposits mobilized at market rates, and loans are also
provided at market rates. There is a possibility that margins could be
squeezed as CBs exercise greater autonomy in setting deposit and loan rates,
and members exert pressure for low loan rates, and particular attention would
be given to this matter under the project TA program.
FIssues
4.19      DeveloRmesLt Strategy.  The CB system was independent of the
Government and the social sector prior to the forced merger of the Central
Union with the state Agriculture Bank to form BFE in 1975 (see Annex 2), and
it appears that the CBs are beginning to reassert their independence, as noted
above. However, because of their limited geographical coverage and functions,
individual CBs cannot operate satisfactorily on their own, and various models
of aggregation have emerged which threaten to fragment the system and impair
its effectiveness. The strategy which appears most appropriate for the CBs is
a bottom-up approach in which groups of individual CBs with common regional
interests form RCBs, and the RCBs then form a National Cooperative Bank at a
later stage. (Simultaneous formation of the second and third tiers is beyond
the capability of the syst3m, which is also leery of a central authority at
present, and a national bank could not cope with 1660 individual CB members
spread around the country.) Furthermore, the number of RCBs needs to be
limited for purposes of economies of scale, marketing advantages, risk



- 18 -
sharing, funding alternatives, comr nality of systems (e.g., computer
software), common controls, and political strength. This strategy, which
would be supported by the project, was endorsed by the Joint Polish/EEC/World
Bank Task Force and has been given tacit support by the Government.
4.20      Immediate Formation of RCBs.  Within the above strategy, there is a
need to accelerate the formation of RCBs with a similar structure. If
different regional structures are formed, there will no longer be an
opportunity of forming a single integrated system of cooperative banks.
Cooperative banks would evolve into a weak collection of small banks. A
common approach to a CB-owned and controlled superstructure is essential to
their further development as efficient rural financial intermediaries. There
is need to provide both financial and institutional development support to
this independent initiative being taken by CBs, and the project would provide
such support (paras. 5.11-5.12).
4.21      Mobilization of Capital,  The most pervasive problem of CBs is their
thin capital base. The previous system discouraged the accumulation of
capital. Allocation of profits was dictated by law and regulations mandating
large payments for taxes, contributions to the central union, allocations for
various funds and social expenditures leaving little, if any, for capital
buildup. The small amounts of member contributions were eroded by inflation.
At the end of 1989, capital represented only 0.7% of total resources. Due to
higher profit levels, the level of capital rose to 2.0% by the end of the
third quarter of 1990. This is a significant increase but insufficient to
meet their own capital adequacy requirements, without considering the capital
requirements of RCBs.
4.22      CBs in the Poznan area have been able to raise the required paid-up
capital for the formiation of an RCB (GBW), as discussed in para. 4.17.
However, other regional initiatives which attempted to duplicate the GBW model
were temporarily stalled due to their inability to raise the required capital.
CBs in other regions are not as large as those in the Poznan area. In
addition, the minimum capital requirement was Zl 10 billion when GBW was
organized. NBP has since doubled the minimum capital requirement to Zl 20
billion. There is a need to rectify the problem created by the previous
system by providing financial assistance to enable CBs to meet the capital
requirements of RCBs, and the Capital Fund proposed for the project would help
meet minimum requirements and initial expansion needs (para. 5.12).
C. Bank for Food Economy
Background
4.23      Together with the CB systeia, BFE would play a major role in
implementing the credit component of the project. BFE's organization,
management, and policies and procedures are generally satisfactory, and since
it is participating in the ongoing Agroindustries Export Development Project
(Loan 3167-POL) and Industrial Export Development Project (Loan 3166-POL), it
has gained valuable experience in implementing projects supported by the Bank.
BFE has some deficiencies, but these are being addressed through measures
currently being implemented and to be implemented under its action plan for



- 19 -
institutional development (para. 4.26). BFE therefore is considered suitable
as a participant in the proposed project.
Current Situation
4.24      BFE is in the process of adapting to a risky, competitive market
environment. It has a new vice president for foreign operations and new
directors of its credit and international departments. It is in the process
of introducing risk assessment into all aspects of its operations. Although
its portfolio still consists largely of social sector farm and enterprise
clients, it has begun to lend to private sector clients and to clients in the
industrial and commercial sectors. Arrears remain low, but there may be
substantial loan losses as the country's enterprise privatization and
restructuring program proceeds. BFE has begun to mobilize savings from the
private sector, although the large amount of refinancing provided by NBP for
crop purchases in the fall of 1990 raised the dependence of BFE on NBP
resources to historical leveis once again. Because of high interest margins
and substantial fee business w(ring 1990, capital as a proportion of total
resources increased to about 7% as of end 1990 (assuming the historical
retention rate on net income of 90%), but this level must be considered in
relation to potential loan losses. BFE is taking measures to address these
issues, and further measures would be implemented under BFE's development
program (para. 4.26). More details on BFE are given in Annex 2.
Issues
4.25      Development Strategy.  With its national network of 97 branches and
base of large- and medium-scale clients in agriculture and agroindustry, BFE
is in a position to compete effectively with the regionalized commercial
banks. Unfortunately, BFE presently is attempting to follow a strategy of
establishing separate regional banks, based on its major branches, and this
strategy is unlikely to be successful if most of the CBs become members of the
regional cooperative banks, as expected. This issue will be sorted out fairly
soon, because large numbers of CBs are already forming RCBs (para. 4.17).
Once the situation of the CBs becomes relatively clear, BFE will need to
consider a more appropriate strategy based on reliance on its own branch
network. Assistance to BFE in the implementation of a new strategy might be
provided in the context of its institutional development program (para. 4.26).
4.26      Restructurin& and Development.  A diagnostic study for BFE is
currently underway in the context of the 1989 and 1990 audits (undertaken by
international auditors), as part of the ongoing Agroindustries Export
Development Project. This study will form the basis for an action plan for
institutional development which will include the formulation of a policy
statement and address the issue of financial restructuring. BFE is likely to
need technical assistance in preparing and implementing this action plan, but
such assistance could not be provided under the proposed ADP because of the
lack of a suitable BFE strategy which is consistent with likely developments
in the CB system. However, the proposed FIDL would provide broad support for
bank restructuring/development, and assistance is proposed to be provided to
BFE under this operation.



- 20 -
4.27      Project Implementation Caoacivv.  BFE's capacity for project
implementation is adequate, although it will need to further strengthen its
investment lending guidelines. BFE has had a significant amount of exposure
to lending policies and procedures in Western countries, through contacts with
the World Bank and cooperative/commercial banks in Western Europe. In terms
of Bank operations, BFE was involved throughout the preparation and appraisal
process for the agroindustries project, beginning in 1987. Implementation of
this project began in the first half of 1990, and several investments are
currently in the execution stage. BFE has adopted Bank appraisal methodology
for all large loans (project and non-project), and it has established a series
of appraisal courses at its training center based on an earlier course
sponsored by NBP and the Economic Development Institute (EDI) of the Bank. A
number of BFE's headquarters and branch staff have attended these courses,
such that each large branch now has two or three staff who have been trained
in the methodology. Continued strengthening of BFE's investment lending for
agroindustry is being supported under the ongoing project. In the case of
agriculture lending, BFE has considerable experience and a fair amount of
technical expertise on which it can rely. Thus it is expected that BFE will
be able to adopt, without difficulty, the recommendations on investment
lending guidelines being developed with technical assistance prior to the
project (para. 5.14) and would be a suitable channel for Bank funds under the
proposed project.
D. Credit Demand
4.28      Credit demand in the rural sector declined dramatically at the
beginning of 1990, as the stabilization program was introduced, then rebounded
later in the year as the economy stabilizvd. (See Annex 2 for additional
details.) Nominal interest rates increased rapidly in early 1990, and real
interest rates fluctuated widely, causinA many borrowers to repay outstanding
loans and resulting in a contraction of both deposits and loan portfolios.
Credit demand rose in the second half of 1990 as the stabilization program
took effect and inflation and interest rates declined. Thus the situation
during 1990 was unique and does not give an indication of conditions to be
expected during implementation of the prop--.ed project, when the transition to
competitive markets will have progressed fii? her and credit demand will
reflect production and investment requiremen's in a more stable environment.
Of more relevance was the period prior to 19' 0), when disbursements of
investment credit for agriculture and agroizduitry averaged US$757 million
equivalent per year, of which US$282 million (37X) was for the private sector,
over the years 1986-1989. In the future, demand for inve3tment credit is
likely to increase as a result of factors such as the elimination of
constraints imposed by credit plans under the previous regime; expansion of
private sector involvement in input supply, output marketing, and processing;
and enterprise restructuring. Moreover, the major emphasis being placed by
the Government on rural development and private sector develcpment will
generate a substantial demand for credit as infrastructure is improved and the
growth of private enterprise is promoted. Therefore it is expected that
project credit will represent considerably less than 10 of total investment
credit demand from the private sector.



. 21 -
V. THE PROJECT
A. Project ObJectives and Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.01      Project Objectives.  The pxincipal objective of the project is to
support private farmers and promote other private sector activities in rural
areas, primarily through the restructuring of high-priority rural cooperatives
(e.g., cooperative banks and marketing, dairy and horticulture cooperatives).
More specifically, the project would: start transforming existing rural
cooperatives from social sector organizations to member-controlled, market-
oriented business enterprises; help develop rural commercial enterprises by
improving access to credit; and provide investment funds for business and
institutional development in rural communities.
5.02      Rationale for Bank Involvement.  The joint agricultural strategy
task force report (para. 2.26) has identified, in agreement with Government's
view, reform of existing cooperatives and the rural financial sector as key
priorities for the reform of Polish agriculture. In aiming to achieve this,
the project would be an important element of the Bank's efforts to encourage
the Polish Government to further operationalize and implement a comprehensive
strategy for agriculture and rural development, based on private initiative in
a free market economy. The Bank is already involved in the development of
aspects of the financial sector, through parallel operations, and this project
would handle aspects relating to the rural sector. The ongoing SAL is
supporting overall policy and institutional reforms. The proposed Financial
Institutions Development Loan (FIDL) would mainly focus on the strengthening
of the nine commercial banks. A proposed Private Sector Development Project
would focus on implementing a strategy mainly for industrial enterprises and
would provide support services to the enterprises primarily in the urban
sector, as well as support for banks which deal with these enterprises.
5.03      The rural cooperative sector has been attracting considerable
interest from foreign donors, but assistance provided so far has been
piecemeal. Through the project, the Bank would assist in developing a
suitable institutional framework for the Polish authorities to set a national
focus to coordinate external assistance and secure continued cofinancing for
cooperative development. The rural cooperative institutions would be reformed
and strengthened and related policy and regulatory frameworks developed to
achieve not only the objectives of this project but also to lay the groundwork
for other related Bank projects, and to further the Bank's overall assistance
strategy.
B. Summary ProJect Descriotion
5.04      To achieve the above objectives, the project would support over a
three-year implementation period (January 1992-December 1994) the following
activities:
(a)     Institutional Development.  The project would provide for
institution-building activities for about 2,400 rural cooperatives
and cooperative banks, including the strengthening of individual



- 22 -
cooperatives and banks and assisting them in establishing a suitable
apex structure at regional and national levels. The project would
also provide for staff training, advice on organizational
restructuring and privatization, and assistance in credit
implementation-related activities, as well as the financing of
equipment and operating expenditures for the Technical Assistance
(TA) delivery system. The project's TA component (US$20.2 million)
would be implemented with grant funds being pledged by various donor
agencies, the foremost being the EEC. The project would also
support the establishment of a US$20.0 million Capital Fund for
cooperative banks financed from Government's budgetary and other
sources.
(b).    Credit Program.  The project would provide medium- and long-term
credit (US$100.0 million Bank loan) for investments in agriculture,
agroindustry and other rural productive sectors, benefitting
farmers, individual entrepreneurs, private cooperatives, private
enterprises, and former state enterprises which have been
privatized. The line of credit would finance productive facilities
and fixed assets, such as machinery, equipment and civil works, as
well as permanent working capital. Loan funds would be channeled to
investors through NBP, acting as apex bank, and participating banks,
either directly or through qualified CBs.
C. Detailed Features
(a) The Institutional Development Component
5.05      Technical assistance (TA) under this component would broadly support
ongoing reforms in the agricultural and financial sectors. Such assistance
would, in the first instance, relate to transforming and strengthening
priority agricultural cooperative subsectors (e.g., marketing, dairy and
horticulture), referred to for the purpose of the project as rural
cooReratives (RCs' and the coogerative banks (CBs). While the latter are
particularly important for the implementation of the project line of credit,
all priority cooperative subsectors would be targeted for their pivotal role
in developing the rural economy and promoting private sector initiative.
5.06      The TA package consists of the following elements: the creation of
new interim service institutions, long- and short-term foreign and local.
technical experts, staff and management training, study visits abroad, audits
and reviews, set-up and initial operating expenses, and minor equipment and
materials.
Restructuring Rural CooReratives
5.07      The main objectives of this component would be to: (i) guide,
facilitate and accelerate transformation of existing RCs from social sector
organizations to private sector and member-controlled institutions, (ii)
support the establishment of new RCs, and (iii) assist RCs in establishing a
service and apex structure.



- 23 -
5.08      The project would support an institutional development program by
providing to RCs: (a) information services for members and training for staff
and management; (b) management advice, including advice on legal, financial
and organizational issues; and (c) business advice relevant to the specific
nubsector RCs are operating in (e.g., marketing and processing, dairying,
horticulture). Basic and introductory training and consultation services also
would be provided to CBs.
5.09      For the design and delivery of these services, thok project would
finance the establishment and operation of a Cooperative Development Unit
(CDU) and of some 12 Regional Cooperative Service Units (RCSUs) (paras. 6.03-
6.04 and Annex 1). The establishment of CDU, with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness [para.
8.02(i)]. Project financing would include:
(a)       Technical Assistance Staff.  CDU personnel would include five highly
qualified and experienced Polish staff in the field of cooperative
development, management, training, organization and legal issues;
three assistant level staff (office manager, accountant,
translator/interpreter) and five support staff (secretaries,
drivers, etc.). CDU would be supported by three expatriate
specialists in the field of cooperative development and management,
training, and agribusiness. Project financing for CDU would cover a
total of 15 person-years of senior local staff, nine person-years
assistant level local staff, and 15 person-years of support staff as
well as seven person-years of expatriate advisors.
A typical RCSU would have a manager and two senior staff, one each
for training and agribusiness, two assistant level staff (one
accountant and one translator/interpreter) and four support staff.
In addition, each RCSU would have a considerable number of field
staff, i.e., on average some 12 Cooperative Development Agents
(CDAs) operating as RCSU's extension agents for the participating
cooperatives, supported by two field staff coordinators. Each RCSU
would be supported by one expatriate advisor for cooperative
management and agribusiness. Project financing for RCSUs would cover
a total of 100 person-years of senior local staff, 542 person-years
assistant level local staff (including field staff) and 130 person-
years support staff as well as 24 person-years for expatriate
advisors.
The Executive Director of CDU, as well as three expatriate
specialists, a Cooperative Management Adviser, a Cooperative
Training Adviser and a Cooperative Development Adviser, would be
recruited no later than December 31, 1991. Other expatriate
specialists provided to support CDU at national and regional (RCSU)
level would be recruited in adequate numbers promptly as needed; it
is expected that recruitment of about 12 of these specialists would
be completed by about mid-year 1992. Assurances to this effect were
obtained [para. 8.01(i)].



- 24 -
(b)       Consultancies and Trainina   The project would finance cnsultuny
services to CDU (18.5 person-months) and to RCSUs (28.5 person-
month). As part of its networking functions, CDU consultancies
would be related to areas beyond the scope of individual RCSUs, as
well as to subsector issues (para 6.03) and would include: (i)
consultancies on policy and generic issues of primary cooperatives
which best are addressed at the national level (e.g., new
cooperative legislation, including model statutes for cooperative
organizations operating at primary or higher level, and a new
accounting system for primary agricultural service cooperatives);
(ii) management consultancies for complex cooperative-owned
enterprises, assisting these enterprises to address issues, such as,
management information systems, organizational structures, staff
evaluation, marketing strategies and new investments; (iii) studies
analyzing the role of cooperatives in the agricultural subsectors in
which they operrte, defining the relative importance of cooperatives
and cooperatively-owned enterprises (as compared to other players
such as State and private enterprises) in these subsectors, and
developing proposals concerning the role cooperatives can play in
restructuring these subsectors; and (iv) consultancies for analyzing
the sustainability of service and apex organizations proposed to be
established by RCs. The consultancies financed for each RCSU would
include specialist advice for issues such as the amalgamation of
joint investment projects for several primary cooperatives serviced
by a RCSU, or for the input of a specialist into a training course.
Project finance would also be provided for training courses
organized by CDU and RCSUs. Financing for training would include
accommodation and subsistence for course participants as well as
training material and the cost of local trainers. Other costs
related to training would either be met by participants (e.g.,
travel costs) or are included in other cost categories (e.g.,
expatriate consultants). CDU would organize some 18 courses
(average duration, one week) each year for cooperative managers and
RCSU senior staff. Each course would have some 25 participants.
Course subjects would include business management, organization,
finance, marketing and management information systems. In total,
some 1,350 participants would benefit from training courses
organized by CDU.  On average, each RCSU would organize per year 10
oae-week courses for cooperative department heads. Each course
would have some 30 participants. Course subjects would include
record keeping and accountancy, payrolls, cashier functions, work
management, storage management, transport and it,. itructure
maintenance.  In total, some 10,000 cooperative st.-. members would
participate in courses organized by the twelve RCSUs.
(c)       Equigment and Operating Costs.   The project would finance for CDU
three vehicles, three personal computers (PC), two photocopying
machines and office furniture. Each RCSU would be provided with
eight small vehicles, two PCs, two photocopiers and office
furniture. Financing for operating costs for CDU and RCSUs would



- 25 -
include office rental and supplies, communications, utilities,
equipment maintenance, staff travel and miscellaneous costs.
DeveloDment of the Cooperative Bank Svstem
5.10      The project would support the development of the cooperative bank
system, especially with respect to its (i) organizational structure, (ii)
operating systems, (iii) training of management and staff, and (iv) legal,
regulatory, and supervisory framework. The project would strengthen CBs to
serve as a foundation for the cooperative bank system, support the development
of a secondary apex structure by establishing six RCBs and also provide
assistance to the national organization of regional cooperative banks. This
would include the first RCB which has already been organized in western Poland
and licensed to operate but is not yet fully operational. An additional five
RCBs would be established, and all would become fully operational during the
project period. Systems development would focus on areas such as financial
management, credit administration, management information, accounting, and
computerization. A comprehensive training program would focus on domestic
training activities but would include some training abroad, and would be aimed
at personnel in local and regional cooperative banks. The legal, regulatory,
and supervisory framework is currently being revised and would be further
modified as necessary to accommodate the special nature of small, user-owned
local cooperative banks. Project support to this end would include technical
assistance, establishment of a Capital Fund for cooperative banks (paras.
5.11-5.12), and credit research (para. 5.15).
5.11      Technical Assistance.  A technical assistance program for CBs and
RCBs for 1991, preceding project implementation, has been formulated and
submitted for funding to potential donors. Technical assistance during the
project period, summarized below, would essentially be a continuation and
expansion of this program. (See Annex 3 for details.)
(a)       Technical Advisers and Consultants.  A team of skilled technical
advisers experienced in cooperative banking would be provided, for a
total of approximately 120 person-months of consultant time. Two
specialists, one in cooperative banking and the other in loan
operations, would be made available on a long-term basis. The
cooperative bank specialist would provide guidance in the
development of the cooperative banking system. This would include
revitalizing of CBs and establishment and development of the RCBs,
with particular emphasis on risk management. The loan operations
specialist would focus on developing the lending function of CBs and
RCBs, and part of his responsibility would be to assist the banks in
further strengthening their investment lending guidelines,
especially with respect to risk assessment (para. 5.14), Short-
term consultants would be made available in the technical areas of
accounting, asset/liability management, computerization, human
resource development and marketing. A specialist would also be made
available during the first year of the project to review the
existing legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework and propose
changes necessary to ensure that the special requirements of the
cooperative banking system are met (para. 6.22).



- 26 -
(b)       Training would be provided in three program areas:
Local Bank Personnel.  Training for local CB personnel would be
provided through the RCBs in close coordination with RCSUs.
Approximately 1200 CBs which would be shareholders in RCBs would
participate in this training. Training would be focused on loan
criteria (including risk assessment) and lending procedures,
financial analysis, accounting system, marketing analysis and bank
management. A total of 22 courses would be offered. Approximately
10,000 course participants would be trained each year over a
three-year period.
Regional Bank Personnel. Training in financial management would
include capitalizing regional banks, short-term funds management
and asset/liability management. Training in lending would include
loan decision-making processes, analyzing complex loans, and risk
management. Market development training would consist of
developing marketing strategies, market analysis and product
development, and principles of advertising and marketing.
Training in bank management would encompass subjects such as human
resource management, board of directors training, automation of
bank operations, development of strategic business plans and
support services for local banks. There would be 15 courses
offered to about 225 participants each year over the three-year
project period. This component would be carried out by the
technical advisers.
Overseas Training. Selected bank officers would be sent to other
countries for training. It is estimated that three officers from
each regional bank would receive such training yearly for three
years.
(c)       Equinment and Operating Costs.  The project would provide financing
for office equipment and vehicles for advisers and local staff and
cover related operating expenses as well as the cost of office
rental, communications and logistical support.
5.12      Capital Fund.  A Capital Fund would be established by MAFE and
operated through NBP, to assist CBs in meeting the capital requirements of
RCBs. The fund would become an indepenident legal entity within one year of
its establishment. The Capital Fund would purchase 10-year bonds issued and
serviced by CBs. Proceeds from the sale of bonds would in turn be used by CBs
to purchase shares in RCBs. The purpose of the Capital Fund would then be
expanded to meet the development needs of RCBs. MAFE would arrange with
external donors (such as the EEC and the United States) to set up the Capital
Fund in the initial amount of US$10.0 million equivalent as a condition of
loan effectiveness [para. 8.02(ii)] and increase the fund by an additional
US$10.0 million equivalent by the time 90% of the initial amount of the fund
has been utilized. An assurance to this effect was obtained [para. 8.01(ii)].
MAFE would provide local resources to meet these requirements if external



- 27 -
resources are insufficient. (Details on the Capital Fund are presented in
Annex 4.)
Systems DeveloDment and Studies
5.13      Preferential Credit Monitoring System.  Preferential credit programs
for the food economy (paras. 4.06 and 4.09) - which would not include the
project credit component - are administered in part through NBP refinancing
arrangements and in part through direct arrangements between Government
ministries and financing institutions. Consequently, there is no central
repository of information on such programs and no comprehensive data for the
authorities to utilize in setting policy on preferential credit. To help
rectify this situation, two person-months of TA would be provided under the
project to assist NBP in establishing a monitoring system to collect and
disseminate information on preferential credit (para. 6.39).
5.14      Investment Lending Guidelines.   Rural financial institutions
(primarily BFE and the cooperative banks) have been adapting their lending
policies and procedures to the requiremet,ts of a competitive market economy
and have made considerable progress to date. Existing guidelines for
investment lending are generally satisfactory but need to be further
strengthened, particularly in the area of risk assessment. For this purpose,
three months of specialist assistance is being provided as part of the pre-
project TA program (financed by the EEC) to collaborate with potential
participating banks in developing recommendations for modification of their
existing investment lending guidelines. These recommendations, satisfactory
to NBP and the Bank, would be suit&ble for adoption by all banks which lend to
the rural sector, and participating banks would be required to adopt them
(paras. 6.27-6.28). Assistance would be provided to cooperative banks in
adopting the recommendations under the project TA program.
5.15      Credit Research.  A study of rural financial markets, under terms of
reference prepared by MAFE and satisfactory to the Bank, would be undertaken
in cooperation with NBP and local banking institutions. It would cover both
formal and informal sectors, and include a farm credit survey, to determine
(a) access to and sources/uses of credit, (b) transaction costs of borrowers
and lenders, (c) savings behavior in rural areas, (d) nature of investment
decisions and priorities in borrowing, (e) the relationship of credit to the
level of technology utilized, farm productivity, and non-farm income, and (f)
the scope and impact of preferential credit programs in agriculture. The
study would be completed by about December 1992, at which time a decision
would be made as to whether similar data would be collected on a regular
basis. The results of the study would provide information to rural financial
institutions on the nature of the demand for credit in their area of
operations and guide them in developing their credit programs and modifying
their business plans. The study would also serve as a benchmark for future
evaluation of the impact of the project and for formulating Government credit
policy.



- 28 -
(b) The Credit Component
5.16      All lending under this component would be medium- or long-term
credit for productive investments in fixed assets and permanent working
capital. A sample of investment proposals potentially eligible for financing
under the project was scrutinized during appraisal, but no specific physical
or financial investment targets have been set. Lending would be for on-farm
investments by private farmers; investments by private rural cooperatives
involved in marketing, trade and processing; investments by private
agroindustries producing inputs for agriculture or processing agricultural
output; and investments by private individuals or enterprises in other
activities, such as transport, trade, handicrafts, tourism and other
activities or services which contribute to economic development in rural
areas. (Implementation arrangements are described in paras. 6.25-6.38.)
D. Proiect Costs and Financing
5.17      The nature of the project as designed precludes defining in detail
total investment costs (including foreign exchange requirements). Physical
investment targets are not specified since lending would vary in response to
market demand. The demand assessment of the principal participating
institutions, based on potential project pipelines analyzed during the
appraisal process, supports the envisaged size for the credit component of
US$100 million, which would finance total investments of about US$140.0
million, of which US$100.0 million (71%) would be in foreign exchange. This
is only a fraction of estimated planned investments over the next three years.
Subprojects have not been preappraised for this component and no contingencies
have been calculated. The cost of the institutional development component is
estimated at US$20.2 million, of which US$8.6 million (43%) would be in
foreign exchange; the estimated cost includes physical contingencies for
equipment at 10% of base cost plus price contingencies at an annual rate of 72
(in dollar terms, see Annex 5). The Capital Fund of US$20.0 million
equivalent would be funded in two stages (para. 5.12). A summary of the
estimated project costs is given in Table 5.1 below:
Table 5.1: ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
Component           Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign  Total
---(Zloty billion)---   ----(US$ million)----   Exchange Costs
---- (X)-
Farm Investment    133.2   310.8   444.0    12.0    28.0    40.0         70       22
Agroindustry        111.0   555.0   666.0    10.0    50.0    60.0        83       34
Rural Enterprises  199.8   244.2   444.0    18.0    22.0    40.0         55       22
Inst. Development  128.6    95.9   224.5    11.6        8.6    20.2      43       11
Capital Fund        222.0        -   222.0    20.0        -    20.0      Q       _J
TOTAL               794.6 1,205.9 2,000.5    71.6   108.6   180.2        60      100



- 29 -
5.18      The proposed financing plan is shown below:
Table 5.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Source                           Local   Fgreign   Total  Percentage of Project
----- (US$ million) -----   Total   For.Exch.
Cu^ts     Costs
IBRD                                 -    100.0    100.0        56        92
Financial Intermediaries          25.0         -     25.0       14         0
Subborrowers                      15.0        -      15.0        8         0
Technical Assistance Donors       11.6      8.6      20.2       11         8
Government (Capital Fund)
- Budgetary sources              5.0        -      5.0         3         0
- External sources A/          .15.0-             15.0      _ 8 .
TOTAL                             71.6    108.6    180.2       100       103
A/  Includes Zloty funds generated by foreign commodity assistance.
5.19      The proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million would finance about 56%
of total project costs, equivalent to 92% of the estimated foreign exchange
costs. The remaining 8% of foreign exchange costs would be provided on a
grant basis by the EEC and other grant donors. Financial intermediaries and
subborrowers together would provide about 29% of the funds required under the
credit component, all of which would be in local currency. As a general
guideline, subborrowers would be required to contribute from their own
resources no less than 10% of total subproject costs. The EEC would provide
up to about US$20.0 million for the TA component. Government together with
external donors would provide US$20.0 million equivalent to establish and
replenish the Capital Fund for cooperative banks. It would be a condition of
loan effectiveness that agreements between Government and cofinanciers
providing for financing in an aggregate amount equivalent to US$20.0 million
for the initial financing of technical assistance and the Capital Fund had
become effective [para. 8.02(iii)]. An assurance was obtained that further
cofinancing agreements for an additional aggregate amount equivalent to
US$20.0 million to be entered into would become effective by October 31, 1992
[para. 8.01(iii)].
E. Procurement
5.20      Procurement under subloans financed under the credit component of
the project would be in accordance with normal commercial practice, since no
contract is expected to exceed US$1.0 million and the beneficiaries would be
private entities. Import regulations have been sufficiently liberalized to
allow foreign suppliers into the Polish market o.a a competitive basis.
Procurement related to TA would be in accordance with procurement procedures
of the EEC, or other cofinanciers in relation Lo the TA portions financed by
them. Table 5.3 below summarizes the procurement methods.



- 30 -
Table 5.3: PROCUREMENT METHOQS
Project Elements                          ICB/LCB    Other      N/A  Total Cost
-,-    .     (US$ million)----------
Subloans                                             140.0        -      140.0
(100.0)            (100.0)
Technical Assistance                                     -       20.2     20.2
(0)      (0)
Capital Fund                                             -       20.0     20.0
(0)      (0)
TOTAL                                        -       140.0       40.2    180.2
(100.0)       (0)  (100.0)
Note: Figures in parentheses indicate amounts to be financed under proposed
IBRD loan.
Li/   Normal commercial practice.
k/    Cofinanciers' procedures apply.
F. Disbursements
5.21      The proposed Bank loan of US$100.0 million would be disbursed over a
period of four years, with an expected project completion date of December 31,
1994 and a closing date of June 30, 1995. Technical assistance grant funds
would be disbursed over the three-year period January 1992 - December 1994.
Disbursement of Government and donor funds into the Capital Fund would be in
an initial amount of US$10.0 million equivalent, with the balance to be
provided by the time 90X of the initial amount has been utilized. A scheduls
of estimated disbursements of the proposed Bank loan is summarized in Table
5.4 below (detailed in Annex 6).
Table 5.4: ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS SCHEDULE
IBRD Fiscal Year
1992      1993      1994       1995
--(US$ million ) ---------
Annual                                 5.0      30.0       40.0      25.0
Cumulative                             5.0      35.0       75.0    100.0



- 31 -
5.22      All disbursements would be against subloan expenditures and would be
administered by NBP. The proposed disbursement percentage of 80Z would cover
the direct and indirect foreign exchange costs and would maintain appropriate
incentives for participating banks to sustain their resource mobilization
efforts. All withdrawal applications would be made on the basis of certified
statements of expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documentation would be retained
by NBP for at least one year after receipt by the Bank of the audit report for
the year in which the last disbursement was made. This documentation would be
made available for review by the auditors and by visiting Bank staff upon
request. Disbursements would be made in accordance with Guidelines of
Withdrawal of Proceeds of IBRD Loans and IDA Credits (1985), and as shown in
Table 5.5 below.
Table 5.5: DISBURSEMENT PLAN
Category                         Loan Allocation            X of Expenditures
(US$ million)              to be Financed
Credit component                       100.0    )    80 percent of the amount
)    of eligible subloans
5.23      SDecial AccoSnt.  To expedite the disbursement of funds, NBP would
establish a Special Account in US dollars to cover the Bank's share of
eligible expenditures. The authorized amount of the account would be US$10.0
million, representing an average of four months' expenditures. The Special
Account would be replenished whenever one-third of the authorized amount has
been withdrawn, or at the latest every four months. Documentation
requirements for replenishment applications would be the same as described in
para. 5.22. In addition, monthly bank statements of the Special Account would
accompany all replenishment requests. Recovery of the Initial Deposit would
commence when the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan equals to USP2'1.O
million. Records of the Special Account proceeds and expenditures would be
kept by NBP. The Special Account would be audited under the project auditing
arrangements (paras. 6.43-6.44).
VI. PRLOECT IMPLEMENTATIN
A. OrganizAtion and Management
6.01      The project would be implemented through (i) the existing system of
institutions and agencies in the country, i.e., NBP, MAFE, the cooperative
banks, the national organization of regional cooperative banks, BFE, and the
commercial banks, and (ii) a proposed new CDU and the RCBs recently
established or currently in formation. NBP would be responsible for
implementing the credit component and for establishing a preferential credit
monitoring system. MAFE would be responsible for administering the TA under



* 32 -
the institutional development component, establishing the Capital Fund and
making arrangements with NBP for operating it, and for undertaking credit
research. Within the cooperative institutions, measures for organizational
and managerial strengthening would be introduced within the project's
institution-building objectives to facilitate the implementation of the
project and accelerate a longer-term process of creating sound rural financial
intermediaries and member-owned rural cooperatives.
B. Institutional DeveloRment
(a) Rural Cooperatives
Project Organization
6.02      The project's institutional development activities recognize the
complexity and diversity of RCs, including: (i) the multitude of existing
organizations, and, therefore, also the multitude of potential project
beneficiaries; (ii) the several different sectors within which RCs operate;
(iii) the variations in the structure of many cooperatives in terms of
organization, membership and staffing, and their activities and volume of
operations; (iv) the current level of institutional development and varying
pace of transformation and development of each cooperative; and (v) the
anticipated emergence of an apex structure. Responding to this complexity and
diversity: (a) project activities and funding are designed to initiate and
support the transformation and development process of RCs (para. 6.09), rather
than prescribing service packages for individual cooperatives or groups
thereof, and (b) the project's service delivery system (paras. 6.03-6.08) is
designed in a way to be able to adjust its organization and staffing quickly
and efficiently to meet any changes in the service needs of RCs.
6.03      Cooperative Development Unit (CDU).  CDU, to be established under
the project (para. 5.09), would be the central authority for undertaking
institutional development for rural cooperatives. Its functions would be to:
(i) establish, support and supervise Regional Cooperative Service Units
(RCSUs); (ii) provide assistance and support to cooperatively-owned
enterprises which are beyond the scope of RCSUs; (iii) support cooperative
representatives in the design and implementation of restructuring programs for
cooperative subsectors; and (iv) assist Government in drafting cooperative
legislation. CDU, which would be attached to MAFE with a small office in
Warsaw, would be headed by a Management Board, composed of four cooperative
representatives from various regions and cooperative subsectors, a
representative of the national organization representing cooperatives (at
present SCC), the Government Plenipotentiary for Cooperatives, and a
representative of the Minister of Agriculture and Food Economy. It would be
established as an autonomous unit in order to be able to provide efficient
services and gain credibility. The managerial and administrative autonomy of
CDU and its RCSUs would be particularly important in areas related to (i)
establishing (within the framework of project objectives and financial
provision) and controlling annual work programs and buidgets, and (ii)
recruiting and dismissing personnel, and remunerating staff according to
market conditions. The Management Board, in consultation with the EEC and the
Bank, would recruit the Executive Director of CDU. Recruitment of CDU staff



- 33 -
and consultants would be undertaken by CDU's Executive Director in accordance
with applicable guidelines (para. 5.09).
6.04      Regionul CooQerative Service Units (RCSUs).  Twelve RCSUs are
planned to be established in the economic centers of the various regions, each
intended to serve about four voivodships. Each RCSU would be supported by an
Advisory Council composed of cooperative representatives selected from
cooperatives which would use its services. RCSUs' functions would be to
assist RCs in their transformation and development process by providing
relevant support services (para. 5.08). RCSUs would vary in composition and
size according to the number and kind of cooperatives in their area of
operation as well as the amount and structure of service requests presented by
participating cooperatives.
6.05      On average, each RCSU would serve about 200 cooperatives over the
three-year project period. With such a coverage, the project would reach
about 2,400 cooperatives, or half the total number of cooperatives presently
operating in the sectors of banking, marketing, dairy and horticulture.
Participating cooperatives would be selected according to the following
criteria: (i) the active interest demonstrated by members (e.g., by
participating in electing representatives to the management board), and (ii)
the potential economic viability of cooperative activities. Initially,
services provided by RCSUs would be free of charge. Later, as demand
increases, RCSUs would introduce service fees to cover part of their costs and
provide services to cooperatives which are beyond the scope of the project.
6.06      While CDU and RCSUs would operate on a temporary basis until such
time as a network of secondary (regional) and tertiary (national) cooperative
service and apex organizations and cooperative-owned enterprises is
established and/or fully operational, these project agencies are expected to
provide the core of the new apex structure. The new apex structure is
expected to evolve in a similar manner to the structures servicing and
supporting cooperative movements in Weste.Li countries (Annex 1).
6.07      In regions where cooperatives establish, before or during the
project period, regional apex organizations with the aim of providing services
to primary cooperatives similar to those envisaged under the project, the
project would support these apex organizations instead of establishing an
RCSU, or in conjunction with a downsized RCSU. Project staff, who would be
recruited on the basis of fixed-term contracts, would, on account of the
experience gained under the project, become prime candidates for positions to
be filled in the emerging cooperacive apex structure. Project equipment would
be handed over at an appropriate time to the new apex structure, as decided by
CDU.
6.08      The implementation of institutional development activities for CBs
and RCs would be closely coordinated at the national level by the national
organization of regional cooperative banks and CDU, and at the regional level
by RCBs and RCSUs. Representatives of these institutions would meet at
frequent intervals to discuss work programs and agree on activities in
overlapping areas of responsibility (e.g., empowerment of CB members), and to
develop a common strategy in areas of joint concern (e.g., cooperative



- 34 -
legislation). The cooperation between the two components would be further
facilitated at the national level by the Technical Assistance Unit being
established within MAFE with EEC funding, and at the regional level through
the Advisory Councils of RCSUs (para. 6.04).
Strategy and Process
6.09      The transformation and development cf existing RCs is envisaged to
take place in five phases. During the first phase, the influence of
cooperative staff on cooperative management would have to be significantly
reduced and the membership would have to develop a sense of ownership of their
cooperative. During this phase of member empowerment RCs would have to
demonstrate that (i) each cooperative is capable of providing efficient
services responding to member needs, and (ii) leadership and management are
accountable to the cooperative members. During the second phase, an analysis
of each participating cooperative and its various business activities would be
undertaken through a management audit. On the basis of this analysis each
cooperative would establish an action program outlining the key areas in which
the cooperative has to urgently adjust. In most cases, such a program would
consist of (i) focusing the activities on essential services for members and
divesting non-essential activities, facilities and personnel, (ii) increasing
equity participation of members, and (iii) training remaining staff. Once
agreed upon within the cooperative, this action program would be implemented
during the third phase. Cooperatives which had gone through the process of
addressing their most urgent issues would have acquired both the skills and
information base to establish comprehensive business plans during the fourth
phase. For many cooperatives a business plan would identify investments
needed to expand existing or to create new business activities. In
imolementing the business plan during the fifth phase, cooperatives would need
to focus on long-term issues, such as, increasing workers' productivity,
reducing costs and improving the quality of cooperatives' goods and services.
6.10      As part of the transformation and development process, the
relationship between membership and management will evolve. During the
initial phase, a considerable amount of "direct democracy" will need to be put
into practice, e.g., convening frequent general meetings, particularly during
the firkc year, with a view to involve the membership at large in all key
decisions that would impact on the future of the cooperative. During this
period, RCSU staff would be at the disposal of members to provide information
and guidance necessary for rational decisions. Once these key decisions have
been taken and members have "appropriated" their cooperative, members will
tend to delegate more vf their power to elected representatives, who in turn
will delegate to a full-time professional management. During this phase,
emphasis would be on striking the right balance between (i) an adequate
mandate (authority and autonomy) to be given to management to facilitate
timely decisions to be taken on any matter relevant to efficient management,
and (ii) members retaining the ultimate authority over organization and
activities of the cooperative, including the evaluation of management's
performance. During this phase, the role of RCSU staff would consist of: (i)
ad-ising and supporting cooperative management so that managers make adequate
use of their mandate, and (ii) assisting members in arranging for efficient
management audits. (In the medium term, audit services would be provided or



- 35 -
arranged by the new service and apex structure). As competition evolves in
rural areas, the performance of RCs' management will also be tested in the
ma.-ket. In addition to receiving audit reports, therefore, members will
increasingly be able to compare the quality and pricing of goods and services
provided by their cooperative with those of competitors, and thus evaluate the
performance of cooperative management.
6.11      In the establishment of new cooperatives, members shape their
organization right from the beginning according to their needs and perceptions
and, therefore, would not have to go through the phases of member empowerment
and management audit. Phases three to five, as defined for the transformation
of existing RCs (para. 6.09), basically apply to the development of new RCs
with some modifications, emphasizing the aspects of establishing new
organizations, rendering them operational and eventually expanding and
improving their operations.
6.12      During the initial phases of the institutional development program,
the services would emphasize basic, introductory training and consultation.
As RCs needs become more complex, the emphasis in providing assistance would
shift to more sophisticated management and business advice and support, and
would increasingly focus on institutional issues specific to various
cooperative subsectors. The services required during initial phases would be
directly provided by the project, while during the later phases the project
would also operate in a networking capacity, i.e., arrange services to be
contracted by RCs with non-project service providers.
6.13      Full Government support is anticipated for initiating and advancing
the transformation and development process of RCs on a significant scale and
within a reasonable time frame. This support consists of providing an
environment conducive to the cooperative transformation and development
process as part of Government's overall efforts related to the privatization
of social sector organizations and facilitating private sector development;
protecting cooperatives fr,,m being used by political parties, Government
services and local authorities for political objectives; and coordinating the
financial and technical assistance provided by the international donor
community, channelled through Government institutions. While these types of
support are important, the Government's overriding support function is to
develop sound cooperative legislation, for which TA is provided in the
project's institutional development component [para. 5.09(b)]. An assurance
was obtained that a draft cooperative law, agreeable to the Bank, would be
presented to Parliament no later than June 30, 1992 (para. 8.01(iv)].
(b) CooRerative Banks
6.14      The development of a cooperative banking system would be divided
into short-term objectives and long-term goals. Short-term objectives include
the organization of regional cooperative banks and the strengthening of the
national organization of regional cooperative banks. These are expected to be
attained within the project period. Long-term goals include the establishment
of a National Cooperative Bank. This goal is not incorporated as an expected
output of the project, although the foundation for tts establishment would be
laid during the project period.



- 36 -
6.15      The Regional Cooperative Banks (RCBs).  RCBs would be organized as
full-service banks and would meet the requirements for registration as
commercial banks. RCBs would operate under both the banking law and the
cooperative law because of their dual character.
6.16      In addition to their operation as commercial banks in their own
right, RCBs would provide services to local CBs, such as holding excess funds
and managing their placement, refinancing, interbank clearing, and other
commercial banking services. RCBs would also raise funds to maximize the
lending capability of CBs by (i) generating deposits through their branches in
population centers not reached by cooperative banks; (ii) serving as financial
intermediaries in channeling project funds for onlending to their member CBs;
(iii) supplementing lending activities of CBs in a variety of ways, such as
participating in larger, more complex loans exceeding the capability of
individual CBs; and (iv) providing support services, such as training bank
staff, arranging audits, and coordinating development and marketing
activities.
6.17      Voting shares of RCBs would be held by CBs, with each CB having one
vote. The board of directors of RCBs would be elected by CBs in a manner
embodied in their statutes. The minimum paid-up capital of RCBs would be Zl
20 billion, as required by NBP. It is estimated that about 200 CBs would
subscribe to the capitalization of each RCB, for a total of about 1,200 CBs.
The remaining 460 CBs are likely to remain under the wing of BFE for a time,
continuing to depend on it for development assistance and refinancing.
6.18      An Information Unit is being established at NBP in order to ensure
that CBs are aware of the options that exist for future development, including
the establishment of the RCBs.
6.19      The National Organization of Regional Cooperative Banks.  The
national organization of regional cooperative banks currently is the Polish
Cooperative Banks Union (PCBU). One of the functions of PCBU is to coordinate
organizational activities concerning the establishment of RCBs. An
information drive was carried out in early 1991 to disseminate information
about the establishment of RCBs. Regional Organizing Committees of
cooperative banks were formed in January 1991 with the objective contacting
the individual CBs in each region and assisting them in adopting statutes,
collecting initial capital, and registering the RCB.
6.20      PCBU aims to coordinate development of the cooperative bank system
into a strong banking network. It is to provide leadership for the start-up
of RCBs and the modernization of local CBs and play a vital role in
communication and coordination among regions in areas of common interest such
as policies, scope of business, computer systems, and human resource
development programs to create a cohesive network of banks.
6.21      The technical advisors for the cooperative banks would be attached
to the national organization of regional cooperative banks, which would
coordinate their activities and the training programs pr,vided for RCBs. RCBs
would coordinate and give direction to training provided for local CBs. If



- 37 -
regional bank territories do not encompass certain areas of Poland, the
national organization of regional cooperative banks would either assign
coordinating responsibility to a neighboring RCB or organize a local
coordinating committee.
6.22      Legal. Regulatory. anid Supervisory Framework.  The cooperative law
determines the legal character of CBs, and, since CBs perform banking
functions, they also have to comply with the banking law. While CBs are too
small to be registered as full-se-vice banks, provisions of the banking law
are applied uniformly to all types of banks irrespective of size. For
instance, while CBs are basically user-owned institutions which generate
deposits primarily from members and lend primarily to members, they are
subject to the same level of deposit reserve requirements as other banks. The
banking law is being amended to allow NBP the flexibility to issue regulations
according to the circumstances of banks of different sizes and types, and NBP
will then issue regulations which accommodate the special conditions of the
CBs. During the first year of the project, the specialist to be provided
under the TA component (para. 5.11) would review the amended law to ensure
that it allows NBP the necessary leeway. He would then review the NBP
regulations and advise on any changes needed to accommodate the particular
circumstances of the CBs (e.g., with respect to capital adequacy and other
financial ratios, loan loss provisions, and reporting requirements). (CBs
would be able to participate satisfactorily in the project under present
arrangements, but the additional revisions may be necessary for the longer-
term developmsnt of the CB system.)
6.23      NBP has created a separate unit in its Bank Supervision Department
for prudential supervision of CBs and is in the process of establishing a
capacity at its provincial branches for such supervision. Until the
strengthening has been completed at the provincial level, NBP will rely on BFE
(for the CBs which remain associated with it) and the RCBs (for the CBs which
join them) to perform some of the supervisory functions. This arrangement can
be continued for some time in She case of BFE, which has majority Government
ownership, but it should be terminated as soon as possible in the case of
RCBs, which are owned by the CB raembers. (Auditing of CBs will be undertaken
by independent accountants, under arrangements introduced by the RCBs (para.
6.16), and by BFE.) The TA specialist would review the on-site and off-site
prudential supervision of CBs and recommend any changes deemed necessary.
6.24      gpaital EMnd.  MAFE would appoint a Managing Committee, with
membership, resources, and terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, to
administer the project's Capital Fund (para. 5.12). The committee would
establish policies and procedures for operation of the fund and for
utilization of its resources, which would include eligibility criteria for SBs
and RCBs. Details on the fund are presented in Annex 4.
C. Credit Ooerations
6.25      Institutional Arrangements.  Loan funds would be made available
under an apex arrangement with NBP to eligible financial institutions. The
execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and NBP
would be a condition of effectiveness [para. 8.02(iv)]. It is expected that



- 38 -
the cooperative banks and BFE would be the main participants, although
commercial banks would be encouraged to participate, as well. Loan funds
would be channeled through NBJ. to the participating second-tier banks, which
would, in turn, provide funds to participating local cooperative banks or
grant subloans directly to final beneficiaries. Local cooperative banks would
associate with the second-tier bank of their choice. This arrangement would
be the most suitable for financing the numerous small and medium private and
majority private (i.e., more than 50% of shares private) enterprises
characteristic of the rural sector. The relatively large number of banks and
their branches that would participate in the project would provide
entrepreneurs with more efficient access to term credit on a more competitive
basis. NBP would administer the line of credit through its Project Appraisal
and Implementation Division (PAID). PAID is currently administering the
ongoing agroindustries and industries projects with a staff of seven
economists and technical specialists. Staffing would be expanded as necessary
to accommodate the proposed project.
6.26      Eligibility of Intermediaries.  NBP would have direct responsibility
for determining which second-tier banks would be eligible to participate in
the project, in accordance with agreed criteria. In the case of local
cooperative banks, the second-tier bank with which they are associated
(generally the regional cooperative banks or BFE) would have the primary
responsibility for determining their eligibility, again under agreed criteria,
subject to agreement by NBP.
6.27      Eligibility criteria for second-tier banks would be as indicated
below:
(a)     in good standing with NBP (i.e., in compliance with the
banking laws and with NBP regulations and directives,
including capitalization requirements);
(b)     satisfactory financial condition and performance, as
assessed by NBP in accordance with its criteria, which are
acceptable to the Bank;
(c)     accounts and annual financial statements audited to
international standards, in accordance with NBP
requirements, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank;
(d)     adoption of recommendations on further strengthening
investment lending guidelines (being formulated prior to
project implementation under the technical assistance
progrem--para. 5.14); and
(e)     allocation of sufficient qualified staff to implement these
guidelines.
6.28      Eligibility criteria for local cooperative banks would be as
follows:



- 39 -
(a)     in good standing with NBP;
(b)     a capital adequacy ratio (measured according to NBP
methodology) of at least 3X;
(c)     satisfactory financial condition and performance, as
assessed by second-tier banks and NBP, in accordance with
NBP criteria;
(d)     accounts and annual financial statements audited in
accordance with NBP requirements, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank;
(e)     adoption of recommendations on investment lending guidelines
(para. 5.14); and
(f)     adequate qualified staff to implement the guidelines.
The above capital adequacy ratio is satisfactory as an initial requirement for
the project, given the historical constraints on these banks (para. 4.21) and
their special nature as user-owned institutions. It will be raised to the
level required for all banks by January 1, 1993, in accordance with NBP
regulations.
6.29      Eligible second-tier banks would sign a subsidiary lending
agreement, satisfactory to the Bank, with NBP. This agreement would, inter
alia, specify that the participant would:
(i)   undertake investment lending in accordance with agreed
guidelines and assign qualified staff to rhese operations;
(ii)   submit appraisal reports to NBP as required;
(iii)   ensure that resources are used by the final borrowers for
the purpose intended and that appropriate procurement
procedures are followed;
(iv)   supervise investments as appropriate and provide PAID with
periodical reports on the status of investments;
(v)   provide funds to participating local banks or to ultimate
beneficiaries in accordance with agreed terms and conditions
(para. 6.33);
(vi)   supervise any associated local participating banks, with
respect to their project activities, under the guidance of
NBP; and
(vii)   provide NBP and the Bank with such information as they
reasonably request.



- 40 -
An eligible local cooperative bank would sign a subsidiary financing
agreement, satisfactory to NBP and the Bank, with an eligible second-tier
bank. This agreement would contain provisions similar to the above, except
that the obligations would be to the second-tier bank, in the first instance.
NBP would have the right to receive information, monitor activities, and
intervene as it deemed necessary. Receipt by the Bank of at least one
subsidiary lending agreement would be a condition of effectiveness [para.
8.02(v)]. Assurances were obtained with regard to the eligibility criteria
for participating financial intermediaries stipulated in paras. 6.27-6.29
[para. 8.01(v)].
6.30      At present, BFE and six of the commercial banks are participating in
the ongoing agroindustries and industries projects, and it is expected that
they would also be eligible to participate in the proposed project. Six
regional cooperative banks have been established or are being formed, and they
are all potential participants. About 1000 local cooperative banks met the
capital adequacy criterion at the end of 1990 and are possible participants.
As the TA program is implemented and local cooperative banks strengthen their
operations and financial condition, an increasing number are expected to
qualify for participation in the credit component.
6.31      Eligibility of Beneficiaries and Investments.  The line of credit
would finance productive facilities, fixed assets and permanent working
capital for individuals and for private joint stock and cooperative
enterprises (including enterprises with majority private sector ownership).
All productive activities, including agriculture, agribusiness, agroindustry,
as well as transport, trade, handicrafts, tourism and other services which
contribute to the overall economic development of rural areas in Poland would
be eligible for financing. The only exceptions would be the financing of land
and housing, which would not be eligible. The line of credit would finance
(i) fixed assets for farms; (ii) fixed assets and permanent working capital
(e.g., inventory) for new enterprise operations, extensions and
rehabilitations; and (iii) permanent working capital for existing enterprises.
6.32      Subborrowers and investments would have to meet the following
conditions:
(i)     They would be required to demonstrate financial viability
and meet environmental standards (as set forth in the
investment lending guidelines -- para. 5.14). (Separate
measures of economic viability are not needed because of the
relatively low and uniform tariffs in Poland.) Investments
with subloans of over US$500,000 would be required to have
an expected financial rate of return of at least 15 percent.
(Investment viability benchmarks would serve to evaluate
smaller investments.) Subborrowers would be required to
follow sound procurement practices (in accordance with the
guidelines).
(ii)    For joint stock and cooperative enterprises, the projected
current ratio would be at least 1.5, the debt to equity
ratio no more than 1.5, and the debt se.vice ratio at least



- 41 -
1.3 over the life of the investment, calculated on the basis
of the entity's total debts (inicluding the subloan). Such
enterprises would be required to have their accounts for
each fiscal year audited by independent auditors acceptable
to NBP and the Bank.
(iii)   Bank funds could represent up to 72 percent of total
investment cost.11 Participating banks and subborrowers
would be required to finance a minimum of 28 percent of
investment cost. Participating banks would determine the
financing percentage depending on the risk associated with
individual investments. Subloans would be backed by
adequate security, in accordance with the investment lending
guidelines.
(iv)    The total of all subloans to a single subborrower would be
limited to a maximum of US$5.0 million, to avoid the
allocation of more than 5% of the total loan to any one
subborrower. No limitation would be imposed on the size of
the investing entity or the size of the investment.
Assurances were obtained with regard to the eligibility criteria for
subborrowers and investments as stipulated above [para. 8.01(vi)].
6.33      Terms and Conditions of Financing.  The Bank loan would be made to
Government, which would onlend to NBP in either zloty or U.S. dollars,
according to the demand for the respective currencies, and NBP in turn would
onlend in these currencies to participating second-tier banks. The second-
tier banks would lend directly to beneficiary individuals and enterprises or
would onlend to participating local banks, again in the same currencies. The
zloty onlending rate to NBP would be NBP's basic rate (at present 59 percent),
which is adjusted periodically to approximate a market rate, minus a margin
adequate to cover NBP's administrative costs. This margin would be the same
as the margin on dollar funds (para. 6.34), adjusted for inflation. Under
these arrangements, Government would cover the foreign exchange risk; the
spread between NBP's basic rate less the margin, and the Bank's rate
(currently about 50 percentage points), is expected to be sufficient to cover
this risk.  The rates would be reviewed semi-annually by Government and NBP,
in consultation with the Bank. Second-tier banks would onlend to local banks
at negotiated rates, and banks would provide subloans to ultimate
beneficiaries at market rates.
6.34      The system for funds denominated in U.S. aillars would be the same
as that utilized under the ongoing agroindustries and industries projects.
The onlending rate to NBP would be established as a floating rate linked to
the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), at a level which would
S Participating banks would grant subloans representing about 80X-90%
of investment cost, and the Bank would disburse 80% against subloan
expenditures, resulting in Bank financing of around 64%-72X of investment
cost.



- 42
take into account the cost of similar funds in the market less a margin
adequate to cover NBP's administrative costs. This rate would be set at LIBOR
plus 1.25 percentage points for the period July 1 - December 31, 1991, and the
margin for NBP would be 0.25 percentage points, resulting in an onlending rate
from NBP to participating banks of LIBOR plus 1.50 percentage points. The
rates would be adjusted semi-annually by Government and NBP in consultation
with the Bank. Second-tier banks would onlend to local banks at negotiated
rates, and banks would provide subloans denominated in U.S. dollars to
ultimate beneficiaries at market rates. Under these arrangements, Government
would bear the cross-currency exchange risk, and the beneficiaries would bear
the U.S. dollar exchange risk.
6.35      Repayment schedules of funds onlent by NBP to participating banks
(including the onlending by second-tier banks to local cooperative banks)
would be on a back-to-back basis. If a subborrower prepays part or all of the
subloan prior to maturity, the participating bank will immediately repay the
sum received to the onlender. In the case of arrears in debt service on
subloans, a participating bank must adhere to the payment schedule to the
onlender and make appropriate arrangements with the sutborrower to eliminate
the arrears. Subloans would have a term of two to twelve years, inclusive of
grace periods of up to three years. The amounts repaid by participating banks
that are not needed for repayment of the Bank loan would be relent to
participating banks by NBP to finance additional investments aimed at
objectives pursued under the project. Assurances were obtained that the terms
and conditions of financing investments would be as specified in paras. 6.33-
6.35 [para. 8.01(vii)].
6.36      Subloan Processing and Administration   Subloan processing would be
administered by PAID, which would authorize disbursements against subloan
expenditures of participating second-tier banks and collect repayments. Under
the guidance of PAID, second-tier banks would disburse to, and collect
repayments from, participating local cooperative banks.
6.37      Subloan applications would be prepared by the beneficiaries, with
assistance from participating banks. The banks would appraise the subloans in
accordance with the agreed investment lending guidelines. Second-tier banks
would submit to NBP an information sheet for subloans under US$100,000, an
appraisal report summary for subloans between US$100,000 and US$500,000, and
the full appraisal report for subloans over US$500,000. Participating local
cooperative banks would submit subloans in batches of US$500,000 or less to
the relevant participating second-tier banks, together with a summary
information sheet indicating the purpose and amount of each subloan. If
satisfied that project requirements had been met, the second-tier bank would
disburse against the subloan expenditures.
6.38      The first two subloans above US$100,000 of each participating bank
would be subject to prior review and approval by the Bank.'l In addition, all
V In the case of banks which are participating in the ongoing
agroindustries or industries projects, this requirement would apply to non-
agroindustry subloans.



- 43
subloans above US$3.0 million would require prior Bank approval. The Bank
also would review a sample of subloans (particularly for larger investments)
on an ex Rost basis during supervision missions. Since subloans granted by
local cooperative banks normally would be quite small, they generally would
not be subject to prior approval. However, second-tier banks, operating under
the guidance of PAID, could establish thresholds for such approval as they
deemed appropriate. They would also review selected subloans during the
implementation stage, as part of their responsibility for supervising the
project activities of local cooperative banks. PAID would conduct a direct
review of selected subloans during implementation, for all participating
banks.
6.39      Monitoring of Preferential Credit.  A monitoring system for
preferential credit would be established in NBP by June 30, 1992 and would
utilize information collected as part of NBP's reporting requirements for
banks (para. 5.13). An assurance to this effect was obtained [para.
8.01(viii)]. (Preferential credit programs, and limits on these programs, are
described in paras. 4.06 and 4.09.) The specialist to be provided under the
project's TA program would assist NBP in identifying the various preferential
credit programs financed with internal or external resources, determining the
best means of obtaining the necessary informe-ion on all such programs (given
the various sources of financing), designing -.e least burdensome format for
collecting the information on a regular basis, and initiating implementation
of the system. Information on preferential credit programs would be
disseminated to all concerned agencies.
D. Reporting and Evaluation
6.40      PAID (in cooperation with the PBs), CDU, and the national
organization of regional cooperative banks would be responsible for
monitoring, implementing, and evaluating the impact of the project. An
implementation schedule and monitoring indicators are in Annex 7.
6.41      Reporting.  Participating banks would be responsible for maintaining
records adequate to monitor the implementation of investments. Second-tier
banks would report to PAID on the progress of each investment and the status
of the corresponding subloan. Local cooperative banks would provide summary
reports on investments and subloans, as agreed with the respective second-
tier banks and PAID. PAID would prepare progress reports as agreed, which
would be submitted to the Bank within 30 days of the end of the period under
review. These progress reports would cover the credit component and include a
brief section on the physical implementation of the investments and on
problems encountered during implementation. Similar reports, covering
technical assistance for cooperatives, would be prepared and submitted to the
Bank and the EEC every six months jointly by CDU and the national organization
of regional cooperative banks.
6.42      Project ComDletion ReRort.  Promptly after completion of the
project, but no later than six months after the Closing Date, PAID, with the
collaboration of the PBs, CDU, and the national organization of regional
cooperative banks would prepare and furnish to the Bank a report on the
execution of the project, its costs, and the benefits derived and to be



44 -
derived from it. Evaluation of the impact of the credit component would be
based on the benchmark data obtained from the rural finance study (para.
5.15). The report would also cover the performance of the various
participating institutions and agencies in discharging their respective
obligations under the project.
E. Accounts and Audit
6.43      NBP's project accounts, the Special Account, statements of
expenditure, and the financial statements of participating banks would be
audited for each fiscal year in accordance with generally accepted auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, and the audit reports would contain separate opinions on the Special
Account and the statements of expenditure. These audits would be to
international standards from the beginning of the project, except in the case
of the local cooperative banks. For the latter, audits would be in accordance
with the requirements of NBP and the arrangements under the TA component,
which are aimed at introducing audits to international standards over a
reasonable period of time. Copies of the audit reports for all except the
local cooperative banks would be forwarded to the Bank within six months of
the end of the fiscal year. Copies of the audit reports for the local banks
would be provided to the relevant second-tier banks within the same period.
The auditor's report would be of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
shall reasonably request, including, inter alia, a statement that the funds
advanced by the Bank for the Special Account and disbursed against SOEs had
been used for the purpose for which they were provided.
6.44      CDU would have its accounts for each fiscal year audited by
independent auditors acceptable to the EEC and the Bank, and would forward a
copy of the audit report to the EEC and the Bank within six months of the end
of each year.
F. Bank Sunervision
6.45      Intensive, semi-annual Bank supervision would be required, focusing
particularly on: (i) CDU's autonomy and capacity for project implementation;
(ii) progress achieved in transforming RCs and establishing a secondary and
tertiary structure for RCs, including the restructuring or replacing of the
Supreme Cooperative Council (SCC); (iii) the program for a gradual transfer of
cooperative support services from CDU and RCSUs to the emerging secondary and
tertiary cooperative structure; (iv) formation and development of the RCBs and
eventual establishment of a national cooperative bank; (v) strengthening of
CBs, especially with regard to capitalization, systems (e.g., accounting,
management information, and computerization), and staff training; (vi)
establishment of an appropriate legal, regulatory, and supervisory framework
for the cooperative bank system; (vii) performance of the second-tier and
local banks in carrying out the credit program; and (viii) implementation of
the monitoring system for preferential credit and the study of rural financial
markets.



- 45 -
VII. PROJECT BENEFITS. RISKS AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
A. Benefits
7.01      The main benefit of the project would be the creation of viable
rural cooperative institutions to serve the private sector. It would
contribute significantly to establishing a viable and effective system for
input distribution and output marketing and improve the institutional
environment in the dairy, horticulture and other priority subsectors.
Enhanced competition and efficiency in the rural banking system and broader
access to credit by the rural private vector through the credit component
would help stimulate a supply response and, by supporting new business
entrants, contribute to creating a competitive economic environment. The
project, indirectly, would support Government's economic program by creating
additional employment and new sources of income in rural areas. Finally, it
is expected to have a positive overall effect on agricultural efficiency which
would make the country more competitive in international markets, resulting in
a favorable impact on its balance of payments.
B. Risks
7.02      The main overall risk is adverse changes in macroeconomic conditions
which could adversely affect the entire agriculture sector and the demand for
credit. This risk will be mitigated in the context of the intense country
dialogue as well as the preparation and implementation of SALs and other loans
that are central to the reform effort. The main project risk is that subloans
will not be fully or promptly repaid. This could occur primarily because
there is little experience with lending to private farmers and small
businesses in a free market environment, entailing higher than usual financial
risk for borrowers as well as financial intermediaries. To address this
problem, banks' risk management capability would be improved through the
project's management and training assistance and the application of sound
iending criteria. There is also a possibility that institution building under
the project will not be as successful as anticipated, in which case the
technical assistance approach may have to be modified in the course of project
implementation. Another risk is that progress with overall financial sector
reforms is slow, hindering institutional development of cooperative banks.
While this would affect disbursements under the credit component, the project
would continue to be implemented by the accredited non-cooperative banks
already involved in lending under existing projects, with the proposed
technical assistance.
C. Environmental Impact
7.03      Agriculture and the small-scale rural sector are not major
contributors to environmental pollution in Poland. However, some activities
in agroindustry are in violation of environmental laws and regulations.
Poland has regulations governing the safety, health and environmental
standards to be maiatained by enterprises with regard to their operations and
investments. Procedures for environmental screening of individual loans



- 46 -
granted under the project in compliance with both Polish requirements and
those of the Bank are being incorporated in investment lending guidelines to
ensure that no undue harm would result to the natural environment. These
procedures, to be implemented by financial intermediaries in consultation with
the concerned authorities, will include criteria to assure that project
activities support proper use of inputs in farming and other project
activities, provide for adequate disposal of waste products and safeguard the
natural resource base. Subloan applications would include an environmental
impact statement, and staff of participating banks would be trained in
assessing environmental impact. An assurance was obtained that subprojects
would be undertaken in accordance with appropriate environmental standards
satisfactory to the Bank [para. 8.01(ix)].
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Assurances
8.01      During ne,gotiations, the following assurances were obtained:
(i)  the Execut've Director of CDU, as well as a Cooperative Management
Adviser, a Cooperative Training Adviser and a Cooperative
Development Adviser, would be appointed by December 31, 1991, and an
adequate number of other specialists would be appointed promptly as
needed (para. 5.09(a)];
(ii)  MAFE would increase the Capital Fund by US$10.0 million equivalent
by the tinme 90% of the initial amount of the fund has been utilized
(para. 5.12);
(iii) cofinancing agreements, other than those referred to as a condition
of effectiveness [para. 8.02(iii)], providing for financing in an
aggregate amount equivalent to US$20.0 million, would become
effective by October 31, 1992 (para. 5.19);
(iv)  a draft cooperative law, agreeable to the Bank, would be presented
to Parliament no later than June 30, 1992 (para. 6.13);
(v) eligibility criteria for participating financial intermediaries
would be as indicated in paras. 6.27-6.29;
(vi)  eligibility criteria for subborrowers and investments would be as
indicated in para. 6.32;
(vii) terms and conditions of financing investments would be as specified
in paras. 6.33-6.35;
(viii)  a monitoring system for preferential credit would be established in
NBP by June 30, 1992 (para. 6.39); and
(ix)  subprojects would be undertaken in accordance with appropriate
environmental standards satisfactory to the Bank (para. 7.03).



- 47 X
B. Conditions
8.02      Conditions for effectiveness of the proposed loan would be:
(i) establishment of CDU with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank
(para. 5.09);
(ii) establishment of a Capital Fund for cooperative banks in the initial
amount of US$10.0 million equivalent (para. 5.12);
(iii) effectiveness of agreements between Government &nd cofinanciers
providing for financing in an aggregate amount equivalent to US$20.0
million for the initial financing of technical assistance and the
Capital Fund (para. 5.19);
(iv) execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower
and NBP (para. 6.25); and
(v) receipt by the Bank of at least one subsidiary lending agreement
between the National Bank of Poland and a financial intermediary
(para. 6.29).
C. Recommendation
8.03      Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$100.0 million for 17 years, including
five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Poland.



- 48 -                    Page 1 of 13
POLA-ND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOFMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Rural Cooperatives and Cooperative Restructuring
A. Backg,ound
General
1.    The first cooperatives in Poland were established in the middle of the
19th Century. Between the two world wars, many new and different types of
cooperatives developed and flourished. After 1945, the state initiated the
establishment of both new cooperatives and different types of cooperatives,
all subject to varying degrees of state control, with a view to accelerate a
transitional form of organization, "advanced" in comparison to individual
ownership but still short of the final socialist development stage, that of
state ceiership.
2.    Until recently, all primary cooperatives were grouped by subsectors into
regional unions, which in turn formed central unions. Membership in the
secondary and tertiary cooperative organization was obligatory. Cooperative
unions generally provided the link between the State planning authorities and
primary cooperatives by operating wholesale and processing enterprises. In
addition, unions provided auditing and training services to primary
cooperatives. The various cooperative subsectors were, and still are,
represented by the Supreme Cooperative Council vis-a-vis the State and
international organizations.
3.    At the end of 1989, cooperatives in all subsectors contributed about 11l
to the GNP and employed almost 1.8 million people. Seventeen central unions,
each heading a cooperative subsector, comprised some 400 regional unions with
their affiliated primary cooperatives representing 15 million members.
Following the recent changes (para. 13), the cooperative movement now consists
of about 15,000 primary cooperatives (about 7,000 in urban and 8,000 in rural
areas), a national apex organization (Supreme Cooperative Council) and
thousands of cooperative enterprises previously controlled by secondary and
tertiary cooperatives. The subsectors of rural cooperatives (RCs) comprise
about 2,000 Peasant Self-Aid Cooperatives, 320 Dairy Cooperatives, 140
Horticultural Cooperatives, 2,000 Cooperatives of Agricultural Circles, 2,000
Agricultural Production Cooperatives, and 1660 Cooperative Banks.
4.    Tne performance of state-controlled cooperatives has been rather mixed.
Primary cooperatives have not been sufficiently service-oriented and have not
responded adequately to member needs and priorities. Cooperative unions have
tended to operate at excessive costs, often undertaking, at the request of
state authorities, activities not directly linked with the activities of
village level cooperatives. The support services provided to primary



- 49 -                             NEX 1
Page 2 of 13
cooperatives, such as management advice and organizational assistance, have
been poor.
5.    The priority subsectors of RCs proposed for project support include
especially: Rural Finance (CBs) (discussed in Annex 2), Marketing (PSA),
Dairy and Horticulture (DCs and HCs). Reasons for selection of cooperatives
in these subsectors include: (i) they provide essential services to
agriculture and rural areas; (ii) they are either the dominant (CBs, DCs), or
important actors (PSA, HCs) in their respective subsectors; and (iii) they
have substantial potential to become fully member-controlled as well as
sustainable and efficient organizations.
Peasant Self-Aid Cooperatives
6.    The Peasant Self-Aid Cooperatives originated in 1948 when a number of
existing agricultural and marketing cooperatives were merged to form what were
called "Peasant Self-Aid Supply and Marketing Cooperatives". In rural areas
these are primary level multipurpose cooperatives providing for both the needs
of the farmers as producers and the requirements of villagers and towns people
as consumers. The economic activities of the Peasant Self-Aid cooperatives
can be divided into three main groups: production, wholesale and retail
trading, and produce purchasing. The groups of activities classified as
wholesale and retail trading is clearly the most important a_ea of operation
for these cooperatives as they operate over 70,000 retail outlets as well as
warehouses and produce purchase centers. Other activities include catering
establishments such as restaurants, cafes and bars, wholesale warehouses,
various production establishments such as bakeries, soft drink factories,
grain mills, animal feed plants and transport services.
7.   Although these cooperatives cover a wide range of activities, according
to their statutes they are to give special attention to the agricultural
sector. By supplying agricultural inputs and purchasing farm produce, the
cooperatives are assigned the role of stimulating increased agricultural
production in accordance with the needs of the national economy. The
provision of consumer goods to the rural population is a complementary role of
the Peasant Self-Aid Cooperatives. They supply food and industrial goods,
engage in food-processing which mainly serves the needs of local population,
and provide catering and a wide range of other services.
Dairy Cooperatives
8.    Following the Second World War, dairy cooperatives were set up to
organize the supply of dairy products produced by the cooperatives to the
urban market. The first national union of dairy and egg-producing
cooperatives was established in 1947, but was dissolved when the dairy
industry was nationalized in 1951. In 1958, however, the dairy cooperatives
were re-established and a new national-level organization, the Union of Dairy
Cooperatives, was created. For a time, the dairy cooperatives were brought
under the control of the Central Agricultural Union of Peasant Self-Aid
Cooperatives, but were re-established in 1981 and given the same
organizational structure as they had before 1975.



- 50 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 13
9.    At the local level, the milk producers are members of Peasant Self-Aid
Rural Cooperatives, which are in essence supply and marketing cooperatives.
There are some 1.2 million milk producers in the country and, through their
local cooperative, they are affiliated to 48 voivodship dairy cooperative
unions. These operate nearly 10,000 collection points and own over 700
production units of various types.
Horticulture Cooperatives
10.   Horticulture is a major sector, contributing nearly as much to farm
incomes as dairyiing. It is concentrated, involving a relatively small number
of growers. Cooperatives are less important in the overall sector, accounting
for about 35% of horticultural output.
11.   Horticultural cooperatives bring together vegetable, fruit growers, and
honey producers, provide them with means of production, purchase their
produce, process it and sell it on both the domestic and foreign markets. In
1988 there were 140 horticultural cooperatives affiliated to the Central Union
of Horticultural Cooperatives, through 11 voivodship unions.
12.   Though the value of horticultural exports has trebled and the volume
more than doubled over the last decade, it has declined as a proportion of
total agricultural exports (from 22% in 1986 to 18% in 89.) Over two thirds
of exports are in the form of processed product. Hortex accounts for 40X of
Polish frozen horticultural produce and 20% of fruit juice production.
Hortex, with 20 major plants in 10 enterprises, 15 IQF plants and 30 cold
stores, dominates the horticultural industry in Poland. As part of the
Central Coop Union it and the regional Coop Unions are currently under the
direction of a Government appointed liquidator. The major Coop assets under
liquidation have a book value of $82 M.
B. Recent DeveloRments
13.   Amendments in 1983 and 1987 to the cooperative legislation, consisting
of the 1982 cooperative law and standard bylaws, granted primary cooperatives
the right either to create unions of their own choice or to operate
independently of any union. A key amendment was passed on January 20, 1990
which aimed at fundamentally restructuring and democratizing the cooperative
sector through (a) the election of new member representatives at the level of
primary cooperatives, and (b) the liquidation of all cooperative unions at the
regional and national levels and transfer or sale of their assets to new
owners.
14.   While a step forward, the cooperative restructuring initiated with the
1990 law amendment is inadequate in its concept and rather poor in its
implementation. The available and anticipated results of the restructuring do
not adequately alleviate existing constraints, and in some instances they
constitute new constraints for the development of agricultural cooperatives.
For example, the new elections were inadequately prepared and organized with
the result that only a minority of members participated, and the effect on the
composition of cooperative supervisory councils and management boards was not
very significant. Therefore, many cooperative representatives and the Supreme



- 51 -                           AN
Page 4 of 13
Cooperative Council still lack credibility with their members and outside
bodies.
15. While aiming at dismantling monopolies the implementation of the
liquidation of cooperative unions has had an overall negative effect.
Liquidation of the unions made the numerous enterprises previously operated by
the unions ownership orphans. This situation has severely affected the
operations and viability of cooperative enterprises, primarily by disrupting
financial arrangements with lending institutions and export contacts with
foreign business organizations. Furthermore, the ongoing restructuring of
ownership of union assets results in a fragmentation of vital industrial and
service chains and raises doubts as to the sustainability of new ownership
structures, since most of the union assets have been handed over to worker
cooperatives. Finally, the 1990 law amendment did not allow the establishment
of new unions until mid-1991, and this provision resulted in primary
cooperatives not receiving any support services during the crucial
transformation period.
16. As currently in force, Poland's cooperative legislation is the least
rigid among the Central and Eastern European Countries. Nevertheless, in the
context of the new political and economic conditions, the legislation is not
appropriate as it still espouses socialist ideology in many areas. For
example, it subsumes cooperative organizations into the socialized economy as
opposed to the private sector, and consequently makes them subject to State
control. It also does not recognize the cooperatives' business character or
the full ownership of cooperatives by members, and it gives staff an excessive
role in management.
17. New legislation needs to be enacted to provide an overall framework
defining the general nature and basic structure of cooperatives and their
movement. Important principles to be embodied in the law include designating
cooperatives as part of the private sector owned by and doing business on
behalf of their members, managed entirely by democratically elected
representatives and appointed professionals. The law should also specify a
few additional structural elements, such as registration of cooperatives,
supervisory and management bodies, and audit requirements, based on the
various cooperative models operating successfully in Western countries. Other
aspects, which are not essential for the definition of a genuine cooperative
and go beyond some basic structural elements such as organization, objectives,
operations and internal structure, should be left to cooperatives to regulate
in their statutes.
18. The need to urgently and fundamentally change the cooperative
legislation is fully accepted within the cooperative movement and government.
Based on the assumption that another amendment addressing the most urgent
issues requiring changes could be passed quickly through Parliament while a
completely new cooperative legislation because of its interdependence with
other laws (e.g. civil code, labor law, company law) would require
considerable time, various amendments were drafted and presented to Parliament
in January 1991. Parliament, however, rejected the amendments and constituted
a Commission charged with drafting an entirely new cooperative legislation to
be presented to parliament before the summer break, 1991.



- 52 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 13
19.   Since initiation of the ecoi   c reforms in 1989, several cooperatives
have commenced to adjust to market 'conomy and competition, and to transform
themselves into private and member service organizations. Competition has
been increasing among the various types of agricultural cooperatives as well
as with state enterprises, mainly to maintain market shares for maximizing the
use of existing capacities in terms of staff, storage and processing
facilities. Moreover, some new farr, service organizations are being organized
in several regions which are similar to the independent cooperatives which
existed before the Second 'World War.
C. Restructuring Reguirements
20.    CooReratives in General  In order to adjust to the new political and
economic realities, cooperatives have to reestablish their membership base and
fundamentally restructure their organizations. They w,ill have to quickly
prove that they did not lose their identity as member-oriented organizations
during the period of command economy, and to demonstrate effectively that
democratically-elected member representatives have full authority over the
organization. They will also have to refocus cooperative activities on
members' needs, and the corresponding managerial skills to develop a business
approach.
21.   The many primary RCs operating in various subsectors are presently
facing the tremendous task of adjusting to the new political and economic
environment, market conditions, and member demands without any guidance or
support. While awaiting the emergence of a new service and apex structure,
primary cooperatives in priority sectors need to be supported by an interim
structure which would provide services relevant to their transformation and
adjustment process. There are two main types of support needed by rural
cooperatives. First, effective strategies for generating member loyalty and
commitment through meaningful participation and involvement need to be
developed and implemented, while focussing cooperative services on member
needs. Second, managerial, financial, organizational, and technical skills
and expertise need to be strengthened in order to reorganize cooperative
enterprises and to improve their efficiency.
22. A typical structure of cooperative movements in Western countries
consists of primary cooperatives forming regional unions or federations to
provide support services (management advice, training and audit), and
secondary structures establishing national branch federations to provide
central support services (e.g. legal advice on key issues) and to represent
member interests generally. National branch federations often establish a
joint confederation representing the entire cooperative movement within a
country and in international organizations. Furthermore, groups of primary
cooperatives, secondary and tertiary structures, and cooperative apex
organizations often operate processing, trade and services enterprises linked
to their branch of activity or to the entire cooperative movement. Similar
institutional structures are expected to evolve in Poland.
23.   Presently, several primary cooperatives are discussing preliminary
projects which would establish secondary units to provide on a permanent basis
the support services they would like to receive. It is not appropriate to



- 53 -
Page 6 of 13
make any specific recommendations regarding the future structure of the Polish
cooperative movement, since these structures need to evolve according to the
requirements of primary cooperatives, and their establishment should be left
to the initiative of the cooperatives operating in the various regions and
branches. The same applies to the eventual establishment of new central
unions or federations. However, cooperatives urgently need advice on the
establishment of a new secondary and tertiary structure. Support also is
required for managing the enterprises taken over by rural cooperatives from
the unions until such time as efficient and sustainable management structures
have evolved.
24. The real challenge to Polish cooperatives in their move from state
organizations to private sector businesses is not so much the acquisition of a
new set of managerial skills but in making the paradigm shift from bureaucrat
to entrepreneur. After an extended period of serving as a cog in a huge
governmental economic machine, many cooperatives have developed an outlook on
and way of interacting with the world that makes them particularly unsuited to
operating in a competitive economy. A passive response to commands, a
reluctance to change, and a formal hierarchy of relationships all must give
way to a more dynamic, flexible, and self-initiating way of conducting the
coop's business. Without this paradigm shift, newly acquired management tools
risk being left unused or being misapplied in an attempt to merely make more
effective the old structures rather than transforming them into true
enterprises.
25. Competition in the private sector is mounting and inefficient operations
lead to increased losses. Member loyalty is at risk if concrete evidence of
the much talked about restructuring does not begin soon. This sense of
urgency notwithstanding, the restructuring approach cannot afford to be spotty
or piecemeal. If it addresses only some of a cooperative's needs without
resolving others (e.g. improving management without ensuring accountability or
improving marketing without installing a new accounting system), it risks
creating a false sense of confidence as well as future ambushes from
unaddressed problems. This is why a shot-gun approach, offering a scattering
of courses and workshops in a piecemeal fashion, for example, must be avoided.
Cooperatives by Subsector
26.   Primary cooperatives in all subsectors need to adjust to market
conditions, transform into member-controlled and user oriented organizations
and improve operations in order to survive.
27. Peasant Self-Aid Cooperatives The retail sector and small manufacturing
enterprises such as bakeries and meat plants are the first entries into the
private sector. Because of this, the PSAs are facing a particularly rigorous
period of competition. They have focussed on their most profitable
enterprises and locaticns, while continuing to maintain thosa enterprises and
outlets which are poor contributors or loss making. The key issue facing the
PSAs is how to reorganize themselves in the face of the liquidation of their
regional and national Unions and the greatly increased competition.



- 54 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 13
28.   To maintain the principle of user ownership and apply it in a more
focussed way, it would be necessary to divide the PSAs into two cooperatives.
Farm Service PSA Coops should be distinct from village services such as
retailing and other enterprises. The PSAs will be able to capitalise on the
benefit of their organizational network only if they can increase their buying
power for farm inputs and services, and the effectiveness of their market
network for agricultural produce.
29.   Issues such as improving their role in livestock, grain marketing and
other crop handling, and a possible role in dairy processing are among the key
issues which should be considered through a comprehensive review. Such a
review should be undertaken in collaboration with a consultative committee
appointed by the PSAs, and subsequent decisions would have to be taken on
rationalization, amalgamation, joint ventures and/or new investments.
30.   The farrA inputs sector was badly hit in 1990 as was the retail
operations of the PSAs because of competition from new private shops. The
PSAs must assess their situation in the new market circumstances. The first
requirement for PSAs is a strategy review of the farm services sector with a
view to establishing how they can best organize themselves to be cost
effective providers of services to their members.
31.   Dairy Coogeratives  Protection of the domestic market from dumping, the
regulation of the quality standards of exports and a suitable seasonal stock
management mechanism are key issues in stabilizing the market for the benefit
of the producers and the consumers alike. How to offer the benefit of market
efficiency and stability to each dairy coop and each efficient dairy farmer is
the key concern in industry rationalization. The solution is likely to be
found through amalgamation of dairies, with a view to establishing a full
range of highly efficient production and packaging facilities, to confer the
benefit of a full dairy product range on each dairy and each dairy farmer.
These could evolve over time or they could be initiated as 1 Billion litre
Regional milk pools as proposed in the Task Force report. This would give
stability to individual dairies, to farmers, and to the dairy sector thereby
enhancing the investment climate and the possibility of achieving satisfactory
joint venture agreements.
32.   With 1.4 million milk suppliers over 10,000 milk assembly poin 3 and 700
processing plants, the critical challenge facing the industry is to
rationalize its pricing structure and its production as to favor the
production of quality milk in concentrated areas, so that costs can be
minimized. This will inevitably result in milk for processing being produced
on fewer farms.
33.   How these issues are addressed, and whether they provide the basis for
further investment by members, lenders and new joint venture partners will
determine the success of the dairy sector rationalization programme. It is
proposed that this should be the subject of a review by an international
expert working with a consultative committee drawn from the leaders of the
dairy coops. This review would provide the background against which
individual coops would consider their future.



- 55 -
Page 8 of 13
34.   Horticultural Coogeratives  The horticultural coops are structured by
region rather than by sector, however, the specialized needs of the cut flower
and nursery stock businesses, for example, are quite different than those for
fruit and vegetable production. The horticultural cooperatives are
extensively involved in retailing their own produce. The result is that they
have all the diversity and disadvantages of a conglomerate without the basic
advantages of scale. Because of the intensity of the horticultural sector and
the increasing complexity of its various input requirements the possibility of
National Group buying structures for horticultural inputs and packaging are
worth evaluating.
35.   The greatest single problem facing the horticultural sector is the
reduction of its domestic and export markets. Its greatest challenge is to
restructure the product and process mix of the industry as to maximize its
viability and growth prospects. This and other issues such as the linkages
between Hortex and the horticultural cooperatives, and the feasibility of
national specialist auctions on the Dutch model are key issues in the
horticultural sector which must be tackled at National level. Other issues
such as shedding activities to strengthen the management of the core business
could be tackled through restructuring coops at local and regional level.
36.   The horticultural cooperatives must reorganize themselves by each
identifying its core business, and devolving where possible its ancillary
activities. Horticultural Coops in different subsectors may have to act
jointly in processing and marketing, and in their dealings with suppliers and
with Hortex. The first requirement is for a rationalization proposal for
horticultural cooperatives, taking these and other market issues into account.
The second requirement will be to assist horticultural coops in responding to
these proposals and the investment or amalgamation decisions arising from
them.
D. Proposed Services and Service Structure
AppRroach
37.   Volume without Bureaucracy  To address this challenge, the approach
involves an important decentralization of services through a network of 12
Regional Cooperative Service Units (RCSU), each of which will have a catchment
area of four Voivodships. This strategy of taking the services to the client
is furthered by employing field staff (Cooperative Development Agents - CDAs),
who will be stationed in each Voivodship.
38.   The large number of CDAs, approximately 3 per Voivodship or some 150 for
the entire programme, may appear to some as indicative of the start of a heavy
bureaucracy imposed on the backs of the cooperatives. This, however, is not
the case. The CDA are actually the vehicle by which the RCSU can truly reach
the cooperatives and be responsive to their needs. They are also the reason
why it will be possible to assist that critical mass (some 50 percent) of
approximately 2,400 coops in the three years of operation.
39.   It should also be noted that the primary task of the CDAs - i.e. member
empowerment and provision of basic, introductory training and consultation,



- 56 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 13
are services that a cooperative will need only once. The demand for the CDA's
services is timer-limited; they will not become permanent fixtures. As
cooperatives' needs become more sophisticated, increasing use will be made of
contracted service providers external to the RCSU. The principle will be to
contract out a service whenever possible to the service provider closest to
the need. This could take the form of one coop manager providing training to
others, or engaging a Polish professional or training agency to run and design
a course.
40.   The Regional RCSU Councils constitute another defense against runaway
bureaucracy. By establishing a channel of accountability to the client-
cooperatives, the CDU will ensure that the RCSUs will provide just those
services that are needed - and no more.
41.   One should not loose sight, however, of the fact that the CDAs are
required and in these numbers in order to successfully "Jump-start" the Polish
cooperatives into becoming true member-owned businesses and effectively
handling the task of assisting an entire Cooperative Movement the size of
Poland's would be to commit a grave injustice to its members.
42.   Comprehensive Yet Selective.  A second methodology to be applied is
based on the field of Organizational Development (OD). In the practice of OD
the focus is the organization i.e. the cooperative - not the individual
employee. Experience in the West has shown that it does little good (for
example) to train individuals to be innovators if the organization's cvlture
puts little value on innovation and if the reward system penalizes it. OD
begins with a diagnosis of the organization - its culture, its systems, and
its relationships (internal and external), then a diagnostic work-up,
training, team building, structural adjustments, etc. are prescribed and
implemented.
43.   Borrowing from OD, the diagnostic process to be used by the RCSUs
becomes the basis for identifying training and consultation needs. It will
follow the five Cooperative Development Phases: (i) Member Empowerment, (ii)
Analysis, (iii) Improvement of Existing Operations, (iv) Expansion, and (v)
Fine-tuning. At each step in the process, the RCSU staff facilitates the
Council/staff's undertaking a critical self-assessment to identify strengths
and weaknesses and to uncover specific issues and problems to be addressed.
44.   The purpose of using this diagnostic-based approach is to concentrate on
just those specific issues a particular cooperative has at each step in its
development. It is comprehensive in that it focuses systematically on every
aspect of the cooperative yet is targeted, for it selects only actual
problems/weaknesses to be addressed through the appropriate intervention.
This has the advantage of being both less time consuming and more effective.
It also inculcates into the cooperative staff and Council the habit of being
self-analytical. The capacity to continually assess itself and respond to
issues and changes before they become serious problems is a characteristic
needed by all business - particularly those in rapidly changing environments.



- 57 -                           ANNEX I
Page 10 of 13
Phasing of Development and Services
45.   The service delivery mechanism is designed to provide an overall
structure to the process of cooperative development by being sub-divided into
five Phases, each of which consist of a number of steps. The uniformity of
this structure greatly enhances the CDU's capacity to manage its programme,
while providing a base for staff to understand and master their new roles. On
the other hand, the process cannot become too structured or uniform, for there
is much variety between Regions, Sectors, and individual cooperatives
themselves. Consequently, provision is made for the step-by-step process to
be adapted according to the unique needs of each cooperative-client.
Flexibility within an overall structure is the guiding principle.
46.   (i) Member Empowerment  The underlying assumption operating in the first
Phase is that in order for the coop to become viable and before the delivery
of any training or consultation services can be truly effective, member
empowerment must take place. In this context member empowerment means that
the membership:
(a)   develops a sense of ownership of the coop;
(b)   is convinced that they will have a say in the running of the coop
that the election of Council members will be open and democratic,
and that their input in terms of crucial decisions will be
consulted and considered;
(c)   knows that the leadership and management are accountable to them
and that no special privileges are allowed, and that if
malfeasance occurs it will be detected and those responsible held
accountable; and most importantly; and
(d)   firmly believes that the coop will actively contribute to their
personal self-interest and well-being economically and socially
through the goods and services it offers.
47.   The first step in the cooperative development process is to have the
RCSU invited into the coop. Initially, this will be on the basis of a
selection made by the RCSU. It is extremely important to initially select
those cooperatives which can best serve as demonstrations to others; thus;
selection criteria will include both economic potential and the openness of
the Council/management to member involvement. Later, as word spreads
concerning the RCSU and there is tangible evidence of the benefits to be
enjoyed from working with the RCSU, invitations will be forthcoming from coops
anxious to participate.
48.   Another key aspect of empowerment is the cooperatives' capacity to
attract honest, competent, and dedicated leaders. On the one hand this means
ridding the coop of any Council members who view the cooperative as their own
fiefdom of special privileges. The caliber of individual willing and able to
learn the new skills and acquire the new attitudes required in a market
economy business must be attracted.



- 58 -                          AEX 1
Page 11 of 13
49.   It will be the role of the CDA to assist the coops in dealing with these
leadership issues. What is crucial is that the members must themselves take
the initiative to remove from office any Council member not suited to the
position. The community organizing tactic of using members to conduct the
assessment meetings begins to create the pool from which the formal leadership
can be elected, while increasing the members' sense of their own power and
right to democratically select their Council. The CDA will also help the coop
to develop strategies for attracting the right type of Council members. This
may involve restructuring to provide for a compensated management committee
drawn from the entire Council. And certainly, the prospect of receiving
professional business training (useful in their own farm businesses as well).
will serve as an incentive. Depending on the degree of involvement of the
membership and the size of the coop, the empowerment phase should last between
4-8 weeks.
50.   (ii) Cooperative Institutional Analysis.  Within the framework of
preparing a strategic plan, a thorough analysis of the cooperative (using
professional analytical tools to refine the layman's assessment undertaken in
the Empowerment Phase) and its various business activities is undertaken.
Data is drawn from customer surveys, a financial analysis, and a management
audit. The staff is trained to perform these functions through workshops
conducted by the CDA. Both the Council and management are trained in
interpretation of the data, which is then presented by to the members in the
form of strengths and weaknesses for their review and comment. The result is
a list of issues, problems, technical constraints and weaknesses, and training
needs, which collectively become the agenda for the cooperative. This
analysis is facilitated by the CDA, conducted by the staff, and supplemented
by other RCSU specialists as needed. This Phase should take from 4-6 weeks.
51.   (iii} ImRrovement of Existing Ogerations  Once issues/problems have been
identified, further analysis will be undertaken by the CDA/staff or via
consultancies from specialists - e.g. cost control analysis, market analysis,
etc. Because these will be conducted with the participation of the CDAs and
coop staff, their capability to replicate such analysis independently will be
enhanced, thus reserving outside assistance for more complex problems. Also,
it is likely that many similar coops will have common problems.  This does not
obviate the importance of each cooperative undergoing the analysis itself, for
the acquisition of the skills and tendency for self-analysis is equally
important as the product. This commonality does, however, facilitate
addressing them, for it will allow training sessions and workshops to be he:d
for a number of coops at a time.
52.   Solutions to problems can also be shared via the Learning Exchange
Network (LEN) and through exchange visits between coops. This "ripple effect"
will help spread innovations more quickly and at less cost. This Phase will
last from 4-12 weeks, depending on the number and complexity of the coop's
business activities.
53.   (iv) DeveloRment of the New Business Activities Once the cooperative has
gone through the process of improving its current operations, it should have
acquired both the skills and information base to formalize a Strategic Plan.
For many cooperatives this strategic plan will call for investments needed to



- 59 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 12 of 13
expand existing or to create new business activities. In this fourth phase,
the cooperative will learn the skills to conduct and/or to contract for and
understand/use feasibility and marketing studies and to prepare a business
plan and loan application. These skills will be taught through
seminars/workshops, using the actual proposed activity and its data generated
from the cooperative as the content. Potentially, these proposals could serve
as joint training exercise for Coop Bank loan officers trying to improve their
loan application analysis skills. This is of course an on-going process for
any business. The RCSU assistance will last from 4-6 weeks.
54.   (v) Fine-Tuning the Cooperative  Once the major business issues have
been addressed, cooperatives - partictularly the larger ones with large numbers
of staff - will need to focus more on increasing workers' productivity. At
this stage. opportunities to improve the "human resource management"
capability will be provided. Topics will include such subjects as management
styles, quality circles, supervisory skills, motivation strategies, etc.
Organizational development consultancies will also be available to diagnose
and prescribe interventions for these, less tangible issues.
55.   The nature of the relationship between the RCSU and the Coop is
different during this Phase. Rather than being considered as a CDA client
receiving intensive assistance, the Cooperative will call upon the RCSU for
consultancies or choose to attend seminars on topics of interest.
E. Aspects of Implementation
56.   In spite of being a reasonably complex process, the establishment of a
Regional Cooperative Service Unit (RCSU) can be broken down into a series of
manageable steps. The first step consist of Recruiting and Selecting of RCSU
Training/Organization Development Specialists (TOD).
57.   Training/Organizational Development Specialist Training of Trainers.
The preparation of the TODs will begin with an intensive 2-3 week Training of
Trainers (TOT) to begin developing basic training, communication, and group
facilitation skills. This session will be highly experiential, with the
participants being actively involved in the process. The final exercises will
consist of preparing to undertake the next step in the RCSU implementation
process - i.e. contacts and general meetings. This training will also serve
as further screening for probation employees before final confirmation of
employment.
58.   Initial Regional Contacts to Organize the RCSUs Locally.  CDU staff with
the TODs will hold a series of discussions in each targeted Voivodship with
local authorities and representatives from organizations interested in rural
development (e.g. local government, Rural Solidarity, WOPR, cooperative
organizations, etc.) to explain CDU and its programme and to begin to identify
possible candidates for the Regional Council. These discussions should be
followed by general meetings held in the major towns and villages expressly
for cooperative leaders.  The purpose is again to explain the CDU and begin to
generate interest and support in its program. Possible candidates for the
RCSU Council can also be identified through these meetings.



- 60 -                           ANNEX 1
Page 13 of 13
59.   Nomination of a Regional Council.  Candidates will be identified, who
adequately represent the Cooperatives and who will ensure local support, and
forwarded to the CDU for appointment. It is essential that these individuals
not only be capable of the task but that they be acceptable locally and truly
representative of the cooperatives. Once this initial Council is appointed by
CDU, provision should be made for it to become self-replacing (should that
become necessary) within the guidelines established by CDU.
60.   Orientation of the Regional Council.  A week-end retreat will be held
with the newly rppointed Council members. In addition to giving them an in-
depth understanding of the CDU and its programme as well as of their role,
this can serve to build group cohesion and initiate the process of working
effectively together and of creating the desired "organizational culture".
Some initial planning would be a suitable task to accomplish these objectives.
4l.   Staff Orientation.  A week-end retreat would be held once all the staff
have been hired to explain in-depth the CDU, for exposure to the approach and
methodology to be used, and to begin the team building process. The
establishment and inculcation of RCSU staff into the "organizational culture"
(values and norms) of the CDU is an essential step in ensuring the
effectiveness of the implementation. This retreat will occur separately for
each RCSU.



- 61 -
AMEX 2
Page 1 of 9
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
The Financial Sector
1.    The Government's broad objective is to establish an efficient and
broadly-based financial sector, with an effective banking system at its core,
as a fundamental component of a competitive market economy. In order to
achieve this objective, an extensive program has been introduced to transform
the financial system, based on three principal elements: (1) efficient
monetary and credit policies; (2) strengthening of the banking system; and (3)
deepening of the financial system through the development of financial markets
and non-banking financial institutions. Major aspects of the program are
described below, against the background of the financial sector as it existed
in the past.
A. Overview
Institutional Structure
2.    In the past, the financial system consisted essentially of banks, which
served as financial agents of the Government in providing funds in support of
annual production and investment plans. The National Bank of Poland (NBP)
supervised the preparation of credit plans, which were approved by the Council
of Ministers and Parliament and implemented by the banking system under the
general guidance of NBP. NBP -perated as both central bank and commercial
bank and thus provided financial services directly to the commercial and
industrial sectors; the Bank for Food Economy (BFE) and 1660 cooperative banks
(CBs) served agriculture and agroindustry; Bank Handlovy was the primary bank
involved in foreign trade; PKO Savings Bank provided services to households;
and Bank Pekao SA specialized in foreign exchange services for households.
3.    Major reforms are being implemented to transform the institutional
structure of the financial system. In early 1989, NBP was restructured and
split up into a central bank and nine regionalized commercial banks. Banks
are now allowed to operate in all sectors and have begun to extend their
operations, although they have tended to concentrate on their traditional
sectors. NBP has approved licenses for more than 60 new banks (including
representative offices and branches of foreign banks). A program for the
establishment of a system of credit unions is being prepared and is likely to
result in a broad network of such institutions focussing on personal finance.
Financial markets for bills, bonds, stocks, and commodities are being
established.
4.    A bank restructuring program is to be implemented following diagnostic
studies (including audits according to international standards) to determine



- 62 -                              ANNFA 2
Page 2 of 9
the status of banks, in conjunction with the restructuring of social sector
enterprises. A major part of the program will be the assessment of loan
portfolios to determine potential loan losses, the allocation of these losses,
and the recapitalization necessary to establish a sound financial basis for
future operations. Ownership structures also will be modified during
implementation of the program, as state banks are gradually transferred to the
private sector. Studies are currently being undertaken in Bank Handlowy, BFE,
Pekao SA, the Export Development Bank, and the nine regionalized commercial
banks, under the terms of ongoing projects financed by the Bank/IFC and the
proposed Financial Institutions Development Loan (FIDL). Implementation of
the action plans which result from these studies would be supported under the
respective operations.
Interest Rate and Credit Policies
5.    Under the banking law of January 1989, interest rate policy was
gradually liberalized beginning in August 1989. Preferential interest rates
on domestic credit were raised and standardized at the beginning of 1990,
although preferential rates were subsequently re-introduced for certain
specific programs (incliading some in agriculture). During the first half of
1990, NBP's refinancing rate was set on a monthly basis, at the level of
inflation expected for the month. Initially, banks were allowed to set their
own loan rates, but because of the high nominal rates charged by some banks in
January of 45-50% per month (about -19X to -16% in real terms), NBP began
recommending a level for the prime lending rate. Since mid-1990, NBP has been
setting the refinancing rate in annual terms, at a level designed to be
positive in real terms, and it stood at 59% as of May 1991. (Inflation in
January and February 1991 substantially exceeded 100% on an annualized basis
but is expected to decline. For the year as a whole, inflation is currently
projected at 35%.) Sectoral credit ceilings were eliminated and replaced by
more flexible instruments such as NBP bille, which have been auctioned
regularly since March 1990. NBP has also been rediscounting commercial bills
of exchange, since April 1990.
6.    Preferential credit programs for agriculture and agroindustry were re-
introduced during the course of 1990 in order to ease the strains caused by
high nominal interest rates and the stabilization program. The subsidy on the
interest rate is paid out of the budget. In the spring, Zl 900 billion (US$95
million) of short-term (ST) credit was allocated for farm inputs at fixed
interest rates below the variable interest rates then prevailing. As of end-
November, the total amount outstanding was about ZI 600 billion (US$63
million). At mid-year, ST credit was made available for purchase of crops for
storage or processing, with an annual interest rate of 20% in comparison to
the prevailing rate of 36% 'subsequently raised to 45% in October, 59X in
November, and 72% in February 1991, before being reduced to 597 in May 1991).
As of end-November, the amount of crop purchase credit outstanding was Zl
8,540 billion (US$899 million). A special program of assistance was
introduced at mid-year for the dairy industry, which included subsidized
credit of Zl 300 billion (US$32 million) for modernization of the dairy
industry, of which Z1 50 billion (US$5 million) was short-term credit for
farmers and ZI 250   -Lion (US$27 million) was mostly medium- and long-term



- 63 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
(MLT) credit for cooperatives. Data are not available from the banks, but
perhaps most of the ZI 50 billion ST credit and roughly Zl 50 billion of the
MI.T credit was outstanding as of end November. In addition to these
iticernally-financed programs, funds generated by the EEC food assistance
program were made available from beginning 1990 as MLT credit to the private
sector for small-scale production, trading, and processing at 75Z of the NBP
basic rate. Some Zl 565 billion (US$59 million) was committed during the
year, and the total disbursed through end-November was about Zl 530 billion
(US$56 million). Thus the total outstanding amount of preferential credit for
agriculture and agroindustry at end-November was about Zl 9,190 billion
(US$967 million) for ST credit and Zl 580 billion (US$61 million) for MLT
credit. These figures represented about 46X of total ST credit and 11 of
total MLT credit for these sectors outstanding as of end-November.
Legal and Regulatory Framework
7.    The Banking Law and the NBP Law of January 1989 provided an important
beginning to the process of overhauling the legal and regulatory framework for
the banking system, but further changes are needed, and the Bank is helping to
coordinate the external legal assistance which is supporting this endeavor.
Emphasis is being given to the legal structure of banks, prudential regulation
and supervision, bank insolvency, state enterprise insolvency, security,
property ownership issues, deposit insurance, and foreign investment.
Attention needs to be given to ensuring that the banking legislation is broad
enough to allow NBP the flexibility to issue regulations which accommodate the
requirements of small banks, such as cooperative banks (e.g. with regard to
minimum capital and deposit reserve requiremer.ts).
8.    The strengthening of prudential regulation and supervision of banks is
being supported by the IMF and the Bank of France, and would be supported by
the Bank under FIDL. Regulations concerning matters such as capital adequacy,
loan classification, and provisioning have been circulated as guidelines and
are expected to be issued as formal requirements in 1991. Changes in the NBP
law will be introduced to ensure that NBP will be able to enforce -, .,iance
with its directives and will be able to initiate rehabilitation and
recapitalization procedures. NBP's bank supervision department is being
strengthened through recruitment of additional staff and training.
Banking Infrastructure
9.    A number of initiatives are being undertaken to improve the
infrastructure of the banking system. A national clearinghouse for large
transactions has been established by NBP, and regional clearing systems are
being designed. Accounting and auditing standards for banks are being
developed within the country's program to bring general accounting and
auditing standards in line with international standards, and they are expected
to be introduced during the course of 1991. Computerization programs are
being designed to enable the banks to generate the information required by the
new accounting standards, the reporting requirements of NBP, and modern
management information systems. A review is being undertaken of the present
system of Government deposit guarantees (primarily on savings deposits in



- 64 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
state banks), with a view to developing an appropriate deposit insurance
system.
B. Cooperative Banks
PositiQn in Financial Sector
10.   Together with the Bank for Food Economy (BFE), the cooperative bank (CB)
system of some 1660 individual banks dominates rural finance at present. (A
CB or CB branch is present in every community in the country.) Until
recently, the CBs were the only banks serving private farmers and rural
enterprises, and they have an aggregate membership of about 2.5 million, of
which about 75X are farmers and the rest are artisans, employees of social
sector enterprises, and other residents of rural communities. Over the medium
term, it is likely that the CB system will continue to be the primary provider
of financial services to farmers and small rural enterprises, while BFE
focusses on medium- and large-scale enterprises and some larger farmers. In
the longer term, the CB system will expand its capacity to reach clients of
all sizes, BFE will extend its network to reach smaller enterprises and farms,
and commercial banks will extend their operations into the rural sector. At
this point, rural entities will have access to a full range of financial
services from a number of competing banks.
History of the Movement
11.  CBs are not full-service banks but are actually savings & loan
cooperatives whose beginnings can be traced back 130 years. They were
federated into the Central Union of Savings and Loan Cooperatives in 1957, but
the independence of the movement was lost when the union was forced to merge
with the state-owned Agricultural Bank to form BFE in 1975. The state held
majority ownership in BFE and utilized it to exercise control over the CB
system, although the CBs retained a measure of independence under this
arrangement. The legal link between BFE and the CBs was severed when the
amendment to the cooperative law at the beginning of 1990 dissolved all unions
and thus eliminated BFE's role as central union for the CBs. Despite the
years of state control, the CBs have emerged in reasonably good condition and
now are in a position to be an important instrument in reforming the rural
economy. However, they must first address the issue of a superstructure.
Superstructure
12.   Since CBs are community-based organizations, they are small (total
assets average approximately US$850,000 and loan portfolios about US$500,000,
excluding local government deposits and advances) and are unable to lend to
medium- and large-scale enterprises. Their capacity to provide medium- and
long-term loans is limited by the amount and naturs of their resources.
Without a superstructure, they are unable to move surplus funds to where they
are needed in the CB system, they do not have access to NBP, there is no
mechanism for channelling external resources, and they are deprived of a range
of services such as clearing, auditing, and training. Thus the CBs cannot
function satisfactorily as independent units. Since the CBs had few



- 65-                               ANNEX_2
Page 5 of 9
alternatives when the legal link to BFE was broken, about 1580 banks signed
agreements with BFE which essentially continued the previous arrangements on a
contractual basis, and a few became associated with commercial banks.
However, an independent regional cooperative bank has been formed in the
Poznan area, and at least five other regional cooperative banks are in the
process of being established. The Polish Cooperative Banks Union (PCBU) has
been formed to guide the independent CB movement.
Resource Mobilization
13.   Under the previous regime, the CBs mobilized savings from the Drivate
sector, some social sector entities, and local governments, but they were
required to deposit their funds with BFE, and their lending was constrained by
the national credit plans implemented through BFE. Individual CBs obtained
refinancing from BFE, but the CBs were net depositors with BFE in the
aggregate and provided substantial amounts of funds for the social sector.
(At the end of 1986, over 60% of deposits -- including net deposits of local
governments -- amounting to about USUS$1.0 billion equivalent had been
diverted to the social sector.) Although the agreements signed with BFE may
still restrict the freedom of action of CBs to some degree, the banks now are
essentially able to employ the resources which they generate for their own
loan operations.
Loan Onerations
14.   In the past, the CBs provided financing for agricultural production and
investment, consumption, housing, land, and local government, and they also
recorded the value of farm output sold to the state (for purposes of
calculating pensions) and served as agents for land sales. About 60X of the
consolidated portfolio of CBs was for agriculture (roughly 15% in production
credit and 45% in investment credit), 25% for housing, and less than 10% for
craftsmen and other small businesses. CBs were operating in a riskier
environment than otner banks, since they were lending to the private sector,
and their loan decisions reportedly were influenced at times by local
authorities. However, the CBs required farmers to assign receipts from output
sold to the state for repayment of loans and, as community-based institutions,
they knew their clients well. As a result, repayment rates were high and
arrears were negligible.
15.   Now that CB loan operations are no longer constrained by the national
credit plans, they have begun to reflect the pattern of demand in rural areas.
Thus production credit and enterprise credit have grown substantially in
relative terms. In general, CBs can still rely on their close knowledge of
clients, and repayment rates reportedly have remained high. However, the
clients now are operating in an environment of liberalized prices and growing
competition, and the effectiveness of mortgages and other types of security
remains to be tested.'/ The CBs need to strengthen their assessment of risk,
S The feasibility of foreclosing on mortgages is largely unknown, and
guarantors now are operating in the same risky environment as borrowers.



- 66 -                              MMEX 2
Page 6 of 9
and their analysis of investment viability and enterprise creditworthiness, in
particular, in order to maintain the quality of their portfolios under the new
conditions. Technical assistance is being provided prior to the project to
help improve investment lending guidelines and train staff in the use of these
guidelines.
16.   Another aspect which is cause for some concern is the growing lending to
social sector entities. In the past, trade cooperatives (input supply and
output marketing) borrowed from NBP, and cooperatives providing machine
services borrowed from BFE. Now some of these cooperatives, as well as some
cooperative agroindustry enterprises, are turning to the CBs for financing.
Some of these entities may not be financially viable, particularly at a time
when cooperative unions have been dissolved, and the entities presently are
operating in a risky environment. CBs need to give greater attention to this
part of their operations and ensure that they do not impair the quality of
their portfolios. The technical assistance referred to above will help them
to do so.
Profitability
17.   In the past, CBs operated on a negative margin between deposit and loan
rates, and received a subsidy from the Government in compensation. Now they
operate on a positive margin between deposit and loan rates and receive no
subsidy. The CBs appear to be reasonably efficient, particularly in view of
the small size of loans and deposits, although some expenses such as salaries
probably have not reached equilibrium levels. The administrative cost of
lending in 1988 was estimated by BFE to be 1.8% of portfolio, and the
administrative cost of deposit mobilization was estimated at 1.11 of deposits.
Nominal profit before tax through September 1990 amounted to about 12X of
average loan portfolio and 8X of average total assets, but even these levels
were lower than those achieved by commercial banks.
Capital
18.   The capital base of the CB system remains inadequate.  In the past, the
high income tax rates and mandatory contributions left little profit for
retention in the banks, and the value of member contributions was eroded by
inflation. At the end of 1989, capital amounted to only 2.7% of total assets.
Because of high nominal profits in 1990, it reached a level of about 5.51 of
total assets by end September, but this was still inadequate in relation to a
satisfactory level for such a system of at least 81. CBs will need to
increase their capital through additional member contributions, retention of a
larger share of profits, and co- arsion of small portions of deposits and
loans into equity contributions.
Auditing
19. Auditing has also been a particular problem, because the arrangement
between NBP and BFE for - temporary continuation of BFE's role as auditor for
the CBs applies only to those CBs which are associated with BFE, and the
entire process seems to havre faltered. Satisfactory arrangements for auditing



- 67 -                             ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 9
of CBs need to be introduced as soon as possible, to preserve the financial
integrity of the banks and help ensure a sound basis for future development of
the system.
C. Bank for Food Economy
20.   As noted above, BFE was formed in 1975 through the merger of the
Agricultural Bank and the Central Union of Savings and Loan Cooperatives; the
Ministry of Finance holds 51% of its shares and the CBs the remaining 49%.
Until the recent changes in the banking system, BFE was responsible for
providing services to social sector agriculture and agro-industry (state and
cooperative farms; state enterprises; and dairy, horticultural, and
agricultural circle (machinery service) cooperatives'/).
21.   BFE has a national network of branches (in contrast to the regionalized
commercial banks), including one in each of the 49 provincial capitals, and 48
sub-branches. It also has extensive experience in large- and medium-scale
agriculture and agroindustry, and a large number of clients in these sectors.
Thus it is in a position to build on this foundation and compete with the
commercial banks. Instead, it is considering a proposal to regionalize its
organizational structure by establishing perhaps 12 separate banks based on
major branches, with the remaining branches and sub-branches becoming branches
of these regional banks; a small holding company would be retained in Warsaw
with functions such as mobilization of foreign exchange funds,
C iuterization, and training. However, this proposal is based on the
as amption that most of the CBs will choose to remain linked to BFE and become
shareholders in the regionalized banks, whereas it seems likely that most CBs
will form their own regional banks, as described above. Under these
circumstances, the result of the current proposal would be relatively small
regional BFE banks which probably would not be able to compete effectively
with the regional commercial banks, which have larger branch networks, or even
with the regional cooperative banks. Therefore BFE is likely to change its
strategy when the situation of the CBs becomes clearer. Concurrently, audits
of BFE according to international standards are being conducted and will form
the basis for an action plan for institutional developmert, as agreed under
the Agroindustries Export Development Project (Loan 3167-POL). (Some
additional work on the audit of the 1989 accounts was required and was
undertaken in March. The audit of the 1990 accounts, which was initiated in
April, includes a comprehensive review of BFE's operations, policies, and
procedures.) Once the situation concerning the CBs has been clarified and the
action plan has been prepared, a program of support for BFE can be designed.
22. In the past, BFE mobilized savings directly from the social sector (15-
20% of total resources) and indirectly from the private sector through the CBs
(15-20% of resources), but the major part of its resources (over 60%) was
provided by NBP. BFE granted loans in accordance with the annual credit
/ NBP provided financial services to trade cooperatives, notably the
Peasant Self-Aid Cooperatives (Samopomoc Chlopska), through its commercial
banking department.



- 68 -                              ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 9
plans, and the Government sometimes intervened in individual loan decisions.
BFE bore little risk on its loans since the founding organizations', of state
farms/enterprises and central unions of cooperatives normally provided funds
to allow entities to repay their loans, if they had insufficient funds of
their own. Of BFE's total loan portfolio at year end, about 45% was in
agriculture (including machinery services) and 50% in agroindustry. In
agriculture, about half of the portfolio was in production credit and half in
investment credit. In agroindustry, approximately 75% was for working capital
and 25% for investment.
23.   Now BFE is mobilizing more of its resources in the form of direct
deposits and relies less heavily on NBP resources. BFE has begun to lend to
private sector individuals and enterprises, and it has also begun to expand
into the commercial and industrial sectors, although most of its portfolio is
still in loans to social sector farms and enterprises. A significant portion
of its operations involve the preferential credit programs (virtually all
short-term credit). In addition, BFE began foreign exchange operations in
1990 and has nrovided a substantial amount of guarantees on foreign loans.
Arrears were under 22 of loan portfolio at the end of 1989, although most of
the portfolio is in the form of overdrafts and therefore not suited to usual
repayment measurea. According to BFE's assessment, amounts due from non-
creditworthy borrowers represented about 6% of portfolio at mid-1990. A
thorough review of BFE's portfolio needs to be undertaken to assess the likely
impact of the macroeconomic adjustment program, and such a review would be
incorporated in the action plan.
24.   Because of the high interest rate margins and substantial fee business
during 1990, capital as a proportion of total assets increased from about 4Z
at the end of 1989 to approximately 7% as of end 1990 (assuming that 90% of
net profit is retained in the institution, as at the end of 1989). However,
conditions in 1990 were unique and cannot be expected to recur. In addition,
the impact of potential loan losses remains to be determined, and it may be
that financial restructuring will be required. The action plan will address
this issue, as well.
D. Credit Demand
25.   Credit demand in the rural sector declined dramatically at the beginning
of 1990, as the stabilization program was introduced, then rebounded later in
the year. Nominal interest rates rose precipitously in early 1990, causing
many borrowers to repay outstanding loans and resulting in a contraction of
both deposits and loan portfolios. (BFE's nominal loan rate jumped from 851
per year -- 5.3% per month -- at the end of 1989 to 39% per month in January
1990.) High nominal and volatile real rates also led to a decrease in credit
demand for the spring planting season, as farmers reduced the use of purchased
inputs and used own funds to the maximum extent. (BFE's real loan rate
decreased from -11 per month in December 1989 to -22Z per month in January
V  The founding organizations generally were provincial governments in
the case of state farms and MAFE in the case of state enterprises.



- 69 -                             ANNih 2
Page 9 of 9
1990, then climbed to about 52 per month in March before declining again to
around OX per month in May.) In this adverse investment climate, many
decisions were postponed. Demand for investment credit was also affected by
the preoccupation of many state enterprises with the impending privatization
program and of cooperative enterprises with the "liquidation" program.
26.   Credit demand rose in the second half of 1990 as the stabilization
program took effect (inflation declined from a high of nearly 80X per month in
January 1990 to about 4.5 per month in March through the remainder of the
year.) Other factors were the credit requirements for the purchase of crops
and for the fall planting season (farmers exhausted their reserves of
production inputs during the spring planting season). CBs visited during
project preparation indicated that they were unable to meet the credit demand
with existing resources.
27. Thus the situation during 1990 was unique and does not give an
indication of conditions to be expected during implementation of the proposed
project, when the transition to competitive markets will have progressed
further and credit demand will reflect production and investment requirements
in a more stable environment. Under those circumstances, demand for
investment credit should be higher than during the years prior to 1990. For
the period 1986-1989, disbursements of investment credit for agriculture and
agroindustry averaged US$757 million equivalent per year, of which US$475
million (63%) was for the social sector and US$282 million (37X) was for the
private sector. In 1987, disbursements of investment credit represented about
282 of total investment expenditures in these sectors.
28.   In the future, credit demand is likely to rise as a result of factors
such as the elimination of constraints imposed by credit plans under the
previous regime; further increases in relative prices of some agricultural
inputs and outputs; expansion of private sector involvement in input supply,
output marketing, and processing; and enterprise restructuring. Moreover, the
major emphasis being placed by the Government on rural development and private
sector development will generate a substantial demand for credit as
infrastructure is improved and the growth of private enterprise is promoted.
Thus it is likely that project credit will represent considerably less than
10 of total investment credit demand from the private sector.



- 70 -                             ANNX 3
Page 1 of 12
POIAND
AGRICUETURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Technical Assistance for Development of Cooperative Banks
A. Overview
1.    The purpose of this technical assistance is to strengthen the system of
cooperative banks so that it can effectively channel the World Bank credit
line to ultimate borrowers and, in the long term, stimulate economic
development in rural communities, promote privatization of agribusiness and
help revitalize rural cooperatives. Much of this assistance would be targeted
to newly emerging regional cooperative banks (RCBs) created on democratic,
cooperative principles and owned by local cooperative banks. The RCBs would
serve as channels for assistance to the local banks.
2.    In late 1990, the first RCB was organized by local cooperative banks--
the Gospodarczy Bank Wielkopolski (GBW) in Poznan. In January 1991,
cooperative banks in Lodz, Olsztyn, Walbrzych and Lublin took similar steps to
organize four additional RCBs. Organizing committees all have adopted the
same bylaws as the GBW and all have adopted the name Gospodarczy Bank
(Economic Bank).
3.    The RCBs (or their organizing committees) have selected representatives
to serve on the newly-formed Polish Cooperative Banks Union (PCBU) to
coordinate formation of RCBs. In this way, Poland's cooperative banks have
taken major strides toward creation of a strong banking system owned and
controlled from the "grass roots" by the member-shareholders.
4.    In this organizational process, cooperative banks have evidenced the
need for technical assistance in several forms--technical advisers
(specialists in cooperative banking), training and staff development of bank
staff at both regional and local bank levels, training in other countries, and
credit research. This annex outlines a program of assistance for about three
and one half years to accelerate the modernization of Poland's cooperative
banks.
1 This assistance program for Poland's cooperative banks is based on
consultations with representatives of the cooperative banks, the Polish
Government, World Bank, European Community, U.S. cooperatives and various
donor agencies.



- 71 -                              A_EX 3
Page 2 of 12
B. Technical Advisers
5.    Skilled technical advisers experienced in cooperative banking would be
vital to the successful development of cooperative banks. They would advise
and counsel bank leaders in such areas as bank organization, policy, financial
audits, computerization, lending operations, financial management, human
resource development, legal matters and marketing financial services.
Technical assistance would be divided into two stages, the organizational
stage and the development stage.
Organizational Stage (1991)
6.    The organizational stage would cover the period when the RCBs are being
formally organized--the eight months immediately preceding commencement of the
project. This stage of development is contemplated in two phases. Objectives
and activities of the technical advisers are as follows:
Phase One: (time frame: three months)
Advisory Objectives:
*     Analyze regional bank's characteristics -- environment, history,
main economic parameters, number of shareholders, regional
production, agricultural and other enterprises.
*     Prepare a financial profile of regional banks, defining their
financial structure, risk, financial parameters, equity, earnings
potential.
*     Advise and assist in developing the organizational structure of
regional banks.
*     Analyze computer needs and outline a plan to meet needs.
*     Advise bank managers and directors on developing policies and
priorities for various bank functions.
*     Develop investment loan appraisal criteria.
*     Serve as technical resources for training programs underway during
the organizational stage.
Implementation:
Three external consultants will be retained: cooperative banking
adviser, financial adviser, and computer specialist. Regional banks
will prepare consolidated balance sheets, provide interpreters, and
designate local counterparts to assist with the work.



- 72 -                             AN_N
Page 3 of 12
Duration:
One week in each regional bank plus report writing and presentation--a
total of three months.
Reporting:
Conclusions and recommendations will be reported to regional banks,
PCBU, the National Bank of Poland, World Bank, and the Commission of the
European Communities.
Phase Two: (time frame: five months)
Advisory Objectives:
Evaluate staff training programs underway, assist with new
programs and refine plans for the on-going training program during
the balance of the project.
Review the new accounting system for Polish banks, advise and
assist in adapting cooperative bank accounting procedures (both
local and regional banks) to the new system.
Assist with early steps in implementing the computerization plan.
Advise and assist regional banks ir. developing and implementing
management systems for the new institutions (i.e. human resource
management, financial management, marketing, loan appraisal, loan
decision-making, communications, etc.)
Advise and assist in developing basic policies for coordinated
operation of the regional banks.
Serve as technical resources for training programs underway during
the organizational stage.
Implementation:
Four external consultants will be retained: cooperative bank adviser
(continued from Phase One), financial adviser (continued from Phase
One), accounting specialist, and training specialist.
Reporting:
Conclusions and recommendations on operating policy formation, training
programs, and accounting systems will be reported to regional banks,
PCBU, National Bank of Poland, World Bank, and Commission of the
European Communities.



- 73 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 12
7.    All advisers during the organizational stage would be short-term
advisers. The Cooperative Bank Adviser would be carried over to the next
stage,  The advisers needed would be as follows:
Cooperative Bank Adviser                    8 p.m.
Financial Adviser                           6 p.m.
Accounting Specialist                       3 p.m.
Computer Specialist                         3 p.m.
Training Specialist                         4 p.m.
Total Effort                         24 p.m.
The cost of these advisers is estimated to be US$300,000. This component is
prop.sed to be financed by EC funds currently available . to June 1991 and
add'tional allocations from July to December 1991.
DeveloRment Stage (1992-1994)
8.    The development stage would coincide with the implementation of the
World Bank project. It would essentially be a continuation, on a sustained
basis, of the technical assistance program started during the organizational
stage. A small team of highly experienced advisers on cooperative banking
would be made available throughout the three-year life of the World Bank
project. They would be assisted in certain technical areas of bank operations
by a small number of short-term consultants. Long-term advisers would
facilitate two crucial areas of development for rapid modernization of
cooperative banks.
9.    CooRerative Bank Adviser.  This specialist would advise and assist the
PCBU in coordinating establishment of the RCBs and revitalizing local banks.
The adviser would (i) counsel the PCBU on organizational and operational
matters, establishmenz of policy guidelines, determination of training needs
and development of effective training programs for regional and local banks;
(ii) advise the Polish government on establishing a supervisory office (i.e.,
regulations, reports, inspection) to assure sound operations; (iii) coordinate
use of all consultar.ts providing technical assistance to cooperative banks;
and (iv) foster cor.structive, timely coanmunication between the project, PCBU,
regional and local banks, the Polish government, World Bank, EC and other
assistance donors.
10.   Loan Operations Adviser.  This specialist would focus on developing the
lending function of cooperative banks to build strong loan portfolios while
financing sound new business enterprises throughout Poland. The adviser would
assist in developing valid loan appraisal criteria, building skills in
financial analysis, structuring loan decision procedures, introducing risk
sharing arrangements on large and complex loans, writing constructive lending
policies, and teaching techniques of loan servicing. In addition, the Loan
Operations Adviser would help equip loan officers to assist cooperatives and
other rural businesses in preparing loan applications including such elements
as financial data, projections, and feasibility studies.



- 74 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 12
11.   Consultants.  Short-term consultants would be used in technical areas of
bank operations (i.e., accounting, asset/liability management,
computerization, human resource development, marketing and legal matters) and
on functions of Government supervision. The resident advisers would determine
what short-term consultants would be most helpful and coordinate their work
with on-going developmental activities. Durations of such consultancies would
range from one to three months.
12.   Local Staff.  The resident team would be supported by a small local
staff. Each of the two advisers would be supported by a Staff Assistant
having a university degree and sufficient experience to make a contribution to
the program as well as handle various arrangements and translation. An
Administrative Assistant would provide secretarial and administrative support.
Each of the advisers also would be provided a car and driver to facilitate
their work.
13.   Level of Effort.  The total time required is 300 person months. This is
broken down as follows:
Long-Term Advisers (3 years)
Cooperative Bank Adviser                          36 p.m.
Loan Operations Adviser                           36 p.m.
Local Staff
Staff Assistants (2)                              72 p.m.
Administrative Assistant (1)                      36 p.m.
Drivers (2)                                       72 p.m.
Short-Term Consultants (1 - 3 months)
Year 1                                            18 p.m.
Year 2                                            18 p.m.
Year 3                                            12 R.m.
Total Effort                                300 p.m.
14.   Budgetary Requirements.  Estimated cost of providing this technical
advice for three years is US$1,350,000. This includes US$825,000 to support
the resident adviser team, US$300,000 for short-term consultants, US$100,000
for local staff and US$125,000 for operating expenditures (See Annex 5).
C. Training Program for Regional Banks
15.   Training and development of staff members and board members of the new
RCBs would be an urgent and crucial need. Not only would a capable staff be
required to successfully operate the RCBs, but regional bank officers also
would play a key role in training staff members of local banks. For this
reason, the training sequence would be to provide training first for the RCBs
and through them for local banks.



- 75 -                               ANNL 3
Page 6 of 12
16.   Training and aevelopment would be needed throughout the project to
develop effective overating systems and procedures uniformly for all RCBs.
Short-term consutltants would provide technical resources in developing the
training programs which would be repeated yearly after their introduction.
Organizational Stage
17.   Training courses are planned for the staff of GBW in mid-1991 as a pilot
program and to serve as the base for developing other courses. The initial
courses would be from one to six days in duration and would be designed and
offered by technical advisers. Nine courses are scheduled:
Basic Training:          Basic Financial Analysis
Elements of Financial Mathematics
Analyzing Bank Financial Conditions
Enterprise Analysis:    Legal and Financial Business Factors
Economic Analysis of the Business
Financial Principles
Business Financing:      Techniques of Business Finance
Financing International Business
Lender Liabilities
Development Stage
18.   A core of training courses would be developed to upgrade operating
skills of RCB personnel. The resident advisers would set priorities for
developing the courses based on training experiences in the organizational
stage, identified needs of the new banks, and availability of consultants to
assist in designing and introducing the courses. In addition to developing
RCBs, this training would "train the trainers"--RCB officers who would conduct
training for local banks.
19.   Training Curriculum.  Regional bank training needs would be met with the
following courses:
General:           Principles of Cooperative Business
Lending:           Basic Financial Analysis
Advanced Enterprise Analysis
Techniques of Business Finance
Financial
Management:        Funds Management and
Correspondent Bank Relations
Asset/Liability Managemnent
Capitalizing Regional Banks
Management:        Developing Strategic Business Plans
Board of Directors Training and Development



- 76 -                              AEX 3
Page 7 of 12
Internal Controls and Audit
Computerizing Bank Operations
Marketing:         Market Analysis / Product Development
Developing a Market Strategy
Building Customer Relations
20.   Particigation.  It is anticipated that, on average, three staff members
from each of the RCBs would attend each of the above co-rse annually.  More
may attend the general course on cooperative principles and more directors may
attend the director training. It is reasonable to assume, therefore, that
about 250 trainees from RCBs would participate in this program each year.
21.   Budgetarv Reguirements.  Costs of conducting this training would be
somewhat higher than local bank training due to the smaller number being
trained in each course. Local cost data suggests the RCB training is feasible
at US$200 per trainee or approximately US$50,000 per year. This includes
costs of materials, equipment, and local trainer costs plus room and board for
trainees. It does not include transportaticnt costs for trainees or consultant
fees and per diem. The.three-year project budget for RCB training would be
US$150,000.
D. Training Program for Local Banks
22.   There has been little human resource development for cooperative banks
over the past 40 years. The training proposed in this project, therefore, is
a vital part of the technical assistance.
Organization Stage
23.   Training in this stage is designed to prepare the banks for the changes
to follow under the project. It will provide retraining on cooperative
principles, emphasize the importance of serving members' needs, underscore the
impact of local business conditions on the bank's success, and reestablish
that key decisions are in the hands of the board and management. Groups
targeted for this training include (a) managers and board members, (b) bank
staff members, and (c) shareholder/customers.
Block I:    Regional Conferences for Bank Managers and Directors
Purpose:    Reestablish merits of cooperative forms of business and
emphasize roles of parties involved in a cooperative; review
plans to build a new cooperative bank system with technical
assistance.
Content:    Cooperative principles; opportunities to rehabilitate the
cooperative banking system; role of cooperatives and the
cooperative bank in local community; responsibilities of the
member/shareholders, board, and management; organization and
operation of che rooperative bank system.



- 77 -                             ANNEX I
Page 8 of 12
Methods:    Lectures by Polish and foreign speakers, presentations by
participants, discussion.
Duration:   One day
Blok II:   Seminars/Workshops for Bank Managers
Purpose:    Sharpen management skills, identify internal
strengths/weaknesses, begin planning process.
Content:      o&dulg I: Objectives and functions of the bank, analyze bank
strengths and weaknesses, focus on community relations.
Module II: Positioning the bank in the market, identify
external strengths and weaknesses, establish long-term
market share goals.
Module III: Study the function of management and management
systems, problem solving, decision making, effective
leadership, group dynamics, communication and cooperation..
Module IV: Organizational development, financial management,
managing technology, policy and operational planning.
Module V: Strengths and weaknesses of a dynamic cooperative
banking system; cooperation, coordination and communication
among banks; utilizing technical assistance.
Methods:    Lectures by Polish and foreign speakers, presentations by
participants, case studies, discussions, group exerAises.
Duration:   Two to five days per module.
Block III:  Operational Training for Bank Staff Members
Purpose:    Enhance operational efficiency/effectiveness.
Content:    Subjects of specific triining sessions to be identified with
bank managers in Block II.
Methods:    Lecture, case studies, group discussions, field visits.
Duration:   One to five days per training session.
Block IV:   Meraber/Customer Meetings
Purpose:    Fromote understanding and support for the cooperative form
of business; foster the feeling of member*-:wnership and
control.



- 78 -
Page 9 of 12
Content:    Cooperative principles, strengths and weaknesses of a
cooperative, the role of a cooperative bank in the local
community, business objectives and philosophies of the bank,
member involvement.
Methods:    Presentations by board members and management.
Duration:   Afternoon or evening meeting.
DeveloRment Stage
24.   ScoRe of Program.  Approximately 1,200 of the 1,660 local cooperative
banks are likely to become shareholders in the RCBs. With an average bank
staff of 12 employees, the new banking system would have a total bank staff of
about 15,000 employees. This is the human resource that requires new skills
to successfully operate banks in the new environment.
25.   Training for local banks would be a significant element in the overall
technical assistance. Upgrading skills would contribute much to the
modernization and streamlining of Poland's cooperative banks. Local bank
training must be closely synchronized with RCB operations. Conversely, the
RCBs must provide the vehicle through which local bank training would be
conducted. The strategy is to rely on RCB staff to train local bank staff
members. Consultants would be used to guide the design and content of
courses.
26.   The three-year program would be a building process.  Courses
successfully developed and conducted during the organization stage would be
fine-tuned and repeated for local bank staff each of the remaining years.
Additional courses would be developed and added to the curriculum each year.
In this way, cooperative bank training would grow into a sizable employee
development program to continue beyond the project.
27.   Training Curriculum.  Course offerings would be as follows:
Year 1
General:                 Principles of Cooperative Business
Basic Training:          Basic Financial Analysis
Elements of Financial Mathematics
Analyzing Bank Financial Conditions
Enterprise Analysis:    Legal and Financial Business Factors
Economic Analysis of the Business
Financial Principles
Business Financing:      Techniques of Business Finance
Lender Liabilities



- 79                               ANNEX 3
Page 10 of 12
Accounting:             Accounting for Cooperative Banks
Computerizing Accounting Functions
Management:              Board Functions and Shareholder Relations
Strategic Planning and Management Systems
Year 2
General:                 Principles of Cooperative Business
Basic Training:         Basic Financial Analysis
Elements of Financial Mathematics
Analyzing Bank Financial Conditions
Enterprise Analysis:    Legal and Financial Business Factors
Economic Analysis of the Business
Financial Principles
Business Financing:     Techniques of Business Finance
Lender Liabilities
Accounting:             Accounting for Cooperative Banks
Computerizing Accounting Functions
Management:              Board Functions and Shareholder Relations
Strategic Planning and Management Systems
Human Resource Management
Marketing:              Market Analysis
Marketing Financial Services
Year 3
General:                 Principles of Cooperative Business
Basic Training:         Basic Financial Analysis
Elements of Financial Mathematics
Analyzing Bank Financial Conditions
Enterprise Analvsis:    Legal and Financial Business Factor:
Economic Analysis of the Business
Financial Principles
Business Financing:     Techniques of Business Finance
Lender Liabilities
Accounting:             Accounting for Cooperative Banks
Computerizing Accounting Functions



- 80 -                            ANEX 3
Page 11 of 12
Management:             Asset / Liability Management
Board Functions and Shareholder Relations
Strategic Planning and Management Systems
Human Resource Management
Documentation and Records Management
Marketing:              Market Analysis
Marketing Financial Services
Customer and 'Community Relations
The above four-phase curriculum would be modified based on training
experiences and availability of training resources. Identification of other
skill needs or changing business conditions may dictate a different priority
or the need for additional courses as the project progresses.
28.   ParticiRation.  The objective is to provide needed trairing for all key
staff members of the local banks by the end of the project--a challenging
goal. Realistically, there is a limit to the amount of time staff members can
be absent from their jobs to attend craining courses. It is assumed about
half of the banks (600) would send a trainee to each of the courses offered.
At this level, approximately 8,000 course participants would be trained in
Year 1, 10,000 in Year 2, and 12,000 in Year 3.
29.   Budsgetarv Reguirements.  Average cost of a participant per course
attended is estimated to be US$100. This includes room and board during the
course but does not include trainee travel to and from the course. It
includes cost of materials, equipment, and local trainers but does not include
fees or per diem for consultants. With these parameters, the training budget
for local cooperative banks is US$800,000 in Year 1, US$1,000,000 in Year 2,
and US$1,200,000 in Year 3.
E. Training in Other Countries
30.   Training outside of Poland would be needed for selected bank officers to
adequately orient them in modern banking practices and proce'Ares. These
would be short training programs of two to six weeks focused on operations in
similar financial institutions. To the extent possible, training would be
oriented towards solving RCB problems. At least three officers from each of
the RCBs should receive such training each year. The average cost of such
practical training would be about US$5,000 per individual trained. Estimated
cost: US$150,000 (US$50,000 per year).
F. Coordination of T4rhr,ical Assistance
31.   Overall coordination of the technical assistance would be accomplished
in close consultation with the Polish Government, through PCBU -- the body
elected to oversee and promote development of the cooperative bank system.



- 81 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 12
PCBU would coordinate, for example, technical advisers and training for RCBs
and, through the RCBs, training for local banks.
G. Credit Research
32.   Work needs to begin on a data base for cooperative banks as a foundation
for developing sound butsiress strategies. It is proposed that a rural finance
study be conducted. This study would review credit demand in the rural
sector, access to credit markets, transaction costs for both financial
institutions and borrowers, savings behavior, the informal credit market, etc.
The study would be carried out with the assistance of consultants and would
yield useful data for developing the cooperative banking system. A financial
grant of US$200,000 is needed to carry out the study.
H. Sources of Finance
33.   A number of sources are available for this technical assistance.  It is
proposed that the European Community (EC) would be the principal provider of
technical advisers and training in conjunction with financial assistance. In
addition, bilateral governmental assistance may be obtained from the U.S.
(Agency for International Development), Canada, etc. Cooperative
organizations in other countries also are potential providers of assistance
(i.e. International Cooperative Alliance, Association of Cooperative Banks of
the EC, Agricultural Cooperative Development International, Volunteers in
Overseas Cooperative Assistance, and National Cooperative Business
Association).



- 82 -                            ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Cagitel Fund for Cooperative Banks
Background
1.    Since the amendment of the Cooperative Law in January 1990, BFE ceased
to serve as the central union of CBs. On their own initiative, CBs have
started to form independent organizations at the regional level. The first
regional cooperative bank (RCB) was established in western Poland with
headquarters in Poznan. Regional organizing committees (ROCs) have been
organized by CBs in other regions. The Polish Cooperative Banks Union (PCBU)
was organized by ROCs to coordinate all organizational activities concerning
the establishment of RCBs. Their plan calls for the organization of at least
six Regional Cooperative Banks (RCBs) to cover the entire country.
2.   The main strength of CBs rests on their depotit-generating capability.
CBs have been increasingly able to loan out deposits mobilized, from a level
of 34% of deposits by end 1989 to 64% toward the end of 1990. The role of
RCBs has become more pronounced with the need for financial services and the
necessity to coordinate development activities of CBs. RCBs are also needed
in channeling technical assistance and external funds to CBs.
3.    The biggest problem of CBs is their thin capital base.  The previous
system discouraged the accumulation of capital. Allocation of profits was
dictated by law and regulations mandating large payments for taxes,
allocations for various funds, and social expenditures, leaving little for
capital build-up. The original member contributions were eroded by inflation.
At the end of 1989, capital was equivalent to 0.7% of total assets. Due to
higher profit levels, the level of capital rose to 2.0% by the end of the
third quarter of 1990. This is a significant increase but insufficient to
meet their own capital requirements or those of RCBs.
P!urpose
4.    The primary purpose of the Capital Fund is to assist CBs in establishing
RCBs. It would provide the CBs the necessary funds to meet the capital
requirements of RCBs. It would acceler. e the formation of a cooperative
banking system owned and controlled by Cos. The fund would rectify the
problems related to accumulation of capital caused by the previous system and
strengthen the capital base of CBs to serve as building blocks for RCBs and
the entire cooperative bank system. The fund would help achieve a certain
level of consistency in the structure of these RCBs. About five RCBs are to
be established with assistance from this fund.



- 83 -                             ANNEXE4
Page 2 of 3
5.    The secondary purpose of the Capital Fund is to help CBs and RCBs
finance their long-term development requirements. After RCBs have become
operational, the system would need additional investment in facilities and
critical banking equipment, particularly modern computer software/hardware and
other data-processing facilities. The fund would provide long-term financing
for these requirements.
Amount. Source and Legal Status of the Fund
6.    The objective is to establish a fund amounting to at least US$20.0
million. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE) would establish
the fund on behalf of Government. MAFE would arrange with external donors
(such as the EEC and the United States) to set up the fund with an initial
amount of US$10.0 million equivalent as a condition of loan effectiveness; the
fund is expected to be set up by end-July 1991. The fund would be increased
by an additional US$10.0 million by the time 90X of the initial amount of the
fund has been utilized. Government would provide local funds to meet these
requirements if external funds are insufficient. The fund would acquire,
within a period of one year from the date of its establishment, a legal
personality with the authority to utilize interest income for expenses
necessary for its operation. The nature of the legal personality to be
established would be subject to the agreement of the Bank, and the resources
contributed to the fund would remain with it when it acquires a legal
personality.
Administration of the Fund
7.    The National Bank of Poland, under an arrangement with Government, would
administer the fund. The fund would be managed by a Management Committee,
consisting of: one representative each from NBP, Ministry of Finance, MAFE,
Office of Aid Coordination, the national organization of regional cooperative
banks (currently PCBU), a regional cooperative bank, and a local cooperative
bank. The chairman of the Committee would be elected on an annual basis from
among its members. If and when a National Cooperative Bank is established,
the administration of the fund, and all assets and liabilities, would be
transferred to this bank.
8.    The fund would purchase bonds issued by CBs.  Proceeds from the sale of
bonds would in turn be used by CBs to purchase shares in RCBs. The fund would
also provide long-term loans to qualified CBs and RCBs for development
pu-poses. Guidelines for bond operations and lending, and for CB eligibility
to become beneficiaries of the fund, would be prepared by the Management
Committee and would be submitted to the Bank for approval.
9.    As a general guideline for bond operations, bonds would be redeemable
within 10 years. The amount of bonds to be issued by each CB would match the
amount of their own funds invested in the RCB. Each CB may issue bonds
amounting to not more than 20X of the amount of private sector deposits held.
The yield of bonds would be a blended rate, depending on the sources of funds.



- 84 -                              ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
10. As a general guideline for eligibility of CBs, CBs with a capital
adequacy ratio of at least 3% would be able to borrow from the fund. About
1000 CBs met this criterion at the end of 1990, and another 300 should be able
to raise additional capital and meet the criterion by the end of 1991.



- 85 -
ANNEX 5
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Proiect Cost Tables
Institutional Development Cogponent
Table 1     Project Cost - Summary
Table 2     Project Cost - Cooperative Development Unit (CDU)
Table 3     Project Cost - Model Regional Ccoperative Service Unit
Table 4     Project Cost - 12 Regional Cooperative Service Units (RCSUs)
Table 5     Project Cost - Institutional Development of Cooperative Banks



POLAND
Agrlultural DeelOFent Project
Project Cost - Su mry
(USs '000)
.. ....................................... .................................................................................... ......... ................. ......................... .............................................     
t992                                        1993                                        1994                                      Total
....... ............   .....  ...... .............. .......   ..................... .. ... .  . ..........................,
Foreign    Local    Total   Foreign    Locat    Total   Foreign    Local    Totat   Foreign    Local    Total
...........................  ...........................   ............................ .... .......... .... .. .... .......
Institutianl Devtopmnt of
Cooperative vo    s                                                      500   1,248    1.828                        470    1,103    1,S73                        420           853    1,273                1,470    3,204    4.674
Seglna  Cooperative Servic                                                           2,164    2,116    4.280                     2,040    2.030    4,070                         470    1,910    2,380                    4,674    6,056   10,730
units
Cooperative Oev   ntt Unit                                                             679            309           988             600           24             884             230           284           514    1'.59                  876   2.3'O
0                                                                                                        0             0             0
...  ..  ................ ...........  ........................ .... ........ ..... ........ ... .. .  . .... ...... . ............ ............. .....
Total Deo Cost                                                             3,423.0  3,672.5  7,095.5   3,110.0  3,416.9  6,526.9   1,120.0  3,046.5  4,166.5   7,653.0 10,135.9 17,788.9
Contilo-encies:
Phypicat (101 of Equaint)                                                64.3          40.9    105.2                   0.0            0.5           0.5             0.0           0.5           0.5            64.3          41.9    106.2
Price (7, 14, 22X)                                                     244.1    259.9    504.0                      435.4    478.4    913.8                      246.4    670.3    916.7                     925.9  1,408.7  2,334.6
Totat Cost (CPU)                                                    3,73.4  3,9n.3  7.704.   3,545.4  3,895.8  7,441.2   1,366.4  3,717.3  5,083.7   8,643.2 11,566.5 20.229.?
... ... ................... ........................................ ............................................. ........................................................................... ...... . .......... ..-...  ---....--.-----oD
07-lar-91
30.
I-' t'



POLAND
Agricutturat Devetopeent Project
Project CoF. - Cooperative Devetopment Unit (CDU)
(US$S 000)
................................................. ........................................................................................................ .. .............................. ....................................  .................... .. 
1992                              93                            1994                          Total
Unit
Cost      Foreign    Local    Total   Foreign          iocal    Total   Foreign    Local    Totat   Foreign    tocal    Total
. .. . ... .. . . ..... .. . . . .. ............ .. .. .. .. .. .. . .. .. .. .. .. ............ ................
1. Persorml
Senior Staff                                  12
............
Cooperative Develops. Specialist                                     12        12                    12         12                   12         12          0        36         36
Cooperative  _Mgement Specialists                                    12         12                   12         12                   12         12          0        36         36
Training Speciatist                                                  12        12                    12         12                   12         12          0        36         36
Organfiational SpecialIst                                            12         12                   12         12                    12        12          0         36        36
Legal Specialist                                                     12        12                    12         12                   12         12          0        36         36
Assistant Level Staff                          8
.....................
Office Manager                                                        8         8                     8          8                               a 8        0         24        24
Accountant                                                            8          8                    8          a                               a 8        0        24         24
Translater/interpreter                                                8         8                     8         8                     a          a          0        24         24
Suwp "Staff                                   3                       15         15                    15        15                    15        15           0        45        45
.............
Expatriate Advisers                           150                                                                                                                                           Co
..................._
Coop. Developeent Adviser                                1SO                  150         150                 1SO         150                 150         450         0       450
Training Adviser                                         150                  ISO         SO                 1SO                                         300         0       300
Agrobusiness Adviser                                      150                 1SO         1SO                 150                                         300         0       300
II.Consultancies *nd Trafniv,
... ...... .....................
Consuttencies                            20 p..          140                  140         150                 150          80                  8O         370         0       370
Courses  (course/participant)               0.2                      90        90                    90        90                    90        90           0       270       270
IlI.Operating Costs (SI of Local Persomel)                                95         95                   95         95                    95        95           0       284       284
.... ...........
(office suppties, rentalt
telephone, trawl.
eintennce, etc.)
IV. Equipumnt
Vehicle                                     20            60                   60                                                                          60                  60
Coqputer (inct. software)                    5             15                  IS                                                                          15         0        1S
Photocopier                                  7             14                  14                                                                          14         0        14
Office Furniture                            sn                       25        25                                                                           0        25        25
......... .................. ....... .................... ......... .................. ...........................
Total Base Cost                                         679.0    308.5    987.5         600.0    283.5   a83.5          230.0    213.5    513.5   1,509.0    875.5  2,3844.5
Contingencies:
Physical (10t   of Equipment)                         8.9       2.5      11.4         0.0       0.0       0.0         0.0       0.0       0.0         8.9       2.5      11 4
Price (7T  14, 22X)                                 48.2       21.8      69.9        64.0      39.7    123.7         50.6      62.4    113.0        182.8    123.8    306.6
Total Cost (CPU)                                   736. 1    332.8  1,068.8        684.0    323.2  1.007.2         280.6    34S.9    626.5  1*700.7  1.001.8  2,702.5
.        _...........................................................................................................
07-Nar-91



POLAN
Agriculturat Developwent Project
Project rost - Model Regionat Cooperative Service Unit (RCSU)
cUSm '000)
........................... ........................................................ ... ,_........................... .............................................................  ............................................... 
1992                          1993                         1994                        Total
Unit                                                                                                                  _   _
Cost     Foreign    Local    Total   foreign    Local    Total   Foreign    Local    Totat   Foreign    tocal    Total
1. Personnel
Senior Staff
.... ....
an  ger1                                                   12        12                  12        12                  12       12          0        36       36
Trafning Speciatist                 J                      10       10                   10       10                   10       10          0       30        30
Agrobusiness Sp-.,alist            10                      10        10                  10       10                   10       10          0       30        30
Assistant Level Staff
Accountant                          6                       6        6                    6        6                    6        6          0        18       18
TranslaterlInterpreter              6                       6        6                    6        6                    6        6          0       18        18
Field Staff Coordinator             6                      12       12                   12       12                   12       12          0       36        36
Coop. Devetoa. Agents               4                      48       48                   48       48                   48       48          0      144       144
Support Staff                         3                      12        12                  12        12                  12       12          0       36        36
.... .. .. ..
Expatriate Adviser                   150          125                 125       150                150         25                 25        300         0      300            oD
.....  ...... ....
II.Consultmncies  mid Training
Consultancies                    20 p..          20                 20         20                 20         20                 20         60        0        60
Courses  (courme/participant)    0.1                       30       30                   30       30                  30        30          0       90        90
tIE.Operating Costs (20X of Local Persomnel)                  23.2     23.2                 23.2     23.2                23.2      23.2          0     69.6      69.6
IV. Equipment
Vehicte                             4            20        12       32                                                                     20       12        32
Coqputer                            5            10                 10                                                                     10        0        10
Photocopier                         6            12                 12                                                                     12        0        12
Office Furniture                   suN                     20       20                                                                      0       20        20
I                                 ,.           .                     .  ...........................                    .. _._.   ..._
Total Base Cost                                187.0    201.2    388.2       170.0    169.2    339.2        45.0    169.2    214.2      402.0    539.6    941.6
Contingencies:
Physical (102 of Equipment)                  4.2      3.2       7.4          0        0         0         0         0         0       4.2       3.2      7.4
Price (7, 14. 222)                          13.4     14.3      27.7      23.8      23        47.5       9.9      37.2     47.1       47.1      75.2    122 3  
Tutal Cost for one RCSU                            204.6    218.7    423.3       193.8    192.9    386.7        54.9    206.4    261.3       453.3    618.0   1071.3            W s
.1.a.......................................................................................  .. ... ......                            _._
14-Nbw-91



POLAND
Agricultural Dwvelopment Project
Project Cost - 12 Regionat cooperative Service Units (RCSUs)
(USS '000)
............................. .............................................................. ... .. . .... ...... .. .... .. ........   ...   ........
1992                       1993                        1994                      Total
Unit .             .             .             .--------.--..
Cost     Foreign   Local    Total   Foreign   Local   Total   Foreign   Local    Total   Foreign    Local   Totat
1. Personnel
Senior Staff
Manager                          12                   120     120                144      144                144      144         0       408     408
Training Specialist              10                  100      100                120      120                110      110         0      330      330
Agrobusiness Specialist          10                   100     100                120      120                110      110         0       330     330
Assistant Level Staff
Field Staff Coordinator          6                   120      120                144      144                132      132        0       396      396
Accountants                      6                    60       60                 72       72                 72       72         0      204      204
Transtater/lnterpreter           6                    60       60                 72       72                 72       72        0       204      204
Coop. Developm. Agents           4                   480      480                576      576                576      576        0      1.632   1.632
Support Staff                      3                   120      120                144      144                126      126        0       390      390
............ w
Expatriate Advise,                150       1.500             1.500     1.800             1,800       300              300    3.600          0   3.600          O
lI.Consultancies and Training
.  ......  ...  .. ....
Consultancies                 20 p.m.       160               160       240               240       170               170      570         0      570
Courses (course/participant)    0.1                  340      340                360      360                300     300         0     1.000    1,000
Ill.Operating Costs (20X of Local Persomel)               232      232                278      278               268      268         0       m 78     778
___..    _ _ _ _...... _
IV. Equipsent
Vehicle                          4          240      14#4     384                                                              240       144      384
Computer                         5          120               120                                                              120         0      120
Photocopier                      6          144               144                                                              144         0      144
Office Furniture                sun                  240      240                                                                0       240      240
Total Base Cost                          2,164.0  2,116.0 4,280.0  2,040.0 2,030.4 4.070.4    470.0  1,910.0 2,380.0  4.674.P  6,056.4 10,730.4
Contingencies:
Physical (104 of Equipment)             50.4    38.4    88.8         0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      0.0      50.4      38.4    88.8        ,.
Price (7. 14, 22X)                     155.0   150.8   305.8    285.6   284.3   569.9    103.4   420.2   523.6    544.0    855.3  1,399.3
... . . . . .. . . . . . ..    . ............. ... .. ..   -- -   -- - - - - - - - - - - - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Total Cost for 12 RCSUs                      2,369.4  2,305.2 4,674.6  2,325.6  2,314.7 4,640.3    573.4 2,330.2  2,903.6  5,268.4  6,950.1 12,218.5              >. to
The calculation of costs for 1992 is based on the assumption that pre-project activities of a significant scale will be concmlued
so that (i) on averaw e ten RCSUs will be fully staffed and operational during that ycar; (ii) all the equipment for the 12          14-May-91
RCSUr will be bought during the first year; and tiii) the 12 expatriate advisers will be available on average for ten months.



POLAND
Agricultural Development Project
Project Cost - Institutional Develtpment of Cooperative Banks
(USS '000)
.............................--- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- ---- --- ---- -....-- ---- --- --.- ---- --- ---- --_
1992                           1993                           1994                         Total
unit     ---------------------------         ---------------------------_---------------------------.-------_-_--__-_--__-_____.
Cost      Foreign    Locat    Total   Foreign    Local    Total   Foreign    Local    Total   Foreign    Local    Tottl
1. percomel
Expatriate Advisers
Cooperative Banking Adviser                  1S0        150                 150        150                 150        150                 150        450          0       450
Loan Operations Specialist                   150        150                 150        150                 150        150                 150        450          0       450
Local Staff                                                          40        40                   40        40                    40        40          0       120       120
.......... 
It. Training and Consultancies
..........
Regional Banks                                                     50        50                   50        50                   50        50           0       150       150
Local Banks                                                     1,000    1,000                 1,000    1,000                   750       750           0    2,750    2,750
Out of Country Training                                  50                  50         50                  50         40                  40         140         0       140
Consuttancies                                            90                  90        120                 120         80                  80        230          0       290
III.Operating Costs (20X of locat personnel)                             8          8                    8         8                    a         8          0        24        24
...............
(Office supplies, rentat,
telephone, travet,
mintenance, etc.)
IV. Eqiipment                                                 50                  SO                     5         5                    5         5         SO        10        60
V.  :redit Research                                           50        IS0       200                                                                       50       150       200
. . . .  .   ................... 
VI. Preferential Credit Monitoring                            40                   40                                                                       40         0        40
.............................
Total Base Cost                                        580.0  1,248.0  1,828.0        470.0  1,103.0  1.573,0        420.0    853.0  1,273.0   1,470.0  3,204.0  4,674.0
Contingencies:
Physical (10X of Equipment)                         5.0       0.0       5.0        0.0       0.5       0.5         0.0       0.5       0.5        5.0       1.0       6.0
Price (7, 14, 22X)                                 41.0      87.4    128.3        65.8    154.5    220.3         92.4    187.8    280.2         199.2    429.6    628.8
...... --------------------.--------------------.-.--.............----------------- .......----------.------
Total Cost (CDU)                                  626.0  1,335.4  1,961.3        535.8  1,258.0  1,793.8        512.4  1,041.3  1,553.?   1,674.2  3,634.6  5,308 a
07-Nar-91



- 91 -
ANNEX 6
ROLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule for the IBRD Loan
IBRD Fiscal Year              Disbursement       Cumulative          X of total
and Semester Ending         During Semester    Disbursement
---(US$ million)-
1992
June 30, 1992                   5.0                    5.0                  5
1993
December 31, 1992              15.0                   20.0                 20
June 30, 1993                  15.0                   35.0                 35
1994
December 31, 1993              20.0                   55.0                 55
June 30, 1994                  20.0                   75.0                 75
1995
December 31, 1994              20.0                   95.0                 95
June 30, 1995 a/                5.0                  100.0                100
_/ Closing Date is June 30, 1995.



- 92 -
ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 2
POLAND
A&RTCULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ImRlementation/Monitoring Schedule
Major Project Activities (Calendar Year)             1991   1992    1993    1994  1995
Quarter             3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2 3 4 1 2
Institutional Development
Cooperative Development Unit (CDU)
Appointment of Board                              xx
Recruitment of Executive Director                 xx
Recruitment ov staff                                xxxx
Recruitment of Expatriate Advisors                  xxxx
Initiating support/coordination of RCSUs          xx
Submit draft cooperative law -o Parliament               xx
Restructuring of cooperative subsectors               xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Regional Cooperative Service Units (RCSUs)
Selection of sites                                xxxx
Establishment of RCSUs
Initial three                                  xxxx
Additional three                                 xxxx
Remaining six                                      xxxx
Recruitment/training of RCSU staff                xxxxxxxx
Services to primary cooperatives
Training                                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Management advice                                xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Assistance in reorganization                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Networking of other services                         xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Assistance in establishing cooperative
service and apex organizations                       xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Gradual transfer of service functions from
RCSUs to apex organizations                                     xxxxxxxxxxxx
Training for cooperative banks                            xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Establish Capital Fund                               xx
Credit Program
Implementation of lending guidelines                 xxxx
Loan effectiveness                                     xx
Undertake credit research                                 xxxxxxxx
Set up preferential credit monitoring system                xx
Subloan disbursement                                     xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx
Project  '.ompletion                                                             xx
Prepar, ion of Project Completion Report                                           xxxx



- 93 -
A,EX 7
Page 2 of 2
ROLMN
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPQOT
Credit Monitoring Indicators
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995
Credit. by PurRose
Loans made in Zloty (Zl.billion)
Agriculture
Agroindustry
Other
Loans made in Dollars (US$ million)
Agriculture
Agroindustry
Other
Financial Institutions
Loans made in Zloty (Zl. billion)
BFE
Commercial banks
RCBs
RCB direct onlending
Participating cooperative banks
Loans made in Dollars (US$ million)
BFE
Commercial banks
RCBs
RCB direct onlending
Participating cooperative banks
Beneficiaries (Number of borrowers)
Farmers
Nonfarm individual borrowers
Corporate enterprises
Cooperatives



- 94 -
ANNEX 8
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Report on Polish Cooperatives, Novem-ber 1990, and A Report on Polish
Rural Cooperatives, February 1991, by G.J.F. McCa,rick
2.   Cooperative Training and Business Services System, November 1990, and
Cooperative Development Training, February 1991, by Ronald Phillips
3.   Consolidated Account of Farming and Rural Enterprise Activity, by C.
Warnaars and T. Burley, December 1990
4.   Regional Banks, December 1990, and Technical Assistance for Development
of Regional Cooperative Banks, February 1991, by Jon F. Greeneisen
5.   Agribusiness, by George A. Truitt, November 1990
6.   Report of the Project Preparation Mission Cooperative Institutional
Development and Restructuring Specialist, by 0. Roy Wiebe, November 1990
7.   Report of the Project Preparation Mission Banking Specialist, by P.
Stock, November 1990
8.   Report of the Appraisal Mission Banking Specialist on the Bank for Food
Economy, by Johan C. Enters, April 1991
9.   Report of the Appraisal Mission Economist, by T. Burley, February 1991
10.   Current Investment Lending Guidelines (Description of guidelines
employed by the Bank for Food Eco..omy), March 1991
11.   Technical Assistance Proposal for 1991 in Support of the Agricultural
Development Project (submitted to EEC-PHARE), April 9, 1991
12.   Sector and Financial Intermediary Lending and Environmental Review,
Environmental Assessment Source Book, World Bank
13.   Report of the Polish/European Community/World Bank Task Force (An
Agricultural Strategy for Poland), July 1990



S'                                        ;                  U .          5 .          S.           R.                                     _       _a
:5< 1Z                 =    ;t#L4  <     r   su:>:                                                                  -    P  L A N 
>> r~~~~~~-   7,               a SEUS    GDy- N u  J   
01  K            ~~~~~SUWALKI                                     PA N
54>  l,JvA   \Q *I 7                                       0YLAGSZZ/t\ SLAG\ j                      ltSTK\Mjo o
N'                                   N
STOL DOTS N ~ ~      ItlIO                                           mi. Pf
>  ,i_                                                                    OSTR t KAW                                                        ,     .    NoSoevr  Coptzvl
e          C t0) _ e~~~~~~~~~~~_                                                          BIALYST_OKur4
N                                                0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S  P-ov4- (Woic-d.tev) C.pit.js
N                                                                                     0   CiSwo n-d T-ns
I       K             "Svy                         -              .                                         1S, AP.-OC.,. 
T s ,                            .rovince .Wvjvw                               ) RodAreC .. SI
LLI~~~~~~PZNNWRA                                                                                                                            nevooe o,dre
52~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 521
"il    G6RA                 SKi E E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~YOOE                                           ,i
SIFRADZ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    -y      O~
5  00   KILOMETERS  200~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIL
ROSES  100               Cv~~~~~~-S                                                        DWY   E NMA RKl0\ ASR   UGR
5-                                                                                         GERMANY'-!   P           /  
YUGOSAVRAA



