Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16202
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3343-POL)
December 30, 1996
Agriculture and Regional Development Operations Division
Central and Southeastern Europe Departments
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perforrnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Polish Zloty (PLZ)
1988 US$ 1    = PLZ 0.0431            1989 US$ 1      = PLZ 0.1439
1990 US$ 1    = PLZ 0.9500            1991 US$ 1      = PLZ 1.0576
1992 US$ 1    = PLZ 1.3626            1993 US$ 1      = PLZ 1.8115
1994 US$ 1   = PLZ 2.2723             1995 US$ 1      = PLZ 2.4250
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(metric)
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADP             Agricultural Development Project
AEDP            Agroindustries Export Development Project
ARMA            Agency for Reconstruction and Modernization of Agriculture
ASP             Agricultural Strategy for Poland
BGZ             Bank for Food Economy
CBs             Cooperative Banks
CC              Convertible Currency
CF              Capital Fund
CMEA            Council of Mutual Economic Assistance
EFSAL           Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan
ERR             Economic Rate of Retum
ETP             Economic Transformation Program
EU              European Union
FAO/CP          Food and Agriculture Organization/Consultative Program
FAPA            Foundation for Assistance Programs for Agriculture
FIDL            Financial Institutions Development Loan
FRC             Foundation for Rural Cooperatives
FRR             Financial Rate of Return
GDP            Gross Domestic Product
ICBS            Independent Cooperative Bank System
ICR             Implementation Completion Report
IEDP            Industrial Export Development Project
JTF             Joint Task Force
LCBs            Local Cooperative Banks
MAFE            Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy
MOF             Ministry of Finance
NBP             National Bank of Poland
PBs             Participating Banks
PHARE           Poland-Hungary Assistance Recovery for Europe
PU              Project Unit
RCBs            Regional Cooperative Banks
RCSUs           Regional Cooperative Service Units
SAR             Staff Appraisal Report
USAID           United States Agency for International Development
Vice President              Johannes Linn
Director                    Jean-Michel Severino
Division Chief/Manager      Michele de Nevers
Staff Member                Kishore Nadkarni



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3343-POL)
CONTENTS
Preface ........................................... i
Evaluation Summary ........................................... iii
Part I: Project Implementation Assessment ............................................1
A. Project Objectives .
B. Evaluation of Objectives .1
C. Achievement of Project Objectives.                                                                  3
D.  Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting Project Implementation.                          7
E. Project Sustainability.                                                                             9
F. Bank Performance.                                                                                   9
G. Borrower Performance .10
H. Assessment of Outcome .11
I. Future Operation .11
J. Key Lessons Learned.                                                                               11
Part II: Statistical Annexes ................... 13
Table 1: Summary of Assessments .14
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .15
Table 3: Project Timetable .15
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .16
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation .16
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .17
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .17
Table 8A: Project Costs ........................................... 18
Table 8B: Project Financing ........................................... 18
Table 9:   Economic Costs and Benefits ........................................... 19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................                             20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .........................          .................. 22
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ............................................ 22
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................... 23
Appendices:
A. Aide-Memoire of ICR Initiation Mission
B. Borrower's Contribution to the ICR
C. Map - IBRD No. 28477
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not othemise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



4



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTIJRAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3343-POL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agricultural Development Project
(ADP) in Poland, for which an IBRD loan in the amount of US$100 million equivalent was approved on
June 11, 1991; signed on July 10. 1991; and made effective on March 4, 1992.
The original loan closing date of June 30, 1995 was extended by one month until July 31, 1995.
The loan account was kept open thereafter for a period of four months to enable completion of
disbursements in respect of expenditures already incurred before the revised closing date.  The last
disbursement from the loan account was made on October 12, 1995. The final amount utilized was US$
25.28 million equivalent and the unutilized balance of US$74.72 million equivalent was canceled with
effect from October 12, 1995.
The ICR was prepared in the Agriculture and Regional Development Operations Division of the
Central and Southeastern Europe Departments (Country Departments I and II) in the Europe and Central
Asia Region. The current Task Manager is Kishore Nadkarni; the report was reviewed by Michele de
Nevers, Division Chief and Franz Kaps, Project Adviser. On behalf of the Borrower - the Republic of
Poland. a written contribution was jointly provided by the Ministries of Agriculture and Food Economy
(MAFE) and of Finance (MOF), and the National Bank of Poland (NBP), and is included as an Appendix
to the ICR.
Preparation of the ICR was begun in the last supervision mission in July 1995 and followed up on
in the Implementation Completion Report mission of April 1996. It is based on materials in the project
files, discussions with relevant officials of MAFE, MOF and NBP; the Foundation of Rural Cooperatives
(FRC); the National Union of Cooperative Banks (NUCB), the Regional Cooperative Banks (RCBs), and
the Bank of Food Economy (BGZ). The Borrower's agencies (MAFE, MOF and NBP) contributed in
the preparation of the ICR by: (i) discussing major points included in the report; (ii) providing information
on the credit line component; (iii) coordinating collection of necessary data; and (iv) providing its section
of the report.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3343-POL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
i.     Since Poland rejoined the Bank in 1986, the Bank's strategy of assistance has focused on
supporting the country's program of macroeconomic and structural adjustment to make the economy more
efficient, flexible, market responsive and competitive in external markets. In the agriculture sector, the
Bank's first operation was the Agroindustries Export Development Project (Loan 3167-POL), approved in
June 1990, that aimed at supporting Poland's efforts to expand its exports to convertible currency markets,
by financing restructuring and modernization investments in selected agricultural subsectors in which
Poland was perceived to have comparative advantage. The Agricultural Development Project, approved
in June 1991, was the Bank's second operation in the sector. It was followed by an Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Loan (Loan 3600-POL), approved in May 1993, in support of the Government's Medium-
Term Adjustment Program in the agricultural sector (para. 3).
PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
ii.    Objectives. The development objectives of the Agricultural Development Project (ADP) were to:
support private farmers and promote other private sector activities in rural areas, primarily through the
restructuring of high-priority rural cooperatives (e.g. cooperative banks, and marketing, dairy and
horticulture cooperatives).  More specifically, the project was to: start transforming existing rural
cooperatives from social sector organizations to member-controlled, market-oriented business enterprises;
help develop rural commercial enterprises by improving access to credit; and provide investment funds for
business and institutional development in rural communities.
iii.    Components: To achieve these objectives, the project was to support over a three-year
implementation period (January 1992 to December 1994) the following activities:
Institutional Development.   Provision of institution-building activities for about 2,400 rural
cooperatives and cooperative banks, including the strengthening of individual cooperatives and
banks, and assisting them in establishing suitable apex structures at regional and national levels.
The project was also to provide for staff training, advice on organizational restructuring and
privatization, and assistance in credit implementation-related activities, as well as the financing of
equipment and operating expenditures for the Technical Assistance (TA) delivery system. The
project's TA component (then estimated at US$20.2 million) was to be implemented with grant
funds from various agencies, the foremost being the EC (now EU). The project was also to
support the establishment of a Capital Fund (CF) for cooperative banks financed from the
Government's budgetary and other sources.
Credit Program. The project was to provide medium- and long-term credit (through a US$100
million equivalent Bank loan) for investments in agriculture, agroindustry and other rural
productive sectors, benefiting farmers, individual entrepreneurs, private cooperatives, private
enterprises, and former state enterprises which had been privatized. Loan funds were to be



iv
channeled to investors through NBP, acting as the apex bank, and participating banks (PBs) either
directly or through qualified cooperative banks (CBs) (para. 2).
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
iv.    Achievement of Objectives. The project's institutional objectives - in respect of supporting the
transformation of rural cooperatives and strengthening of the cooperative banking system - were
substantially achieved although the sustainability of the progress depends critically upon the Government's
resolve and ability to ensure a conducive environment for them. In regard to the transformation of rural
cooperatives, the envisaged apex structures at the national and regional levels (the Foundation for Rural
Cooperatives (FRC) and its associated 12 Regional Cooperative Service Units (RCSUs)) were established,
and became operational, on schedule with extensive donor-financed technical assistance.  Technical
assistance was provided under the project to about 3,000 (out of a total of around 8,000) rural
cooperatives in various aspects of the transformation process. FRC and the RCSUs have progressively
established themselves in terms of their clients' recognition of their contributions, and this is reflected in
their increased self-financing from fee-generating activities. To the extent that FRC's charter includes
activities of a developmental nature, it and the RCSUs would continue to require some financial support
from the Government through budgetary sources (paras. 11 to 13). In regard to the strengthening of the
cooperative banking system, the project was instrumental in the establishment of an independent
cooperative bank system (ICBS), consisting of three regional cooperative banks (RCBs) and associated
400 local cooperative banks (LCBs) that together accounted for about 40 percent of the total assets of the
entire cooperative bank system. As in the case of rural cooperatives, the envisaged national and regional
apex structures (the National Union of Cooperative Banks and the three Regional Cooperative Banks)
were established and made operational with extensive donor-financed technical and financial assistance.
This included, significantly, a Capital Fund (of about US$20 million equivalent) that was vital in enabling
the establishment of the three RCBs (paras. 14 to 18).
v.     The project was less successful in meeting its financial objectives of making funds adequately
available to private farmers and other rural investors, and in securing benefits from the funds actually
onlent to the extent expected at appraisal.  Of the original Bank loan amount of US$100 million
equivalent, only about US$25.3 million was disbursed with the balance being canceled at loan closing.
The bulk of the funds onlent went to agroprocessing and rural services activities; farm investments
accounted for only around 11 percent of the amount onlent, reflecting the reluctance of private farmers to
borrow at the perceived high interest rates. The weighted average reestimated financial rate of return
(FRR), computed on the basis of the FRRs prepared by the subborrowers and participating banks for a
sample of subprojects, was substantially lower than that projected - about 24 percent as compared to 43
percent - and likely itself is a significant overestimate, arising from computational and methodological
weaknesses. In regard to repayment performance, as of July 1996, four of the 31 subloans (involving
subloans of about US$6 million out of the total of US$25.3 million) were in arrears, primarily in relation
to interest payments. The PBs concerned regard the arrears problems as transitional and expect them to
be corrected (paras. 19 to 24).
vi.    Major Factors Affecting the Project: The main risks to project implementation were recognized at
appraisal - the possible effects on the subsector from variations in implementation of the overall economic
transformation and structural reform programs; slow progress in financial sector reform; and the financial
institutions' lack of experience in lending to private sector clients. What could not be foreseen was the
juxtaposition of the sudden collapse of the CMEA market and the transitional difficulties in domestic
markets, and their combined impact on agricultural and non-agricultural enterprises, and the banking
system.  Also, frequent changes in the government and associated discontinuities adversely affected
project implementation (paras. 7 and 25 to 29).



V
vii.   Bank and Borrower Performance: While Bank performance was satisfactory in all phases of the
project cycle, it was more effective in the pre-implementation phases of the project, including
identification, preparation and appraisal.  During the implementation phase, Bank supervision was
satisfactory in terms of the frequency and extent of efforts, including missions in the field. However, its
effectiveness in securing project objectives was mixed. While the institutional objectives were achieved to
a large extent, the Bank, despite intensive proactive efforts, particularly after a major review in 1993, was
unable to secure a significant improvement in the credit component (paras. 31 to 34).
viii.   The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the identification, preparation and appraisal
stages of the project cycle. Performance during the implementation phase was affected by a number of
factors, including, in part, the many changes in government. This contributed to delays in securing
essential improvements in the enabling environment, including timely modifications to the cooperative
law, and the adoption of a clear and consistent policy in regard to BGZ and the cooperative banks.
Despite the presence of a Project Coordination Committee (PCC) with representation from the key
implementing agencies (MAFE, MOF and NBP), and the nominal anchoring of the ADP in MAFE, there
remained an overall lack of effective ownership, resulting in less than proactive involvement, including in
project promotion, facilitation, and monitoring. Compliance with covenants was generally satisfactory
except in regard to the timely completion of a rural finance study and the installation of the monitoring
system for preferential credit, as originally agreed. Reporting, while complied with, was inadequate in
terms of the accuracy and quality of information (paras. 35 to 36).
ix.    Assessment of  Project Outcome: The overall project outcome is assessed as marginally
satisfactory; the project has met its institutional objectives to a large extent but this is significantly offset
by its lack of success in meeting its main financial objectives of providing investment funds to private
farmers and other rural investors, and to rural cooperatives to support their restructuring (para. 37).
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
x.     Sustainability: Sustainability of the project, including the continued effective operations of the
project-supported institutions, would depend critically upon the Government's success in resolving
satisfactorily the situation in regard to the framework for rural finance, including the proper roles of BGZ
and the cooperative banks. Vital, in this regard, would be the Government's ability to secure necessary
changes to the law on cooperative banks and to ensure its even-handed application to BGZ and the
cooperative banks (para. 30).
xi.    Future Operation: At the Government's request, the Bank is continuing to provide technical
assistance in the design and implementation of the restructuring program for the Polish rural finance
sector. The EU and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) have indicated that
BGZ and the cooperative banks are high priorities for their support. The Bank is collaborating with the
EBRD in jointly developing, by mid-1997, a technical assistance program for BGZ that would help define,
inter alia, its organizational relationship with the cooperative banks and its business strategy, including a
clear delineation of roles, and the respective areas of focus, of BGZ and the cooperative banks associated
with it. In regard to the FRC and its constituent regional units, the Government has confirmed its
intention to provide support for their operations but it has been unable as yet to submit a formal
operational plan in regard to the nature and modalities of the intended support. The Bank intends to
continue to monitor progress in the institutional areas above in the context of other ongoing and planned
work in regional and rural development in Poland (paras. 38 to 40).



vi
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
xii.    The main lessons from the project (as summarized in para. 41), which may also have more
general relevance for other projects, are:
(a)  it is essential to agree upon, at the outset, a clear strategy for the overall development of the
rural finance sector, including the respective roles of the key intermediaries (in this case
BGZ and the cooperative banks);
(b) strong and sustained Government commitment is required to ensure timely actions to
improve key aspects of the enabling environment (in this case, the cooperative law and the
law on cooperative banks and BGZ); and
(c)  credit lines are inappropriate instruments in the absence of strong financial intermediaries,
and in environments of significant monetary instability characterized by high inflation and
interest rates.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3343-POL)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    The development objectives of the Agricultural Development Project (ADP) were to: support
private farmers and promote other private sector activities in rural areas,  primarily through the
restructuring of high-priority rural cooperatives (e.g. cooperative banks, and marketing, dairy and
horticulture cooperatives).  More specifically, the project was to: start transforming existing rural
cooperatives from social sector organizations to member-controlled, market-oriented business enterprises;
help develop rural comrnercial enterprises by improving access to credit; and provide investment funds for
business and institutional development in rural communities.
2.     To achieve these objectives, the project was to support over a three-year implementation period
(January 1992 to December 1994) the following activities:
Institutional Developmnent.   Provision of institution-building activities for about 2,400 rural
cooperatives and cooperative banks, including the strengthening of individual cooperatives and
banks, and assisting them in establishing suitable apex structures at regional and national levels.
The project was also to provide for staff training, advice on organizational restructuring and
privatization, and assistance in credit implementation-related activities, as well as the financing of
equipment and operating expenditures for the Technical Assistance (TA) delivery system. The
project's TA component (then estimated at US$20.2 million) was to be implemented with grant
funds from various agencies, the foremost being the EC (Pow EU). The project was also to
support the establishment of a Capital Fund (CF) for cooperative banks financed from the
Government's budgetary and other sources.
Credit Program. The project was to provide medium- and long-term credit (through a US$100
million equivalent Bank loan) for investments in agriculture, agroindustry and other rural
productive sectors, benefiting farmers, individual entrepreneurs, private cooperatives, private
enterprises, and former state enterprises which had been privatized.  Loan funds were to be
channeled to investors through NBP, acting as the apex bank, and participating banks (PBs) either
directly or through qualified cooperative banks (CBs).
B. EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
3.     Poland rejoined the Bank in 1986. At the time, although socialism was under strain and the
demand for reform was growing. there was no consensus that radical change was the only solution. Bank
operations focused, therefore, on securing gains in selected subsectors, chosen on the basis of their
potential comparative advantage, through improvement in the productivity and efficiency of state-owned
enterprises. The elections of June 1989 marked a watershed in Poland's history. The new democratically
elected Government. strongly committed to the rapid creation of a market economy, initiated its Economic



2
Transformation Program (ETP) in early 1990 with priority on stabilizing the economy and creating
effective markets to replace the system of central command. The Bank's assistance program shifted to
helping the Government carry out its program of reforms. In April 1990, the Government decided that it
urgently needed to formulate a strategy for the agriculture sector. A Joint Task Force (JTF), composed of
representatives from the Bank, the EC and Polish agencies, was established in May 1990 and charged
with submitting its report on an Agricultural Strategy for Poland (ASP) by the end of July 1990. Among
the recommendations of the ASP was the urgent need for developing rural institutions -- rural cooperatives
and cooperative banks -- by supporting their transformation to make them more responsive to the evolving
needs of Polish agriculture. This was subsequently taken up for addressing through the ADP; other
recommended policy and institutional measures were to be taken up under an agricultural sector
adjustment operation, that was to follow the ADP with a slight lag. An Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Loan (ASAL - Loan 3600-POL) did follow, but only in May 1993, two years after the approval of the
ADP.  The Bank was also closely involved in supporting the Government's program of financial sector
reform, and approved a loan (Loan 3341-POL) for the Financial Institutions Development Project (FIDL)
in June 1991 in parallel with the approval of the ADP.
4.     The objective of supporting private farmers and the promotion of other private activities in rural
areas was consistent with the importance of agriculture in the national economy (at the time, 12 percent of
GDP, 20 percent of exports, and 28 percent of employment); and the already large (over 80 percent of
farm land) and growing share of private farmers in Polish agriculture. The emphasis on transformation of
rural cooperatives and cooperative banks was well-justified in view of the shares of these institutions in
respectively providing essential services (input supply, output marketing, dairy and horticulture) and
credit to private farmers and other rural investors. The objective of providing investment funds was also
consistent with facilitating the transformation of the cooperatives, and the development of other private
sector activities in the rural sector.
5.     Project design rightly emphasized institutional development as the primary focus.  Certain
changes in the laws and regulations pertaining to cooperatives and banking, pursued under the ETP with
the objective of freeing individual cooperatives and cooperative banks from centralized control (for
example, through the dissolution of the central unions of the cooperatives, and the removal of the Bank
for Food Economy (BGZ) as the apex institution for the cooperative banks) also had the concurrent effect
of depriving the cooperatives and the cooperative banks of essential training, advisory and administrative
services that had been provided by the central organizations. Recognizing this vacuum, the design
correctly identified the need for interim institutions to be established to meet these needs. For the rural
cooperatives, this implied the establishment of a central agency to assist in cooperative transformation
through provision of advice, training, and support services. For the cooperative banks, it implied the
establishment of tiered structures - a number of regional cooperative banks (RCBs) owned by member
cooperative banks; and a National Union of Cooperative Banks (NUCB) formed by the RCBs and the
many local cooperative banks (LCBs). The institutional development component under the project rightly
focused, including in concentrating the technical assistance, on the establishment and operationalization of
these intermediate institutions. These institutions, in turn, were to undertake the provision of technical
assistance and supporting services to the large number of primary cooperatives (about 8,000) and the
LCBs (over 1,600). The establishment of a Capital Fund was vital in helping the LCBs in meeting the
capital requirements of the three RCBs that were established, particularly in view of the higher
capitalization requirements introduced by the new banking law in 1991.
6.    In regard to the credit component, the design called for successive onlending through a tiered
structure with the NBP as the apex which would onlend the funds to eligible participating banks (including
BGZ, other commercial banks and the RCBs), which in turn could lend the funds directly to the final
beneficiaries (cooperatives, private farmers and investors) or onlend to eligible LCBs for onlending to the
final beneficiaries. It was recognized that, given the relative lack of experience of the LCBs in such



3
lending and the time that it would take them to become eligible to participate, at least initially, BGZ and
the other participating banks (PBs) would be the main participants. Design of the credit component was
influenced by the then newly issued guidelines in the Bank on lending through financial intermediaries;
accordingly, eligibility for financing was extended to a broad spectrum of beneficiaries in the rural sector,
and onlending interest rates were to be market-determined. In the light of experience under a preceding
credit line (for the Agroindustries Export Development Project - AEDP - Loan 3167-POL that was
implemented in parallel with the ADP) in Poland as well as that under other credit lines, it was decided
not to preappraise subprojects for inclusion given the need for flexibility to the PBs to respond in a rapidly
changing economic environment.
7.     The main risks to project implementation were recognized at appraisal - the possible effects on the
subsector from variations in implementation of the overall economic transformation and structural reform
programs; slow progress in financial sector reform; and the financial institutions' lack of experience in
lending to private sector clients. What could not be foreseen was the juxtaposition of the sudden collapse
of the CMEA market and the transitional difficulties in domestic markets, and their combined impact on
agricultural and non-agricultural enterprises and the banking system. In hindsight, the considerable risk
associated with the Government's political will and ability to follow a clear and consistent strategy in
regard to the development of the rural finance sector, and to deal effectively in a timely manner with
BGZ, was also not adequately recognized.
8.     To increase the attractiveness of the Bank loan to subborrowers in the changing circumstances, a
number of modifications were made to the project during implementation without compromising the
original objectives. These included simplification of application procedures; extending the period of
eligibility for refinancing of subloans made by the LCBs from 90 to 180 days; and extending the
subborrower eligibility to operating lease companies. For consistency, thresholds and conditions were
harmonized between the Bank's different credit lines in Poland. As a special accommodation to LCBs
which had been denied the opportunity to participate under the project due to delays in finalization by
NBP and the PBs of the relevant onlending agreements, eligibility in respect of refinancing was extended
to eligible subloans made after loan signing (July 1991) to enable the LCBs to extend the maturities of the
concerned subloans.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.     The project's institutional objectives - in respect of supporting the transformation of rural
cooperatives and strengthening of the cooperative banking system - were substantially achieved although
the sustainability of the progress depends critically upon the Government's resolve and ability to ensure a
conducive environment for them (para. 30). The project was largely unsuccessful in meeting its financial
objectives, both in terms of making funds adequately available to private farmers and other rural
investors, and in securing adequate benefits from the limited funds that were actually onlent.
Sector Policy Objectives
10.    The project was undertaken in the context of the Government's overall sweeping reform program
under the ETP which was being supported by the IMF, and by the Bank through a Structural Adjustment
Loan (Loan 3247-POL)  that addressed key macroeconomic and structural reform  areas.  Priority
agricultural sector issues, identified under the ASP, were to be addressed under a separate sector
adjustment operation, originally planned to follow closely upon the ADP, but later delayed by about two
years.  In addition, the Bank was also engaged in supporting the ongoing financial sector reform,
including through the FIDL (para. 3).  The ADP therefore focused on institutional and financial
objectives. The principal sector policy objective was to address the deficiencies in the law on cooperatives
that was constraining the restructuring and rational development of cooperatives.  Amendments that



4
considerably improved the existing law were adopted in 1994 but only with a delay of over two years;
even so, there remain significant areas for further improvement.
Institutional Objectives
(a) Rural Cooperatives
11.    Cooperatives: The project had substantial success in assisting rural cooperatives in their
transformation from state-controlled to member-controlled organizations. Out of a total of around 8,000
cooperatives, about 3,000 received direct assistance from the Foundation for Rural Cooperatives (FRC)
and/or its member Regional Cooperative Service Units (RCSUs) in various aspects of the transformation
process: interpretation of the provisions of the revised cooperative laws and regulations; preparation/
amendment of the cooperatives' own statutes and by-laws; assessment of reorganization alternatives;
preparation of business plans; assistance in credit applications to banks and other financial institutions;
training and conferences for cooperative management and staff; and dissemination of information on
experiences in cooperative development and  organization  in other European  countries.   The
transformation process would have been faster but, particularly up to 1994, it was affected by the
uncertainties arising from the delays in the amendments to the law on cooperatives.
12.    Foundation for Rural Cooperatives (FRC).  Establishment of a cooperative development unit to
assist in the transformation of rural cooperatives was a condition of effectiveness.  The FRC was
established on schedule in October 1991 as a foundation established by MAFE, MOF and the Supreme
Cooperative Council (SCC). In addition, 12 affiliated RCSUs were established as envisaged. Funding for
the first three years of operation was provided entirely from EU PHARE grant financing. This included
substantial technical assistance in the form of long and short term advisers; support for training and
advisory programs, including seminars and information dissemination; and office equipment. As a result,
FRC and the RCSUs have progressively established themselves in gaining client recognition and
expanding the range of their services. While their main activities (as indicated in para. 11 above) remain
training, consultancy and promotion of the cooperative concept, they have also contributed significantly to
providing inputs for the revision of the law on cooperatives, helping devise sector strategies for areas of
major interest to rural cooperatives; and working with agricultural extension service centers in areas of
common interest.
13.    At their inception, FRC and the RCSUs were expected to have a duration of about three years,
after which they were expected to be absorbed into the new and permanent structures that would by then
have been established by the rural cooperatives as they completed their reorganization. Accordingly,
funding was provided primarily through grant funds for the first three years of operation, during which
time, the units were expected to become increasingly self-reliant or be absorbed by newly established
cooperative apex organizations. Although the units have been able to increase the share of self-financing
(to about 25 percent in 1995), and have taken steps to reduce their operational costs (the number of
pennanent staff was reduced from about 250 to 130 by the end of 1995), they are being constrained by the
limited ability to pay for services on the part of many of the cooperatives in need of assistance as well as
the developmental nature of some of the main functions entrusted to FRC under its charter. Further, the
process of establishing efficient regional and national level service and apex organizations has been slower
than anticipated. EU PHARE has responded to the need by extending the assistance beyond the
originally expected period through assigning FRC and the RCSUs to work on specific contracts which
include: counseling to restructuring cooperatives through the regional information and advisory services,
revision of cooperative by-laws; preparation of regional sector strategy papers; and dissemination of
information on the implications for rural cooperatives of Poland's economic integration with the EU.



5
(b) Cooperative Banks
14.   In regard to the project's aims to support the development of the cooperative bank system through
improvements in organizational structure; operating systems; training of management and staff; and the
legal/regulatory/supervisory framework, the project's main contribution was to the development of an
independent cooperative banking system (ICBS), accounting for about 40 percent of the total assets of the
entire cooperative banking system.  Prior to 1975, the cooperative banks had their own central
associations. At the time, the predecessor of BGZ was a fully state-owned bank, which financed mainly
state-owned farms and agricultural enterprises. Pursuant to changes in legislation in 1975, BGZ was
formed by the merger of the state-owned agricultural bank with the central association of the LCBs, and
became in effect the apex organization of the over 1,600 LCBs, with substantial oversight powers. LCBs
were compulsorily required to keep their deposits with BGZ. While the changes under the ETP removed
the monopoly of BGZ over the LCBs, it left a vacuum as to the apex organizations for the LCBs. The
project was instrumental in supporting over 400 of the LCBs to separate from BGZ into an ICBS
consisting of three RCBs and the associated LCBs.
15.   Regional Cooperative Banks (RCBs):  Of the six RCBs envisaged during project preparation,
only three were established during the implementation period. However, these RCBs attracted around
400 LCBs, accounting for about 40 per cent of the total assets of the Polish cooperative bank sector. In
parallel to the preparation of the ADP, provision of technical assistance to the LCBs and RCBs had
already started under donor financed programs, principally from EU PHARE and USAID. The project
built upon these ongoing programs by further expanding and deepening the assistance which continued to
be financed from US and EU PHARE grant financing. USAID financed a comprehensive program (US$8
million) designed and implemented by Agricultural Cooperatives Development International (ACDI).
Assistance under the EU PHARE program was extended under its Agroline program, started in 1991,
under which an allocation of ECU 3 million was made for technical assistance, primarily for the
cooperative banks. The Agroline program was implemented by the Cooperation Fund. As a result of the
considerable assistance from EU PHARE and USAID, the RCBs have progressively established their
operations and expanded the range of services provided to the member LCBs in respect of training and
management of staff; improvement of procedures and systems; establishment of internal controls;
development of new products; and loan workouts. While the technical assistance was delivered as
planned, an area where progress was slower than expected was in the establishment of an integrated
computer information network, which was affected initially by delays in arriving at an agreed concept and
later by the uncertainties as to the CBs' organization ensuing from the new law on cooperative banking.
16.   National Union of Cooperative Banks (NUCB).  The NUCB was reconstituted in 1991 by the
three RCBs and their member LCBs. Technical assistance was provided under both the USAID and EU
PHARE programs. After some delays in developing its strategy and action plan, NUCB was increasingly
used by the EU PHARE programs (via the Cooperation Fund) as a channel and coordinator of technical
assistance provided for LCBs and RCBs. NUCB served as an effective vehicle of coordination among the
RCBs until 1994; since that time, its position has been weakened by the reduction in use of NUCB
services by the member RCBs.
17.   Local Cooperative Banks (LCBs): In view of the large number of LCBs, project design called for
technical assistance to be provided mainly through the intermediate organizations (RCBs and NUCB).
Eventually, the number of LCBs that moved to the ICBS was lower than expected (400 out of the over
1,600 LCBs, although the 400 accounted for about 40 per cent of total assets). The project's assistance
primarily reached the 400 LCBs under the ICBS; the over 1,200 LCBs that continued to be under BGZ
affiliation were not able to participate; however, since 1994, they have benefited from support programs
implemented by the Foundation for Assistance Programs for Agriculture (FAPA).



6
18.    Capital Fund (CF).*  The CF was established with some delay and changes in organization than
originally conceived. The CF was originally expected to be funded from the proceeds of purchases of
bonds to be issued by the LCBs; the proceeds were to be utilized by the LCBs to purchase shares in the
RCBs. Changes in the Banking Law precluded the use of debt instruments such as bonds in raising funds
for equity investments in the RCBs. As a result, the CF had to be set up from grant funds made available
to the LCBs for purchase of shares in the RCBs, and funded by the Government and the USAID from
counterpart funds. After an initial allocation of US$10 million equivalent, the CF's resources were
subsequently increased to US$19 million equivalent by 1994; as of July 1996, the CF had invested about
US$15 million equivalent in the shares of three RCBs; an unutilized balance of about US$4 million
remains. The use of the CF grants was instrumental in the timely establishment of three RCBs. Use of
the balance has been held up pending a difference of opinion within the financiers of the CF as to its
application - whether to increase the allocations in existing RCBs or to utilize it for establishment of new
RCBs, and more broadly, the role of BGZ in relation to the RCBs supported by the CF. This issue is
expected to be resolved within the wider framework of the Bank's ongoing discussions with the Polish
government in regard to the reorganization and future development of the Polish rural finance sector
(para. 30).
Financial Objectives
19.    Project Cost and Financing:  The total project cost is estimated at about US$81 million
equivalent, substantially lower than the appraised project cost of about US$180 million. The shortfall was
in the investment component (US$40 million compared to US$140 million) whereas the technical
assistance and institutional development component remained at around the same level (US$40 million) as
expected at appraisal. In regard to project financing, the Bank loan, which financed the investment
component, accounted for a much lower share of total project financing than expected (about 31 percent
as compared to 56 percent).  However, the share of the Bank financing of investment subprojects
remained around the same as expected, at about 68 percent, with the balance of 32 percent being provided
by the local banks and investors. While the overall level of financing for the technical assistance and
institutional development components remained around the same, donor financing was higher than
expected and compensated for the shortfall in local sources.
20.    Subproject Portfolio Characteristics. A total of 31 loans was made under the project for an
amount of about US$16 million equivalent for financing of investment and permanent working capital; the
average loan size was about US$515,000 with a range of US$100,000 to US$3.2 million. Eleven
subloans for a total of about US$8.4 million (average subloan size of SU$780,000) were denominated in
US dollars, and 20 subloans, totaling about US$7.6 million (average subloan size of US$380,000) were in
local currency. In addition, under the special provision to enable the cooperative banks to utilize the
credit line funds, the CBs were allowed to refinance packages of eligible investments since loan signing
(July 1991). This accounted for another US$9.3 million. Of the total amount of Bank funds onlent
(US$25.3 million), the largest share was for agroprocessing activities (US$14.3 million or 57 percent),
primarily poultry, meat processing and fruit juices; followed by the cooperative banks for strengthening
their credit delivery facilities (US$4.6 million or 18 percent), and rural service enterprises (US$3.4
million or 13 percent). Only a small share, US$2.8 million or 11 percent, went for farming investments,
reflecting the greater reluctance of farmers to borrow under the credit line due to the perceived high
interest rates.
21.    The credit line thus had limited success in making credit funds available for financing investments
by private farmers and other non-bank rural investors (about US$20.7 million of the US$25.3 million
disbursed went to such beneficiaries with the balance being utilized by the RCBs/LCBs to improve their
own facilities for credit delivery). The low utilization was due to a combination of factors: (i) relatively
low profitability of many agricultural investments due to the changes in domestic markets, and in relative



7
prices of inputs and outputs; (ii) continued prevalence of high interest rates on both short and long term
credit; (iii) constraints to adequate collateral and equity funds for many private investors; (iv) the
continued prevalence of agricultural subsidy programs, including interest subsidies, that created
expectations of widespread subsidization on the part of farmers and rural investors; and (v) the existence
of competing, alternate lower cost sources offered at lower interest rates than the ADP funds. These
factors were further reinforced by a relative lack of proactive promotion and involvement on the part of
the main implementing agencies (para. 29). Finally, the Bank's own restrictions on the use of its funds
limited the usefulness of the ADP credit line, e.g,, the Bank funds could not be used for purchase of land,
or transfer of existing assets, both of which are significant investments in the context of restructuring and
reorganization of rural cooperatives.
22.    Subproject Performance: A comparison of projected and reestimated financial rates of return
(FRRs), as prepared by the PBs for a sample of the subprojects covering about 50 percent of the amount
onlent, indicates that the reestimated FRRs are substantially lower than projected - a weighted average
reestimated FRR of about 24 percent as compared to 43 percent projected. However, these reestimated
FRRs are themselves likely to be significant overestimates on account of computational and
methodological weaknesses. The subborrowers and the PBs have not estimated economic rates of return
(ERRs) as the requirement of a separate estimation of ERRs had been dropped during project preparation
in recognition of the Government's program of widespread price and trade liberalization. In regard to
repayment performance, as of July 31, 1996, 4 of the 31 subloans (involving about US$6 million of the
US$25.3 million onlent) were in arrears, of which three were in respect to interest payments as they were
still within the grace period. The PBs have indicated that the arrears problems are transitional due to
market variations or delayed subproject completion, and are expected to be corrected.
23.   Participating Banks: Although eight banks had been cleared as eligible under the project, only six
eventually participated. BGZ and BPH Krakow had the largest share of the subloans, accounting for a
combined amount of about US$12.5 million (or 50 per cent of the total amount onlent for investment
purposes).
24.    Perjfornance of PBs: Performance of the PBs has been mixed. After initial good results, the
financial situation of the three RCBs has been adversely affected by the poor financial performance of
some of their weaker LCBs. The financial position of BGZ, the principal PB under the project, has been
heavily affected by a poorly performing loan portfolio and high administrative costs to the point where the
Government felt obliged to repeatedly recapitalize BGZ, and to initiate a major restructuring program for
BGZ under NBP supervision, within the context of a comprehensive reorganization of the cooperative
banking system. At the Government's request, the Bank has been, and continues to be, closely involved
in the process, primarily as a coordinator of the multilateral and bilateral assistance being provided for the
program from EU and other sources.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Implemenaion Record
25.    The project was appraised in January 1991, followed by loan negotiations in May 1991, Board
approval in June 1991, and signature in July 1991. Effectiveness was planned for October 1991 but
delayed by six months primarily in regard to the Borrower meeting the conditions in respect to
establishment of the Capital Fund and the signing of the fiscal agency agreement between NBP and the
MOF. The FRC was established on schedule in October 1991; the three RCBs were progressively
established by 1992, with a delay of some months. Disbursement was slower than expected at appraisal
with only US$2 million disbursed in the first two years after loan approval, due in part to delays in
effectiveness and the finalization of the necessary onlending agreements between NBP and the PBs. A



8
major review, focused on irnproving credit line utilization, was undertaken in May 1993. While several
modifications were made to increase the loan's utility in the rapidly changing circumstances (e.g.,
extending the refinancing period for eligible subprojects of LCBs from 90 days to 180 days; simplification
of application procedures; extending the borrowers' eligibility to operational leasing companies), credit
line utilization picked up only to a very limited extent and a balance of US$74.7 million (about 75 per cent
of the loan amount) remained unutilized, and was canceled, at loan closing. The original closing date,
June 30, 1995 was extended by one month at the Borrower's request to enable completion of disbursement
in respect of commitments already entered into.
Factors Not Generally Subject to Government Control
26.    Two exogenous factors in particular had a significant impact on project implementation. First, the
major changes that occurred after 1990 in the former CMEA markets which were significant for many
Polish exporters. The effect was even more pronounced as, encouraged by the increasing trade in
convertible currency among CMEA participants prior to 1990, many agroprocessing enterprises had
undertaken investments aimed primarily at these CMEA convertible currency markets, but which they
found difficult to switch from to the more demanding Western markets. The second was the effect of
period of severe drought, particularly in 1992, which seriously affected agricultural production, thereby
reducing product quality and increasing unit costs of production for processors.
Factors Generally Subject to Government Control
27.    Two aspects of the enabling environment were particularly important for their impact on project
implementation. The first was the revision of the law on cooperatives; the second was the articulation of a
strategy for the rural finance sector, delineating the respective roles of BGZ and the cooperative banks. In
regard to the first, the necessary revisions to the cooperatives law, originally expected to be carried out by
mid-1992, were substantially delayed to 1994; even at this point, the amendments did not wholly remove
the shortcomings.  The delays, and the consequent uncertainties, affected the pace and extent of
restructuring of the rural cooperatives. Secondly, project design and implementation was based on the
understanding that the Government was in agreement with the principle of distinctive development of BGZ
and the cooperative banks - BGZ to function progressively as a commercial bank for financing farms and
agricultural enterprises and the cooperative banks to set up increasingly independent systems, including
RCBs, to carry on the cooperative banking functions. The Government's commitment to proceed on
articulating this strategy was unsteady, in part due to the changes in the government during the period.
The diagnostic study for BGZ, expected to be completed in 1992, was seriously delayed, and finally
available only in end-1994. Further uncertainties arose from the new law on cooperative banks, adopted
in 1994, which has created further complications for the cooperative banks, including the existing ICBS
(the three RCBs and their member LCBs) by re-establishing the apex functions of BGZ in respect of
cooperative banks.
Factors Generally Subject to Implementing Agency Control
28.   Implementation agency responsibilities were shared between MAFE, MOF and NBP, with MAFE
primarily responsible for the implementation of the FRC and rural cooperatives component; MOF,
through its department of rural finance, for the BGZ and cooperative banks components; and NBP for the
credit line component. Technical assistance under the project for FRC, the RCSUs and rural cooperatives
was channeled through the Foundation for Assistance Programs for Agriculture (FAPA) established under
the aegis of MAFE. Over the implementation period, the relationship between FAPA and FRC was
uneven, influenced in part by the many changes in government and their effects on FAPA. This affected
FRC's operations by the frequent delays and uncertainties in obtaining approvals for programs and timely
transfer of funds. The relationship improved considerably after 1994, and now appears to be functioning



9
relatively smoothly. MOF had primary responsibility in coordinating the articulation of a clear strategy
for BGZ and the cooperative banks, including ensuring the timely completion of the diagnostics study for
BGZ; the inability of the Government to do so adversely affected project implementation. This has been
compounded by the further uncertainty arising from the new law on cooperative banks.
29.    In regard to the credit line component, while utilization was affected by a number of factors in the
economic environment (para. 21), a contributing factor was the lack of clear ownership that resulted in a
less than proactive approach to project implementation. Thus, the project's ultimate beneficiaries (private
farmers, rural cooperatives and other private rural investors) fell within the purview of MAFE; and the
main financial intermediaries, BGZ and the cooperative banks, within that of MOF. Unlike in the earlier
credit line project (Loan 3167-POL for the Agroindustries Export Development Project), where NBP was
the Borrower, under this project, NBP's role was that of a fiscal agent without taking the credit or
exchange rate risk.  A contributing factor to the low utilization was the continued prevalence of
agricultural subsidy programs, principally credit subsidies, administered by MAFE through the Agency
for Reconstruction and Modernization of Agriculture (ARMA), that led to expectations of further
subsidized credit on the part of farmers and other potential subborrowers.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABIL1TY
30.    The institutions set up under the project, primarily the FRC, RCSUs, and the three RCBs, with
the support of the considerable technical assistance provided by EU PHARE, USAID and other donors,
have progressively established themselves, and gained client recognition and confidence for the value of
their services. However, sustainability of the project, including the continued effective operations of these
institutions, would depend critically upon the Government's success in resolving satisfactorily the situation
in regard to the framework for rural finance, including the proper roles of BGZ and the cooperative
banks. Vital, in this regard, would be the Government's ability to secure necessary changes to the law on
cooperative banks and to ensure its even-handed application to BGZ and the cooperative banks. The Bank
has been providing extensive assistance through participation in the ongoing effort in regard to
restructuring of the Polish rural finance system, and coordinating multilateral/bilateral technical assistance
that is being provided from EU and other sources to the Government in the design and preparation of the
program.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
31.    While Bank performance was satisfactory in all phases of the project cycle, it was more effective
in the pre-implementation phases of the project, including identification, preparation and appraisal.
During the implementation phase, Bank supervision was satisfactory in terms of the frequency and extent
of efforts, including missions in the field.  However, its effectiveness in terms of securing project
objectives was mixed. While the institutional objectives were achieved to a large extent, the Bank, despite
intense proactive efforts, particularly after the major review in 1993, was unable to make much head way
in respect of the credit component.
32.    Project design and preparation were preceded by the Bank's close involvement in the preparation
of the JTF report that identified the priority areas for support. The Bank worked closely with the Polish
agencies and the various multilateral (EU, USAID) and bilateral donors during the identification,
preparation and appraisal period to ensure that the project would be consistent with, and complementary
to, the other ongoing efforts of the donors. In the case of the EU, this implied coordination of project
preparation with that for a parallel operation under the EU's Agroline project. In the case of UJSAID, the
participation of ACDI specialists in the preparation of the ADP led to the US-supported cooperative bank
technical assistance program.



10
33.    The Bank mounted 10 supervision missions between 1991 and 1995, roughly at six month
intervals. A total of 127 staff-weeks were spent on supervision, or an average of 28 staffweeks per year.
Most supervision missions were staffed by a financial analyst and a cooperative specialist as a core,
supported by cooperative banking and agroindustry specialists where necessary. In view of the slow pace
of credit line utilization, the Bank carried out a major review with the Polish counterparts in May 1993.
Findings of this review resulted in several modifications to the provisions of the loan agreement (para. 25)
to make the credit line more accessible to potential users without compromising the main objectives.
Following the review, the Bank made a concerted proactive effort to improve credit line implementation,
including by making available the services of cooperative bank and agribusiness specialists (financed
through Trust Funds available to the Bank) to work with the Polish counterparts to assist in subproject
identification; procedural aspects including application and evaluation; and modalities of selecting and
packaging eligible applications under the refinancing opportunity given to LCBs. Recognizing the impact
that the credit subsidy program (through ARMA) was having on the demand for, and supply of, credit,
the Bank proactively sought to work with ARMA and MAFE to arrive at workable, less distortive ways of
combining such assistance with ADP credit line funds to ensure that the assistance in fact went to viable
subprojects. No satisfactory agreement could be reached in this case.
34.   In regard to BGZ, the Bank was aware from the outset of the doubts in regard to the quality of
BGZ's portfolio. Consequently, it monitored regularly (under the concurrent credit line project - Loan
3167-POL) the progress in the preparation of satisfactory financial audits and portfolio assessments as a
basis for BGZ to develop an action plan to improve its performance. However, the process was seriously
delayed - first as a result of the inadequacy of the audits carried out by the chosen firm; and later by
delays by BGZ to agree to undertake diagnostic studies; appoint suitable consultants; provide the required
support and information; and finally, accept the consultants' findings and recommendations. While
regularly urging the Borrower and BGZ to meet their obligations, in hindsight, the Bank could have been
more forceful in seeking BGZ's compliance with its commitments, including the examination of stronger
remedies such as suspension of disbursements.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
35.    The Borrower's performance was satisfactory during the identification, preparation and appraisal
stages of the project cycle. The project was the outcome of the collaborative work that had been started
under the JTF with the close involvement of MAFE. MOF and NBP. Performance during the
implementation phase was affected by a number of factors, including, in part, the many changes in
government. This contributed to delays in securing essential improvements in the enabling environment,
including timely modifications to the cooperative law, and the adoption of a clear and consistent policy in
regard to BGZ and the cooperative banks. Despite the presence of a Project Coordination Committee
(PCC) with representation from the key implementing agencies (MAFE, MOF and NBP), and the nominal
anchoring of the ADP in MAFE, there remained an overall lack of effective ownership, resulting in less
than proactive involvement, including in project promotion, facilitation, and monitoring.  It is also
reflected in the failure to carry out, in a timely manner, the study of the rural finance system and the
installation of a preferential credit monitoring system, as originally agreed.
36.    Compliance with covenants was generally satisfactory except in regard to the timely completion of
the rural finance study and the installation of the monitoring system for preferential credit. Reporting,
while complied with, was inadequate in terms of the accuracy and quality of information.



11
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
37.    The overall project outcome is assessed as marginally satisfactory; the project has met is
institutional objectives to a large extent but this is significantly offset by its lack of success in meeting its
main financial objectives of providing investment funds to private farmers and other rural investors, and to
rural cooperatives to support their restructuring. While the institutions set up with the support of the
project have established themselves in terms of their clients' (the rural cooperatives and local cooperative
banks, respectively) recognition of their contributions, their future prospects and sustainability depend
critically upon the Government's willingness and ability to take the necessary actions to remedy the threats
and uncertainties arising from the current unresolved situation in respect of the strategy for the Polish
rural finance sector.
I. FUTuRE OPERATION
38.    At the Government's request, the Bank is continuing to provide technical assistance in the design
and implementation of the restructuring program for the Polish rural finance sector. The EU and the
European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) have indicated that BGZ and the
cooperative banks are high priorities for their support. The Bank is collaborating with the EBRD in
jointly developing, by mid-1997, a technical assistance program for BGZ that would help define, inter
alia, its organizational relationship with the cooperative banks, and its business strategy, including a clear
delineation of roles, and the respective areas of focus, of BGZ and the cooperative banks associated with
it. Successful completion of this first phase is expected to be followed possibly by a subordinated loan
from EBRD that would help finance modernization and upgrading of BGZ's information technology
system.
39.    In regard to the FRC and its constituent regional units, the Government has confirmed its
intention to provide support for their operations but has been unable as yet to submit a formal operational
plan in regard to the nature and modalities of the intended support. Pending the Government's finalization
of such a plan, FRC's strategy is to continue to increase the extent of its self-financing by expanding fee-
generating activities in areas of its comparative advantage; and further reduction of personnel and other
operational costs, including through reducing the number of full-time personnel, and greater
subcontracting of tasks to outside experts.
40.    Although there is no follow-on project scheduled, the Bank intends to continue to monitor
progress in the institutional areas above in the context of other ongoing and planned work in regional and
rural development in Poland.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.         The main lessons from the project, which may also have more general relevance for other
projects, are:
(i)  it is essential to agree upon, at the outset, a clear strategy for the overall development of the
rural finance sector, including the respective roles of the key intermediaries (in this case
BGZ and the cooperative banks);
(ii) strong and sustained Government commitment is required to ensure timely actions to
improve key aspects of the enabling environment (in this case, the cooperative law and the
law on cooperative banks and BGZ); and



12
(iii) credit lines are inappropriate instruments in the absence of strong financial intermediaries,
and in environments of significant monetary instability characterized by high inflation and
interest rates.
1 T



13
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3343-POL)
PART II. STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1:         Summary of Assessments
Table 2:         Related Bank Loans
Table 3:         Project Timetable
Table 4:         Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:         Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:         Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:         Studies Included Under the Project
Table 8A:        Project Costs
Table 8B:        Project Financing
Table 9:         Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:        Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:        Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:        Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:        Bank Resources: Missions



14
Table 1: Sunmary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives        Substantial      Partial     Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro policies                       LI            El            E1
Sector policies                      Cl            El            El
Financial objectives                 El                          El              EC
Institutional development           Ex                           E                EC
Physical objectives                  E             IXI           E                0
Poverty reduction                    E               l           El               lI
Gender issues                                                                     ER El  El
Other social objectives              El            El                            lx
Environmental objectives            El             El            El               IX]
Public sector management             El            E             E                IX
Private sector development           El                          EE
Other (specify)                      [1            El            E                El
B. Project sustainability             Likely                Unlikely              Uncertain
E                      E l
C. Bank performance             Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Identification                       E                                            El
Preparation assistance               E                                            E l
Appraisal                           El                                            El
Supervision                         El                      ER]                   El
D. Borrower performance         Highly Satisfactory        Satisfactory           Deficient
Preparation                          El                     Il                    El
Implementation                       E                      El
Covenant compliance                  El                     EX
Operation (if applicable)            E]                     E                     E
E. Assessment of outcome        Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
El                          El               El



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Year of
Loan                                        Purpose                  Approval         Status
Preceding Operations
Agroindustries Export          Support to enterprises for increasing   1990        Closed (ICR
Development Project            exports of processed agricultural                     issued)
(Loan 3167-POL)                products to convertible currency (CC)
markets.
Following Operations
Agricultural Sector Adjustment    Support to Poland's Medium-Term      1993        Closed (ICR
Loan (Loan 3600-POL)           Sector Adjustment Program through                      under
selective sectoral policies, urgent                 preparation)
structural reforms, and institutional
reforms and institution-building
measures in the agriculture sector.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                         Date Planned                Date Actual
Identification                                     9/90                        9/90
Preparation                                        10/90                      10/90
Appraisal                                          12/90                      01/91
Negotiations                                      04/91                       05/91
Board presentation                                05/91                       06/91
Signing                                           06/91                       07/91
Effectiveness                                      10/91                      03/92
Project completion                                 12/94                      06/95
Loan closing                                      06/95                       07/95



16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY92        FY93       FY94        FY95       FY96
Appraisal Estimate             5,000       60,000     75,000     100,000    100,000
Actual                           0         4,000      10,800      24,200     25,300
Actual as % of Estimate          0           7          14          24         25
Date of Final Disbursement:    10/12/95
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation*
Key Implementation Indicators in SAR                          Estimated                Actual
Establishment of central cooperatives development unit      October 1991            FRC established
in October 1991.
Establishment of National Union of Cooperative Banks            1991                NUCB established
in 1991.
Establishment of regional cooperative service units              12                      12
(RCSUs)
Establishment of regional cooperative banks (RCBs)             up to 6                   3
Diagnostic study of the Bank of Food Economy to be              12/92                  10/94
carried out
* No formal implementation plan was agreed under the project.
T 



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation*
Key Operating Indicators in SAR                     Estimated             Actual
Number of rural cooperatives and cooperative           2,400             over 3,000
banks to be assisted
FRC to organize training courses for cooperative   18 courses covering 1,350  n.a.
managers and senior staff                    participants
Training in bank management for
personnel of:
- local cooperative banks                    22 courses covering            n.a.
10,000 participants over 3
years
- regional cooperative banks                  15 courses covering 225       n.a.
participants
* No formal operational plan was agreed under the project.
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                       Purpose as Defined at                 Status            Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Rural financial      To guide rural financial institutions in    Delayed by the          None
markets (to be       developing their credit programs,    Government's decision
completed by 12/92)  taking into account credit demand and   to include the study
transaction costs, and to help the   within the scope of a
Government in formulating rural credit  larger assessment of the
policy.                              restructuring of the rural
finance sector.



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Estimated
Component                                Local   Foreign     Total     Local  Foreign      Total
Costs     Costs               Costs    Costs
Farm Investment                           12.0     28.0      40.0        1.9      2.8        4.7
Agroindustry                              10.0     50.0      60.0        8.3     14.5       22.8
Rural Enterprises 1/                      18.0     22.0      40.0        4.7      8.0       12.7
Institutional Development                 11.6      8.6      20.2        9.7     11.6       21.3
Capital Fund                             20.0          -     20.0       19.5       --       19.5
TOTAL                             71.6    108.6    180.2        44.1     36.9      81.00
1/ Includes investments by cooperative banks in their own facilities.
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal                  Actual\Estimated
Sources          Local    Foreign    Total       Local  Foreign    Total
IBRD                            -     100.0  100.0            --   25.3   25.3
Financial Intermediaries     25.0         -  25.00           8.4       --    8.4
Subborrowers                 15.0         -   15.0           6.5       --    6.5
Technical Assistance         11.6       8.6   20.2           9.7    11.6   21.3
Government (Capital
Fund)
- Budgetary sources        5.0         -    5.0            4.5      --    4.5
- External sources        15.0         -   15.0           15.0      --   15.0
TOTAL                     71.6     108.6  180.2           44.1    36.9   81.0



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The main benefit of the project was to be the creation of viable rural
cooperative institutions to serve the private sector.  The credit
component under the project was to improve access to credit by the
rural private sector thus stimulating the supply response and
contributing  to a competitive economic environment.   Overall
economic costs and benefits were not quantified; individual investment
subprojects of over US$500,000 were required to have a financial rate
of return (FRR) of not less than 15 per cent.
The PBs have reestimated FRRs for a sample of subprojects covering
about 50 percent of the amount onlent - the weighted average FRR
was about 24 percent against a projected FRR of 43 percent, but is
likely an overestimate due to computational and methodological
weaknesses.



20
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Overall Project Rating: 3
Original    Revised
Covenant  Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment    Description of Covenant       Comments
Agreement    Section    Class               Date        Date
LOAN        4.01 (b)      1        C                              The Government to have the   In compliance
special account audited on an
annual basis, and the audit
report to be submitted to the
Bank within six months of
the end of the fiscal year.
LOAN        4.01(c)       1        C                              The statements of           In compliance
expenditure to be audited on
an annual basis, as part of
the audit of the special
account, and the audit report
to contain a separate opinion
on these statements.
LOAN        4.02          4        C    06/30/1992                The Government to establish  In compliance
and operate a capital fund for
cooperative banks under
arrangements, and with
resources, legal personality,
organizational structure and
terms of reference
satisfactory to the bank.
LOAN        Schedule    3,9       NC    12/31/1992                The Government to carry out  Delayed. The Bank
2                                                    a rural credit study.       is assisting in a rural
Section                                                                          finance review.
A(4)
LOAN        Schedule      5        C    10/31/1991                The Government to establish   In compliance
4                                                    and maintain the cooperative
Section                                              development unit and its
A(2)(a)                                              regional cooperative service
units under terms of
reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
LOAN        Schedule      12      CP   06/30/1992                 The Government to prepare    A new law has been
4                                                    and submit to Parliament a    adopted and is being
Section                                              draft cooperative law       reviewed.
A(4)                                                 satisfactory to the Bank.



21
Original       Revised
Covenant  Status   Fulfillment   Fulfillment          Description of Covenant               Comments
Agreement    Section         Class                   Date           Date
PROJ           3.01(a)          1         C                                    NBP's project accounts to be   In compliance
audited on an annual basis,
and the audit report is to be
submitted to the Bank within
six months of the end of the
fiscal year.
PROJ           Schedule        5          C                                    NBP to coordinate and             In compliance.
Section                                                         monitor the execution of the
B(2)(a)                                                         credit program in accordance
with policies and procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
PROJ           Schedule        5          C                                    NBP to maintain its Project    In compliance.
Section                                                         Appraisal and
B(2)(c)                                                         Implementation Division
with facilities, staff, and
other resources and terms of
reference satisfactory to the
Bank.
PROJ           Schedule        9         NC    06/30/1992                      NBP to establish a                Not complied with -
Section                                                         monitoring system for            was to have been
C(2)                                                           preferential rural credit.        incorporated into the
monitoring system
being introduced
under FIDL (Loan
334 1-POL)
Covenant Class                                                                      Status
1. Account Audit                                           C         = Complied
2. Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries  CP     = Partially complied
3. Flow and utilization of project   funds                  CD       = Complied with delay
4. Counterpart funding                                      NC       = Not complied
5. Management aspects of the project or its executing agency  SOON    = Compliance expected in a reasonably short time
6. Environmental covenants
7. Involuntary resettlement
8. Indigenous people
9. Monitoring, review and reporting
10. Implementation
11. Sectoral cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12. Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13. Other



22
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Basically, there was compliance with the applicable Bank Operational Manual Statements.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
(Staff-Weeks)
Stage of Project Cycle                     Planned      Revised       Actual
Through Appraisal                                                      76.0
Appraisal-Board                                                        67.9
Board-Effectiveness                                                    23.8
Supervision                                                           109.4
Completion                                                             10.0
TOTAL                                                                 287.1
- -



23
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance
No. of  Days in                           Rating 2            Types of
Stage of Project Cycle      Month/Year  Persons   Field   Specialization                              Problems
Implementation Development
status     objectives
Through Appraisal              10/90       5        20     A, E, C. F, R
01/91       4        20       E, F, C, R
Appraisal - Board Approval
Board Approval -              05/91        2        7          F, R              -             -
Effectiveness
Supervision 1                 09/91        2        10         F, R              2             1          T
Supervision II                01/92        2        10         F, R             2              1          T
Supervision III               04/92        1        7            F               2             1          T
Supervision IV                06/92        3        10        A, F, R           2              1         T, M
Supervision V                 11/92        2        10         F. R              2             1         T, M
Supervision VI                05/93        6        20       F, C, R, E          3            2          T, M
Supervision VII               10/93        3        10        F, C, R            3            2          T, M
Supervision VIII              03/94        5        7        F, C, R, E          3            2          T, M
Supervision IX                07/94        2        7          F, M              3            2          T, M
Supervision X                 04/95        2        7          F. R
Completion Initiation         07/95        1        2            F
Implementation Completion     04/96        2        7          F, R
1 - Specialization                          2 - Performance Rating              3 - Types of Problems
A = Agriculturist                           I = Minor problems                   F = Financial
C = Cooperative Banking Specialist          2 = Moderate Problems                T = Technical
E = Economist                               3 = Major Problems                   M = Managerial
F = Financial Analyst
H = Horticulturist
L = Livestock Feed Specialist
M = Marketing Specialist
N = Engineer
R = Rural Cooperatives Specialist



I



APPENDIX A
Page 1 of 5
POLAND
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Loan 3343-POL)
AIDE MEMOIRE OF IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION OF APRIL 1996
INTRODUCTION
1.    A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Kishore Nadkarni and Lorenz Pohlmeier visited
Poland from April 22 to 30, 1996 to initiate the preparation of the Implementation Completion Report
(ICR) for the Agricultural Development Project. The mission held discussions with officials of the
Ministries of Finance (MOF) and Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE); the National Bank of Poland
(NBP); the Foundation of Rural Cooperatives (FRC); the Cooperation Fund (CF); the Bank for Food
Economy (BGZ); and visited selected regional centers of the FRC. Representatives of the European
Union's PHARE office in Warsaw participated in some of the meetings. The mission wishes to express its
sincere appreciation for the cooperation and courtesies extended to it. The mission's views and findings in
the Aide Memoire are subject to confirmation by the Bank's management.
BACKGROUND
2.     The loan for the project closed on July 31, 1995. It was thus the objective of the mission to:
(i) initiate the preparation of information required for the ICR; and
(ii) advise the Polish authorities and agencies concerned on the preparation of their own
contribution to the ICR.
3.     The ICR marks the transition of the project from implementation to its future operation. It is
intended to assess:
(i) the degree of achievement of project objectives;
(ii) prospects for the Project's sustainability;
(iii) Bank and Borrower performance;
(iv) Project outcome; and
(v) the plan for the Project's future operation.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(a) Credit Component
4.     Project Closing: The loan for the project closed on July 31, 1995 following an extension of one
month from the original closing date of June 30. The final disbursement figure was US$25.3 million



APPENDIX A
Page 2 of 5
equivalent out of the loan amount of US$100 million. The unutilized balance of about US$74.7 million
was canceled with effect from October 4, 1995, the date of the last disbursement.
5.     Cofinancing: Grant funding for institutional components under the project were provided by EU
PHARE; US AID; and some bilateral donors. The amounts of final contributions received from each
source should be updated for the ICR.
6.     Credit Line Utilization: Out of the loan amount of US$100 million, only US$25.3 million were
utilized at loan closing with the balance of US$74.7 million being canceled at the request of the Borrower.
Loan disbursement performance was particularly slow in the first two years of implementation when only
about US$4 million equivalent were disbursed. An in-depth review of credit line utilization was carried
out in mid-1993 as a result of which several modifications were made to promote the credit line and
increase accessibility of rural investors to credit line funds. These included:
(i)  simplification of procedures for application and assessment;
(ii) extension of the eligibility period for expenditures already incurred by local cooperative
banks (LCBs); and
(iii) provision of the services of a Trust-Fund financed consultant on a full-time basis to work for
a period of over six months with the participating banks to facilitate credit line utilization.
7.     Nevertheless, despite a modest pick-up after 1993, a large part of the credit line remained
unutilized at loan closing.
8.     Formulation and Attainment of Credit-Related Objectives: The principal objective of the project,
as stated in the staff appraisal report (SAR) for the project,I was to support private farmers and promote
other private sector activities in rural areas, including developing rural commercial enterprises by
improving access to credit; and to provide investment funds for business and institutional development in
rural communities. In view of the limited utilization of the credit line component, this objective has
clearly not been met. The ICR should examine the reasons for this lack of success, including factors both
within and outside the control of the Government, the project agencies and the World Bank.
(b) Institutional Component
9.     Rural Cooperatives (RCs): The main objectives of this sub-component, as stated in the SAR,
were to:
(i)  guide, facilitate and accelerate transformation  of existing  RCs from  social sector
organizations to private sector and member-controlled institutions;
(ii) support the establishment of new RCs; and
(iii) assist the RCs in establishing a service and apex structure.
1/     Report No. 9436-POL dated May 20, 1991.



APPENDIX A
Page 3 of 5
10.   Based on preliminary information, the first two objectives would appear to have been substantially
achieved. The target of supporting "institutional building activities for about 2,400 cooperatives and
cooperative banks" seems to have been achieved. Additional information is required on the:
(i) kind and quality of support provided to cooperatives and farmer groups in the various sub-
sectors;
(ii) other activities conduced by FRC; and
(iii) impact of the support services and other activities of FRC.
11.   Only a few activities of FRC were aimed at achieving the third objective, and the impact of these
activities appear to be negligible.
12.   For the implementation of this sub-component the FRC was established by three parties, i.e.,
MOF, MAFE, and the Supreme Cooperative Council (SCC). During its initial three years of operations,
FRC and its activities were fully funded by the PHARE program of the European Union (EU). Initially,
the three founding institutions (MOF, MAFE and SCC) provided FRC with substantial institutional
support and guidance. However, this support and guidance was substantially reduced over time up to the
point that the "ownership" of FRC became a significant issue. Another major factor complicating the
activities of FRC was the drafting of, and passing amendments to, the law on cooperatives. During the
absence of these amendments, FRC and its clients had to operate largely in a legal vacuum. During 1995
PHARE phased out its direct funding of FRC activities. FRC responded by:
(i) reducing operational cost (e.g. by substantially reducing staff from about 250 to 130);
(ii) implementing projects for Government and Government agencies; and
(iii) increasingly charging cooperatives for services provided by FRC.
However, in spite of the significant progress made in all three areas, additional efforts are required to
achieve FRC's sustainability. During a high level meeting attended by senior officials from MAFE, MOF
and FRC, it was agreed with the mission and EU PHARE representatives that an perational plan.
addressing FRC's short and long term future, would be prepared urgently.
13.    Cooperative Banks: The objectives of this sub-component were to:
(i)  strengthen local cooperative banks (LCBs) to serve as a foundation for the cooperative
banking system (CBS); and
(ii) support the development of up to six regional cooperative banks (RCBs), including the
National Union of Cooperative Banks (NUCB).
14.   The objectives of reaching most of the 1,600 LCBs; establishing and rendering operational up to
six RCBs; and strengthening NUCB, were obviously too ambitious. Furthermore, a lack of unity among
LCBs and RCBs, a decline in the performance of NUCB, and changing Government priorities further
constrained achievement of the objectives.
15.   Again, EU PHARE fully funded this sub-component mainly through the institutional component
of AGROLINE, an EU credit program administered by the Cooperation Fund. In implementing this
program, the Cooperation Fund worked closely with NUCB and with the three RCBs of Poznan (GBW),



APPENDIX A
Page 4 of 5
Wroclaw (GBP-Z) and Warsaw (BUG). In parallel to, and in close coordination with ADP, a project
funded by USAID and implemented by ACDI, also significantly supported the three RCBs and their
affiliated LCBs. Government facilitated this component, especially the capitalization of RCBs, through a
Capital Fund administered by MAFE. In 1994, Government drafted and Parliament passed a law on
restructuring of cooperative banks and the Bank for Food Economy (BGZ), which mandated rigid rules
for the reorganization of the entire CBS, including the establishment of additional RCBs, and the
appointment of BGZ as the apex organization of the CBS. This law has come in for substantial criticism
on account of, inter alia:
(i) its top down approach to CBS reorganization;
(ii) inadequately taking into account the position of the RCBs in Wroclaw and Warsaw; and
(iii) appointing BGZ, which faces severe financial and structural problems, as the apex
institution.
16.   The weaknesses in the law, and the different positions taken toward this law or its application,
have significantly complicated the implementation of the cooperative banking component under the
project.
17.   The three RCBs established during and/or supported by the project are likely to be sustainable if
the application of the above-mentioned law does not produce any significant negative effects for their
structure or operations.
18.    Capital Fund: The Capital Fund (CF) was established under the ADP with the objective of
assisting LCBs "in meeting the capital requirements of RCBs". For legal, administrative and financial
reasons, it was necessary to design and structure the CF differently than envisaged in the SAR.
Compared to its redefined objective, structure and functions, the CF has performed well. The mission
agreed with the Government to accelerate the efforts to enable utilization of the remaining funds under the
CF.
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
19.   The Borrower's contribution consists of:
(i) an operational plan for the Project's future operations; and
(ii) an assessment of the experience under the project.
20.    Operational Plan:  The operational plan includes  a statement of the objectives, updated as
appropriate, that the project is expected to continue to achieve, and in this context, for each significant
project component, what its expected contribution is; how it is to be enabled to achieve its goals, including
what resources, financial and non-financial, are to be provided to support it; how are identified constraints
to its operations to be addressed; which are the main agencies and authorities concerned, and what are
their respective responsibilities towards the project component/entity; and how is future performance is to
be monitored and evaluated.
21.   Borrower's Part of the ICR: The Borrower prepares and makes available to the Bank its own
evaluation report on the project's execution and initial operation; costs and benefits; the Bank and the
Borrower's performance of their respective obligations under the Loan Agreement, and the extent to



APPENDIX A
Page 5 of 5
which the purposes of the loan were achieved. A summary of this report (or the full report if it is ten
pages or less) is attached unedited to the ICR.
22.    For guidance, the mission provided the Polish counterparts with a copy of the relevant parts of the
Bank's guidelines on ICR preparation, including the contents of Implementation Completion Reports.
PROJECT COST AND FINANCING PLAN
23.   To enable a comparison of appraised and actual project costs and financing plan, the Borrower
and the project agencies should update the relevant tables (Tables 5.1 and 5.2 on pages 28 and 29 of the
Staff Appraisal Report No. 9436-POL of May 20, 1991).
INFORMATION TO BE SENT TO THE WORLD BANK
24.   To enable the World Bank to complete the draft of its part of the ICR, it was agreed that the
information indicated in the attached formats in Attachments 1, 2 and 3 be sent to the Bank by July 15,
1996 together with the updated project cost and financing plan indicated in para. 23 above.
25.   The draft operational plan would be sent to the Bank by July 15, 1996, and the Borrower's
contribution by August 15, 1996.
COORDINATION OF ICR PREPARATION
26.   The following persons would coordinate the preparation of the Borrower's and the Bank
preparation of the ICR:
For the Borrower:   Mr. Jerzy Indra (MOF)
Mr. Czeslaw Siekierski (MAFE)
Ms. Maria Celarska (NBP)
For the Bank:       Mr. Kishore Nadkarni (Central Europe Dept.)
Warsaw/Washington, D.C.
April 29, 1996



Attachment 1
ELEMENTS OF REPORT SUGGESTED TO BE DRAFTED BY FRC
*   Establishment and evolution of FRC
- establishment of Foundation
- gradual phasing in 12 regional centers
- restructuring of management board
- changes in management and senior staff
- training of FRC staff at all levels
*   Quantification and impact of FRC services and activities (at HQ and regional centers)
- support to process of drafting cooperative law, developing sector strategies (e.g. dairy sector,
etc.).
- training of farmers, cooperative members, managers, staff, etc. by category; number of training
days
- services to cooperatives (by sector)
- contacts
- initial assessments
- general support
- specific support (development of business plans, loan applications, marketing concepts, etc.)
- services to other institutions and clients (e.g. extension service, marketing groups)
- other activities, e.g.:
- support to the establishment of farmer groups
- commercial activities
*   Significance (quantitative data), role and impact of short- and long-term Technical Assistance
*   Income and expenditure by year
*   Restructuring and reorganization of FRC at all levels, results expected by June 30, 1996
*   Plans and projections for the future
*   Situation of client cooperatives
*   Evolution of the environment for FRC's mandate and activities
- legal
- government and infrastructure support (at central, regional and local level)
- perception of members, managers and cooperative staff



Attachment 2
ELEMENTS OF REPORT SUGGESTED TO BE DRAFTED BY THE COOPERATION FUND
(IN COOPERATION WITH NUCB)
*   Activities funded by PHARE (Agroline)
- kind and quantification of activities by year and beneficiaries
- impact of activities
*   Significance, role and impact of short- and long-term Technical Assistance.






APPENDIX B
Page I of 5
BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
(Prepared jointly by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Economy,
Ministry of Finance, and the National Bank of Poland)
THE ADP LOAN
1.    After two years of negotiations, on July 10, 1991, a Loan Agreement was signed between the
Polish Government and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) concerning
the financing of the Agricultural Development Program (ADP), to the amount of U.S.$100 million. As
part of this credit line, medium- and long-term loans were to be issued to the private sector for
investments in agriculture , agri-food processing and other areas that would contribute to the
development of the rural sector's development.
2.    Simultaneously with the Loan Agreement, a Project Agreement was signed between the IBRD
and the National Bank of Poland (NBP), which was meant to administer the funds from the loan and
issue them to private borrowers through participating banks. At the time, the participating banks were
planned to be mainly newly established regional banks grouping cooperative banks, regional banks
were meant to issue loan funds directly to borrowers or through the cooperative banks. The aim was to
give rural borrowers the widest possible access to loans. The Loan Agreement provided for a four-
year implementation period (closing date June 30, 1995). Loans were issued for 2 to 12 years, with a
grace period for capital repayments of up to 3 years. The maximum amount of a sub-loan was $5
million or the zloty equivalent. Zloty-denominated loans carried an interest rate equal to the market
rate for Polish bank loans, based on the NBP rediscount loan rate. Foreign-currency loans were also
available, but these were only worthwhile for exporters due to significant exchange-rate growth. The
total interest on a foreign-currency loan, including bank commission, was about 10% plus exchange-
rate risk.
3.    The participating banks received loan funds from the NBP and could issue loans directly or
through cooperative banks. The NBP approved applications for up to $3 million, while higher loans
required approval from the IBRD. As a result of changes introduced in 1994, which liberalized the
loan-issuing procedures, the IBRD withdrew from reviewing implementation completion reports for
amounts higher than $3 million, authorizing the NBP to do this.
4.     The loan was accompanied by a very high (30 million) sum of extraordinary capital-technical
assistance. The aim of this was to support the reconstruction of genuine rural cooperatives including
cooperative banks. The above aid was earmarked for two main purposes:
*   US$20 million for increasing the cooperative banks' capital for acquiring shares in the
regional banks that were being established,
*   US$10 million for rural cooperative development.
The first part was financed by the U.S. Government and the Polish Government, and the
second by European Union countries from PHARE funds. The funds were at the disposal of the Polish
side, after consultation with the IBRD, the U.S. Ambassador and the EU.
5.    In order to supervise the loan's implementation, the Borrower established the Coordination
Committee, which included representative of the Ministry of Finance (MoF), the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Economy (MAFE) and the NBP. The Committee held meetings in order to



APPENDIX B
Page 2 of 5
review the current implementation of the loan and to make the decisions that - according to the
agreement on administering the loan - could not be made by the NBP.
IMPLEMENTATION OF THE ADP LOAN AND THE CAPITAL TECHNICAL AID
6.    Loan funds could be issued once the loan was in force, following approval of the banks by the
IBRD and the signing of agreements with the banks. This process was seriously delayed. Through the
first agreement with Gospodarczy Bank Wielkopolski (GBW) was signed in February 1992, the firs
loan was issued in November 1992. The process of establishing regional banks was delayed, so the
IBRD agreed to the participation of Bank Gospodarki Zywnoseiowej (BGZ) and other commercial
banks. Successive banks signed agreements as follows:
* BGZ on October 1, 1992
* Bank Przemyslowo-Handlowy (BPH) in Krak6w on January 7, 1993
* Bank Unii Gospodarczej (BUG) in Warsaw on October 22, 1993
* Gospodarczy Bank Poludniowo-Zachodni (GBPZ) in Wroclaw on October 22, 1993
* Bank Rolno-Przemyslowy (BRP, currently RABO-BRP) in Warsaw on October 22, 1994
7.    In August 1994 the IBRD did not permit further funds to be made available to Bank Gospodarki
Zywnosciowej due to this bank's financial condition. The cooperative banks grouped in BGZ and in
regional banks did not participate (except for refinancing - see item 8, iv) in the loan's implementation,
which largely made impossible the planned availability of loans to rural borrowers.
8.    Due to the deteriorating market situation in agriculture and high interest rates, the loan aroused
negligible interest. The IBRD agreed with the Borrower and the NBP (January and April 1994) that
changes liberalizing the procedure would be introduced. The important changes were: (i) abolishing
the requirement of a bank's 30% contribution to the loan amount; (ii) extending from 90 to 180 days
the expenditure refinancing period for cooperative banks; (iii) withdrawal by the IBRD from reviewing
implementation reports on projects where the loan amount was more than $3 million and entrusting the
NBP with that responsibility; (iv) permitting regional banks and the cooperative banks grouped in them
and in BGZ to refinance any expenses incurred after July 10, 1991 to finance their own investments
and loans. During this operation, which lasted several months, the equivalent of $9.2 million was paid
out, but this amount was less than half of the sum declared by the banks and approved by the IBRD
($20 million).
9.    The total amount of the loan used up was equivalent to $25.2 million, including $16 million in
loans and $9.2 million in refinancing as describe above (item 8, iv). The banks issued a total of 31
loans in 11 areas of the agricultural and agri-food industry and in 2 areas of the plastics processing
industry. Implementation of the loan amount by individual banks was as follows:
* BGZ - $7.36 million (10 loans)
* BPH - $5 million (4 loans)
* GBW - $240,00 (4 loans)
* BRP - $3.5 million (13 loans)
The number of loans issued in particular years was as follows: 1992 - 2, 1993 - 8, 1994 - 11, 1995 -
10. BUG and GBPZ made use of the funds only for refinancing expenses incurred earlier and did not
submit any loan applications.



APPENDIX B
Page 3 of 5
10.   In view of decreasing interest in the loan funds on the part of the banks (excluding BRP, which
signed in agreement in October 1994 and consistently implemented it), the Borrower applied to the
IBRD to extend the loan's closing deadline by just one month, to enable payments for loans already
issued to be made. Ultimately, the loan was closed on July 31, 1995 and the utilized amount was $25.2
million.
11.   In order to administer the assistance funds for increasing the cooperative banks' capital for
acquisition of shares in the regional banks, the Minister of Agriculture and Food Economy established
the Capital Fund Foundations on March 6, 1992. In 1992 the Minister of Agriculture and Food
Economy transferred 12.47 million zlotys to the Capital Fund's account, including 5.99 zlotys from the
state budget and 6.47 million zlotys from USAIDI for the initial fund. In addition, the Capital Fund
received 10.33 million zlotys in 1994 from USAID by the end of 1992, 3.53 million zlotys in 1993,
0.003 million zlotys in 1994 - a total of 26.33 million zlotys.
12.   The aid for increasing cooperative bank capital was largely used up.  In 1992-1995 three
regional banks received a total of 20.01 million zlotys (about $12.4 million), including BUG - 4.56
million zlotys, GBPZ - 10.72 million zlotys, GBW - 4.73 million zlotys. 10.71 million zlotys, or about
$4 million, was left in the Capital Fund's account.
13.   In January 1995 the U.S. Ambassador requested that the remaining fund be temporarily frozen,
until the IBRD drew up an assessment of the changes in cooperative banking. Following this, as of
February 1995 the funds were not allocated.
14.    On July 31, 1996 the Minister of Agriculture sent a memorandum to the U.S. Ambassador
concerning the allocation of the remaining funds.
15.   The technical assistance for rural cooperative development was fully utilized. A condition for
this aid's effectiveness was the establishment of the Foundation of Rural Cooperative (FRC), in
October 1991. Out of a total of about 8,000 cooperatives, about 3,000 received direct aid from the
FRC or its Regional Cooperative Service Units (RCSUs) - 12. Over the first three years the FRC was
wholly subsidized from the EU/PHARE program, which financed significant technical assistance in the
form of advisory services, training program support including seminars and dissemination of
information, and office equipment. Consequently, the FRC and its regional units gradually acquired
customers and extended the range of services provided. In July 1994 the FRC statutes were changed,
giving it the legal possibility to provide paid training and advisory services including those concerning
small business in rural areas.
16.    Since July 1994 up till now restructuring process of FRC has been lead. The number of
employees has been decreased to less than 25%.  The role of funds other than from PHARE is
increasing in financing FRC activities. They are conquered on commercial way. The FRC is
becoming n consulting firm in the area of rural cooperative movements.
17.   Though training, advisory services and promotion of the cooperative concept were the FRC's
main field of activity, the organization also made a significant contribution to the work on amending the
cooperative law, developing sector strategies important for cooperatives, developing guidelines for
establishing local agricultural wholesale markets. The FRC developed cooperation with Agricultural
Extension Service Stations (ODR), treating the function of both institutions as complementary.
I Originally, this was 6 million zlotys transferred in 1991, which had increased by interest by the time the Capital Fund was
established.



APPENDIX B
Page 4 of 5
ACTIVITIES UNDERTAKEN TOWARD ADP LOAN ACTIVATION
18.   The ADP loan procedure was liberalized in 1994 - see item 8. Improvement in ADP loan
utilization was expected following the implementation in 1994 of a sector restructuring program for the
dairy industry and milk cattle breeding. However, despite great interest on the part of both dairy
cooperatives and cattle breeders in cheap loans (with subsidized interest repayment form the Agency
for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture - ARMA), ADP loan implementation improved
only slightly. The reason was the elimination of BGZ (as an unprofitable bank) from distributing ADP
loan funds. It should be noted that BGZ is the bank that mainly services the sector restructuring
program in the dairy industry,
19.   Bank Rolno-Przemyslowy in Warsaw took advantage of ADP loan funds due to the fact that
these were long-term resources and they increased the bank's credit capacity.
ACHIEVING THE LOAN'S AIMS
20.   In the part concerning the credit line, the ADP loan did not come up to expectations. Loans
were too expensive, especially in view of the deteriorating market situation in agriculture and food
processing, and significant exchange-rate changes. Cheaper, preferential loans for agriculture were
introduced (thanks to the MAFE's efforts).
21.   Other reasons for the loan's meager utilization:
(i) lack of the possibility to finance purchases of land as well as second-hand machines and
equipment, for which there was a need, form the ADP loan,
(ii) the requirement of a 30% share of a bank's own funds in the amount of a loan (especially
difficult to fulfill for cooperative banks), which was abolished - but too late,
(iii)the existence of cheaper, alternative sources of loans, e.g. Agroline from EU/PHARE
funds
(iv) the lack of sufficient borrower collateral for the banks,
(v) the banks' preference for using their own funds for loans, in view of the Polish banking
system's over-liquidity,
(vi) the overall macro-economic situation in Poland, which was not conducive to investment
due to high inflation and high interest rates.
As a result, only 25 % of ADP loan funds was utilized. In the part that was utilized, the funds were
well allocated in terms of the small amount of bad loans (compared, for example, to the AEDP loan).
22.   A much more positive assessment can be made of the utilization of the capital-technical aid
supporting the reconstruction of genuine rural cooperatives, including cooperative banks. In terms of
cooperative banking, the ADP program was aimed at supporting regional cooperative banks and about
400 local cooperative banks grouped in them. Aid from PHARE was extended by the Agroline
program, under which 3 million ECU was earmarked for technical assistance for cooperative banks.
Thanks to PHARE, and USAID assistance, regional banks developed and extended the range of
services offered to local cooperative banks in personnel training and human resources management,
procedure and system improvement and establishing internal supervision. The Capital Fund provided
significant aid, transferring to regional banks (BUG, GBPZ, GBW) about 56% of accumulated funds,
from the Polish Government and USAID, in return for shares taken over by local cooperative banks.
The remaining amount (10.7 million zlotys, or about $4 million) is the subject of negotiations between



APPENDIX B
Page 5 of 5
the Capital Fund and the Donor. There is no formal restriction on capital support for other regional
banks (apart from the three mentioned above). Through the FRC, thanks to PHARE aid, significant
success was achieved in supporting changes in cooperatives toward transforming them into cooperatives
controlled by their members. A number of regional auditing organizations was also established as well
as national organizations for different cooperative branches. Though the situation varies among the
different branches, in general they need time and resources to consolidate. Their situation also depends
on the overall improvement in rural cooperatives' economic condition.
23.    The delays in amending the act on cooperatives were not the fault of the Polish Government,
but of the parliament, which also changed in the meantime. The ADP technical assistance program's
great success has been the training of a large number of Polish workers active in rural cooperatives,
cooperative banks, agribusiness, education, and economic and agricultural consulting.
CONCLUSIONS
24.    The implementation of the ADP credit line was similar to that of other credit lines, meaning it
was unsatisfactory; the cause should be seen to be the overall economic situation.
25.    Banks were not interested in the loan's funds and, with a few exceptions, did not promote this
credit line. Promotion undertaken by the MAFE or NBP could not be effective because these
institutions themselves were not in a position to offer anything to prospective borrowers.
26.   The help of consultants employed by the IBRD over a relatively long time was certainly very
useful for the banks, but did not improve utilization of the loan's funds.
27.    Technical assistance as part of the ADP had a positive impact on the standard of operation in
cooperative banks, the Foundation of Rural Cooperative and the Agricultural Extension Service
Stations. Thanks to this aid, a number of cooperative banks learned about world banking procedures
and underwent capital consolidation, which facilitated the establishment of the first regional banks.



I



MAP SECTION






ISES 2X4U7
11  1,'                         18-                              2O0                             22- 2POLAN
RUSSIAN                                                                                                    POLAND
t   ,  FEDERATION           !LIT HUANIA'                                     i  AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
T. roKi4-9,o,d                      I                                                                                PROJECT
ToS. 0 I d                 ,i                                                                ElbiGy Suw,lkikj'                                                                                                      -           EXPRESSWAYS
/    '~~~~~   ?z'~~~~    2  EBLAGf\                             -                                              ____ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER MAIN ROADS
Qh OSZALINS                                                                                                                                                                               RAILROADS
TORO,W&,  *~~~    ~ ZCIN                                  -'            ~~~~7'                                                          ~        I*+                  oV~o                                                   AIRPORTS
S-  ayT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G 0 S Z CZ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR PORTS
T                    0\,ok5r. 4s'BE L ARUSj  ^ ^'
8.,I;  T9                                                                                                                                                                                                                       NATIONAL SKICAPITAL J  v   4  '   -Cr  J  RITO AA
IyZ.k           BELARUS 4j _ _ --                             PROVINCE !WOJEWODZTWO) CAPITALS
>-  Probo A'    WI  KOPOLSKP                                                         C             w     OSTRILEKA                                                                                            MAJOR  URBAN   AREAS
OPOLSKi                                                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
z                         1
ki  ..WLUG~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4WEA ~~~~~~~~~~~~CANAIS
a I                                                                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE (WOJEWODZTWO) BOUJNDARIES
K     N                  P U                                                                                                                             B L  INCTERo,,, , ::(-' uN Sf)Kr=sf <t * U K R ATION E g GERMANY 1? o L A   BOUNDARIES
5 2              t                ;r                                                                                                                                 -  zi  Si  .k  R           >        5,,2<,  0
GO j AU5TRA;                  E                                                                                                       PO  LASKA o
5     XX          ITS~~~~10    ISO         200 "LOMTETTRS
-:y                                  0~~ ~~~~~~~~ 25     50         75            ISRTES
k d                                                               ~~~~~~~        ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rh,, -poop,ddb -RM pD,g  Io-,roTRo Io(Ro
R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ PIC~-~''                                                                          T. R.-.~oo, oo,A,ooooo7O
L              TRY    I  SKI                                                                                                               ..p d-,-J, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~h.p.,IdTh. ~~~~~~~~~~~nEr mp o.o,oI. r e or-R h.WrlGBrEDnop o
* ~~~~~~~0O
7ESTr~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TOROTETOU
T. P'oW                                                                                                                8RZEGA o~            ZAM6CSEE                                                                               '-,         RUS5IAN
AL~~~~~~~~~~~~rZ  CN   I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,  PEDERATON
KIEL                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LATVIA
F. P-h~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~DENMARK
LITVSANoA ~
\pRT. iYRUSTIA
5U                                   ToRroro  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~'4~~~~ ~Kf'TO  E     P       '  _wy        I       )~          o                                                                                            OSItE_)         EEr
R E PU BL IC                                                                      BA)KUKRAINE                                                                                                                                POLAND  ~ 
L~~~~o OWY  SA  KRQSS\                                                               r-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GRMN  - ~ '      UKRAINE
K0REP
SL.r(   OVAK
JOo 1E>...  IS  IS               SLOVAK  ~~~~~~~~~~~~   REPUBLIC                       550                                  SO~~~~~~~~~             SWITZ~~~~Tncoo.....   AUSTRIA)2   YUNOARY' EROORANRIIAUNARY  ROA J
DECE-ELO -Q









M 3 7'                   z
<;  ,Ti                 a
c I~~~~-
C-i j,: j 
r ij  -                _



