Report No 1416b-ET                                                            FILE  CQpy
Appraisal of a
Road Sector Project Ethiopia
April 28, 1977
Highways Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients-
only in the performance ot their official duties. Its corttents may not
oLhenwise be dislosed without World Bank authoriation



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit  =  Birr
US$0.483        =  Birr 1.00
US$1.00         =  Birr 2.07
US$483,000      =  Birr 1.0 million
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =  3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)       =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)  =  2204.6 pounds (lbs)
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB    -  African Development Bank
AIDB    -  Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
EDF     -  European Development Fund
ERA     -  Ethiopian Road Authority
GNP     -  Gross National Product
MPP     -  Minimum Package Program
MTC     -  Ministry of Transport and Communications
n.a.    -  not available
ODM     -  Overseas Development Ministry (UK)
OED     -  Operations Evaluation Department of IBRD
p.a.    -  per annum
PAS     -  Public Administration Service (consultants, USA)
PCO     -  Planning Commission Office
PPD     -  Planning and Programming Division of ERA
RRD     -  Rural Roads Division of ERA
RRO     -  Rural Roads Organization
RRTF    -  Rural Roads Task Force
SIDA    -  Swedish International Development Agency
TPU     -  Training Production Unit
TRRL    -  Transport and Road Research Laboratory (UK)
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
USSR    -  Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
vpd     -  vehicles per day
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
FISCAL YEAR-/
July 8   -  July 7
1/ Unless otherwise specified, years refer to fiscal years.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
APPRAISAL OF
A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
ETHIOPIA
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  ......................  ........... .    i-i
1.    INTRODUCTION  ........... ....0.....             *O........... ........................1
2.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  .........*.. . . .   * ..   ............................ ......    2
A.    Economic Setting  ....... . . ..   ................................ * ....  .      2
B.    The Transport System  .2*.........                        ...  ......... .         2
C.    Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination  ...........                           3
D.    Previous Bank Group Involvement  ........ .............                            4
-     Description  .. .........  .......            ............ ..  * *          4
-     Lessons  ..........................................                         5
3.    THE ROAD SUBSECTOR  ....................                   .....................         6
A.    Road Transport  ..... ..*.. . . . . ....*. . . . . ..  ............. .. .......    6
=     The Network              ......................................             6
-     Traffic  .        ...................... ..................                 6
Trucking Industry  ..... . .. . .  ...................*. ..........        7
Vehicle Regulations                                       so ....................  .... .s.  7
Road User Charges  ...........                 ............ ......s.       8
B.    ERA:   Administration of the Main Road Network  *                    ........      8
-     Management  ......................*                                         8
-     Finance  ..............            ............................             9
-     Planning and Engineering  ....*  ... so . .. * . . .......... **  ... .     9
-     Construction   ... ......  .. .... .o .... . .  .......                    10
-     Ma intenance ..... .  ..........  12
-     Training  ..... ............ .o.............................               12
C.    Development of a Rural Roads Administration  ...  ........                        13
-     Construction  to Date               .............................          13
-     Recent Studies  so......................... o.....so .............. .....  13
4.    THE FIVE YEAR ROAD PROGRAM  ..........o ........o....o..   ....                          15
Ao    Evolution of the Program  .........*....            ........ o.. .. ......        15
B.    Objectives  ....................         .0.*.....         so .......................  15
This report was prepared by B.P. Kennedy (Engineer), P.W. Blackshaw (Economist)
-and M. Garcia-Zamor (Technical Editor).
This document has a rtricted distribution an  may be sd  by recipients only in the perfone
od their oMcl dutie. Its contents may no otherwise be disclosd without World Bank autholn_.



-2-
Table of Contents (continued)                                    Page No.
4.  THE FIVE YEAR ROAD PROGRAM (cont'd)
C.  Description  ................................... 0 ...................  15
-   Rural Roads.....................    15
-   Feeder Roads     .     ...........................    17
-   Primary and Secondary Roads                           17
-   Strengthening ERA and Consulting Services.            18
-   Buildings and Equipment.                              19
-   Assistance to Domestic Road Contractors               19
-   Program Costs ....................19
D.  Assessment ..................................    21
-   Institutional Capacity ...........................    21
-   Financial Feasibility ............ .. ...............    21
-   Economic Analysis ........ ....................... .    22
E.  The Project       ...........................................  24
-   Description       ......................................    24
-   General Sector Conditions .................... ....    25
-   Conditions for Subprojects .....   ..................    25
-   Implementation .......................................    26
-   Disbursements       ....................................    26
5.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......................    27
6.  TABLES
1.  Inventory of All-Weather Roads, 1965-75
2.  Vehicle Fleet, 1969-75
3.  Main Road Design Standards
4.  Rural Roads Design Standards
5.  Ethiopian Road Authority Expenditures as Proportion of
Central Government Expenditures, 1970-82
6.  Ethiopian Road Authority Expenditures, 1971-76
7.  Ethiopian Road Authority Proposed Expenditures, 1977-82
8.  Rural Roads Components in Major Agriculture Projects
9.  Rural Roads Maintenance Unit - Estimated Equipment Required
10.  ERA/RRO Major Training Requirements, 1978-82
11.  Overall Road Construction/Improvement Targets, 1978-82
12.  Detailed Road Construction/Improvement Program, 1978-80
13.  Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7.  ANNEXES
1.  Description of Ethiopia's Transport System
2.  Highway Projects Financed by the Bank Group
3.  Expansion of ERA's Training Activities
4.  Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
5.  Economic Analysis of Road Program
6.  Progress Reporting Requirements



-3-
Table of Contents (continued)
8.   CHARTS
1.  Organization of Ethiopian Road Authority
2.   Implementation Schedule
9.  MAPS
1.   ETHIOPIA: Road Sector Credit (IBRD 11074R1)
2.   ETHIOPIA: Coffee Areas (IBRD 3286)






ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        Roads are the dominant modern transport mode in Ethiopia.  However,
despite substantial construction over the last 20 years, road density is
still among the lowest in Africa, and large parts of the country remain
inaccessible except by pack animal. The Government's main transport priority
is to provide these isolated areas with low cost road access in order to
increase agricultural production and extend the coverage of health, education
and welfare services.
ii.       The Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) 1/ and the Rural Roads Task
Force have prepared a Road Program for 1978-82 covering both main and rural
roads. Reflecting the Government's transport priorities, the main emphasis
of the Program is to support agricultural development plans and increase
social service coverage by extending the feeder and rural road network
and to develop a rural road administrative and maintenance capacity. Other
Program objectives are to upgrade and, where necessary, strengthen heavily-
trafficked sections of the primary and secondary road network; strengthen
ERA, which is responsible for main roads; and assist the domestic road con-
struction industry.
iii.      IDA has reviewed this Program, which provides for expenditures of
about US$460 million (in constant 1976 prices), and is satisfied that it meets
the country's development needs, is economically warranted, and financially
and physically feasible. The proposed sector credit of US$32 million will
assist by financing some of the new commitments entered into between July 1977
and June 1980. Other donors, including AfDB. EDF, KfW, ODM, USAID and
Peoples Republic of China have also indicated their intention
of assisting in the Program, but no formal cofinancing arrangements are
contemplated.
iv.       This will be IDA's seventh operation in roads but the first partici-
pation in Ethiopia on the basis of a comprehensive Road Program. While the
general nature of the Association's participation has been agreed with Gov-
ernment, in contrast to project lending, the credit agreement generally specifies
not the items or subprojects to be financed but rather the conditions under
which, after credit approval, subprojects will be accepted for IDA financing.
v.        The ERA, which has demonstrated the capacity to bring forward
and implement projects in an orderly and efficient manner, will be responsible
for implementing the main roads component of the Program; and the new Rural
Roads Organization, for the rural roads component. The Agricultural and
1/   Formerly the Ethiopian Highway Authority and, prior to that, the Imperial
Highway Authority.



- ii -
Industrial Development Bank will handle loans to the Ethiopian contractors.
All equipment and at least half the main road construction or improvement
subprojects financed by IDA will be let to contract after international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank/IDA Guidelines. Consultants and
technical assistance financed by IDA will be employed under terms and condi-
tions satisfactory to the Association.
vi.       Subject to the condition outlined in para. 5.04 of this report, the
proposed Road Program is a suitable basis for an IDA credit in the amount of
US$32.0 million.



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Ethiopia has requested IDA support in implement-
ing the first phase of its 1978-82 Road Program. This Program was prepared by
the Ethiopian Road Authority's (ERA) 1/ Planning and Programming Division and
Rural Roads Task Force, with assistance from IDA staff during two preappraisal
missions and the appraisal mission.
1.02      The main emphasis of the Program is to support agricultural devel-
opment plans and increased social service coverage by extending the feeder
and rural road network 2/, and develop a rural road administrative and
maintenance capacity. Other Program objectives are to upgrade and, where
necessary, strengthen heavily-trafficked parts of the primary and secondary
road network; strengthen ERA, which is responsible for main roads; and assist
the domestic road construction industry.
1.03      The proposed US$32 million IDA sector credit will assist with
implementation of all major Program components scheduled to be initiated in
the first phase of the Road Program. Other donors such as AfDB, EDF, USAID,
ODM, KfW and Peoples Republic of China will also assist with the Program.
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission com-
prised of B. P. Kennedy (Engineer) and P. W. Blackshaw (Transport Economist),
which visited Ethiopia in September 1976. R. Liebenthal (Country Economist)
assisted the mission in the field; G. A. Morra (Training Advisor) visited
Ethiopia in February 1977 and assisted ERA in preparing a staff training
program.
1/   Formerly, the Ethiopian Highway Authority (ERA) and, before that, the
Imperial Highway Authority (IHA).
2/   Throughout this report, "feeder road" refers to the lowest class road in
the main road network, and "rural road" refers to a low class local road
which is not part of the main network.



-2-
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
2
2.01      Ethiopia, with an area of 1.22 million km , is one of the largest
countries in Africa, about twice the size of Kenya. Its topography is dom-
inated by a vast complex of mountains and plateaux rising from the torrid
plains in the east and is cut diagonally northeast to southwest by the Great
Rift Valley. Rainfall varies considerably. The Eritrean lowlands and the
south and east are dry, while the southwest is wet most of the year; the
central highlands have two rainy seasons, with the lesser rains between March
and May and main rains between June and September.
2.02      Ethiopia's population, estimated at 28 million, is growing at about
2.5% annually. Although the urban population is increasing at about three
times this rate, some 90% of the people still live in rural areas, generally
in the fertile central highlands, especially the southern section. Some 80-
90% of the rural population is engaged in subsistence farming. The largest
urban concentrations are in the capital, Addis Abeba (about one million
persons) and Asmera (about 290,000).
2.03      Per capita GNP is US$100, among the lowest in the world.  Agricul-
ture, the basis of the economy, contributes some 50% of GNP and over 90% of
export earnings.
B. The Transport System
2.04      The topography and diverse climate render provision of transport
facilities difficult and expensive; consequently, many parts of the country
remain isolated and dependent largely on pack animals or human carriers for
transport 1/.  For example, an estimated three-quarters of Ethiopia's farms
are more than a half-day's walk from an all-weather road, and only about 25%
of agricultural production is marketed. Although road density in Ethiopia is
almost the lowest in Eastern Africa (about 19 km per 1,000 km or 0.9 km per
1,000 population), road transport is the dominant modern transport mode,
accounting for 90% of non-urban freight transport and 95% of non-urban
passenger travel.
2.05      Most of the main roads radiate from Addis Abeba, the country's
administrative and economic center, and Asmera to important production areas.
Roads carry virtually all domestic trade, apart from that carried by pack
1/   Over one million camels and several million mules and donkeys are esti-
mated to be engaged in goods transport, and porters sometimes walk more
than 20 km per day over difficult terrain.



animals and human porters, and an increasing proportion (now about two-thirds)
of the country's foreign trade moves by road to and from the Red Sea ports of
Aseb, Mitsiwa and Djibouti 1/. Ethiopia's only railway connects Addis Abeba
with the port of Djibouti, in the French Territory of the Afars and Issas, and
carries the remaining foreign trade, some local freight (about 12% of railway
ton-km), and about 500,000 passengers per year. The railway will lose some
traffic as a result of the recently completed road linking Djibouti to the
Addis Abeba-Aseb road. Because of the inaccessibility of many areas by surface
transport, civil aviation is of considerable importance, and 43 airports and
airfields are served by regularly scheduled air services. The only coastal
shipping consists of transport of refined petroleum from Aseb; transport on
inland waterways is negligible.
2.06      Road transport is discussed at greater length in Chapter 3; the
other modes are described more fully in Annex 1.
C. Transport Policy, Planning and Coordination
2.07      The Third Five-Year Development Plan terminated in 1974; work on
a fourth plan stopped in 1974 due to political disturbances early that year,
since when Ethiopia has continued to experience major political changes. As
a result, there is no formal document specifying quantitative development
goals and drawing together various sectoral investment plans. However, the
recently-announced National Democratic Program gives priority to agriculture
and to extension of health, education and welfare services; improved road
access is essential to meeting these objectives. As in the past, roads can
be expected to account for the bulk of Government investment in transport
infrastructure (they have accounted for 80% in recent years), but the
emphasis will be on low class rural and feeder roads; some improvement of
primary and secondary roads is also planned in view of projected traffic
growth, in part attributable to the planned extension of the rural and feeder
road network. No other major extension of the transport network is planned
over the next five years; investments in the other modes will be directed at
improving existing facilities.
2.08      Planning and coordination within the transport sector will be
strengthened by the recent transfer of ERA from the Ministry of Works and
Housing to Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC), which is now
responsible for all Government transport activities. Other sectors have an
input into road planning through representation on the ERA Board of Commis-
sioners, the Interagency Road Committee and Development Committees (paras.
3.09 and 3.15).
1/   The 506 km Northern Ethiopian Railway, connecting Mitsiwa to Asmera
and Akordat, was closed early in 1976.



- 4 -
2.09      Transport coordination is not a major issue because there is little
risk of duplicating investments in competing modes 1/, and on the few routes
where alternative modes are available, there are no regulations limiting
freedom of choice.
D. Previous Bank Group Involvement
Description
2.10      Bank Group involvement in the Ethiopian transport sector, which has
been confined to highways, dates from 1950 when the Bank financed the purchase
of equipment for the rehabilitation of the road network, which had been built
largely by the Italians in 1936-41 but fallen into disrepair after World War
II. As a condition for that first loan, the Bank required the establishment
of a highway institution, since the country had no organization capable of
even the simplest road construction and maintenance. Since 1950, the Bank
Group has provided over US$100 million under six highway projects and has
financed construction of low class rural roads under agricultural projects
(Table 8).
2.11      After the initial emphasis on rehabilitation and minor improvement
of the existing network, the Second, Third and Fourth Highway Projects con-
centrated on new main road construction (some 1,700 km) and on the bituminous
surfacing of about 1,000 km of existing well-trafficked roads. Having assist-
ed in the establishment of a basically adequate primary and secondary network,
the Bank then turned its attention to lower class feeder roads, some 660 km of
which are being constructed under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects.
Following the departure of the U.S. Bureau of Public Roads staff, which man-
aged the ERA until the end of the Second Highway Project, the Bank has pro-
moted the development of the ERA through training, consulting services and
technical assistance, particularly under the Fourth Project, which generally
established the ERA in its present form. Further details of the road works
and institution-building implemented under these six projects are provided in
Annex 2, along with an evaluation of their impact.
1/   The main transport planning issue at the sector level is the future role
of Djibouti (and thus of the Franco-Ethiopian Railway) vis-a-vis Aseb
and its road link. This cannot be decided until the nature of future
relations between Ethiopia and the Territory of the Afars and Issas is
clearer. Of lesser importance is the possibility of adjusting scheduled
air services on the "feeder routes" as roads penetrate areas previously
inaccessible by modern surface transport.



-5-
Lessons
2.12      The Second, Third and Fourth Highway Projects have all been the
subject of formal ex-post review.!    The major lessons from Bank Group
involvement in the sector emerged during the Second Highway Project, and Bank
staff drew on this early experience in their approach to subsequent projects.
2.13      Road construction under the Second Highway Project was considerably
delayed by institutional weaknesses, including poor engineering, slow prep-
aration of specifications, inefficient procurement and force account work,
and poor supervision. In subsequent projects, the Bank helped ERA to improve
in these areas, and the Operations Evaluation Department noted in 1974 that:
"The agency can now do better technical planning, advance surveying and cost
estimating than before, and can produce feasiblity studies that bear com-
parison with similar work prepared by international consultants. Also, the
administration of the IRA has improved considerably." 2/ Since this assess-
ment was made, there has been further strengthening in financial administra-
tion, road maintenance and equipment management under the Bank's Fifth and
Sixth Projects, and through USAID assistance (Annex 2, para. 19). ERA's
present capabilities are further discussed in Chapter 3, Section B.
2.14      As the quality of ERA staff has improved, their participation in proj-
ect execution has increased. ERA staff supervised the paving works under
the Fourth Project and are supervising construction under the Fifth and
Sixth Projects, under an expatriate Resident Engineer. Also, force account
construction improved so considerably that the Bank agreed to its use under
the Sixth Project.
2.15      Another lesson from the Second Highway Project was the need to
integrate road construction and agricultural development. Three of the five
roads in that Project showed disappointing rates of return, partly because of
their high cost but mainly because of their relatively low development impact,
which was attributable, in turn, to the absence of a complementary agricultural
development program and the lack of lower class roads feeding onto the
Project roads, thereby limiting their influence area. In subsequent proj-
ects, the Bank has sought to ensure complementary agricultural development
by covenants and side letters, and in many instances provided assistance for
agricultural programs (e.g., the Minimum Package, Coffee Processing, and
Amibara Irrigation Projects). Such programs frequently included construction
of low class rural roads which served roads financed under highway projects.
As noted in para. 2.11, the emphasis in the Fifth and Sixth Highway Proj-
ects centered on development of lower class roads. As a result of these
approaches, and of improved project implementation, the economic impact of
roads under successive projects has improved (Annex 2, paras. 6, 11, 17).
The emphasis on lower class roads and on coordination with agricultural
development will continue under the 1978-82 Road Program.
1/ The Second Highway Project was included in a "Comparative Evaluation of
Selected Highway Projects," 1974; there has been a Project Performance Audit
on the Third Highway Project, 1975, and a Project Completion Report on the
Fourth Highway Project, 1976.
2/ "Comparative Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects," p.62.



- 6 -
3. THE ROAD SUBSECTOR
A. Road Transport
The Network
3.01      The main road network consists of about 8,800 km of all-weather
roads (Table 1) which are categorized as primary, secondary and feeder or
tertiary, a classification more related to design standards (Table 3) than
function. Because many of these roads were built as long ago as 1930, since
when traffic has increased substantially, much of this network needs exten-
sive rehabilitation and upgrading.
3.02      With few interconnecting links, the main network extends radially
from Addis Abeba, but large areas of the west, southwest and east still lack
an all-weather link to the capital; nevertheless, since 1966 the network has
increased by almost 60% and the length of paved roads has doubled (Table 1),
largely with Bank Group assistance (para. 2.11). Although the main road
network still requires considerable upgrading and extension, the more urgent
requirement is to develop the rural network (para. 2.07), which currently
comprises 31,000 km of mainly low class, dry-weather trails and tracks, to
complement past investment in main roads. These requirements are addressed
under the 1978-82 Road Program (Chapter 4).
Traffic
3.03      The 52,000-vehicle fleet (Table 2) represents a vehicle density of
less than 2 vehicles/1,000 persons, which is the lowest in Eastern Africa and
well below the 11 vehicles/1,000 persons in neighboring Kenya. Moreover,
the geographical distribution of vehicle ownership is highly concentrated; 86%
of vehicles are registered in Shewa and Eritrea Regions (containing Addis
Abeba and Asmera, respectively).
3.04      Despite the small fleet, traffic flows on the main road network
are quite high. Recent ERA traffic surveys, 1/ which exclude Asmera Dis-
trict because of security problems, reveal that about 62% of the main road
network has more than 100 vehicles per day (vpd) although traffic in excess
of 500 vpd is rare outside the urban areas. Total non-urban vehicle-km have
grown by about 10% per year since 1962 to the present level of 1.75 million
vehicle-km; truck-km have grown especially rapidly, almost trebling since
1969 and now accounting for half of total non-urban traffic.
1/   Surveys are conducted 3 times yearly at 73 counting stations covering
most all-weather roads.



-7-
Trucking Industry
3.05      The trucking industry, comprised mainly of owner-drivers, has
been generally competitive 1/. Until recently, economic regulation of
trucking was confined to prescribing rates on the Aseb-Addis Abeba road,
and then only in the direction towards Addis Abeba. However, in late 1976
the Government announced a series of measures which will result in signif-
icant regulation of the industry. Henceforth, all owners of commercial
road transport vehicles are obliged to operate as associates of the Road
Transport Administration (RTA) of MTC. RTA will establish freight ter-
minals, allocate work to associates, and prescribe the rates to be charged.
The general effect of the regulations will be to increase services and
reduce rates on the lower density routes, which will be subsidized by the
operations on busier routes. Given the general lack of modal competition,
such cross-subsidization is unlikely to cause serious inefficiencies in
transport.
Vehicle Regulations
3.06      RTA is responsible also for enforcing regulations controlling
vehicle weights and dimensions. To date, enforcement of axle load limits
has not been satisfactory, and the maximum axle load of 8 tons permitted
under present legislation has been generally disregarded; a recent survey on
the five major routes out of Addis Abeba found that axle loads up to twice
the legal limit are common. This inadequate enforcement is in part attrib-
utable to ]RTA's lack of facilities and staff. During negotiations for the
Sixth Highway Project, agreement was reached on a program to provide RTA with
the capability to enforce the regulations adequately. Implementation of the
program is proceeding satisfactorily, though behind schedule. Five weigh-
bridges financed under the Sixth Highway Project are presently being installed,
and additional weighbridges financed by ODM have been tendered.
3.07      However, another reason for lack of enforcement of the axle load
regulation has been the Government's view that the 8-ton axle limit is
unrealistic in view of modern truck design. ERA's Design Division, with
Transport and Road Research Laboratory (TRRL, UK) technical assistance, has
recently analyzed the trade-offs between, on the one hand, lower vehicle
operating costs per ton-km and, on the other hand, the higher road costs
from heavier axle loads, and concluded that total transport costs under
Ethiopian conditions are minimized at axle loads of 12-13 tons. Although
the necessary legislation has not yet been passed, the increased axle load is
being taken into account in the design of new road works, and the existing
network is to be strengthened where necessary (para. 4.10). As a general
1/   For example, the OED review of the Second Highway Project concluded
that savings in truck operating costs as a result of the Project had
been fully passed on by reductions in freight tariffs. "Comparative
Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects," 1974, p. 24.



-8-
sector condition (para. 4.29), the Government should provide satisfactory
evidence that vehicle weights are being controlled to take account of road
pavement strengths; loads over 12 tons can serve as the basis for prosecution
under existing legislation.
Road User Charges
3.08      Government revenue from road user taxation is presently about
US$29 million a year, of which US$19 million comes from an excise of about
100% on local and imported petroleum products, US$9 million from import duties
on motor vehicles and accessories, and US$1 million from license and inspec-
tion fees. With recurrent expenditures in 1976 of US$16 million, road user
taxation can be thought of as contributing about US$13 million towards capital
costs of the system. At present taxation rates, this contribution would
remain about the same over the Program period.l   Compared with a conserva-
tively estimated capital recovery charge on the present road system of about
US$41 million, and with a projected capital outlay of US$67 million a year
under the proposed Program (para. 4.17), this contribution of US$13 million
seems inadequate 2/. At negotiations, agreement was reached on the terms of
reference for a study of road user charges. Government undertook to complete
the study by June 30, 1978 and to discuss the findings with IDA.
B. ERA: Administration of the Main Road Network
Management
3.09      ERA, an autonomous agency under MTC (Chart 1), is responsible for
the main road network. The Authority's Board of Commissioners supervises its
activities; Board members are the Minister of Transport and Communications as
Chairman, the Vice-Ministers of Finance and Commerce and Industry, the General
Manager of ERA; and one other member.
3.10      Since 1951, Ethiopianization of the Authority has progressed
as suitable local staff have become available. U.S Bureau of Public Roads
staff managed ERA until 1963, when Ethiopians, assisted by expatriate
managerial and technical advisors, assumed management responsibilities.
1/ Assuming the vehicle fleet grows at 5% per annum and vehicle-km at 7%
per annum, revenue from road user charges at present rates would be
about US$43 million in 1982, compared with projected recurrent expendi-
ture of US$30 million, all in constant 1976 prices.
2/   All figures are in constant 1976 prices.  The case for increasing road
user charges is even stronger than suggested by this comparison when it
is considered that much of the revenue would accrue from urban motorists
whereas the estimates of road capital costs exclude urban roads.



- 9 -
Under the Bank Group's Fourth Highway Project, the Authority was reor-
ganized to improve coordination between related functions in Engineering
and Administration, modernize administrative procedures, and provide
greater delegation of responsibility. A related comprehensive training
program was also successfully implemented under this Project, as a result
of which all ERA divisions are now headed by Ethiopians and functioning
satisfactorily. As the Authority continues to develop and improve its
operations to meet the increasing demands on it, some expatriate technical
assistance will still be required (paras. 4.11-.13).
Finance
3.11      Budget preparation is the overall iesponsibility of ERA's Plan-
ning and Programming Division (PPD). Following review and approval by
the Board of Commissioners, the budget is submitted for approval to the
Planning Commission and the Council of Ministers.
3.12      ERA's General Manager controls expenditures, which are subject
to external audit. Accounting and auditing procedures within ERA have
improved considerably following consulting services, technical assistance
and training provided under the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects
(para. 2.13).
3.13      Table 6 shows ERA capital and recurrent budgets and expendi-
tures since 1971, which have averaged about 11% of the total Government
budget (Table 5).  Capital expenditures hardly increased over 1971-74,
as ERA was unable to use rising capital budget allocations due to then-
existing complications in civil works and equipment procurement contracts
caused by amendments to the ERA charter (Annex 2, para. 17). However, imple-
mentation capacity has greatly improved since 1974, as reflected in the
increase of capital expenditure from Birr 40 million (US$19 million) in
1974 to over Birr 100 million (US$48 million) in 1976. Almost half of ERA's
capital expenditure since 1971 had been financed from foreign loans and
grants.
3.14      ERA's recurrent expenditure has grown steadily and budget alloca-
tions have been almost completely utilized. Maintenance expenditure was
about Birr 2,100 (US$1,000) per km in 1976, an increase of 16% in real terms
over 1971, and is basically adequate having regard to competing claims on
funds. Until recently, maintenance efforts were impeded by irregular flow
of funds throughout the year but this problem has now been overcome.
Planning and Engineering
3.15      Road planning is initiated in ERA's PPD, coordinated at the working
level by an Interagency Road Committee 1/, and then considered by ERA's
1/   This Committee comprises representatives from ERA, the Planning Com-
mission Office, and the Ministries of Transport and Communications,
Agriculture Defense, Interior and National Community Development and
Social Affairs.



- 10 -
Board of Commissioners (para. 3.09). Under recently established procedures,
local Development Committees will also have an input into road planning. 1/
3.16      PPD has developed a sound capacity for identifying and preparing
ERA's work program. For each proposed main road construction or improvement
project, it prepares a feasibility study based on preliminary engineering to
determine whether the project is economically justified and, if so, identify
appropriate construction standards (Table 3). PPD has prepared acceptable
feasibility studies for the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects and has under-
taken considerable economic analysis in selecting the main roads included
in the 1978-82 Road Program, although the volume of additional economic
analysis required in the early part of the Program exceeds PPD's capacity
(para. 4.13 and Annex 5, para. 6).
3.17      When projects are approved by the Planning Commission Office
(PCO), detailed engineering is prepared by ERA's Design Division. The Di-
vision's capability to produce highway designs to acceptable international
standards has so improved over the years that the Division was able to pre-
pare detailed engineering for the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Highway Projects;
this work was reviewed by the consultants employed for construction super-
vision and only minor improvements were found to be needed. Also, under a
joint program with TRRL, the Design Division is investigating the location
and properties of, and appropriate specifications for locally available con-
struction materials, which has already resulted in improved pavement designs
and lower construction costs; ODM has tentatively agreed to finance a two-
year extension of the program. To assist further with design, the Division
requires some additional equipment (para. 4.15).
3.18      In most of Ethiopia, the rugged terrain requires expensive and
time-consuming field survey work to establish road alignments. Selection
of optimum alignments would be facilitated, and the quality of design in
mountainous terrain considerably improved, by greater use of aerial photo-
graphy. ERA has adequate photogrammetry equipment but requires increased
aerial photo coverage (para. 4.15).
Construction
3.19      ERA makes use of both contract and force account construction.
With the increasing volume of lower cost road construction and other small
projects of less interest to international contractors, ERA has sought to
increase domestic construction capacity by developing both domestic con-
tractors and its own force account operations.
Contract Construction
3.20      ERA's Contract Construction Division efficiently administers road
contracts. Major contracts are unit-price type, awarded on the basis of
1/   Such committees have been established at the Woreda (sub-district),
Awraja (district), Regional and Central Government levels and will
have an input into the development programs of all relevant Ministries,
including MTC and, thus, ERA.



- 11 -
international competitive bidding after prequalification of contractors.
Contract conditions are satisfactory, as are specifications.
3.21      Up to 1972, most major road construction was done by foreign
contractors. However, during preparation of the Fifth Highway Project, ERA
requested Bank Group assistance in developing Ethiopia's small domestic
contracting industry which was constrained by contractors' difficulty in
obtaining credit on reasonable terms and lack of experienced contractor
staff. Under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects, IDA provided a total of
US$3.5 million for onlending through the Agricultural and Industrial De-
velopment Bank (AIDB) to such contractors for equipment purchases. Two
contractors have benefitted from these loans; each now has an annual con-
struction capacity of about US$3 million and is successfully constructing
works under the Fifth and Sixth Projects. The Fifth Project also provides for
training of domestic contractors' staffs. Although Ethiopia applies a 7-1/2%
preference for domestic contractors under IDA projects, to date this has not
been needed for them to win tender awards.
Force Account Construction 1/
3.22      ERA force account construction has expanded considerably in recent
years, from Birr 11 million (US$5 million) in 1974 to Birr 19 million (US$9
million) in 1976, to an expected Birr 34 million (US$16 million) in 1977
(all in constant 1976 prices). As a proportion of all main road work, force
account has increased from 22% in 1974 to 32% in 1976, and an expected 38% in
1977.  By end-1977, ERA will have five force account units, each capable of
constructing about 50 km of new gravel roads per year; two asphalt upgrading
crews, each capable of about 70 km per year; and one asphalt overlay crew
capable of about 150 km per year.  The organization and execution of force
account work has improved considerably over the years; enforcement of speci-
fications and cost control is expected to improve further from measures in-
troduced under the Sixth Highway Project (para. 4.31). IDA is also currently
financing training of force account staff under the Fifth Highway Project.
Supervision of Construction
3.23      Following unsatisfactory experience with supervision by ERA staff
under the First and Second Highway Projects, the Bank insisted on supervision
by consultants in the Third Project. Under the Fourth Project, the Bank
continued to require consultant supervision of new road construction, but
agreed to local supervision of bituminous paving works because of consultants'
successful on-the-job training of local staff under the Third Project. The
supervision proved satisfactory and, as a result of further training under
the Fourth, all supervisory staff for the road contracts under the Fifth and
Sixth Projects have been local personnel, except for an expatriate resident
engineer on each job; this arrangement will continue in order to train more
local staff in construction supervision.
1/   All figures below exclude force account work by ERA's Rural Roads
Division, which is discussed separately in para. 3.28.



- 12 -
Maintenance
3.24      Maintenance of the main road network is the responsibilty of ERA's
Operations Division, headed by a Chief of Operations, under whom the Roads
Maintenance Engineer supervises all maintenance operations in ERA's nine
districts (Chart 1). Until recently, the scheduling of maintenance oper-
ations and preparation of related budget needs was carried out by headquar-
ters staff, but this resulted in unrealistic programs which often were not
implemented by the districts. These functions have now been delegated to
the district level, and the District Engineer is accountable for preparing
and implementing a work program and for cost control; the work is monitored
by frequent inspection visits by senior engineers from headquarters. This
clear assignment of responsibility and accountability, which will be rein-
forced by the introduction of work performance budgeting (para. 4.13), has
already markedly improved road maintenance.
3.25      Other factors contributing to improved maintenance in recent years
have been the assistance provided under the Fourth Highway Project 1/ and
ERA's follow-up action on a 1973 Road Maintenance Study (F. R. Harris, Inc.,
consultants, USA, financed by USAID). This Study identified road mainte-
nance priorities and the equipment and manpower necessary to implement a
Road Maintenance Program through 1982. The required equipment has been
procured with assistance from IDA, USAID and ODM. Furthermore, under a
USAID-financed Highway Equipment Repair Facilities Project, all district
workshops have been expanded and equipped to handle the equipment fleet.
3.26      The main problem in dealing with the increasing maintenance de-
mands is the low skill level of some existing manpower, particularly dis-
trict foremen, and the shortage of equipment operators and shop tradesmen.
These problems will be addressed through technical assistance and training
under the Program (paras. 4.12 and 4.19). Another problem in the past has
been diversion of resources from maintenance to force account construction.
IDA's sector conditions and progress reporting requirements are designed to
prevent this during implementation of the Road Program (para. 4.29).
Training
3.27      In addition to some on-the-job training being provided by expatriate
staff, ERA has an active training program for both senior and lower echelon
personnel. Senior employees are trained at schools and universities in
Ethiopia and abroad, assisted by the Bank Group's Fourth and Sixth Highway
Projects. Middle and lower grade administrative, construction and mainte-
nance personnel are retrained and up-graded at ERA's Alemgena Training Center,
which was strengthened under the Fifth Highway Project through provision of
needed equipment and teaching materials. Since its foundation in 1956, the
Center has trained some 5,000 foremen, technicians and equipment operators;
I1   Maintenance operations were organized, a Maintenance Manual prepared,
and an expatriate Chief Maintenance Engineer and Field Maintenance
Engineer provided.



- 13 -
its 1977 training program provides for the training abroad of a substantial
number of middle and high level staff, plus the retraining or upgrading of
some 400 staff. Nevertheless, the Center will have to be further strengthened
to cope with continuing ERA needs and the overall requirements of the 1978-82
Road Program, particularly for the rural roads component (para. 4.19 and
Annex 3).
C. Development of a Rural Roads Administration
Construction to Date
3.28      As stated previously, most road development in Ethiopia has con-
centrated on much-needed extension, rehabilitation and maintenance of the
main road network. Until this year, there was no organization specifically
charged with administrative responsibility for lower class rural roads. Much
of the rural network has been constructed by regional administrations or
other local initiatives and, more recently, by road construction units pro-
vided under agricultural projects.l/   ERA's participation in rural roads
construction was previously limited, but expanded considerably in 1976 follow-
ing the creation of a Rural Roads Division (RRD).2|   In that year Birr 7
million (US$3 million) of works were carried out, and RRD expects to complete
Birr 15 million (US$7 million) of works in 1977.
Recent Studies
3.29      Reflecting the increased emphasis given in the 1969-74 Third
Developmenit Plan to agricultural development and low class rural roads to
support such development, a Working Group on Local Rural Roads Development
was set up in 1972 with encouragement from the Bank Group. The Working
Group comprised representatives from the PCO, MTC, the Ministries of Agri-
culture, Education, Interior and National Community Development and Social
Affairs, the Highway Authority, Chilalo Agricultural Development Unit and
interested donor agencies. The Working Group Report, issued in 1973, drew
together all readily available information on rural roads needs and, recog-
nizing the serious bottleneck to agricultural development caused by lack of
these roads, recommended that:
(i) an organization should be established with responsibility
for planning, constructing and maintaining rural roads,
and the objective should be ultimate decentralization of
1/   This procedure was adopted in the IDA-financed Lower Adiabo, Humera,
Wolamo and Coffee Processing Projects (Credits 516, 188, 486 and 290,
respectively) as well as the SIDA-financed Chilalo Project and the
USAII)-financed Ada Project.
2/   RRD is responsible for road construction for the IDA-financed Minimum
Package Program and Drought Rehabilitation Projects, and the USAID-
financed Recovery and Rehabilitation Project.



this responsibility to the awraja 1/ or lower level, with
only minimal control by the central government;
(ii)  rural roads should be constructed to the minimum standard
necessary for motorized vehicles, and no such road should
be built unless there is reasonable certainty of mainte-
nance;
(iii)  construction and maintenance methods should be as labor-
intensive as possible to generate employment opportunities
for rural dwellers; and
(iv)  a Rural Roads Task Force (RRTF) should be established to
follow up the foregoing recommendations.
3.30      RRTF was duly set up; it consists of representatives of Minis-
tries of Agriculture, Interior, Finance, the PCO and ERA, with ERA's General
Manager as Chairman and its Rural Roads Coordinator (subsequently, head of the
Rural Roads Division) as Secretary. RRTF's initial objectives were to:
(i)  identify the appropriate organization and administrative
procedures for a locally-based, labor-intensive rural
roads program;
(ii)  specify a schedule for building up the requisite organi-
zation, resources and supporting information; and
(iii)  draw up a program for rural roads construction and mainte-
nance and identify the resources necessary to implement
it.
3.31      Funds for a consultant's study to assist RRTF were included in
IDA's Fifth Highway Project; it was later agreed that ODM would finance
the study in accordance with terms of reference agreed among Government,
ODM and the Association. The Crown Agents (UK) were selected to carry out the
study which was completed in 1976 and provides the basis of the rural roads
component of the 1978-82 Road Program (paras. 4.03-.08).
1/   Ethiopia is divided into 14 regions, which are in turn divided into
awrajas and woredas or subawrajas. There are 102 awrajas in total,
the number per region ranging from 3 to 13.



- 15 -
4. THE FIVE-YEAR ROAD PROGRAM
A. Evolution of the Program
4.01      PPD and RRTF have prepared a Road Program covering proposed capital
and recurrent expenditure for both main and rural roads for 1978-82. A
first draft of the Program, designed to serve as a working document, was
completed in April 1976. It was drawn up on a "needs" basis, without regard
to physical or financial constraints.  During the succeeding six months,
these constraints as well as subsector priorities were examined jointly by
ERA and IDA, and agreement was reached on a revised Program, which comprises
ongoing as well as new projects (Table 7).
B. Obj ectives
4.02      The main objectives of the 1978-82 Road Program are to:
(i) support agricultural development plans and increase
social service coverage by extending the feeder and rural
road network and by establishing an institution to plan,
construct and maintain rural roads;
(ii) upgrade and, where necessary, strengthen heavily traf-
ficked parts of the primary and secondary road network;
(iii) further strengthen ERA; and
(iv) continue past efforts to build up the domestic road
construction industry.
C. Description
Rural Roads
Proposed Organization
4.03      The Council of Ministers has approved RRTF's recommendation for a
semi-autonomous Rural Roads Organization (RRO) to be established within ERA
(Chart 1) of which RRD will form the nucleus. It was agreed during negoti-
ations that RRO would be operational by the end of 1977. The new organization
will have access to ERA facilities and services (e.g., district workshops,
procurement, personnel, training, financial administration and technical
advice), while having more autonomy than a normal ERA Division (e.g., RRO will
have its own equipment and will determine construction and maintenance stan-
dards). Rural Roads Offices will be established gradually in each region by



- 16 -
RRO and transferred to the local administrations when the latter have the
required capacity. It is envisaged that maintenance would be decentralized
first, followed by construction. Additionally, for each Rural Roads Office, a
Regional Rural Road Committee will be established comprising representatives
of the Regional Administration Development Office, Peasants Associations,
Ministry of Agriculture and Settlement, and the Rural Roads Office. This
Committee would help determine priorities, solve any labor problems that might
arise and be responsible for ensuring the orderly transfer of the Rural Roads
Office from ERA to the Regional Development Office. The major manpower
requirements of RRO are addressed in para. 4.11.
4.04      Considerable road construction is currently underway by construc-
tion units under agricultural projects (Table 8). The new RRO will not
take over responsibility for this ongoing construction, though it will
liaise with such units to ascertain future maintenance requirements and to
explore possibilities of obtaining road construction equipment from these
units when they no longer require it. Ultimately, all rural road construc-
tion under new agricultural projects will be the responsibility of RRO,
unless there are strong counter-reasons. 1/
Construction Program
4.05      The Program aims to construct approximately 4,600 km of rural
roads, mostly to the lowest rural road standard RR10 (Table 4). About 1,660 km
of this total represent works to which the present RRD is already committed.
4.06      As a guide to where initial efforts should be concentrated, RRTF
ranked the country's 14 regions using a socio-economic points system
(Annex 5) and then took into account the Government's desire to build on
efforts already initiated by various external agencies and to regionalize
aid in order to simplify administration, particularly equipment management.
Thus, USAID will continue to finance construction in the southern provinces
of Bale, Sidamo and Gemu Gofa, where its aid to date has been concentrated;
SIDA will extend its present activities in Arusi and be requested to expand
into the adjoining region of Harerge; and ODM will be requested to extend
its work in the northeastern regions of Tigre and Wello. IDA would as-
sist in the western regions of Wellega, Illubabor and Kefa. Wellega and
Illubabor have good agricultural potential, with large areas of natural cof-
fee forests; very few rural roads have been built in these regions, which
were second and fourth in RRTF's priority ranking. Kefa region, ranked
seventh, has been the site of several agricultural projects, including a
substantial part of IDA's Coffee Processing Project, but still has consider-
able unexploited potential (Map 2).
1/   For example, it is not proposed to make RRO responsible for road
construction under the Amibara Irrigation Project, because the most
efficient way to construct these roads is in combination vwith canal
construction and flood protection works.



- 17 -
4.07      RRTF and the external financing agencies involved, including IDA,
agree on the objective of using labor-intensive construction methods to the
maximum extent that they are cost effective. Appropriate construction methods
may differ from region to region depending upon local conditions, such as
terrain and labor availability. It is intended that part of the construction
labor force would be retained to form the nucleus of RRO labor-intensive
maintenance unit. In addition to its own work program, RRO would have a
roving team to assist self-help construction projects, for example in setting
out the center line of a road.
Maintenance
4.08      The Crown Agents and RRTF estimate that, over and above rural
roads for which maintenance is provided under agricultural projects, there
are already 3,000 km of rural roads which warrant maintaining. This figure
will increase to almost 8,000 km in 1982 if construction plans are fulfilled.
Since the existing RRD has no maintenance capacity, development of such ca-
pacity in the new RRO is a high priority. As with construction, maintenance
will be as labor-intensive as is economic. Table 9 shows the estimated plant
required for a unit to maintain 300 km of RRIO class roads p.a. However, as
the Program unfolds, experience gained in the early years will be drawn upon
and the final composition of the maintenance units, and their equipment
requirements, may thereby change.
Feeder Roads
4.09      The major purpose of the new feeder roads (Annex 5, Table B) is to
complement agricultural development plans, although some of the roads will
also provide valuable interconnecting links between parts of the primary/
secondary network, resulting in substantial reductions in trip lengths.
Feeder roads are expected to account for about three-quarters of the value
of main road works during the Program (para. 4.17). It is intended to con-
struct about 2,000 km of new gravel roads to feeder standard (Table 3) or
to the slightly lower "service to traffic" standard; about 1,160 km of this
total represent ongoing projects which will be commenced before the start of
the Program (July 1977).   Detailed engineering for approximately 1,400 km
of the 2,000 km has already been satisfactorily completed by ERA's Design
Division which, with the sub-professional training and equipment to be pro-
vided under the Program, is capable of completing the remaining design work
to the required schedule.
Primary and Secondary Roads
4.10     Most of the expenditure on these roads will be for the upgrading of
approximately 840 km of gravel roads to bituminous paved standard in order to
reduce vehicle operating and road maintenance costs. Of this total, 240 km
represent ongoing projects. Detailed engineering for the new projects has
or will be prepared on the basis of pavement design according to TRRL Road



- 18 -
Note 31, 1/ which is satisfactory. The Program also provides for strengthen-
ing of some main road pavements, based on projections of future traffic and
the effect of the Government's decision to increase the allowable axle load
from 8 tons to 12 tons. A preliminary survey indicates that only the primary
road linking Addis Ababa to the port of Aseb will need pavement strengthening
over the Program period. Finally, about 280 km of primary and secondary roads
will be rehabilitated under ongoing projects during the Program.
Strengthening ERA and Consulting Services
4.11      Although requiring strengthening in some key areas, ERA has gener-
ally adequate staff for its present main road responsibilities. However,
considerable training and technical assistance will be required to build up
the new RRO0 ERA and RRTF have prepared a plan to meet the additional
manpower requirements for the Program period, with Bank Group assistance.
The training needs for key skill categories will be met by a combination
of formal training by the ERA Alemgena Training Center, on-the-job production
training, and training by Community Skill Training Centers, one hundred of
which are being established under IDA's Fourth Education Project (Credit
553-ET, 1975). To meet the required output of trained staff (Table 10), the
Alemgena Training Center will be strengthened by additional instructors,
equipment (particularly for training equipment operators) and buildings,
and two field training production units will be established (Annex 3).
4.12      Approximately 50 man-years of technical assistance will be re-
quired during the Program, mainly to assist in rural roads construction and
maintenance activities, including the servicing, preventive maintenance and
repair of equipment. The experts will be road superintendents or foremen
with experience in labor-intensive operations 2/, and equipment and workshop
superintendents. Technical assistance will also be used to strengthen main
road maintenance by on-the-job training of district foremen, equipment
operators and shop tradesmen.
4.13      In addition, about 140 man-months of consulting services, at a total
cost of about Birr 1.5 million (US$725,000), will be required to improve
maintenance scheduling and costing, and to strengthen PPD. Consultants
will assist in preparing a pilot road maintenance work performance budgeting
scheme 3/ for one or two districts and will train ERA staff so that the
1/   "A Guide to Structural Design of Bituminous Surfaced Roads in Tropical
and Sub-Tropical Countries," TRRL, Department of Environment (UK).
2/   There is also the possibility of training Ethiopian regional rural
roads staff in neighboring Kenya where a carefully planned and
controlled Rural Access Roads Program is being implemented by labor-
intensive methods.
3/  A program described in the National Cooperative Highway Research Report
No. 131, 1972, and developed by consultants Roy Jorgensen Associates
(USA), under research sponsored by the American Association of State
Highway Officials in cooperation with the Federal Highway Administration.



- 19 -
scheme, modified on the basis of pilot results if advisable, can later be
extended to other districts. PPD will also require some short-term consulting
services to assist with the large volume of economic analysis required to
select feeder roads for the latter years of the Program. A Unit will be
established in PPD to monitor and evaluate project progress and impact.
Initially, the Unit will monitor and evaluate projects on a sample basis, with
the primary objective of improving the criteria for selecting new feeder and
rural road projects. The Unit will also prepare Project Completion Reports
for ongoing IDA-financed projects and for subprojects financed under the
proposed sector credit. The Unit will be assisted by consultants in inves-
tigating existing data sources and identifying a detailed work program and
future staffing plan for the Unit. It is expected that the consulting ser-
vices would need to be followed by some limited technical assistance during
the early operation of the Unit. During negotiations, agreement was reached
on the Unit's terms of reference (Annex 4), on appointment dates for the above
consulting services and on a timetable for establishing the Monitoring and
Evaluation Unit.
Buildings and Equipment
4.14      While the new RRO will share ERA facilities to the maximum extent
possible (para. 4.03), new office buildings and workshops will be required
in many regions. (Para. 4.28 provides an example of the mixture of present
and new facilities which can be expected.)
4.15      To improve conditions for maintenance workers, ERA plans to build
64 camps over the Program period, at a unit cost of Birr 280,000 (US$135,000).
Also, aerial photography will be undertaken (para. 3.18) and additional equipment
will be procured to help the Design Division design new roads, determine the re-
sidual life of existing pavements and design any strengthening required (para. 3.17).
Assistance to Domestic Road Contractors
4.16      Over the Program period, the Government plans to continue to assist
development of the domestic road construction industry (para. 3.21) by provid-
ing loans for the purchase of construction equipment by Ethiopian contractors
who are awarded road construction contracts under the Program. The loans will
be administered by AIDB and will be subject to commercial interest rates.
Program Costs
4.17      Planned Program expenditures are detailed in Table 7 and summarized
below, along with 1973-77 expenditures for comparison in constant 1976 prices.
About one-third of Program capital expenditures relate to ongoing projects.
Total Program costs are estimated at Birr 1,438 million (US$695 million),
or Birr 1,306 million (US$631 million) excluding taxes and duties. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at about Birr 612 million (US$296
million).



- 20 -
Actual and Proposed Road Expenditures 1/
Birr million                         US$ million
Actual   Proposed Proposed    Actual   Proposed Proposed
1973-77   1978-82  1978-82    1973-77   1978-82  1978-82
in 1976   in 1976  in current in 1976   in 1976  in current
prices 2/ prices   prices 3/  prices 2/ prices   prices 3/
Capital
Road Construction/
Improvement
Main Roads
Primary and
Secondary               155        113        170        75         55         82
Feeder                  134        332        490         64       161        237
Rural Roads                 17       131        205          8         63        99
Buildings and Equipment
Main Roads                  60        52         73         29        25         35
Rural Roads                 10        52         67          5         25        32
Training, Technical
Assistance and
Consulting Services         4         10         14          2         5          7
Subtotal                      380        690      1,019        183       334        492
Recurrent
Administration and
Engineering
Main Roads                  48        52         82         23         25        41
Rural Roads                  1        11         17          1          5         8
Road Maintenance
Main Roads                  133       188        290         64         91       140
Rural Roads                   0        19         30          0          9        14
Subtotal                       182       270        419         88        130       203
TOTAL                          562       960      1,438        271        464       695
1/   Includes physical contingencies of 10% on all capital items.  Excludes
equipment loans to Ethiopian contractors, which are administered by AIDB
and do not form part of the road budget.  Also excludes road construction
and maintenance by agricultural project units and self-help schemes.
2/   Figures for 1977 are Budget Estimates.
3/   Includes price contingencies on the following basis:  equipment 8% in
1976, 7.5% per year in 1977-79, and 7% per year thereafter; foreign
component of civil works 10% in 1976, 9% per year 1977-79 and 8% per year
thereafter; all local expenditures 15% in 1976, 12.5% in 1977, 10% in 1978
and 1979 and 8% thereafter.



- 21 -
D. Assessment
Institutional Capacity
4.18      ERA has demonstrated a capacity to plan and execute road construc-
tion and improvement projects, and road maintenance has been improving con-
sistently.. However, as reflected in the foregoing comparison of expenditures
in constant price terms, the Program envisages a considerable expansion of
road construction, improvement and maintenance, which will require substantial
additions to ERA's staff, especially as much of the increased work will be
carried out by force acount. For example, vittually all rural road construc-
tion, which is projected to increase from Birr 7 million (US$3.5 million) in
1976 to Birr 39 million (US$19 million) by 1982, will be by force account
because that is the most efficient approach; the roads do not warrant the cost
of detailed engineering which would be required for contract construction,
although iLt may be possible to sub-contract some work (e.g., earthworks and
drainage works) to small-scale contractors. Main road construction is not
expected to increase as dramatically as rural roads, Birr 81 million (US$39
million) iLn 1982 compared with Birr 61 million (US$29 million) in 1976.
However, the proportion of force account construction of main roads is pro-
jected to increase from about one-third in 1976 and 1977 to about one-half
throughout the Program period, due to an expected lack of interest by inter-
national contractors, because of the scattered nature of the works and small
contracts, and political uncertainties.
4.19      As noted in paras. 4.11-.13, the Government plans to meet the
Program's staffing requirements by a mixture of formal and informal training,
with gaps filled by technical assistants. While these plans are considered
realistic, there can, of course, be no guarantee that all of the required
manpower will be available; much will depend on the competing demands of other
Government programs. However, the Road Program is a reasonable planning
target; careful attention has been given to identifying priorities within the
Program, so that any shortfall in implementation capacity will be accommodated
by the deletion of lower priority items. The Program will be reviewed annually
by the Government and the Association.
Financial Feasibility
Overall Fiscal Implications
4.20      In the absence of a formal National Development Plan specifying
planned expenditures in other sectors (para. 2.07), it is not possible to
assess precisely the Program's fiscal feasibility. Program costs imply that
if Government expenditures remain at 20% of GDP (about the level achieved in
1975 and 1976), then 16% of this would be devoted to roads, compared with
13% in recent years. The increase is due to the rural roads
component of the Program; expenditure on main roads would average about
12% throughout the Program. The increased proportion of Government ex-
penditure planned for road development is appropriate in view of Government's
central objective of increasing the geographic spread of development.



Financing the Road Program
4.21      On the basis of present indications, the financing plan for the
Program may be summarized as follows:
US$ million
External Funds
Committed                                     64
Agreed in Principle                            70
Highly Likely                                  50
Possible                                       30
Local Funds                                     417 (447) 1/
Total                                         631
4.22      Agencies which have committed funds to ongoing subprojects include
IDA (Fifth and Sixth Highway projects), KfW, Peoples Republic of China and
USAID. AfDB and EDF have agreed in principle to finance new subprojects;
the proposed IDA credit is also included in this category. Included in the
highly likely category is further assistance from AfDB, KfW, ODM and USAID.
Other donors whose interest is reflected in the "possible" category, include
USSR, North Korea and SIDA.
4.23      The Government is likely to be required to contribute from US$417
million to US$447 million, or 66% to 71% of Program costs, depending on how
much of the "possible" external financing eventuates. (Over 1972-76, the
Government financed about 67% of road expenditures, net of taxes and duties.)
In constant price terms, the Government would be required to contribute about
US$57 million in 1978, rising to about US$68 million in 1982, which appears
feasible in view of its proposed funding of US$50 million in the current
fiscal year.
Economic Analysis
4.24      As explained in the 1975 paper on highway sector lending distributed
to the Board of Executive Directors 2/, IDA does not regard it as essential
that rates of return be calculated for each subproject in a proposed sector
program prior to credit approval. Rather, the Association should be satisfied
as to "the adequacy of the criteria used to appraise the technical and economic
feasibility of projects within the program."
1/   Figure in parentheses indicates local funds required if none of the
"possible" external funds eventuate.
2/   "Highway Sector Lending," Sec M75-487, 1975.



- 23 -
4.25      As noted in para. 3.16, it is already ERA practice for PPD to
prepare a feasibility study for each new construction or major improvement
project, and, as Operations Evaluation Department has noted, these feasibil-
ity studies "bear comparison with similar work prepared by international
consultants." 1/ PPD has already completed a substantial amount of economic
analysis for this Program, in cooperation with IDA preappraisal and appraisal
missions (Annex 5). The road overlay component is estimated to produce a
rate of return of 19%, and the five asphalt upgrading projects are expected
to yield rates of return ranging from 20% to 25%. Rates of return have also
been computed for S of the 11 new feeder road projects included in the Pro-
gram, the lowest rate of return being 20%. The other 6 feeder road projects
have been selected from a list of 24 possible projects which were ranked using
a socio-economic points score/cost ratio (Annex 5). While this procedure is
adequate for an initial screening of possible projects, the 24 potential
projects will be ranked by estimated rates of return, reflecting the likely
timing of complementary agricultural development, before final selection.
Because it would be beyond the capacity of PPD's small staff to complete this
exercise early enough in the Program to permit the establishment of con-
struction priorities, consultants will assist with this work (para. 4.13).
4.26      It is not proposed to compute rates of return on the rural roads
component of the Program because such low cost roads do not warrant this
detailed level of analysis. Roads required for agricultural projects (e.g.,
MPP, Drought Areas Rehabilitation and Rangelands) or for which the comple-
mentary investment required to stimulate development is otherwise assured
will receive priority. 2/ Any remaining rural road construction capacity
will be applied to constructing other roads recommended in the Crown Agents'
Rural Roads Study, on the basis of a socio-economic points score (Annex 5,
paras. 7-9).
4.27      As noted in para. 4.13, a monitoring and evaluation unit will
be established for both main and rural roads. In addition to monitoring
implementation, this unit will make expost assessments of whether projects
are meeting their objectives, which will assist in the selection of future
projects.
1/   "Comparative Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects", Operations
Evaluation Department, 1974, p. 62.
2/   The road requirements of such agricultural projects will be consider-
able. For example, under MPP II, scheduled for IDA appraisal this year,
Government aims to provide extension services to some 3 million farmers
by the early 1980's, compared with existing coverage of about 800,000
farmers.



- 24 -
E. The Project
Description
4.28      The IDA sector credit of US$32 million would support the first
phase of the Road Program. The total cost of ongoing and new commitments in
this first phase is estimated at about US$368 million, or US$333 million
excluding taxes and duties, with a foreign exchange component of about US$160
million. To ensure that the Program goes ahead in a balanced way, IDA will
finance new commitments in all major elements of these early years, as they
become ready for financing, provided certain general sector and subproject
conditions are being met (paras. 4.29-.31). The following general appor-
tionment of the IDA credit has been agreed with Government, although funds
could be shifted, at IDA's discretion, from one category to another depending
on the pattern of implementation. Commitments would be made in the amounts
shown for each of the first three years, 1978-80, of the five-year Program,
subject to the above-mentioned conditions.
1978   1979   1980   Total   Z
-----(US$ million)---
(1)  Strengthening of Existing Paved Roads   4.00                    4.00   12
(2) Upgrading of Existing Gravel Roads
to Bituminous Paved Standards                  4.50           4.50   14
(3)  New Feeder Road Construction              8.00   7.00          15.00   47
(4)  Strengthening the ERA                     0.35   0.35   0.30   1.00    3
(5)  Rural Road Development                    2.00   3.50   1.00   6.50   21
(6)  Equipment Purchase Loans for
Ethiopian Contractors                    -     1.00    -      1.00    3
Total                                    14.35  16.35   1.30  32.00  100
Although all of the subprojects which IDA will finance have not been finally
identified yet, it is expected that commitments will be made in accordance
with the above schedule. However, IDA's participation in the Rural Road
component has been identified in some detail so that the efforts of all
donors, some of whom are already in the field, may be coordinated. The
Association will assist in establishing regional Rural Roads Offices in
Wellega, Illubabor and Kefa. The Kefa Office will use existing ERA facilities
at Jima. However, workshops and offices will have to be built at Metu and
Nekempti for Illubabor and Wellega regions, respectively, for which funds
are available under the Sixth Highway Project. The sector credit will follow
up with funds for equipping the workshops, for purchase and rehabilitation of



- 25 -
construction and maintenance equipment, 1/ and for technical assistance
(para. 4.12). A plan and timetable for the establishment of these three
Rural Roads Offices and their subsequent transfer to the regional administra-
tions has been agreed during negotiations. It was also agreed that each Office's
annual construction program, including standards, would be submitted for prior
approval by the Association.
General Sector Conditions
4.29      IDA will require ERA and other subsector agencies (such as RTA
and RRO) to meet, on a continuing basis, conditions aimed at protecting
the existing road system and ensuring balartced implementation of the Road
Program.  These conditions require satisfactory progress in:
(i)  enforcing axle loads limits (para. 3.07);
(ii) meeting physical completion targets for construction/
improvement of roads of various classes (Table 12);
(iii) maintaining the road network; and
(iv) implementing an agreed training program (Annex 3).
Agreement on these sector conditions, and on the Progress Reports required
for IDA to monitor compliance with them (Annex 6) was reached during negotia-
tions.
Conditions for Subprojects
4.30      These conditions or criteria will be similar to those used in
project lending. Before committing funds for a main road construction or
improvement subproject, IDA will require a) completion of detailed engineer-
ing, together with contract drawings and documents including specifications,
b) a feasibility study showing a rate of return of at least 12%, and c) that
there are no higher priority subprojects prepared and awaiting finance. For
subprojects whose economic justification is based on developmental impact
rather than transport cost savings, an assurance will be required that the
necessary complementary activities will be undertaken.
1/   Consultants Louis Berger, Inc. (USA), were retained by USAID in 1976 to
conduct an inventory of non-ERA road building and maintenance equipment.
This inventory has revealed considerable amounts of deadlined equipment
in some regions, which the Government intends to put back into running
order; USAID is likely to assist the Government in this. Before IDA
will agree to finance purchases of additional equipment, it will need to
be satisfied that all reasonable efforts have been made to rehabilitate
and employ existing equipment. Of the three regions IDA proposes
participating in, only Kefa has deadlined equipment in any significant
quantity, and the Association will assist Government in rehabilitating
such equipment if requested.



- 26 -
4.31      At least half of the main road construction financed by IDA will
be awarded to contractors after international competitive bidding in accor-
dance with Bank/IDA Guidelines for Procurement; agreement to this effect
was reached with the Government during negotiations. At Government request,
a preference for domestic contractors will be included in the bid documents.
Force account construction of main roads will be financed on the same terms
as under the Sixth Highway Project: an independent management team will be
responsible for execution and supervision on the basis of an agreed set of
subproject documents and drawings, including specifications and an agreed
priced bill of quantities. Equipment purchases proposed for IDA financing
will be agreed with IDA beforehand and procured through international com-
petitive bidding. In the case of rural roads equipment, IDA will review plans
for rehabilitation and use of existing equipment before agreeing to finance
additional equipment. During negotiations, the scope of consultant services/
technical assistance and assignment of suitable counterparts for the first
phase of the Program was agreedas well as IDA review of terms of reference,
conditions of employment and ERA selection of personnel.
4.32      For the equipment loans to local contractors, the execution and
delivery of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and AIDB,
the terms of which will conform with the provisions under the Fifth and Sixth
Highway Projects, will be a condition of disbursement of that portion of the
credit.
Implementation
4.33      As noted earlier, the particular subprojects to be financed by the
proposed credit will be determined in response to applications made after
credit approval. Since at this stage, the timing and contents of these
applications are not known, no comprehensive schedule can be given. However,
because IDA participation in the rural roads component has been identified
(para. 4.28), and because of the importance of the training component,
detailed implementation schedules covering the first phase of the Program
for these components were agreed at negotiations (Chart 2). Also, during
negotiations, agreement was reached on the total scope of main road construc-
tion/improvement works to be carried out or initiated in 1978-80 (Table 12),
from which IDA's participation will be identified subsequently.
Disbursements
4.34      Disbursements from the Credit Account would cover:
(i) 60% of total expenditures, representing the estimated
foreign element, for civil works contracts;
(ii)  50% of total expenditures, representing the estimated
foreign exchange element, for civil works done by force
account;
(iii)  100% of the foreign cost of any rural roads equipment,
including workshop equipment and tools;



- 27 -
(iv) 100% of amounts disbursed for domestic contractor loans
by AIDB; and
(v) 80% of total expenditures, representing the estimated for-
eign exchange element, for technical assistance experts
and consultant services.
About US$100,000 (Birr 207,000) will be financed retroactively to cover the
costs of consultant services for economic analysis of feeder roads. A ten-
tative disbursement schedule is shown in Table 13. As the IDA credit will
support the Road Program as needed, subject to certain conditions (paras.
4.29-.31), no surplus funds will remain in the credit account.
5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During credit negotiations, agreement was reached on:
(a) the Government's undertaking a study of the level of road
user charges in relation to road expenditures, to be
completed by June 30, 1978 and discussed with IDA (para.
3.08);
(b) the Rural Roads Organization being operational by December
31, 1977 (para. 4.03);
(c) appointment dates for consultants to carry out economic
analyses of possible feeder road projects, and to assist
in establishing a Project Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
and a Maintenance Work Performance Budgeting System (para.
4.13);
(d) prior approval by IDA of the construction program of
Rural Roads Offices financed by IDA (para. 4.28);
(e) General Sector Conditions (para. 4.29);
(f) criteria for accepting subprojects for IDA financing
(para. 4.30-.31); and
(g) the scope of main road construction/improvement works to
be carried out or initiated in 1978-80 (para. 4.33).
5.02      During negotiations, as recorded in Agreed Minutes of Understanding
and Side Letters, agreement was also reached on:



- 28 -
(a) terms of reference for the study referred to in para.
5.01(a) and the consultants services referred to in
para. 5.01(c);
(b) a training program and related implementation schedule
covering the first phase of the Program (paras. 4.11
and 4.33);
(c) the technical assistance experts to be recruited for
the first phase of the Program, and the assignment
of suitable counterparts (para. 4.31);
(d) a plan and timetable for establishing Rural Roads
Offices, including construction and maintenance units,
in Kefa, Wellega, Illubabor regions and for transferring
these units to regional administrations (paras. 4.28
and 4.33); and
(e) progress reporting requirements (para. 4.29).
5.03      Government will be required to execute and deliver the subsidiary
loan agreement between the Government and the AIDB as a condition for dis-
bursement of Credit funds for contractor equipment loans (para. 4.32).
5.04      A condition of credit effectiveness is the ratification of
the Project Agreement between ERA and the Association.
5.05      Having reached agreement on the issues outlined above and subject to
the condition in para. 5.04, the proposed project is suitable for an IDA
sector credit of US$32 million to Ethiopia on the usual terms.
April 28, 1977



TABLE 1
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
1/
Inventory of All-weather Roads, 1965-75
(km)
All-weather Roads
Fiscal                                    Service
Year            Paved       GravelZ/      Roads3/           Total
1965             1,455       3,869          137             5,461
1966            1,526        3,778          451             5,755
1967            1,868        4,257          657             6,782
1968            1,875        4,666          626             7,167
1969            1,942        4,805          626             7,373
1970             2,009       4,943          626             7,578
197:L            2,078       5,341          626             8,045
1972             2,204       5,474          452             8,130
197:3            2,481       5,268.         556             8,305
1974             2,897       4,922          856             8,675
1975             3,121       5,017          665             8,803
1/ The Crown Agents' Rural Roads Study of Ethiopia estimates that there
are over 31,000 km of dry-weather trails, of which 7,850 km have been
inventoried.
2/ Surfaced with crushed stone.
3/ Surfaced with select material.
Source; ERA
April 1977



TABLE 2
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Vehicle Fleet, 1969-75
Increase on
Fiscal                           Small      Large                                Previous
Year      Cars        Buses     Trucks      Trucks     Trailers     Total          Year
-___________---------- -- (Un#ts) ---------------------------
1968/69   28,100     1,490       1,680      2,940        1,090      35,300
1969/70   28,900     1,580       1,860      3,210        1,100      36,650           4
1970/71   30,200     1,620       2,040      3,590        1,120      38,570           5
1971/72   31,900     1,760       2,165      4,075        1,170      41,070           6
1972/73   37,400     2,100       2,510      4,650        1,710      48,370          18
1973/74   38,300     2,140       2,660      4,570        2,030      49,700           3
1974/75   40,831     1,834       2,442      4,312        2,167      51,586           4
Average Annual Growth, 1968/69-1974/75
(%)
1968/69-
1974/75     6          4           6          7           12           6
Source: Planning Commission Office and Ministry of Transport and Communications
April 1977



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Main Road Design Standards
Road_  Clafication
_PrimaryaSe                                                            Feeder
------ Terrain                                 Terrain                           Terrain
Mountain-                            moimta                            Mountain-
Characteristics           Unit    Flat      Rolling        ous      Flat       Rolling         ous        Flat    Rolling        ous
Geometric Design Standards
Speed                            km/h    100          80          60         90            70           40          80       60           30
Minimum Horizontal Radius         m       327        229         127        287           164           57         229      127           38
Maximum Gradient                  %        -           8            9        -              9            9          -         9           10
Minimum Gradient                  %         0.5       -            -          0.4          -            -            0.4     -
Pavement Camber
Bituminous Surface              %         2          2           2          3             3            3           3        3            3
Gravel Surface                  %        -        n.a.2/        _          _            n.a.2_4                             4            4
Roadway Featurea-
Width
Roadway                         m         8          8            8         7             7            7           6         6           6
Pavement Surface
Gravel                                                                    7             7            7          6         6            6
Bituminous                    a         6          6           6          5.5          5. 5-         5.5         5        5            5
Structural Design Features
2t
Maximum Axle Loading            m ton      -                                                    2t      -
Bridges
Ioading                        n.a.      -          -           AASHO                H.20-S.16
Width, curb to curb              m       -          -            -         -            7.00
1/ Where primary and secondary roads are constructed with gravel surfaced pavement as initial stage construction, the
pavement camber will be 4  .
2/ Maximum allowable axle load is to be increased from 8 m tan to 12 =-ton.
Source: IA
April 1977



TABLE 4
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Rural Roads Design Standards
1/     gn1/
RR10                RR30                   RR50
Maximum Average Daily Traffic              10                 30                      50
Design Speed - mph                          -                 40                      40
Road Width - m                              4.0(6.0)-/         4.0(6.0)-/              6.0
Gravel Surfacing - mm                      75 (where neces-  75 (where neces-        150 (all)
sary)              sary)
Absolute Minimum
Horizontal Radius - m                    10                 10                      10
Absolute Maximum Gradient -                14                 12                      12
Cross Drainage Type                  Paved fords or      Paved fords              Paved fords
simple masonry      simple masonry          masonry
culverts            culverts & timber        culverts
and Bailey bridges      timber and
to design loading       Bailey bridges
H20-44                  to design loading
H20-44
Right-of-Way Reservation - m               20                 20                      20
Cleared Width - m                        10-15               10-15                   10-15
1/ Dry weather roads - closed to traffic during rainy season.
2/ Actual width for any individual road will depend on circumstances,e.g. from 4 meters
where substantial cuts required to 6 meters in flat terrain where cost of extra
width is not sifnificant.
Source: Rural Roads Division of ERA - September 1976.
April 1977



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Ethiopian Road Authority Expenditures as Proportion of Central Government Expenditures, 1970-82
(Birr million, 1976 prices)
ACTUAL                                      PROJECTED
Fiscal Year:                       1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   19751/ 19761/ 1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982
2/
Constant GDP at factor cost                   4660   4860   5100   5240   5310   5330   5490   5600   5710   5880   6060   6300   6550
(% change over previous year)                  -     (4.5)  (4.8)  (2.7)  (1.5)  (0.3)  (3.0)  (2)*   (2)*   (3)*   (3)*   (4)*   (4)*
Government Expenditures                        510    580    660    680    690   1010   1100   1120   1140   1180   1210   1260   1310
(% Share of GDP)                              (11)   (12)   (13)   (13)   (13)   (19)   (20)   (20)*  (20)*  (20)*  (20)*  (20)*  (20)*
Ethiopian Road Authority
Expenditures -                                75     87      87      97     86    104    140    153    172    190    194    211    192
(% Share of total Government
Expenditures)                              (15)   (15)   (13)   (14)   (12)   (10)   (13)   (14)   (15)   (16)   (16)   (17)   (15)
* Indicates an assumption used for the projections.
1/ Data for 1975 and 1976 is provisional.
2/ Based on series at 1960/61 prices. Date for 1977 onwards based on growth rate assumptions.
3/ Converted to constant prices using GDP deflator. Projections. based on. 20% GDP share.
4/ Converted to constant prices using GDP deflator. Projections based on mission estimates.
Source: GDP date from Central Statistical Office and mission estimates.  Expenditure data from Ministry of Finance, ERA;
projections based on mission estimates.
April 1977



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Ethio_pian Road Authority Expenditures. 1971-76
1971             1972              1973              1974              1975             1976
Fiscal Year:     Budget  Actual   Budget  Actual   Budget  Actual   Budget  Actual   Budget  Actual   Budget  Actual
------------------------- (Birr million) -----------------------------------~----~---
Capital Expenditure
Road construction
- direct labor           2.7     2.5     17.8      6.9     10.3    10.5       9.7     8.3       6.6     9.7     47.5    27.1
- contract             33.0    34.4      52.1    25.8      40.2    30.2      57.1    30.2      60.6    37.7     63.8    41.2
Equipment and
buildings              0        0        1.9      7.6      4.9     2.5       9.4     0.6     13.0      5.9      45.8    38.1
Other (studies,
training)              1.2      2.0      0       0.6       0.8     0.6       1.0     0.5      1.6      0.4      0.7      0.5
Total capital expenditure 36.9    38.9      71.8    40.9      56.2    43.8      77.2    39.6      81.8    53.7    157.8   106.9
Current Expenditure
Administration            2.5     2.3      2.3      2.6      2.5     2.5       3.1     3.0       2.5     2.5       2.6      2.5
Engineering and
technical services     5.1      4.9      5.4     4.8       5.5     5.5       6.7     6.5       6.2     5.2       5.6     5.5
Road Maintenance        14.6    14.8      14.6    13.4      17.9    17.8      20.2    18.8      26.3    24.7      27.3    26.0
Total current expendi-
ture                    22.2    22.0      22.3    20.8      25.9    25.8      30.0    28.3     35.0    32.4       35.5    34.0
Total Capital and
Current Expenditure     59.1    60.9      94.1    61.7      82.1    69.6    107.2    67.9    116.8    86.1    193.3   140.9
Sources: Budgetary Revenue and Expenditure, 1971 to 1974, Budget Proclamations 1975 and 1976, Ethiopian RoaA Authority
Annual Report 1975 and 1976.
April 1977



Table 7
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Ethiopian Road Authority Proposed Expenditures, 1977-82 -/
(Birr million, 1976 prices)
Road Program 1978-82
Fiscal Year                   1977               1978               1979              1980               1981               1982
Source of Funds-           F    L    T       F    L    T        F    L    T        F    L    T        F    L    T        F    L    T
CAPITAL
1.  4aiun Roaas
(i) Ongoing projects
-Primary                   3   18   21        3   19   22       4    9   13        3    1    4
-Secondary                 3    4    7        -    1    1       -    -    -        -    -    -
-Feeder                   28   14   42       25   22   47      20   20   40       15   13   28       12    8   20       11    1   12
-Service-to-traffic        -    5    5        -    77           -    4    4        -    2    2       _      -   _       _
Subtotal                  34   41   75      28   49   77       24   33   57       18   16   34       12    8   20       11    1   12
(ii) New projects
-primary overlay           -    -    -        2    2    4       2    3    5        3    5    8        2    2    4        2    2    4
-primary asph.upgrad.    -    -    -         -    -    -        -    -    -        2    7    9        1    7    8        4    6   10
-secondary "   "                                                               3    3             4    4       -    4    4
-secondary new             -    -    -        -    -    -       -    -    -        -    -    -        -    -    -        -   10   10
-feeder, new              _     -    -        2    5    7      17   20   37       20   21   41       24   22   46       16   25   41
Subtotal                   -    -    -       4    7   11       19   23   42       25   36   61       27   35   62       22   47   69
(iii) Fixed Assets, Studies
-road bldg. equip.         0   1010          1    0    1        -    -    -        -    -    -       15    5   20        -    -    -
-transp. & shop equip.   0    1    1         -    -    -        -    -    -        2    1    3        5    2    7        -    -    -
-maint.camp const.         -    -    -        0    4    4       -    4    4        -    5    5        -    4    4        -    4    4
-tech.assist.training    1    1    2          1    1    2       1    1    2        1    1    2        1    1    2        1    1    2
Subtotal                   1   12   13       2    5    7        1    5    6        3    7   10       21   12   33        1    5    6
Subtotal, Main Roads             35   53   88       34   61   95       44   61  105       46   59  105       60   55  115      34   53   87
2. Rural Roads
(i) Ongoing projects           4    5    9        8    9   17        7    8   15       2    3    5        1    2    3        0    1    1
(ii) New projects               -    -    -        -    -    -        2    2    4       8   10   18       12   18   30       16   22   38
(iii) Purchase & Rehabil.of Eq.
-construction              7    -    7       11    2   13      11    2   13        7    2    9        -    -    -        -    -    -
-maintenance               -    2    2        1    -    1       1    -    1        1    -    1        1    -    1        1          1
(iv)  ldg   workshops,         -      2    2       1    1    2        1    1    2       1    1    2        2    1    3        2    1    3
studies                                                           __         - - - - -      -                                  
Subtotal Rural Roads              11    9   20      21   12   33       22   13   35       19   16   35       16   21   37       19   24   43
TOTAL CAPITAL                       46   62  108       55   73  128       66   74  140      65   75  140       76   76  152       53   77  130
RECURRENT
1. Main Roads
(i) Admin. & Eng.              -    9    9        -    9    9        -   10   10       -   11   11        -    1   11        -   1111
(ii) Road Xaint.                     31   31       -   33   33        -   35   35       -   37   37             40   40       -   43   43
Subtotal                   -   40   40        -   42   42       -   45   45        -   48   48        -   51   51        -  .54   54
2. Rural Roads
(i) Admin. & Eng.              -    1    1        -    1    1        -    2    2       -    2    2        -    3    3        -    3    3
(ii) Road Maint.               _      -    -       -    1    1        -    3    3        -    4    4       -    5    5        -    6    6
Subtotal                   -    1    1        -    2    2       -    5    5        -    6    6        -    8    8        -    9    9
TOTAL RECURRENT                      - 41   41          -   44   44       - 50   50          - 54   54          - 59   59          -   63   63
==__ === nn       -_t=                n   ___           n                  n _=  _=_ = 
TOTAL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT         46  103  149       55  117  172       66  124  190      65  129  194       76  135  211       53  140  193
1/ Direct Labor projects exclude cost of equipment (estimated at 20, total project cost).  Any equipment purchases required
for Direct Labor project are shown under Fixed Assets. Contract projects are costed including equipment charges.
This treatment is consistent with annual budget preparation practices. Cost of mobilization for both cases is taken as
20 percent of project cost.
2/ F: Foreign; L: Local.
Source:  ERA
April 1977



TABLE 8
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Rural Roads Components in Major Agriculture Projects
Estimated
Completion
Source                                                Date for        Responsibility for
Project           of Funds      Proposed Construction                  Total Length  Construction  Maintenance
Ada                      USAID      All-weather roads   105 km                    1978            PU -         RRO
Tracks               175 km198/                                             O
Amibara                  IDA        4-5 m surfaced               )                       )
roads        '140 km  )                1982  )         PS       PU then RRO
TTnsurfaced tracks    5'e km  )                     )                      PU
Chilalo (CADA)           SIDA       6 m wide surface    105 km )                  1981            PU            PU
3 m wide unsurfaced 190 km
Coffee Processing        IDA        6 m wide feeders    240 km                    1 1977          PU
5 m wide access      160 km)
Coffee Improvement       EDF                             230 km                  1981      To be decided  To be decided
Drought Area
Rehabilitation         IDA                             448 km                  1978            RRO           RRO
Humera                   IDA                             320 km                  n.a.       ERA and PU    ERA and PU
Lower Adiabo             IDA                             294 km                                   PU       PU then RRO
MPP                      IDA                           2,400 km                  1981            RRO           RRO
Rangelands               IDA        Trade roads        1,470 km                  1981            RRO           RRO
Access tracks     2,658 km                                   PU            PU
Recovery and
Rehabilitation        USAID                            842 km                  n.a.            RRO          RRO
Southwest Development   USAID                          1,000 km                                  RRO
Wolamo                              Minor roads          175 km                  1980             PU           RRO
Tracks                90 km                                  PU            PU
1/ Project Unit.
Source: IDA Appraisal and Supervision Reports; and Mission Estimates.
April 1977



TABLE 9
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Rural Roads Maintenance Unit - Estimated Equipment Required
Unit
Equipment Type                      Quantity            Price-              Cost
------- (Birr) ---------
M/Grader (or Blade Drags)                      2 (8)            75,000            150,000
Personnel Vehicles                             2                30,000             60,000
Agricultural Tractors                          4                22,000             88,000
Tipping Trailers                               8                 8,000             64,000
362,000
Plus about 11% for spare
parts and hand tools                                                             38,000
Total Estimated Cost of
1 unit                                                                          400,000
Total Cost at 9 ho. units                                                         3,000,000
(=US$ 1.7 million)
1/ Prices at mid-1976
2/ Cost of 2 no. M/Graders would approximately cover the cost of 8 no. home made
Blade Drags; the decision on which to use will be made when road conditions are
known.
Source: Rural Roads Division of the ERA - September 1976
April 1977



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
ERA/RRO Maior Training Requirements, 1978-82
MAIN ROADS
Man-weeks           Man-weeks            Man-weeks            Man-weeks            Man-weeks   Total          Total
1978      per       1979      per        1980      per        1981      per        1982      per          of           of
Category/Job-title                               _     Course        _       Course       _      Course                Course    __         Course    Training   Man-weeks
1. Equipment OPerators
(a)  II Graders                                20        12          7        12         5        12           1        12        12         12          58           168
(b) III Dozers                                  1         8          3         8         9          8          -         -          -         -           13           24
(c)  II Loaders                                 8          8         6         8         4          8          1         8          8         8           39          104
(d)   I Rollers                                11          1         6         1         7          1          3         1         11         1           52           12
2. Stationary Equipment Operators
(a)  II Crushers                                -          -         I         I         _          _          _        -           -         -            3            1
(b.   I Asphalt Heater                          6          1         5         1         8          1          5         1          8         1           41             9
3.  Engineering Aide II                              6        12         4         12         4        12           -         -          -         -          15            12
4.  Engineering Aide III                            10        12          5        12         5        12           -         -          -         -          47            48
5.  Section Foreman I                                7        12         4         12         3        12           1        12          7        12           30           30
6.  Quarry Foreman                                   -         -          1         8         -         -           -         -          -         -            6             8
7.  Powder Man                                       I         1          1         1         _         _           _         -          -         -            4             1
Sub-total    70          67        43        76        45         66         11         34        46         34         308           417
RURAL ROADS
1. Equipment Operators
(a)  II Graders                                20        12         16        12        18         12         16        12         10        12           80           240
(b) III Dozers                                 24          8        12         8        15          8         12          8         -          -          63           168
(c)  II Loaders                                 9          8         6         8          5         8          4          8         -          -          24            72
(d)   I Rollers                                13          1        12         1        10          1          8          1         -          -          43             9
2. Stationary Equipment Operators
(a)  II Crushers                                9          1         6         1          5         1          4          1         -          -          24             5
(b)   I Asphalt Heater                         40          1        42         1         35         1         28          1         -          -         145            29
3.  Engineering Aide II                             25        12        23         12        23         12         18        12          2        12           91            96
4.  Engineering Aide III                            24        12         15        12        11         12         11        12          -          -          61            60
5.  Construction Foreman 1                           8        12        12         12        10         12          8        12          -          -          38            36
6.  Construction Foreman II                          9        12         10        12        10         12          8        12          2        12           18            36
7.  General Foreman                                  1        12          3        12         7         12          5        12          2        12           39            36
8.  QuarryForeman                                    6         8          6         8         5          8          4          8         -          _          21            24
Sub-total   188          99       163        99       154         99        126         99        16         48         647           799              -
TOTAL        258        166       206       175        199       165        137        133        62         82          955        1.216
Source: ERA
April 1977



TABLE 11
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Overall Road Construction/Improvement Targets, 1978-82
Fiscal Year                      Total
1978     1979     1980      1981      1982     1978-82
Primary Roads
Ongoing Projects                               -
Paving of Gravel Roads                      136       84        21      -0-       -0-        241
Rehabilitation                             167       -0-      -0-       -0-      -0-         167
New Projects-Y
Paving of Gravel Roads                      -0-      -0-      110       152        80        342
Overlay of Paved Roads 2/                    75      150      150       160      160         695
Subtotal                                   378       234      281       312      240       1,445
Secondary Roads
Ongoing Projects
Rehabilitation                              110      -0-      -0-       -0-       -0-        110
New Projectsl./
Paving of Gravel Roads                      -0-      -0-        70       80       105        255
Subtotal                                   110       -0-        70       80       105        365
Feeder Roads
Ongoing Projects                              222      216       130      100        45        713
New Projects-                                  15      110       221      237       245        828
Subtotal                                   237       326      351       337      290       1,541
Service to Traffic Roads3'
Ongoing Projects                              276      110        57      -0-       -0-        443
Rural Roads
Ongoing Projects                              700       530      250      160        20      1,660
New Projects                                  130       690    1,080    1,320    1,470        4,690
Subtotal                                    830    1,220    1,330    1,480    1,490        6,350
Total                                     1,831    1,890    2.089    2,209    2,125       10,144
I/  The individual new projects expected to be commenced during the Program Period
are listed in Annex 4.
2/  Lengths cited relate to total length of relevant roads; preliminary results of
deflection beam analysis suggest that it will not be necessary to strengthen
the entire length of such roads. Accordingly, actual work is likely to be less
than conveyed by figures cited.
3/  These roads are lower standard than feeder roads (mainly in geometric standards);
the classification is superseded by rural roads (Table 4), and there will be no
nev projects in this classification.
Source: ERA and mission estimates.
April 1977



TAKLE 12
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Detailed Road Construction/Improvement Program. 1978-80
(kmi)
Total Project        Completed to                                          To be completed in
Ongoing Projects                                 Length               end 1977          1978       1979      1980        Subsequnt  Years
Primary
Upgrading to Paved Standard
Awassa-Dilla                                   91                  0                30         40        21                -
Ghion-Jima                                    222                 123               76         23        -                 -
Dejen-Debre Marcos                             71                  20               30         21        -                -
Rehabilitation
Addis-Ghion                                    97                  67               30         -         -                 -
Dessie-Weldiya-Maiohew                        155                                   80         -         -                 -
Robi-temboicha                                132                  75               57         -         -                 -
Secondary
Rehabilitation
Shashamane-Sodo                               140                  90               50         -         -
Wondo-Kebre Mengist                           140                  80               60         -         -                 -
Feeder
Construction
Bonga-Mizan Teferi                             80                  38               30         12        -                 -
Dejen-Mota                                    102                  70               32         -         -                 -
Injibara-Guba                                 216                  30               40         46        50               50
Nekempte-Bedelle                              105                  0                30         45        30                -
Sodo-Bulki/Bako                               108                   5               40         63        -                 _
Woreta-Weldiya                                300                  55               50         50        50                95
Service to Traffic
Construction
Azezo-Metema                                  217                 112               60         45        -
Ghimbi-Kurmak                                 350                 265               60         15        -                 -
Guba-Bettata                                  230                  83               40         50        57               -
Jijigg-Fer Fer                                695                 639               56         -         -                -
Kebredehar-Godi                               165                 115               60         -         -
Rural Roads
Construction                                  1,660                  -               700        590       210              160
New Projects
Primary
Upgrading to Paved Standard
Weldiya-Maichew                               139                  -                 -         -         70               69
Quiha-Maichew                                 109                  -                -          -         -               109
- ndaSel.assie-Mereb River                    123                  -                -          -        40                83
Harrar-Jijiga                                 105                  -                -          -         -               105
Overlay
Avash-Aseb                                    630                  -                75        150      150               255
Secondary
Upgrading to Paved Standard
Awash-River-Hosaina                           181                  -                -          -        70               111
Feeder
Construction
Gonder-Humera                                 250                  -                15        40        50               135
Ghimbi-Gambella                               306                                   -         25        60               221
Jima-Chida                                     83                 -                 -         20        30               33
Mota-Bahr Dar                                  72                  -                -          25       47                -
Shishinda-Tepi                                 74                 -                           2 5       34               40
Rural Roads
Construction                                  2,940                  -                0         110      590             2,240
Source: ERA
April 1977



TABLE 13
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD/IDA Fiscal Year                                  Cumulative Disbursement
and Quarter                                          at end of Quarter
(US$ thousand)
1977/78
September 30, 1977
December 31, 1977                                                -
March 31, 1978                                                  200
June 30, 1978                                                 3,200 1/
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                            6,200 1/
December 31, 1978                                             9,200
March 31, 1979                                               12,200
June 30, 1979                                                14,950
1979/80
September 30, 1979                                           17,700
December 31, 1979                                            20,000
'March 31, 1980                                              23,500
June 30, 1980                                                25,800
1980/81
September 30, 1980                                          27,000
December 31, 1980                                            29,000
March 31, 1981                                               31,000
June 30, 1981                                                32,000
1/ Includes advance to contractors and loans to Ethiopian contractors.
Source: Mission estimates, September 1976.
April 1977






ANNEX 1
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Description of Ethiopia's Transport System
1.        Road transport, the dominant modern transport mode in Ethiopia,
is discussed in Chapter 3. This Annex provides some details on the other
modes.
Railways
2.        Ethiopia's only railway, the Franco-Ethiopian Railway, joins Addis
Abeba with the Red Sea port of Djibouti in the Afars and Issas, a distance
of 782 km. It is owned jointly by Ethiopia, with a 50% interest, the French
Government and private French shareholders. Although subject to considerable
year-to-year fluctuations, freight traffic on the line has grown considerably,
from an annual average of 250,000 tons in the 1950's to 425,000 tons in
recent years. Imports and exports account for almost 80% of freight traffic
by weight and almost 90% by ton-km; some of this traffic can be expected
to divert to road transport following the recent completion of a road linking
Djibouti to the Addis Abeba-Aseb road. Local freight traffic, however,
has not grown over the last decade. Passenger traffic, after increasing
only slightly from 1968 to 1973, has increased almost 70% since then. Railway
capacity is adequate, but the old track and rolling stock, which limit
maximum trainload to 500 gross tons, impair efficiency.
Civil Aviation
3.        Ethiopia has developed a reasonably extensive system of airports
and airfields which partly compensates for lack of roads in many areas.
Forty-three airports are served by scheduled domestic services over which
the parastatal Ethiopian Airlines has a monopoly. In addition, 26 air-
strips are used for charter flights. Only four airports - Addis Abeba,
Asmera, Dire Dawa and Jima - have paved runways, and jets can be accommo-
dated only at Addis Abeba and Asmera, both of which are undergoing further
improvements. Most of the other airports' runways are less than 1,500 m
long, unpaved, not equipped with landing lights and have to be closed
during part of the rainy season.
4.   International traffic, which totalled about 260,000 passengers and
10,000 tons of freight in 1974, is served mainly by Addis Abeba and Asmera
airports. Ethiopian Airlines carries about half the country's international
traffic and all scheduled domestic traffic (about 170,000 passengers per
year). The airliTe's financial results are satisfactory.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
Ports, Shipping and Inland Waterways
5.        Ethiopia is served by three major ports:  Mitsiwa and Aseb in
Eritrea Province and Djibouti in the French Territory of the Afars and Issas.
Mitsiwa serves the northern part of the country, and Aseb was developed as a
major port in the late 1950's to serve the central and southern parts of the
country in competition with Djibouti. While dry cargo trade is distributed
approximately equally among the three ports, Aseb has dominated the trade in
petroleum products since establishment of a refinery there in 1967.
6.        The national Ethiopian Shipping Lines carries about 14% of the
country's total seaborne dry cargo and about 30% of its trade on the Red Sea
- Northern Europe route. Attempts to develop regional coastal operations
were unsuccessful financially and were dropped, except for a small tanker
serving the Aseb refinery. The line is now concentrating successfully on the
European route and has made a profit in the last two years.
7.        Inland waterways play a very minor and declining role in Ethiopia's
transport system. Lake Tana services account for 90% of the yearly total of
35,000 passengers and 5,000 tons of freight carried on the waterways. All
inland water services together produce only enough revenue to cover about 30%
of direct operating costs but Government subsidizes them as a social service.
April 1977



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Projects Financed by the Bank Group
First Highway Project, Loan 31-ET, Septenmber 1950 (US$5.0 million)
1.        This loan financed urgently-needed equipment for the reconstruction,
repair and maintenance of the most important portions of the network, which
had been built largely by the Italians in 1936-41 and had fallen into disre-
pair after World War II. The equipment was used for rehabilitation of over
1,500 km and minor improvements of 2,700 km. As a condition for the loan,
the Bank required that the Government transfer responsibility for roads from
the Ministry of Public Works to an autonomous public agency, resulting in the
establishment of the Imperial Highway Authority (IRA). Implementation was
slower than expected, but the project was completed satisfactorily and the
loan fully disbursed.
Second Highway Project, Loan 116-ET, June 1957 (US$15.0 million)
2.        This loan assisted in financing a project consisting of major con-
struction (about 1,050 km) and road improvements (about 580 km), including
demonstration works used for training, and engineering by consultants of
roads for future construction (about 1,000 km). Road construction was com-
pleted about three years later than expected at appraisal, and with a 60% cost
overrun. A post-evaluation by Operations Evaluation Department in 1974 1/
attributed the delays primarily to political factors (which resulted in a
change in the composition of the Project after Bank approval) and institu-
tional weaknesses. 2/
3.        The economic justification at appraisal was in general terms, with
no rate of return analysis. Although the roads were classified as primary or
secondary (in the sense that they linked main population centers), existing
traffic levels were low and the roads were essentially penetration roads,
with the major benefits expected to be increased agricultural production
1/   "Comparative Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects," 1974.  It should
be noted that the evaluation was completed some 18 months after approval
of the Fifth Highway Project, and after appraisal of the Sixth.
2/   Poor engineering estimates, slow preparation of specifications, poor
procurement and supervision.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
in the roads' areas of influence and improved administration. The above-
mentioned post-evaluation estimated the following rates of return for the
five new roads constructed under the Project:
Gohassion-Azazo (551 km)                  negative
Mieso-Dengego (211 km)                        6%
Jima-Agaro (44 km)                           22%
Jima-Bonga (110 km)                           7%
Shashamane-Sodo (130 km)                     11%
The major reason for the disappointing rates of return of three of the roads
was their relatively low developmental impact; a secondary reason was the
high cost of roads relative to the initial post-completion traffic levels. 1/
Savings in vehicle operating costs were passed on through the transport and
marketing systems to producers, but Government-sponsored agricultural devel-
opment programs would have been required to increase the roads' impact. 2/
Lack of lower class roads feeding into the Project roads was also a factor,
although the evaluation pointed out that construction of such feeder roads
without complementary agricultural measures probably would not have increased
the development impact much. The Bank was aware at appraisal of the need for
complementary action in agriculture, but this awareness did not lead to any
specific action program or loan covenant. The Bank's approach in subsequent
projects reflects the lessons learned from this Project, well before they
were formally identified in the post-evaluation.
Third Highway Project, Credit 35-ET, February 1963 (US$13.5 million)
4.        This Credit financed the foreign costs of:
(a) completing road construction started under the Second
Highway Project;
(b)  constructing new roads (about 210 km) and several bridges;
(c)  bituminous surfacing of roads (about 800 km); and
(d) consulting services to:
(i) replace staff of the United States Bureau of
Public Roads in IHA management; and
1/   The roads were so costly because of construction delays but also, to
some extent, because in retrospect the standards were too high.
2/   In some cases, the Government did later sponsor such complementary agri-
cultural development projects.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(ii) carry out economic and engineering studies of
a road through the Awash Valley.
5.        Recognizing that implementation delays under the Second Highway
Project were primarily attributable to poor engineering and institutional
weaknesses, the Bank made design, new construction and supervision under
this Project the responsibility of contractors and consultants, while si-
multaneously seeking to increase institutional capability. This approach
succeeded in improving implementation: the average delay, 18 months, was
half that under the Second Project, and the cost overrun of 23% was a con-
siderable improvement on the 60% overrun with the Second Project. Imple-
mentation delays under the Third Highway Project were mainly caused by
disputes with contractors and unsatisfactory procedures for settling such
disputes.
6.        As with the Second Project, the economic justification was in
general terms and not expressed in rates of return. The two new roads, again
although nominally part of the primary/secondary network, were intended pri-
marily to stimulate production in the areas of influence; the paving projects
were designed to reduce transport costs. In this instance, the complementary
agricultural projects (including construction of low class roads feeding onto
the Project roads) were initiated in the areas of influence of the two new
roads, though some 4-5 years after the roads were completed. A Project Per-
formance Audit on this Project concluded:
"Although it has not been possible to assess with certainty
the economic benefits of the roads, there are strong
indicators that the developments in agriculture (some of
which were subsequently aided by the Bank and IDA) in the
regions served by the roads come close to expectations.
With regard to the asphalting program, it is not possible
to calculate the rate of return because the conditions
of the roads before the investment are not known and the
work done on them included asphalt surfacing combined with
rehabilitation and, in some cases, maintenance. However,
the high level and growth of traffic ... tend to justify the
investment for the majority of these principal roads." 1/
However, the Audit did point out that, as with the Second Highway Project,
the new roads were rather costly relative to traffic levels.
7.        On the institutional side, the start of this Project coincided
with the departure of U.S. Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) staff, who had been
responsible for running the EHA since its inception in 1951. The Audit
concluded:
1/   "Project Performance Audit Report on Ethiopia Third Highway Project
(Credit 35-ET)," 1975, pi. 12.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
"EHA's institutional progress after the departure of the
BPR was just adequate to keep the organization functioning
and to administer the project ... This is no small achieve-
ment considering that ERA was for the first time under
Ethiopian management and that it inherited considerable
problems. However, there were no basic improvements in
EHA's efficiency during 1963-68." 1/
The Audit noted that the main reason why the institution-building efforts
had not been more successful was that, although the Bank had correctly
separated this component from the works component, 2/ the consultants' terms
of reference failed to clearly specify the institutional objectives and
whether the consultants were acting in advisory or executive capacities.
This lesson shaped the Bank's institution-building approach under the Fourth
Project (paras. 9 and 13).
Fourth Highway Project, Loan 523-ET (US$13.5 million) and
Credit Ill-ET (US$7.7 million), January 1968
8.        Under this Project, the Bank and IDA joined the Swedish Govern-
ment, which provided a US$5.8 million credit, in financing the foreign costs
of:
(a)  constructing main roads (about 420 km);
(b)  asphaltic paving of existing main roads (about 170 km);
and
(c) consulting services for feasibility studies of further
roads, advice to the IHA, technical assistance, and
training.
9.        Applying the lessons of the earlier Projects, the Bank required
stricter standards in project preparation, insisting on feasibility studies
and review of design by consultants. It continued to insist on construc-
tion by international contractors and supervision of new construction by
1/   "Project Performance Audit Report on Ethiopia Third Highway Project
(Credit 35-ET)," 1975, p. 8.
2/   It had been concluded that the slow progress with institution-building
up to 1963 resulted primarily from the fact that such efforts up to that
date were preoccupied with ensuring effective implementation of con-
struction and rehabilitation works. Thus, the institution had become
comparatively strong in these areas, but remained weak in maintenance and
in headquarters administration, planning and financial activities.



kNNEX 2
rage >
consultants, but trained EHA staff supervised the paving projects. 1/ The
Bank also assisted in the preparation of legislation to improve procedurLeo
for settling contractor disputes (para. 5). For consulting services and
technical assistance, the Bank required a clear statement of objectives and
schedules.
10.       Despite the Bank's precautions, there were some delays in the
commencement of the project because of slow progress in the preparation of
acceptable tender documents and contractor prequalification, and because
a second tender was needed with some changed conditions after a disappointing
response to the first. Contracts were finally signed in July and August 1969
and progress with the works was highly satisfactory, with three of the four
roads being completed in 12 months less than the contract period. 2/ Total
project costs, expressed in local currency, were only 3% over appraisal
estimates. 3/
11.       The Project Completion Report on this Project, 4/ confirms that the
road works were economically justified:
Estimated Rate of Return
Appraisal         Ex-Post
New Roads
Awash-Tendaho (300 km)                        10%              12%
Bedelle-Metu (140 km)                         19%               6%
Paving Existing Roads
Nazreth-Awash (125 km)                        28%              22%
Jima-Agaro (45 km)                            28%              29%
12.       For both new roads, an effort was made to ensure complementary
agricultural development through a Loan Agreement covenant and side-letter.
In both cases, such development has taken place (in part with Bank Group
assistance) though not as promptly as envisaged. In the case of Awash-
Tendaho, this has been more than offset (in terms of the effect on the rate
1/   The Project provided for the employment of expatriate consultants
should ERA supervision prove unsatisfactory, but it was not neces-
sary to invoke this provision because the staff was competent.
2/   The fourth road contract required an extension of six months.
3/   The cost overrun in US dollars was higher (8%), due to exchange
rate movements.
4/   "Ethiopia, Project Completion Report, Fourth Highway Project,"  1976.



ANNEX 2
Page 6
of return) by higher through-traffic levels than expected. In the case of
Bedelle-Metu, the slow start with agricultural development measures has
been compounded by effects of coffee berry disease. In addition, the road
was probably built to higher standards than necessary.
13.       The Bank took a more systematic approach to institution-building
under this Project. Implementation of a reorganization of IHA recommended in
an earlier consultants' study was included as a specific technical assistance
item. Also, an overseas training program with a very practical orientation
was funded, 1/ and technical assistance experts were provided to IHA in the
areas of engineering, operations and maintenance. The Operations Evaluation
Department's "Comparative Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects" noted (p.
62):
"...it is clear that the IRA has been improving faster
since 1968 ... The agency can now do better technical
planning, advance surveying and cost estimating than
before, and can produce feasibility studies that bear
comparison with similar work prepared by international
consultants. Also, the administration of the IHA has
improved considerably. However, progress has been
relatively slower in financial management, maintenance
and equipment operations and the coordination of eco-
nomic planning with other agencies."
14.       Financial management, maintenance and equipment operations are
being improved under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects, and with USAID
assistance. Selection of road projects is now coordinated by an Interagency
Road Committee, comprising representatives of ERA, the Planning Commission
Office, and the Ministries of Transport and Communications, Agriculture,
Defense, Interior and National Community Development and Social Affairs.
15.       The Evaluation also noted that "highway planning in IHA still
consists of selecting projects that pass a feasibility test and combining
them into a program without elaboration of priorities" (p. 69), a shortcoming
that has been overcome in the preparation of the 1978-82 Road Program.
Fifth Highway Project, Credit 332-ET (US$17.0 million), September 1972
16.       Under this Project, which is now nearing completion, the emphasis
shifted to lower class roads serving, and part of, agricultural development.
The credit provides assistance for construction to gravel standard of 258 km
of feeder roads and supervision thereof, strengthening IHA, and develop-
ing the domestic contracting industry. It was originally intended that the
Credit would also finance a consultants' study to assess the need for low
class rural roads and recommend the best way of meeting this need. How-
ever, this item was taken over by the ODM.
1/   For example, reflecting earlier problems with equipment, half the
trainees were equipment superintendents, foremen or mechanics.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
17.       The Project was delayed initially due to delay in parliamentary
ratification of the Credit Agreement and later due to an amendment to the IHA
charter which necessitated changes in civil works contract documents. Because
of these delays, the effects of petroleum price increases, and unsuccessful
attempts to tender one of the originally proposed six feeder road projects
because of its remote location, the length of feeder road construction under
this Project was reduced from 434 km, to the present 258 km (representing
four roads). The remaining two feeder roads were made part of the Sixth
Highway Project. Three of the four roads under the Fifth Project have been
completed, one by a domestic contractor assisted under the Project, and the
fourth is expected to be completed by the end of 1977, all within the contract
prices. A recalculation of the rates of return using current cost estimates
confirms that the roads are still economically justified. Other Project
components have been or are being satisfactorily implemented.
18.       Reflecting its continuing development, ERA participation in the
execution of this project is greater than under earlier ones; all construc-
tion supervision is by EHA staff, except for the Resident Engineer on each
road, who is provided by consultants.
Sixth Highway Project, Credit 552-ET (US$32.0 million) June 4, 1975
19.       This Project follows up the Fifth Project with further construction
of feeder roads (four roads, totalling 400 km), and continuing assistance for
ERA training and Ethiopian contractors. It also builds on previous assistance
provided by other aid agencies. USAID had addressed one of the continuing
deficiencies of the ERA, maintenance, by financing a consultants' study to
identify equipment needs and draw up a maintenance program. Flowing from
this study, USAID financed the acquisition of some road maintenance equipment,
as well as a program aimed at adequately equipping and staffing field work-
shops to maintain the equipment. IDA supported this by assisting in financing
the balance of the road maintenance equipment identified in the consultants'
study. To follow up the ODM-financed Rural Roads Study, the Credit seeks to
assist in establishing an organization to plan, construct and maintain lower
class, local, rural roads through provision of technical assistance, workshops,
tools and other equipment. The Credit also provides for strengthening the
Road Transport Administration through provision of weighbridges and technical
assistance.
20.       Implementation of the Project is proceeding well.  Three of the
four roads have been let to contract, with the contract prices all within
appraisal estimates; the fourth road is being constructed by force account.
Contracts for the road maintenance equipment and weighbridges have been
awarded and most of the equipment has been delivered. Plans are in hand for
the construction of rural roads workshops for the provinces of Wellega and
Illubabor. An Ethiopian contractor, a successful bidder on one of the feeder
road contracts, has received financial assistance through AIDB under the
project.
April 1977



ANNEX 3
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Expansion of ERA's Training Activities
1.        As part of its efforts to meet the manpower requirements of the Road
Program, ERA aims to train approximately 1,000 employees in the skills
specified in Table 10 between 1978 and 1982. This training program, which is
in addition to the 250-300 staff who will receive retraining each year under
ongoing programs, will require:
(a) expansion of the Alemgena Training Center;
(b) establishment of two Training Production Units
(TPUs); and
(c) overseas training.
Alemgena Training Center
2.        A qualified training specialist will be recruited for a year to
supervise the introduction of new courses and the establishment of TPUs
(para. 6 below). The local staff of 19 instructors will be increased
to 27, and a rotation system will be introduced for all staff, including
the Head of the Center. Regardless of their capability, the duration of
the instructors' assignments should not last more than five years; at the
end of their assignments they should return to their respective units for
practical experience and to learn new techniques.
3.        To improve the quality of maintenance operations in the field, two
of the additional instructors will be experienced maintenance superintendents
who will rotate among the districts and provide on-the-job training to
district foremen.
4.        The physical facilities of the Center will be expanded by adding
two dormitories and four classrooms, and providing training equipment and
materials, including audio-visual aids. The civil works are estimated to
cost about Birr 126,000; the equipment, about Birr 800,000.
5.        The Training Center will be responsible for:
(a) planning, implementation, supervision and quality control of
all training activities, including policy and budgeting;
(b) coordination with the TPUs, all other ERA Divisions and
other national training institutions;



ANNEX 3
Page 2
(c) pedagogical support to TPUs;
(d)  the supply system (spare parts and materials) for TPUs;
(e)  evaluation of training; and
(f)  undertaking the training of:
(i) instructors for the Center and TPUs;
(ii)  all road supervisors other.than overseers grades
III, II and I;
(iii) surveyor assistants;
(iv) storekeepers;
(v)  plant operators at more advanced levels of achieve-
ment, and new operators and drivers (tippers/trucks);
(vi)  mechanics grades III and II (second part of program
for grade II to be carried out in the field);
(vii) mechanical inspectors; and
(viii) electricians.
Training Production Units
6.        Two TPUs will be established, one for main roads and one for rural
roads. The required equipment is specified in para. 9. Five qualified
instructors will be recruited for two years each for initial supervision of
the TPUs: 3 road construction superintendents and 2 mechanical super-
intendents. A total of 17 technicians/instructors will also be required.
7.        The scope of TPU activities will cover the training and upgrading of
various categories and levels of personnel under normal working conditions and
while carrying out regular highway operations. The categories involved would
be:
(a) overseers grades III, II and I;
(b) equipment operators and drivers; and
(c) mechanics grades II and I, and, to a lesser extent, surveyor
assistants and storekeepers.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
As trainees complete their programs, they will be assigned to operating
units. Limited classroom facilities will have to be provided for TPUs in
tents or temporary camp buildings, as well as the required training materials
and standard tools.
TPU Training Cycle for Overseers
8.        It is estimated that for overseers the duration of the TPU training
cycle in the Civil Engineering Section would be 12 weeks.  The recommended
number of overseers per cycle is 12, each having completed four weeks pre-
liminary training at the TC. Their program would continue as follows:
divided into four groups of three, each group receives three weeks' instruction
in the main functions of (a) quarrying; (b) drainage and culverts; (c) earth-
works, operating equipment and vehicles; and (d) administration. Thus, each
trainee is taught not only his speciality but also the three other supervisory
functions of overseers with whom he will be in contact on the work site. At
the end of each 12-week period, the 12 overseers will be fully trained and
ready for assignment to operating units.
TPU Training Cycle for Equipment Operators and Drivers
9.        Each TPU should carry in its inventory six pieces of heavy equip-
ment, plus 6 tippers and 3 service trucks. Each training cycle is geared to
handle 24 operators and 12 drivers. The operators are divided into six
groups:
2 graders   =  8 operators
I dozer     =  4    "
1 loader    =  4    "
1 roller    =  4
I tractor = 4 "
Before being assigned to a TPU, trainees should have received instruction
in preventive maintenance on the six types of heavy construction equipment at
a training area for operators near the Center, but - if not - this can be done
in the field. A 12-week course consists of 8 weeks of basic training on
the specific piece of equipment for which the trainee has been selected,
plus four weeks learning to operate a second-priority piece of equipment.
At the end of the cycle, each trainee should be a competent operator of
one type of equipment and be familiar with one other type. The drivers
follow a 12-week course on tippers and service trucks and their operation
under normal work-site conditions. Upon completion of the 12-week course,
the 24 operators and 12 drivers will be fully trained and ready for assignment
to operating units.
TPU Training Cycle for Mechanics
10.       Each cycle can accommodate 12 grade I mechanics divided into three
groups:



ANNEX 3
Page 4
equipment repairs       =   6
vehicle repairs         =   4
quality control         =   2
The mechanics spend 16 weeks in an equipment repair workshop, then four
weeks on vehicle repairs and four weeks on quality control. Upon completion
of the 24-week course, the 12 mechanics will be fully trained and ready for
assignment to operating units. After one or two years' field service, the
better performing graduates may be selected for further upgrading to grade II
level at the Center.
11.       Depending on trainee standards, weather conditions, topography
and soil conditions, the average training cycle in the civil engineering
section should be three to four months, and from six to eight months in the
mechanical section. Accordingly, one TPU should be expected to produce the
following number of fully trained personnel per year:
Civil Engineering Section
(i)    overseers        =   48
(ii)   operators        =   96
(iii)  drivers          =   48
192
Mechanical Section
mechanics            24
Total      216
With an annual per-unit output of 216, the total output of one TPU in five
years would be 1,080.
Overseas Training
12.        It is expected that, over 1978-82, about 30 staff from both the main
and the rural roads operations would receive brief practical training abroad
(3 to 6 months) at a cost of about Birr 400,000.
April 1977



ANNEX 4
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
Background
1.        ERA proposes to establish a Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEU)
within the Planning and Programming Division to monitor implementation of
road projects and evaluate their impact. Although the ultimate objective
is to monitor and evaluate all new road projects, the initial emphasis will be
on lower class feeder and rural road projects whose principal objective is
developmental impact rather than savings to existing road users. Under its
1978-82 Road Program, Government intends to construct or improve over 6,000 km
of such roads, and the main function of the NEU will be to ensure that the
limited funds available are used as efficiently as possible and only on roads
that promise a substantial impact.
Objectives
2.        The objectives of the MEU are to:
(a) monitor how efficiently roads are being constructed,
their durability under prevailing weather and traffic
conditions, and whether complementary activities
necessary to the successful impact of the road are
being implemented; and
(b) evaluate how effective the roads are in lowering trans-
port costs, increasing mobility, and stimulating economic
and social development.
3.        Information developed by MEU will contribute to improving ERA's
selection procedures for low class roads and judgments about appropriate
construction techniques and standards.
Outline of Work Program
Monitoring
4.        The scope of the monitoring activities will be as follows:
(a) monitoring the output and costs of construction and
maintenance units;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(b) monitoring the labor or equipment intensiveness of
road construction and maintenance units, identifying
the factors affecting relative use of labor and
equipment, establishing guidelines for the appro-
priate technology;
(c) monitoring the quality of operations and the rate of
deterioration of roads in relation to materials, design,
climate and traffic;
(d)  monitoring operational difficulties, if any;
(e) depending on information derived from (a)-(d)
recommending modified methods of operation,
equipment use, road standards, etc.; and
(f) monitoring implementation of complementary activities.
5.        In respect of 3(a), data would ultimately be collected for all
ERA construction and maintenance activities. However, in the first instance
efforts would be concentrated on the Rural Roads Offices to be established
in Illubabor, Kefa and Wellega.
6.        In respect of 3(c), data would be collected on a representative
sample of rural roads. Specifically, the following information will be
collected under ongoing research projects:
(a) rate of deterioration measured by gravel loss,
average rut depth and surface roughness estimates;
(b) performance of roads with different design para-
meters;
(c) performance of roads with different compaction and
drainage standards;
(d)  rainfall and related number of days roads are closed;
and
(e) frequency and type of recurrent and periodic mainte-
nance.
Evaluation
7.        The scope of the socio-economic evaluation covers:
(a) measurement of agricultural production and marketing,
traffic flows and population movements showing effect
of roads constructed and improved; and



ANNEX 4
Page 3
(b) comparison of actual with predicted results derived
from the use of present evaluation methods, making
necessary changes and refinements to improve
their accuracy and reliability as a planning tool.
8.        The following data will be collected in respect of a sample of
rural roads:
(a) area of influence;
(b) population, family size;
(c) actual area under cultivation crop by crop;
(d) yields and production;
(e) land tenure;
(f) self-consumption and crops marketed by road;
(g) distance to markets and social institutions;
(h) agricultural inputs moved by road;
(i) complementary investments, extension services, etc.;
(j) price data for crops and inputs;
(k) hired and family labor;
(1) transport prices and transport industry information; and
(m) traffic by type, commodity by type and volume,
passengers by trip purpose and origin and des-
tination, and freight rates and charges.
9.        Specifically for assessment of road impact on production activities,
marketing patterns before and after the project should be studied. This
implies detailed information on the quantities marketed, distance and time
to market place, mode of transport used, types of roads, transport costs
incurred and information on who provides transport services (the latter may be
in a position to capture a substantial share of road benefits).
10.        Similar information should be gathered regarding the purchasing
of inputs. When traders are involved, information on trading margins (either
direct or indirect, through comparison of ex-farm prices and market prices)
is relevant.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
11.       To complement the foregoing farm data, traffic surveys will be
undertaken on roads selected for study once during harvest season. The
traffic surveys are designed to capture impacts on road users (both those
who travel on the roads and those who use it to transport goods and services).
These surveys would document changes in origin and destination, volume,
frequency and purpose of both freight and passenger flows as well as type,
volume, and frequency of vehicle traffic. Also, insights would be gathered
into the marketing and transport industry to ascertain competition, charges
and costs. A short form questionnaire would be used to determine each respon-
dent's reason for using the road as well as his or her origin and destination.
From these data, changes in both social and economic patterns of behavior can
be inferred. In addition to the traffic survey proper, the team will count the
number of facilities along the road. In this way, comparisons can be establi-
shed as to the number of roads, schools, stores, and other types of physical
traces of socio-economic changes that will occur as a result of the road
project.
Organization
12.       ERA has the capacity to develop the monitoring procedures described
in paras. 4-6. However, preparation of a detailed work program for the
evaluation functions outlined in paras. 7-11 will require specialist assistance
in survey design, econometrics, agriculture/development economics, and data
processing. It will also be necessary to coordinate the work of the MEU
with other data collection and monitoring and evaluation activities. These
specialists will:
(a) survey present and planned related data collection and
monitoring and evaluation activities in other Ethiopian
agencies;
(b) recommend a work program and related staffing plan for
the MEU, taking account of local availability of
the required manpower, and the possibility of limited
technical assistance for the initial operation of the
MEU; and
(c) assist in initial implementation of the work program.
April 1977



ANNEX 5
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Economic Analysis of Road Program 1/
1.        Under sector lending, it is not possible for rates of return to be
calculated at appraisal for each subproject in the Program. Indeed, as the
paper on this subject distributed to the Board in 1975 explained, "the actual
subprojects or Program components to be financed (e.g. a road from A to B)
would not need to be identified at the time of loan submission because the
Bank would have an agreement on the total Program and confidence in the
borrower's capacity to plan and bring forward sound subprojects in a timely
manner." 2/ Nevertheless, in the course of agreeing on the total Program and
its composition, ERA, RRTF, Crown Agents and IDA have undertaken a consid-
erable amount of economic analysis. The purpose of this Annex is to describe
the results of that analysis and to indicate the additional analyses which
will be undertaken to satisfy IDA's requirements for accepting sub-projects
for financing. Each component of road construction is discussed separately.
Strengthening of Existing Paved Roads
2.        The major arterial routes radiating from Addis Abeba are being
subjected to heavier axle loads, and in many cases heavier traffic volumes,
than they were designed for, with consequent pavement deterioration and
shortened life, and the risk of serious pavement failures in the future. The
most serious case is the road linking Addis Abeba to the port of Aseb. This
includes the Awash-Tendaho and Nazreth-Awash roads which were constructed
and paved, respectively, under the Bank's Fourth Highway Project.
3.        While it is expected that axle load limits will be enforced more
effectively than in the past, Government intends to increase the legal limit
from 8 to 12 tons, following a study suggesting that this would lead to lower
total transport costs than strict enforcement of an 8 ton limit (para. 3.07).
So far as the road is concerned, two alternative courses of action are
possible: (a) applying an overlay to strengthen pavements now and thus
preventing deterioration, or (b) completely reconstructing these sections after
they fail. An economic analysis has been made of these two alternatives,
using cost and traffic data for the Awash-Tendaho road. Economic cost of
the asphaltic concrete overlay is estimated at Birr 47,000 per km. It is
assumed that if the overlay were not applied, vehicle operating costs on the
1/   Table references in this Annex refer to tables attached to the Annex.
2/   "Highway Sector Lending," Sec M75-487, 1975, para. 2.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
progressively deteriorating pavement would be higher, 1/ and the failed sec-
tions would require complete reconstruction after ten years, at an estimated
cost of Birr 76,000 per km. Based on these assumptions, the rate of return
on applying a strengthening overlay now, rather than undertaking reconstruc-
tion in ten years' time, is 19%.
Bituminous Paving of Gravel Roads
4.        Bituminous paving of gravel roads produces savings in vehicle
operating costs and, above specified traffic levels, in road maintenance
costs. Rates of return were computed for 16 possible projects, all but one
of which showed rates of return of 10% or more (Table A). However, due to
financial and resource constraints, and the demands of other parts of the
Program, it has only been possible to include the best five of these projects
in the Program for 1978-82. The roads which have been included are shown on
Map 1.
New Feeder Road Construction
5.        Twenty-nine possible subprojects were identified for this category
(Table B). Feasibility studies showing satisfactory rates of return have
been completed for five of these subprojects, which have accordingly been
included in the Program. 2/ The other 24 subprojects were selected for study
either because they could serve specific development programs which are
underway or planned, or else would serve areas of high potential, or high
food surplus or deficit areas which are presently inaccessible. Sometimes,
as in the case of Nekempte-Bure, the new road would also provide a useful
connecting link between two arms of the existing radial main road network.
The individual roads considered, and the reasons for their inclusion, are
given in Table B.
6.        The determination of economic priorities for investment in such
roads should generally be on the basis of rate of return analysis, measuring
1/   Vehicle operating cost savings were taken as the difference between
operating costs on good and fair quality paved surfaces, as specified
in Economic and Financial Vehicle Operating Costs, ERA, February 1976.
The analysis does not take account of the fact that the disruption to
traffic during reconstruction would be much greater than during overlay
works.
2/   Finance has already been arranged for three of these subprojects.
The sequence for implementing the five subprojects will not strictly
follow the ranking by internal rate of return, because of financing
arrangments. For example, Shishinda-Tepi will follow Ghimbi-Gambella and
Jima-Chida, because financing has already been arranged for the latter
two, but not for Shishinda-Tepi which will probably be submitted for IDA
financing under the proposed credit.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
benefits by the net increase in the value of agricultural production in
the area of influence of the roads. This analysis is considerably more
demanding of time and data than analysis of improvement of existing roads
(paras. 2-4), and in the time available it has not been possible to perform
such analyses of the 24 subprojects under consideration. However, this
will be carried out by consultants by June 1978. 1/ In the meantime, ERA has
ranked these subprojects by a procedure which is considered satisfactory as a
preliminary guide. They have been ranked in terms of seven socio-economic
indices: food surplus, food deficit, cash crop production (coffee, cotton,
oilseeds), livestock population, commercially viable forest areas, "regional
integration" 2/, and population density. 3/ The score for each road was
divided by its estimated cost, and the roads ranked by the point/cost ratio.
The results are shown in Table 2. Pending more detailed analysis, the first
six subprojects from this ranking have been added to the five subprojects for
which feasibility studies have already been completed, and the 11 comprise the
feeder road component of the Program.
Rural Roads
7.        A rural roads construction and maintenance program for each province
has been prepared by Crown Agents 4/, who were retained by RRTF with financial
assistance from ODM. Papers were prepared for each region by regional
and awraja representatives listing their rural roads requirements. The Crown
Agents team reviewed these papers with these representatives, as well as with
other parties interested in rural roads in the particular regions (e.g., the
Extension or Project Implementation Department, Livestock and Meat Board, and
agricultural project units). Awrajas were then ranked by the following socio-
economic criteria:
1/   Construction on any of these 24 subprojects is not expected to commence
before 1980. However, allowing for the lead time required to complete
detailed engineering and arrange aid, priorities within these 24 subproj-
ects should be determined as soon as possible.
2/   This is intended to reflect the degree of inIccessibility of the awrajas
(local Government areas, averaging 12,000 km in area) through which the
road passes. It is measured in terms of distance of the awraja capital
from the nearest all-weather road or provincial capital. The longer the
distance, the higher the score for the proposed road.
3/   The available data is only at the awraja level, not for the area of
influence of the road. Thus a road's score is determined by the char-
acteristics of the awraja or awrajas through which it passes. Further
details of this ranking system are given in Proposed Highway Sector
Program, EFY 1970-74, ERA, 1976.
4/   Rural Roads Study, Crown Agents, 1976.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
1. Food crop production
2. Cash crop production
3. Livestock population
4. Agricultural extension services (ratio of unserved
population to total population)
5. Ratio of uncultivated cultivable land to total cul-
tivable land
6. Commercially viable forest areas
7. Population density
8. Proportion of total school age children not attending
school
9. Number of health centers per 1,000 population
10. Regional integration: distance of awraja capital from
nearest all-weather road or from provincial capital
11. Existing road faciities: ratia of all-weather roads
to total area of awraja (km/km ).
8.        For all criteria except 9 and 11, the figure for each awraja is
expressed as a percentage of the figure for the awraja with the maximum value
Food production in awraja A                           100
(e.g.,  Food production in awraja with maximum production x    ).
For criteria 9 and 11, the figure for each awraja is expressed as a percentage
of the figure for the awraja with the minimum value. Awrajas were ranked
on their aggregate points score: each criteria was given equal weight in the
absence of a clear basis for any alternative weighting system. Individual
roads were then ranked according to the priorities of the awrajas they served,
in order to arrive at priorities for road construction within the region.
Priorities between regions were determined according to the point scores of
the awrajas comprising the regions. The resulting regional priorities
are shown in Table C.
9.        While this ranking procedure suffers from some deficiencies, 1/
it is satisfactory for preliminary screening purposes. The normal economic
feasibility study would not be appropriate for such low class low-cost roads,
but it is expected that after some time the monitoring and evaluation unit
would develop improved criteria for selecting rural roads.
April 1977
1/   Probably the most serious shortcoming is that the cost of providing
roads, which could differ from one area to another, is ignored.



ANNEX 5
Table A
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Ranking of Roads Considered for Upgrading to Bituminous Paved Standards
Rate of
Project                               Length      Cost        Return
(km)    Birr '000      (%)
A.  Included in 1978-82 Program /
1.  Quiha-Maichew                        109       18,894        25
2.; Weldiya-Maichew                      139        8,175        23
3.  Awash River-Butajira-Hosaina         181       14,633        22
4.  IndaSelassie-Adwa-Mereb River        128        8,610        22
5.  Harrar-Jijiga                        105       31,790        19
B.  Not Included in 1978-82 Programl,
6.  Kembolcha-Mille                       84       13,910        19
7.  Hosaina-Sodo                          93        7,210        18
8.  Shashamane-Sodo-Arba Minch           235       10,425        17
9.  Kulubi-Asebe Teferi-Mieso            163        6,000        16
10.  Agerehiywet-Ambo-Nekempte            308        7,875        14
11.  Agaro-Bedele                         104        6,240        13
12.  Bahir Dar-Azezo                      182       14,480        12
13.  Shashamane-Goba                      210       21,000        12
14.  Gonder-IndaSelassie                  289       33,418        11
15.  Awash-Mieso                           54       46,369        10
16.  Adwa-Adigrat                         103        6,957         2
1/ The inclusion or exclusion of particular roads is tentative and is
subject to further review in the light of changing circumstances.
Source: Proposed Highway Sector Program, Ethiopian Fiscal Years 1970-74, ERA,
August 1976.
April 1977



ANNEX 5
T~able B
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Ranking of Feeder Road Projects Considered for Program-/
Length         Cost
Project                     Km      Birr million        Comment
Ranking
Group A: Sub-projects with Feasibility Studies Completed
1.  Gonder-Humera                   250          32        Rate of return 30%
2.  Inlibara-Guba                   216          32        Rate o'f return 27%
3.  Shishinda-Tepi                  74           18        Rate of return 27%
4.  Ghimbi-Gambella                306           71        Rate of return 21%
5.  Jimma-Chida                     83           22        Rate of return 20%
Group B:  Sub-projects Ranked on Socio-Economic Points Score/Cost Ratio
6.  Mota-Bahr Dar                   72           16        Significant food surplus area
7.  Dessie Woreillu                 82           19        Significant food deficit area
8.  Gore-Gambella                  169           24        Coffee development area
9.  Maji-Felege Neway              140           18        Omo Regional Development Project
10.  Nekempte-Bure                  220           40        Anger Valley Development Project
11.  Bethor-Tenta-Woreillu          152           23        Significant food deficit area
12.  Mechara-Ghinir                 194           24        Arussi Rural Development and Central Bale Projects
13.  Dembidollo-Bombashi            220           41        Coffee development area
14.  Humera-Metema                  190           24        Humera Development Project
15.  Tepi-Gore                      145           36        Coffee development area
16.  Dera-Mechara                   162           36        Arussi Rural Development Project
17.  Chida-Sodo                     115           46        Coffee development area
18.  Sekota-Lalibela-Bethor         128           26        Significant food deficit area
19.  Chacha-Maji                    110           37        Coffee development area
20.  Konso-Key Afer                 140           22        Omo Regional Development Project
21.  Adwa-Sekota                    283           57        Significant food deficit area
22.  Asosa-Guba                     180           23        Forestry potential
23.  Arba Minch-Yabello             215           27        Southern Rift Valley Development Study
24.  Mukature-Wareillu              178           53        Significant food surplus area
25.  Metema-Guba                    258           34        Humera Development Project
26.  Bulki-Bako Jrct.-Kelem          295          55        Omo Regional Development Project
27.  Ghinir-Imi-Godie                337          40        Central Bale Development Study, wheat and forestry potential
28.  Babile-Imi-Dolo                 633          63        Jijigga Rangelands Project/potential wheat and
forestry development in Bale
29.  Humera-Indagelassie             245          60        Humera Regional Development Project
1/ Only the first 11 of these sub-projects have been included in the 1978-82 Program.
Inclusion or exclusion of particular rcads is tentative and subject to further study;
Source: Proposed Highway Sector Program, EFY 1970-74, ERA, August 1976
April 1977



ANNEX 5
Table C
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Ranking of Provinces for Rural Roads Component of Program
Province                   Ranking
Arussi                       1
Wellega                      2
Bale                         3
Illubabor                    4
Gemu Gofa                    5
Begendir                     6
Kefa                         7
Sidamo                       8
Gojam                        9
Hararge                     10
Shewa                       11
Welo                        12
Tigre                       13
Eritrea                     14
Source:   ERA
April 1977



ANNEX 6
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Progress Reporting Requirements
1.        Two types of progress reports would be submitted regularly:
Program Progress Reports and Sub-Project Progress Reports. Both types of
reports will be prepared by ERA, except for reports on road transport regula-
tion, which will be procured by the Road Transport Authority.
Program Progress Reports
2.        Program Reports would be submitted at six-month intervals, com-
mencing with the six months ending December 31, 1977. These reports would
indicate progress in implementing each major component of the Program and
would contain the following information.
Component                                 Information Required
Road Construction/Improvement            For each class of road 1/
(i) physical progress to date of report and
during reporting period;
(ii) comparison of physical progress with
implementation schedule;
(iii) reasons for deviations from schedule
and proposals for corrective action
where appropriate;
(iv) projections of likely progress in
following reporting period;
(v) expenditure to date of report and
during reporting period;
(vi) comparison of actual expenditure with
Program and reasons for any deviations,
with particular attention to trends in
unit costs; and
1/   Primary, secondary, feeder, and rural road classes 10, 30 and 50.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
Road Construction/Improvement
(cont'd)
(vii)  projections of likely expenditure in
following reporting period.
Road Maintenance                    (i)  equipment and staff assigned to each
district at beginning and end of re-
porting period;
(ii)  list of routine and periodic maintenance
work performed during the reporting
pe'riod; and
(iii)  work targets for following reporting
period.
Institution Building                (i)  details of training courses offered and
number of trainees trained during
reporting period;
(ii)  comparison of actual training with pro-
gram, and reasons for any deviations;
(iii)  planned training activity for following
period; and
(iv)  progress with establishing Rural Roads
Offices during reporting period, and
staff at each office at end of period.
Road Transport Regulation           (i)  number of axle weighing showing the
proportions of excessive axle loads dur-
ing reporting period and summary of
actions taken; and
(ii)  report on other major activities of
RTA during reporting period (e.g.
variation in prescribed freight rates,
establishment of freight terminals).
Sub-Project Progress Reports
3.   These reports would be submitted quarterly, not later than one calendar
month after the end of the quarter. The first report should cover the
quarter ended December 31, 1977. These reports should contain the following
information on each sub-project being financed by IDA.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
Sub-Project                                Information Required
Road Construction/Improvement       (i)  the physical progress accomplished to
date of report and during the reporting
period;
(ii)  actual or expected deviations from the
sub-project implementation schedule 1/;
(iii) actual or expected difficulties or de-
lays and their effect on implementation
and the actual steps taken or planned to
overcome the difficulties and avoid de-
lays;
(iv)  expected changes in the completion
dates of the sub-projects;
(v)  key personnel changes in the staffs
of the ERA, consultants, and contrac-
tors;
(vi)  matters which may affect the cost of
the sub-projects;
(vii) original estimated cost;
(viii) revised cost, if appropriate;
(ix)  actual expenditure;
(x)  projected expenditure; and
(xi)  actual withdrawals and projected
withdrawals from the Credit Account
for this sub-project.
Buildings and Equipment             (i)  progress with construction, fitting
of workshops, and equipment procure-
ment during quarter;
(ii)  reasons for any deviations from im-
plementation schedule, and proposed
corrective action; and
(iii) projected progress during following
quarter.
1/   Implementation schedules for each sub-project would be submitted with
the application for IDA to accept that sub-project for financing.



ANNEX 6
Page 4
Technical Assistance and
Consulting Services             (i)  progress during quarter in procuring
these services; and
(ii) brief report describing and evaluating
work performed by technical assistance
experts and consultants during quarter.
April 1977



ORGANIZATION OF ETHIOPIAN ROAD AUTHORITY
AND .
RURAL ROADS ORGANIZATION
ETHIOPIAN ROAD AUTHORITY (ERA)
I
F-S-ARD  OF COMMISSIONERS
|          MGENERAL MANAGER
PLANNING AND                  AUDITS AND                                                               PRESS AND                      LEGAL
PROGRAMMING DIVISION           METHODS DIVISION                                                        PUBLIC RELATIONS  I               SERVICES
RURAL ROADS                                                                        ETHIOPIAN HIGHWAY
ORGANIZATION (RRO)                                                                    ORGAN(ZATION IEHOI
FADMINI'STRIATIVEl
SERVICES                          REG ONAL R                    TECHNICAL SERVICES                     PERSONNEL DIVISION              CHIEF ENGINEER
DIVISION                            0DIVISION
-|PERSONNEL BRANCH                      REGI-| CONALTTEES R R        INVENTORY & RESEARCH:              -|  TRAINING & SAFETY   |            DESIGN DIVISIOND|-
l                                                                  lCOMMI1 SCONTRACT
-|    FISCAL BRANCH   q                                          |  SELF  HELP SCHEME                                                            ICONSTRUCTION
-|   SUPPLIES BRANCH                                           F 4  - i    SURVEY & DESIGN                 SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT          OPERATIONS DIVISI
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
-Computer Servire            ,
I Warehouel                                                               EQUIPMENT BRAN                                                     DISTRICT ENGINE 
Traininig             dffi
tu ba uhared with EHO onl
bais of servie charge
S   I-Photgrammetry
I -Workshop
L m- Laboratory servime to be
Ishared with EHO on basis
of servnc charg
/ Staff for this Division would be kept to a minimum, with maximum use made of
the relevant EHO Divisions.
2/ Ultimately each Region will haoe a Rural Roads Office and a Rural Roads Committee;
these entities will be transferred from the RRO to the Regional Adminiottntions as
soon as possible.
There are nine districts, each hewded by an engineer and containing administration,                                                                                               s-
direct labor construction, maint-nance, warehousing, signs and workshops.                                                                           World Bank-7340
April 1977






ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF A ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULEI-
_    Responsible Agency       1977                       1978                       1 1979         |           1980
_M    J      S      D       M      i      S      D     M      J      S      M   M      J        S      D
Rural Roads Offices
(Illubabor. Kefa, Wellega)
Construction of Offices and Workshops                     ERA
Technical As5istance-
Recruitment                                             ERA
In-Field                                                TechnicaI Assistance
Equipment
Rehabilitation of Existing Equipment                    ERA
Orders for New Equipment                                ERA
Delivery of New Equipment                               ERA
Administration
Establish Rural Roads Committees (RRC)                  ERA
Review of Work Program                                  ERA, RRC. IDA
Transfer to Provincial Administration                   RRC
Construction and Maintenance Program                      RR Office                                        _             _     _   i         _   i               _
Training
Construction of Extensions to Alemgana Training Center (ATC) ERA
Equipment for ATC and Training Production Units (TPU)     ERA
Order
Delivery
Technical Assistance                                      ERA
Recruitment
In-FPield
Training Advisor
Construction and Mechanical Superintendents for TPUs/                                                    _
Maintenance Saperintendents!_ 
Additional Permanent Instructors                          ERA
Operation of TPUs                                         ERA
Oversees Training
Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
Preparation of Detailed Work Program                      Consultants
Implementation
Technical AssistanceJ'                                   Technical Assistance
Local Staff                                              ERA
Maintenance Performance Budgeting System
Consultants Study and Assistanca                         Consultants
Implementation                                           ERA and Consultants
1/ This schedule does not cover implementation of main road construction and maintenance components, which will be in accordance
with the targets specified in the Annex to Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement. Implementation of works financed
by IDA will depend on submission and approval of applications for individual ub-Projwets.
E Comprisre 3 construction and maintenance superintendents and 3 equipment and workshop superintendents, each for 3 years.
1V Comprises 3 construction superintendents and 2 mechanical superintendents, each for 2 years.
J Two maintenance superintendents, each for 2 yeers.
El Will depend on work program and staffing requirements Identified following consultants study, but tentatively identified as a
transport economist end a development/agricultural economist, each for 1 year.                                                                                     World BaEnk-t7341
April 1977                                                                                                                                                                                       rt






;IBR  1107441
40                     RtH OP1A                             r       i i M JANQII UP'
r.2 ?~~2                                            OA$COtRl
1.WEPA K.                                                                              f
.  iiL4'...........A...AEmS
ON 9    z  <,4  / #  vaRed  Sea;JE< 4-                             V -e T              "AO;;
5 5 4 4 00 4  *L   ilJ \ j. - n r    -' A       S7E      B                     4     7Gle s  I t -a w  4 : : : : n . ,p .  .a l i B i )  1 W  o n  n s n  n o 
*: ,,.                           \ &j,t 20                44r0                                          M oIS B9  U  S,OSa e e l' /f E b s a a : ;: O A, 0g       :t,  U ,
- X t 1   F 4   0%   C h=9    $AY4LX           {                 ri                    \SEllX .A.  / 5541    04542
of/9 ~Al
0 00  . E2 :g 0a    /                       oMBVlCSg<j0v A    :
7           fINA  Ado Zs.oso  IN
L ~~~~~~~E,4~~~~~~~~ A  AO   ALi.
j                        Ase.eh.sot~~HEKMT~,  A  DIS ABES
4a   7  54\ es./                                 aEr
~~~~UDAN'  DatA   008~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A R A                      
B A  R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A4a0191a-0.4115 oio                       I
b4
!d,                                                              _
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iObt 
M, D, -.10~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
.M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~41                                 45A



I
I
I
i
I



1',               S                                                                        0           COFFEE AREAS~~-7-
'"1$ ~~                ~                 ~                 ~               ~ ~=As
j   of  ~~                                                          Aofeo Coffp EeA    s
4  LZ~~~~w      CfbteAqee          FRC
/      OSCW0~~~~~~~~~~~,~~~,~~~~                                                             Ethiopio~~~~to''dj
ASMAsI~~e
T.-6.~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Povo~71s
'3?.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .... ..
A-.   n  z. - 
I    C  A    M    0-
~~Mego    DWoIdl.                                 '
A-                                      D~~~~      NMge    (  1K
>~~~~~~~~~~~~O.~~~~~~~~~~
EFARUARY 971                                                                                                                                              3RD- 3286~~~~~~~AIDI



