Doeument of
gS U         The Woird Bank
70m 017MCRALf us$E ONILY
lRepr No. P-2007-ET
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO
ETHIOPIA
FOR A
ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
April 28, 1977



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit             = Birr
US$0o483                  = Birr  O00
US$1.00                   = Birr 2.07
US$483000                = Birr 1.0 million
ABBREVIATIONS
ERA               -  Ethiopian Road Authority
MTC               - Ministry of Transport and Communications
ODM               -  Overseas Development Ministry (UK)
PPD               - Planning and Programming Division of ERA
USAID             -  United States Agency for International Development
GOVERNMENT OF ETHIOPIA
Fiscal Year _/
July 8    - July 7
1/  Unless otherwise specified, years refer  to fiscal years.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO ETHIOPIA
FOR A ROAD SECTOR PROJE-CT
1.         I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to Ethiopia for the equivalent of US$32.0 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance part of the first phase of a 5-year
road sector program. The Government would relend US$1.0 million equivalent
to the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB) at 8.5% per annum
for onward lending to Ethiopian contractors.   Repayment to the Government
would conform to the aggregate of the amortization schedules of the
sub-loans.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
Introduction
2.         A Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in March 1975, and
its report (790a-ET, dated December 1, 1975) has been circulated. This
report was the subject of discussion with the Provisional Military
Administrative Council (PMAC) in July 1975. These discussions provided
an opportunity to emphasis the Bank's interest in supporting the
Government in its pursuit of more rapid and equitable development, while
making clear the Bank's view that these objectives could only be realized
if certain critical policy issues were recognized and acted upon. In
April 1976, the Government announced its "National Democratic Revolution
Program," following which detailed reviews of sectoral programs were
begun. A Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia during February/March
1977, and an economic updating report is presently under preparation.
The preliminary findings of this mission are reflected in the following
paragraphs.
Country Objectives and Strategy
3.         Ethiopia is ruled by a military government (the Provisional
Military Government of Socialist Ethiopia) which espouses socialism.
In the economic sphere, this involves raising the living standard of
1/ This section is substantially the same as that of the Ethiopia -
Revised Amibara Irrigation Project.
This document has a reatricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
all Ethiopians, especially the poor, through state control of the major
industries and transport organization, the financial system and foreign
trade, and through the mobilization of the mass of the people to increase
production. The National Democratic Revolution Program gives priority
to the agricultural sector while industry will be developed to meet the
"needs of the masses". Agricultural production by peasant farmers and
by state farms is to be encouraged; the financial institutions are to
be streamlined; and incentives are to be maintained in the private sector.
Also among its aims are: free education, improved health services and
the provision of wider employment opportunities. The development of
urban centers away from Addis Ababa and Asmara, and, within the urban
sector, the development of productive activities as well as the provision
of services, are likely to receive emphasis.
4.        In September, a Government statement revealed further details
of Government strategy. Short- and long-term plans are, the statement
said, being drawn up. The short-term plan will concentrate on immediate
economic and social problems of unemployment, shortage of consumer goods
and inflation. The long-term plan will attempt to increase agricultural
production both through the use of modern inputs and through efforts
to reorganize the farming system; to reorganize trade by putting essential
goods under the control of state trading corporations and cooperative
shops; and to promote the construction industry and reorient the banking
system so as to eliminate urban housing shortages.
Economic and Social Reforms
5.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have been introduced
in line with the goals set out above. Of most direct importance to the
majority of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, under which all rural
land has been made the "collective property of the Ethiopian people" and
user rights of up to 10 hectares have been allocated to former tenants
and cultivators and to others pcrsonally willing to cultivate the land.
In nomadic areas, traditional grazing rights were protected. Former
commercial farms have either been handed over to peasants for individual
or collective cultivation, or have been retained as state farms.
6.        The second main feature of the land reform was the formation
of peasant associations. By February 1977, over 24,000 associations
with 6.7 million members had been formed; it is estimated that this
membership represents a substantial majority of rural households.
These associations decide on limited security and judicial matters
through elected committees.   They are responsible for land
redistribution and management and for the establishment of
cooperatives. Representative associations are also being



- 3 -
established at woreda (sub-district) and awraja (district) levels.
To help implement the land reform and the establishment of peasant
associations, the Government in late 1974 sent all university and higher
secondary students into the rural areas for one year (the "zemetcha"
campaign). The land reform appears to have received popular support in
most areas, especially among former tenants.
7.        In the urban sector all land was nationalized in 1975, and
ownership of houses was restricted to one per family; extra houses
were nationalized. Urban dwellers' associations ("kebeles") have been
established to parallel the peasant associations and with similar
powers. About 1,500 such associations have been established in 600
towns throughout the country, 290 of which are in Addis Ababa. They
are intended to undertake construction of schools, clinics and roads
and to establish market centers and cooperative shops. Kebele co-
operative shops are being used for distribution of certain essential
goods in short supply. They already have a financial basis since they
collect rents for nationalized houses up to a certain level. Elections
of kebele officials were held in November 1976.
8.        Most large enterprises in the modern sector, including some
owned by Ethiopians, were nationalized during 1975. All banks have been
reorganized and placed under the direct control of the National Bank of
Ethiopia. The financial sector now comprises two state commercial banks,
two specialized credit institutions (the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank and the Housing and Savings Bank), the Ethiopian Insurance
Corporation and small-scale credit co-operatives. All nationalized
manufacturing plants are organized into sector corporations under the
Ministry of Industry. State farms have been placed under the Ministry
of Agriculture and Settlement. Joint ventures between the state and
friendly countries will be permitted in both agriculture and industry.
Compensation
9.        The Government has stated that compensation will be paid to
the former owners (both local and foreign) of nationalized enterprises.
In February 1976, it established a Commission to decide how compensation
should be determined and to process claims. The Commission has so far
produced no concrete results, but is believed to be making an
effort to carry out its task. A number of claims have been received
by the Commission and are under review.
Basic Economic Situation
10.       The reforms have taken place against a background of desperate
poverty and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per capita
GNP of about US$100 in 1975, is classified by the UN as one of the 25
least developed countries of the world. The population, estimated at



- 4 -
about 28 million in 1975, is predominantly rural (about 90%). Some 7%
of the population is literate; there is one physician for every 70,000
people and only 19% of the children of primary school age are actually
enrolled. In many highland areas, soils have become seriously depleted
as population pressure has forced people to cultivate ecologically
unsuitable land. The lack of transport infrastructure is such that only
about one quarter of the population is within one day's round trip on
foot from an all weather road. During the drought of 1972/73, which is
estimated to have taken 100-150 thousand lives, the lack of transport
hampered relief operations. The net effect of all these factors is
that there has been little or no improvement in living standards for
the rural population for many years. Indeed, prior to land reform,
living standards in many areas of the country were probably declining.
11.       Ethiopia is not without natural resources.   Gold, platinum,
copper and potash exist, and there has been considerable petroleum
exploration in recent years. However, none of these minerals has been
proved to exist in sufficiently large quantities to be exploited on a
large scale; and in any case the development of agriculture appears
likely to be the only way of spreading the benefits of development
sufficiently widely.
12.       Ethiopia continues to face formidable constraints to her
development. The low level of development itself implies low savings
and investment, the absence of infrastructure and the merely token
presence of organized government in many parts of the country. Much
of Ethiopia's skilled and trained workforce has left the country and
has not been replaced because of the closure of higher education
institutions. The level of public savings remains low in relation
to the programs of public spending likely to be generated to meet demands
for social services, as well as military spending. There is the pros-
pect of a serious medium- or long-term foreign exchange constraint
since Ethiopia must import most resources apart from food (which it
still requires to the short-term), either as raw materials or in manu-
factured form.
13.       Ethiopia has always faced external security difficulties
and internal dissension. Since the revolution, the internal security
situation, has become increasingly difficult over a wider geographic
area, although the possibility of continuing development activities in
most of the country still exists.    The conflict with movements desiring
Eritrean independendence dates back 15 years, but appears no nearer a
peaceful resolution. External difficulties could arise with Somalia
over the future of Djibouti, which is due to achieve independence this
year.



Recent Political and Economic Developments
14.       In February 1977, Lieutenant-Colonel Mengistu Hailu-Mariam,
formerly first vice-chairman of the ruling military council (the Dergue),
became Chairman of the Council and Head of State, following the execution
of former Chairman Brigadier-General Teferi Bante and six other Dergue
members. The seven were accused of being connected with an underground
Marxist group, the Ethiopian People's Revolutionary Party. Executions
of suspected opposition supporters and assassinations of government and
trade union officials supporting the government (presumably by opposition
groups) have occurred frequently over the last year.
15.       Despite these  political difficulties, the regional
security problems mentioned earlier, and the upheavals attributable
to the major economic and social reforms referred to, the economy has
performed surprisingly well. Preliminary national accounts data show
that real GDP increased by 0.6% in 1974/75 and 3.0% in 1975/76. When
account is taken of the loss of some 30% of industrial production which
formerly originated from the Eritrea region and of stagnation in private
investment, this result is not unimpressive. The Government has approxi-
mately doubled its own rate of capital spending over the past two years,
a result of improved project implementation in the roads sub-sector and
of heavier emphasis on agriculture. The distribution of assets and
income has improved. Despite some weakening in the underlying external
position, Ethiopia has maintained an extremely high level of foreign
reserves. Major reorganizations of Government and the economy in general
are taking place.
16.       The land reform has caused a large but unquantifiable re-
distribution of assets and income towards former tenants. Because of
favorable weather conditions, prompt action by government agencies
to maintain input and credit supplies and the positive effect of the
land reform on peasant incentives, grain production was maintained
or increased in the 1975/76 harvest season except on some of the state
farms. Despite this, the supply of grain to the main urban centers
fell short of requirements and caused a substantial rise in urban food
prices. This appears to have resulted from an increased level of rural
food consumption, higher on-farm food stocks and dislocation in the
marketing and transport system. A second result of the land reform
appears to have been a shift in the pattern of agricultural production
away from export crops, except coffee, towards grain. Coffee deliveries
for export increased during 1976. Thirdly, there has been an expansion
in rural purchasing power resulting in increased demand for government
services of all kinds, principally education, health and agricultural
extension services as well as for mass consumption items such as textiles,



- 6 -
leather goods and salt. Similar results have followed from the urban
land reform except that high food prices have constrained the growth of
urban real incomes. Despite considerable unrest among the urban working
class, the Government has conceded relatively limited wage increases,
and has permitted no increase so far in Government salaries, other than
for those at the minimum.
17.       The organization of trade has been disrupted by the Eritrean
situation,by harassment of merchants suspected of hoarding and
profiteering and by the general uncertainties confronting the private
sector. However, the nationalized manufacturing industries have per-
formed better than expected, having succeeded in increasing production
outside Eritrea in most sectors. These industries are reaching the
stage where major increases in capacity are being considered.
18.       Government revenue has been increasing but less rapidly than
expenditure. Up to the end of FY76, the main expenditure increases
have been in military, general administration and development (capital)
expenditures. However, revenues only increased by 15% in FY75 and
by 9% in FY76, so that net domestic borrowing, mostly from the banking
systems, now covers some 22% of total government spending, whereas two
years ago it was negligible. This recourse to deficit financing coupled
with the urban grain deficit referred to earlier is having inflationary
consequences. However, the Government has taken some positive measures
on the revenue side over the last year, notably the enactment of new
land use fees, agricultural income taxes and a substantial increase in
the rate of surtax on coffee exports to take advantage of high world
prices. It also suspended other export surtaxes which were likely to
discourage production and has been tightening its tax administration
procedures. A currency reform, enacted in September 1976, has also
helped contain inflationary pressures. The Government envisages improving
its revenue position through appropriation of the surpluses of nationalized
enterprises and, in the longer run, by greater use of local taxation.
The Addis Ababa retail price index was 28.6% higher in 1976 than in
1975 compared with 7-8% per annum increase over the previous three years,
but this mainly reflects the grain price increases referred to earlier
which may be temporary.
19.       Ethiopia's balance of payments position weakened slightly
during 1975. Although official reserves increased slightly (by US$10
million over the whole year), this was principally due to a substantial
increase in foreign borrowing; the current account balance moved into
substantial deficit (US$46 million) compared with surpluses of US$76
million and US$56 million in 1973 and 1974, respectively. Much of this



- 7 -
deterioration was due to a decline in the volume of coffee exports caused
by the outbreak of coffee berry disease. Preliminary estimates for 1976
show the current account balance in surplus once again, principally because
of the increase in coffee prices, but also reflecting a higher volume of
coffee exports than in the previous year. Most other exports fell. There
was also an increase in public sector net foreign borrowing and in net
inward transfers. Net reserves at the end of December, at US$326 million,
cover about 11 months' imports c.i.f. at the 1976 rate.
External Assistance
20.       Following the land reform, a basis exists upon which the
new Government can build an accelerated development effort, with emphasis
on the rural areas. At the same time, we do not expect coffee prices
in the medium term to continue at their present high level. Moreover,
there are indications that the volume of imports, the growth of which
had slowed down over the last two years, is now starting to increase.
For these reasons, Ethiopia will need a substantial volume of external
assistance in the future. Ethiopia's poverty, its stated desire of making
greater use of local rather than imported resources and the need to ensure
a high level of net transfer from external assistance indicate a strong
case for local cost financing, provided such financing adds to, rather
than substitutes for efforts to raise domestic savings, especially in
the public sector.
21.       Unlike many other African countries which were formerly dependent,
Ethiopia has no traditional source of technical and financial assist-
ance. The Bank Group has been and is currently providing a relatively high
level of assistance. During 1971-74, IBRD accounted for 20.2% and
17.4% of gross disbursements of public medium and long-term loans. IDA's
share is expected to increase substantially during the next few years as
disbursements under IDA credits committed during 1974-75 take place.
As of end 1975, the IBRD's share of total public debt outstanding and
disbursed was 17.8% and the share of IDA was 18.8%. As for public debt
service, the IBRD's share was 34.6% in that same year, while IDA's share
was 2.3%. The IBRD's share of total outstanding debt is expected to
decline to about 7% by 1980 but, because of the relatively low levels of
assistance expected from bilateral donors, IDA debt outstanding as a
percent of outstanding external public debt is expected to be about
40% by 1980. The ratio of debt service to exports was 7.6% in 1975, and
is expected to fall to about 5% by 1980 because of the growing proportion
of concessional aid in total debt.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
22.       Since 1950, Bank Group lending in Ethiopia has totalled
US$396 million, comprised of 22 IDA credits totalling US$287 million and



12 Bank loans totalling US$109 million. The IFC has made five commitments
in Ethiopia totalling US$15.7 million. More than one half of the amount
of lending (US$238 million) was committed in the fiscal years 1972-76.
In addition to the substantial increase in the size of its operations in
the last five years, the Bank Group has softened its terms to Ethiopia;
since FY73, our entire lending has been on IDA terms.
23.       Until the late 1960s, we assisted in the construction of trunk
roads, power and telecommunication facilities. In the late 1960s, our
program shifted in emphasis to agriculture and education, and in the past
five fiscal years we have made eight credits for agricultural development
totalling US$107.8 million and two credits for education totalling
US$33.0 million. In addition, our last two road credits (332-ET in 1972
and 552-ET in 1975) have placed emphasis on the construction of agricul-
tural roads. This program reflects the increased opportunity for agri-
cultural lending brought about by improved sectoral knowledge, and the
heavier emphasis on agriculture and education in the Government's priorities.
This shift has been greatly assisted by the Bank's Regional Mission in
East Africa, which has played a major role in project identification and
preparation in the agricultural sector.
24.       Using the rate of disbursements as a measure, the pace of
implementation of Bank Group projects in Ethiopia has improved. Disburse-
ments out of IDA credits totalled US$12.4 million in 1974, US$24.9 million
in 1975 and US$39.1 million in 1976. As a result of the recent political
changes some delays in construction works have been experienced as
private contractors have been unwilling to bid owing to uncertainties,
fears concerning possible nationalization and difficulty in obtaining
finance from credit institutions. The operations of some Bank-financed
projects, Lower Adiabo (Cr. 516-ET) and Rangelands Development (Cr. 663-ET),
have been adversely affected by security problems. Cost overruns have
affected two Bank Group financed projects -- the Addis Ababa Water and
Sewerage Project (Loan 818-ET) for which a US$5.5 million African Develop-
ment Fund loan has been arranged to cover the sewerage component of the
project, and the Amibara Irrigation Project (Cr. 418-ET) for which the
Government has requested supplemental IDA financing for a revised project.
The Government has replaced the former management of some Bank-financed
projects by people who might sometimes be technically less well qualified
but have more Government backing; such management changes have on occasion
unsettled project implementation.
25.       On the other hand, the political changes have involved a stronger
commitment to development. In many cases, project management is improving
and Bank-financed institutions are adapting to the changed circumstances
without losing effectiveness. There has been no general deterioration in
project implementation in Ethiopia. Moreover, there is now every prospect
that clearer guidelines from the Government are emerging and that the



uncertainties which gave rise to problems in certain of our projects
will be reduced. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits,
and IFC investments as of March 31, 1977 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. In addition to its lending program the Bank is
pursuing a number of activities to support the Government's development
efforts including the secondment of an advisor in project identification
and preparation to the Planning Commission.
26.       There are undoubtedly risks associated with operating in
Ethiopia at present, arising out of political uncertainties and security
problems. Furthermore, policies and programs within which the Bank can
operate have not always been formulated in any precise manner. There
have been difficulties in project work, but we consider these to have
been less than might have been expected given the revolutionary changes
of the last three years. New projects will be proposed for IDA financing
only were there is reasonable assurance of effective implementation in
line with our normal criteria. The Government's development strategy
which is both growth- and equity-oriented is one which the Bank strongly
supports.
27.       Because of the fundamental importance of agriculture, we are,
in preparing projects, emphasizing support for implementing the reforms
which have been announced in the agricultural sector. More generally, we
expect many of our other projects to reflect increased emphasis on the
rural sector; in education, the Government is planning a program, which
we propose to support, to make education more relevant to development and
more equitably available; the highways program is paying ever increasing
attention to rural roads; and we are attempting to determine how we can
most effectively be involved in rural water supply. Simultaneously with
the proposed credit, we are presenting for your consideration a credit
for a revised irrigation project at Amibara on the Awash River and a
proposed credit for a grain storage and marketing project may be ready
for consideration before long.
PART III - TRANSPORT IN ETHIOPIA
28.       Roads are the dominant mode of transport in Ethiopia, despite
the fact that road density, at, 19 km per 1,000 km2, and vehicle density,
at less than 2 vehicles/1,000 persons is almost the lowest in Eastern
Africa. It is estimated that about 95% of non-urban passenger traffic
and about 90% of non-urban freight traffic is carried by road. About
two thirds of the country's foreign trade moves by road to and from the
Red Sea ports of Assab, Massawa and Djibouti. The only railway currently
in operation connects Addis Ababa to the port of Djibouti, and carries
the remaining foreign trade, some local freight and about 500,000 passengers
per year. Because of the inaccessibility of many areas by surface trans-
port, civil aviation is of considerable importance, and 43 airports and
airfields are served by regularly scheduled air services. The only
coastal shipping consists of transport of refined petroleum from Assab;
transport on inland waterways is negligible.



- 10 -
29.       Planning and coordination within the transport sector are
now the responsibility of the Ministry of Transport and Communications
(MTC) which has general responsibility for setting policy and over-
seeing the activities of the Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA). Other
agencies concerned with transport are involved in transport planning
through the ERA Board of Commissioners, which includes representatives
of the ministries of Finance and Commerce and Industry; through an
Interagency Road Committee, comprising representatives from ERA, the
Planning Commission Office, the Ministers of Transport and Communications,
Agriculture, Defense, Interior and National Community Development and
Social Affairs; and through local development comm4ttees which are
acquiring increasing importance in the context of the Government's move
to decentralize its development effort. Transport coordination is not
a major issue because there is little risk of duplicating investments
in competing modes, and on the few routes where alternative modes are
available, there are no regulations limiting freedom of choice. The
main transport planning issue at the sector level is the future role
of Djibouti (and thus of the Franco-Ethiopian Railway) vis-a-vis Assab
and its road link. Of lesser importance is the possibility of adjust-
ing scheduled air services on the "feeder routes" as roads penetrate
areas previously inaccessible by modern surface transport.
THE ROADS SUB-SECTOR
30.       The topography and diverse climate render provision of trans-
port facilities difficult and expensive; consequently, many parts of
the country remain isolated and dependent largely on pack animals or
human carriers for transport. An estimated three-quarters of Ethiopia's
farms are more than a half-day's walk from an all-weather road and only
about 25% of agricultural production is marketed.
A. The Network
31.       The main road network consists of about 8,800 km of all-
weather roads -- many of which were built over 40 years ago. In addition,
there are about 31,000 km of dry-weather trails and tracks. Much of
the existing main network requires rehabilitation and upgrading. Over
the last 10 years, this network has increased by almost 60%, most of
it with Bank Group assistance, but large areas to the west, southwest
and east do not have all-weather access to Addis Ababa. Interconnecting
links among regions are few. An urgent need exists for developing the
rural road network to complement past investments in main roads.
B. Administration of the Main Road Network
32.       Management.  The ERA, an autonomous agency under MTC is
responsible for the main road network. The Authority's Board of
Commissioners supervises its activities; Board members are the Minister
of Transport and Communications as Chairman, the Permanent Secretaries



- 11 -
of Finance and Commerce and Industry, the General Manager of the ERA,
and one other as members. All ERA divisions are now headed by nationals.
As the Authority continues to develop and improve its operations to meet
the increasing demands on it from implementation of the 1978-82 Road
Program, some expatriate assistance will still be required.
33.       Finance.  Budget preparation is the overall responsibility of
ERA's Planning and Programming Division. Following review and approval
by the Board of Commissioners, the budget is submitted for approval to
the Planning Commission and the Council of Ministers.
34.       ERA's General Manager controls expenditures, which are subject
to external audit. Accounting and auditing procedures within ERA have
improved considerably following consulting services, technical assistance
and training provided under the Fourth, Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects.
35.       Road Planning is initiated in the Planning and Programming
Division (PPD) of ERA which identifies and prepares feasibility studies
based on preliminary engineering, to determine economic viability and
appropriate construction standards. Once approved by the Planning
Commission Office, detailed engineering is carried out by ERA's Design
Division, which prepared detailed engineering of high quality for the
Fouth, Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects.
36.       Construction.  ERA both supervises contract construction
and carries out force account construction. Force account construction
has expanded considerably in recent years, rising from 22% of all main
road construction in 1974 to an expected 38% in 1977; over this period
force account expenditure has tripled in constant prices. By end-1977,
it is estimated that ERA will be able to construct annually about 250 km
of new gravel roads, 140 km of asphalt upgrading and 150 km of asphalt
overlay, excluding rural road construction. The organization and
execution of force account work has improved considerably over the years;
enforcement of specifications and cost control is expected to improve
further from measures introduced under the Sixth Highway Project. IDA
is also financing training of force account staff under the Fifth Highway
Project. Although Government policy is to encourage the local contract-
ing industry (para 37), an increasing volume of work is of a scattered
and small-scale nature which is not amenable to contracting. Further-
more, present political uncertainties may discourage international
contractors, and the local contracting industry is unlikely to be able
to develop sufficiently quickly to fill the gap. Consequently, force
account construction is expected to continue to increase in importance
over the next five years.



- 12 -
37.       Contract Construction, which is carried out by both foreign
and Ethiopian contractors, is efficiently supervised by ERA. As a result
of training under the Fourth Project, construction supervision under the
Fifth and Sixth Projects is being carried out by ERA staff, except for
one expatriate engineer heading each supervision team. Under the Fifth
and Sixth Highway Projects, IDA provided US$3.5 million for onlending
through the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank to domestic
contractors for equipment purchases. The two Ethiopian contractors who
benefitted from these loans now have annual construction capacity of
about US$3 million each. They are successfully constructing works under
existing IDA projects and are competing with foreign contractors without
any need for preference. The Government intends to continue development
of the domestic industry which should benefit from construction contracts
to be awarded under the Road Program.
38.       Maintenance.   Maintenance of main roads is the responsibility
of ERA's Operations Division. Scheduling of maintenance operations and
preparation of related budget needs have now been delegated to the district
level within the ERA which, for administrative purposes, divides Ethiopia
into 9 districts. This has already markedly improved road maintenance.
In 1973, a Road Maintenance Study was prepared with USAID financial assis-
tance to identify maintenance priorities and related manpower and equip-
ment needs. The required equipment has been procured with assistance
from IDA, USAID and ODM. The principal problem remaining on the main-
tenance side is the shortage of certain specific skills, notably district
foremen, equipment operators and shop tradesmen. These shortages will be
addressed under the Road Sector Program. Another problem in the past
has been diversion of resources from maintenance to force account con-
struction. IDA's sector conditions and monitoring will seek to prevent
this during implementation of the Road Program.
39.       Training.  ERA's training program provides for senior employee
training both in Ethiopia and abroad, and middle and lower grade staff
training at the Alemgena Training Center, which has been assisted under
the Fifth Highway Project. The Center's 1977 program provides for train-
ing abroad and for the retraining or upgrading of some 400 ERA staff.
40.       Axle-Loads.  In the past the regulation of vehicle axle-loads
has been lax, in part due to the Government's own view that the present
8 ton limit permitted under present legislation is unrealistic in view
of modern truck design. In fact, a recent study of vehicle operating
and road maintenance costs concluded that total transport costs in
the country are minimized at axle loads of 12-13 tons. Provision for
such loads is being made in the design of new road works, and the
existing network is to be strengthened where necessary. It is important
that appropriate limits be enforced in the future to protect the net-
work and prevent substantial increase in road maintenance costs.



- 13 -
Implementation of an axle load regulation program is proceeding satis-
factorily, though slightly behind schedule. Five weigh-bridges financed
under the Sixth Highway Project are being installed and required staff
are being trained. Satisfactory control of vehicle weights to take
account of road pavement strengths will be reviewed in IDA's periodic
assessment of whether the Government is meeting the Association's general
sector conditions (para 70).
C. Development of Rural Roads Administration
41.      Rural Roads Administration.  Until recently, no organization
was specifically charged with responsibility for the rural road network.
Much of the network has been constructed on an ad hoc basis by provincial
administrations or other local organizations and under some recent
agricultural projects.
42.      Recognizing the increasing importance of rural roads, Government
established a Rural Roads Task Force with the objectives of: (i) identi-
fying the appropriate organization and administrative procedures for a
locally-based, labor-intensive rural roads construction program; (ii) speci-
fying a schedule for building up the requisite organization, resources
and supporting information; and (iii) drawing up a program for rural roads
construction and maintenance, and identifying the resources necessary to
implement it. An important outcome was a study carried out by the con-
sultants, Crown Agents, and financed by Government of the United Kingdom,
which assisted the Task Force in achieving its objectives. The study was
completed in 1976 and provides the basis of the rural roads component
of the 1978-82 Road Sector Program which is elaborated in Part IV of
this Report.
D. Bank Group Involvement in Roads Sub-Sector
43.      Since 1950, the Bank Group has provided over US$100 million to
Ethiopia under six highway projects. After initial emphasis on rehabi-
litation and minor improvements in the network, the Second, Third and
Fourth Highway Projects assisted new main road construction (1,700 km)
and bitumenization (1,000 km). The Fifth and Sixth Projects provided
for construction of 660 km of lower class feeder roads, the lowest class
of roads in the main network. Implementation of earlier IDA road
projects -- particularly in the last two years -- has been successful
and has not been interrupted by political and other changes in the
country.
44.      Road construction under the Second Highway Project was con-
siderably delayed by institutional weaknesses, including poor engineering,
slow preparation of specifications, inefficient procurement and force
account work, and poor supervision. In subsequent projects, the Bank helped
ERA to improve in these areas, and the Operations Evaluation Department



- 14 -
noted in 1974 that: "The agency can now do better technical planning,
advance surveying and cost estimating than before, and can produce
feasibility studies that bear comparison with similar work prepared
by international consultants. Also, the administration of the ERA has
improved considerably." Since the assessment was made, there has been
further strengthening in financial administration, road maintenance
and equipment management under the Bank's Fifth and Sixth Projects,
and through USAID assistance.
45.       As the quality of ERA staff has improved, their participation
in project execution has increased. ERA staff supervised the paving
works under the Fourth Project and are supervising construction under
the Fifth and Sixth Projects, under an expatriate Resident Engineer.
Also, force account construction improved considerably, so that the
Bank agreed to its use under the Sixth Project.
46.       Another lesson from the Second Highway Project was the need
to integrate road construction and agricultural development. Three of
the five roads in that project showed disappointing rates of return,
partly because of their high cost but mainly because of their relatively
low development impact, which was attributable, in turn, to the absence
of a complementary agricultural development program and the lack of
lower class roads feeding into the project roads, thereby limiting
their influence area. In subsequent projects, the Bank has sought to
ensure complementary agricultural development by covenants and side
letters, and in many instances provided assistance for agricultural
programs (e.g., the Minimum Package, Coffee Processing, and Amibara
Irrigation Projects). Such programs frequently included construction
of low class rural roads which served roads financed under highway
projects. The emphasis in the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects centered
on development of lower class roads.
47.       As a result of these approaches, the economic impact of'roads
has improved under successive projects. The emphasis on lower class
roads and on coordination with agricultural development will continue
under the 1978-82 Road Program.
PART IV - THE FIVE-YEAR ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM
Background
48.       ERA and the Rural Roads Task Force have prepared a five-year
(1978-82) road sector program for Ethiopia with Bank staff assistance.
Government advised the Bank of their preference for sector rather than
project financing which it feels offers the advantage of allowing ERA to
formulate an overall road program, within which individual sub-project would
be presented to IDA for review and disbursement. In addition it provides



- 15 -
the opportunity for overall appraisal of the program and of the broader
sector policies necessary to provide coordination between road and
development in other sectors. This helps to focus attention on the
direction and scope of road development as well as to enable technical
reviews of more narrowly defined sub-projects in the context of the
overall program.
The 1978-82 Road Sector Program
49.       The main objectives of the Program are:
(i) to support agricultural development plans and extend
social service coverage by expanding the feeder and
rural road networks, and by establishing an institution
to plan, construct and maintain rural roads;
(ii) to upgrade the primary and secondary road network to
complement feeder and rural road construction, and to
strengthen the parts of this network affected by heavy
traffic;
(iii) to strengthen further the ERA; and
(iv) to continue past efforts to build up the domestic
road construction industry.
50.       Most expenditure under the Program will be devoted to feeder
and rural roads. Feeder roads -- the lowest class road in the main road
network (in effect a tertiary road)-- will account for about 75% of the
value of main road works during the Program, compared with about 25%
for the five years to 1975. Approximately 2,000 km of such roads will
be constructed. It is expected that about 4,600 km of rural roads -- a
lower class local road not included in the main road network -- will be
constructed during the Program. However, some upgrading of the primary
and secondary netwrok will also be required. Including ongoing projects,
the Program will involve upgrading to bituminous standards of about
840 km of primary and secondary gravel roads (of which 600 km will be
new projects),strengthening of some main road pavements to accommodate
forecast traffic and increased allowable axle loads, and rehabilitation
of about 280 km of primary and secondary roads. The Program also provides
for the maintenance of the existing and planned network; for training of
about 200 additional ERA staff each year; for consultant services and
technical assistance to strengthen ERA in certain specific areas,
particularly to meet the increased demands of the Road Program; and for
assistance to domestic road contractors by providing loans for the
purchase of construction equipment through the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank at commercial rates of interest.



- 16 -
51.       Rural Roads.  In order to manage the increased need for rural
roads construction, and in line with the Rural Roads Task Force's
recommendation (para 42), a semi-autonomous Rural Roads Organization
will be established within ERA, of which the present Rural Roads Division
will form the nucleus. The new organization will have access to ERA
services, but will have more autonomy than a normal ERA division (e.g.,
it will have its own equipment and will determine rural road construction
standards). Rural roads offices will be established gradually within
each region and transferred to the Regional Development Office when the
latter develops the required capacity. Regional Rural Roads Committees,
comprising central, regional and local government representatives and
popular representatives will be established to help determine priorities
and ensure the orderly hand-over of responsibility for rural roads from
ERA to the Regional Development Offices.
52.       As a guide to where initial efforts should be concentrated,
the Task Force ranked the country's 14 regions using a socio-economic
points system. This system takes account of such factors as crop and
livestock production, population density, availability of services and
degree of regional integration. The Government wishes to regionalize
assistance for rural roads from aid donors, partly to continue building
on efforts already in hand and partly to simplify administration.
53.      -Labor-intensive construction methods will be used for rural
roads to the extent that they are cost effective. Local labor will be
used, whenever possible, and the Rural Roads Organization will also assist
self-help construction projects. Rural road maintenance will also be
as labor-intensive as is economic.
54.       Feeder Roads.  The feeder roads to be constructed under the
Program are expected to account for almost three-quarters of main road
construction. They will either complement agricultural development plans
or provide inter-connecting links between parts of the existing network.
Detailed engineering for approximately 1,400 km of the 2,000 km in the
program has already been satisfactorily completed by the ERA Design
Division.
55.       Primary and Secondary Roads.   Most of the expenditures on these
roads will be for upgrading 840 km of gravel roads to bituminous paved
standards, in order to reduce vehicle operating and road maintenance
costs. Only the Addis Ababa-Assab road is expected to require strengthen-
ing of the existing pavement to take account of heavier traffic resulting
from forecast traffic and the effect of the Government's decision to
increase allowable axle loads from 8 tons to 12 tons.



- 17 -
56.      Program Costs.  The Five-Year Road Sector Program will cost
about US$631 million including contingencies, but exclusive of taxes
and duties; the foreign exchange component is estimated at about 47%
of net expenditure. Of total planned expenditure, US$428 million would
be capital and US$203 million recurrent. In real terms, this represents
a 70% increase over total expenditures in the five-year period just ended.
About one third of the proposed capital expenditure relates to ongoing
projects. The Program's costs are spread evenly over the five years,
but with some allowance for a build-up in implementation capacity over
the period. In the absence of a national development plan, it is not
possible to be certain about the entire Program's fiscal feasibility;
however, there are strong indications that substantial external assis-
tance from various agencies will be available. The Program's costs
imply that if total Government expenditures remain at about 20% of GDP
(about the level achieved in the past two years), then 16% of this would
need to be allocated to roads (as compared with 13% in recent years),
reflecting greater emphasis on road development, particularly rural
roads, than in the past.
57.      External Financing.  Apart from IDA, a number of outside donors
are supporting road construction in Ethiopia and plan to continue doing
so. These include the African Development Fund, the European Development
Fund, Federal Republic of Germany, UK, USA, and the Peoples Republic of
China. Most donor interest is in feeder and rural roads. Likely
external assistance from these sources, including the proposed IDA credit,
accounts for $184 million or about 30% of program costs excluding taxes
and duties. In addition, there are prospects for further assistance
from North Korea, Sweden, and the U.S.S.R., estimated at about US$30
million. The residual financing of US$417 million net of taxes and
duties over the five years, will come from local resources; expressed
in 1976 prices, the local funding requirement is estimated to rise from
$57 million in 1978 to $68 million in 1982. This compares with estimated
outlays of $50 million in the current fiscal year, and is considered
both manageable and realistic.
58.      Road User Taxation.  Government revenue from direct and indirect
road user taxation is presently about $29 million per annum. This comes
from excise duties on petroleum products, motor vehicle import duties,
and license and inspection fees. With recurrent expenditure in 1976
of about $16 million, such taxation can be thought of as contributing
about $13 million to the capital costs of the network at present. It is
expected that at existing tax rates, road user taxation will continue
to contribute about the same amount in real terms as at present. With
projected capital outlays on roads (excluding urban roads) at about
$68 million p.a., road taxation (including revenues accruing from urban
motorists) would finance about 20% of capital investment. Given Ethiopia's
general fiscal position, this appears somewhat low; as part of the
proposed project, Gov.ernment has agreed to complete a study of the



- 18 -
level of road user charges in relation to road expenditures by June 1978
and to discuss the findings of the study with the Association (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 4.01).
59.      Economic Analysis.  Under the Program, the existing practice
whereby the Planning and Programming Division prepares a feasibility
study for each new main road project will continue. A substantial
amount of analysis for this program has already been completed; the
road overlay component is estimated to produce a rate of return of
19%; the five asphalt upgrading projects are expected to produce a
rate of return ranging from 20 to 25%; rates of return have been esti-
mated for five of the eleven new feeder roads in the Program, the lowest
rate of return being 20%. The other six feeder road sub-projects were
selected from an initial screening of 24 potential sub-projects on the
basis of a socio-economic point score system; consultant assistance will
be engaged to assist with the large volume of further analysis required
prior to final selection. No detailed rate of return analysis will
be performed for rural roads, which will be justified as integral parts
of general development projects (mostly agricultural), with any remaining
construction capacity applied to rural roads selected on the basis of
a socio-economic points score (para 52).
Assessment of the Program
60.       The five-year roads sector program is well conceived;
it meets Ethiopia's development needs, is economically warranted and
financially and physically feasible. However, the Program will be
reviewed regularly and if constraints should become apparent during
implementation, lower priority items will be deleted.
61.      The adequacy of the proposed program has been assessed in
relation to the development needs of Ethiopia in terms of road develop-
ment vis-a-vis other sectors, local financing capacity and institutional
and managerial capability. Although there is no formal national develop-
ment plan, there are sufficient guidelines available in order to deter-
mine national investment priorities. The machinery for inter-agency
coordination (para 29) is also well developed and was used extensively
in developing the five-year Road Sector Program. IDA has focused on
ERA's institutional capacity, which after six previous highway projects
is viewed as sufficiently developed to design, evaluate, administer
and implement a sector lending operation. This capacity includes the
ability to plan and bring projects forward in a timely manner.
62.      The Road Sector Program itself has also been evaluated in terms
of its balance of investment among main (primary, secondary and feeder)
and rural roads. The adequacy of the Program's planned level of main-
tenance has been reviewed, as have been ERA's technical and economic
feasibility criteria which will be used to assess sub-projects within the
Program, and the adequacy of Government policies to ensure proper



- 19 -
utilization and maintenance of the road network. All these have been
found to be satisfactory.
PART V - THE PROJECT
Introduction
63.      A report entitled "Ethiopia - Appraisal of a Road Sector
Credit" (No. 1416a-ET) is being circulated to the Executive Directors
separately.  A credit and project summary is attached as Annex III to
this report, and a supplementary project data sheet is attached as
Annex IV.
64.      The proposed project was appraised in September/October 1976.
Negotiations for the proposed credit were held in Washington in March
1977. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Kebede Temesgen, Head,
Credit and Investment Department, Ministry of Finance.
General Description
65.      The Project consists of the first phase of Ethiopia's 5-year
Road Sector Program which comprises:
(a) Improvement, construction and maintenance of main roads;
(b) Establishment and initial operation of regional rural
road development offices including provision of equipment
for workshops and for construction and maintenance of rural
roads;
(c) Strengthening of ERA management and operations; and
(d) Provision of loans through AIDB to assist domestic
contractors who are successful bidders for road works
contracts to purchase equipment required for the carrying
out of such contracts.
Detailed Description
66.      The first phase of the 5-year Program in terms of physical
construction targets has been agreed with the Association (Draft
Development Credit Agreement, Schedule 2). The project would consist of:
(a) Improvement, Construction and Maintenance of Main Roads
(i) Rehabilitation or upgrading of about 1,100 km of
primary and secondary roads;



- 20 -
(ii) Construction of about 1,400 km of feeder roads.
(b) Maintenance of all Main Roads
(c) Rural Road Development
(i) Establishment and initial operation of regional
rural road offices, including provision of
equipment (and vehicles) for workshops and for
the construction and maintenance of rural roads;
(ii) A program of maintenance of about 4,500 km of
rural roads; and
(iii) Construction of about 2,200 km of rural roads.
The Rural Roads Organization (para 51) would be established
as a separate administrative unit by December 31, 1977
(Project Agreement, Section 3.01 (b)). Within the proposed
project, IDA would concentrate on the western, coffee-
producing areas of Wellega, Illubabor and Kefa. Funds would
be available for equipping Rural Roads Office workshops,
purchase and rehabilitation of construction and maintenance
equipment, and for technical assistance. A timetable for
the establishment of Rural Roads Offices and associated
construction and maintenance units in these three regions
has been agreed, and the subsequent decentralization of
those units to provincial administration will be carried
out in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Association
(Draft Project Agreement, Section 2.06 (b).
(d) ERA Management and Operations
(i) Improvement of ERA's road planning, construction
and maintenance operations, including training of
ERA's staff and their provision of equipment and
facilities therefore, and the introduction on a
pilot basis of a performance budgeting system
for highway maintenance.



- 21 -
(ii) Strengthening of ERA's Planning and Programming
Division through the establishment of a Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit, to assess the progress and
benefits of its road construction operations
(Project Agreement 3.01 (b));
(iii) Strengthening of ERA to enable it to make the economic
analyses of the feeder roads to be constructed under
the Project (paras 59 and 66 (a) (ii)); and
(iv) Training of ERA Staff. Implementation of the sector
program will require a significant increase in ERA
and Rural Roads staff; this will be met by expanding
the Alemegena Training Center, by technical assistance
and by utilizing Community Skill Training Centers,
100 of which are being established under IDA's Fourth
Education Project (Cr. 553-ET). A detailed training
program, based on a recent study of the Sector Program's
manpower requirements, and a related schedule for its
implementation has been prepared by ERA with assistance
from the Bank's Training Division. The portion covering
the first phase of the Road Program has been agreed with
IDA.
For the above, ERA will employ consultants to assist in
the evaluation of feeder roads and prepare and implement
the performance budgeting system for highway maintenance
management. In addition, about 35 man-years of technical
assistance would be required to carry out the above and
the proposed Credit would assist with financing this.
(e) Road Works Contractor Loans
The Government plans to continue the program started under
previous IDA projects to provide equipment loans to domestic
highway contractors who are successful bidders for ERA contracts
through the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank. From
the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit, $1.0 million would be
on-lent to AIDB under a subsidiary loan agreement; the terms
and conditions of the agreement would be identical to those of
similar on-lending arrangements under the Sixth Highway Project
(Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)), namely, at
8% interest per annum, to be repaid in accordance with the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of sub-loans to domestic
contractors. Sub-loans would be at an interest rate of 10% for
a term equal to the expected life of the equipment to be
financed by AIDB.



- 22 -
Costs and Financing
67.       Overall costs for the first phase (covering the 1978-80 period)
of the 5-year road sector program including ongoing projects, would be
approximately US$333 million equivalent, excluding duties and taxes of
about US$35 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is esti-
mated at $160 million (about 48%) of net expenditure. Recurrent expendi-
tures account for about US$100 million, and capital expenditures for
about US$233 million. Of this, the proposed IDA credit would finance
approximately US$31 million, all of which would be to cover foreign
exchange costs. In addition, about US$12 million would be disbursed
under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects during this period. The
financing of the remaining portion would be by other external
donors (para 57) and the Government. The Government has undertaken
to use its best efforts to obtain from sources outside Ethiopia the
other external financing required and would prior to the beginning
of each fiscal year furnish to the Association for its comments a
work program and associated financing plan for expenditures to be
incurred in the following year and adjust the scope of the Project in
line with available financing (Development Credit Agreement, Section 3.01
(c)). The remaining US$1.0 million of the proposed IDA credit would be
on-lent to the Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (para 66 (e).
68.       Credit proceeds would be committed to broad categories of
expenditure in the following amounts:
(US$ millions)
1978    1979    1980     Total    %
Strengthening of Existing Paved Roads    4.00     -       -       4.00     12
Upgrading of Existing Gravel Roads to
Bituminous Paved Standards              -      4.50     -       4.50    14
New Feeder Road Construction             8.00    7.00     -      15.00     47
Strengthening the ERA                    0.35    0.35   0.30      1.00     3
Rural Road Development                   2.00    3.50   1.00      6.50     21
Equipment Purchase Loans for Local
Contractors                             -      1.00     -       1.00     3
Totals          14.35    16.35   1.30     32.00   100



- 23 -
69.        The above allocation of credit proceeds represents the maximum
amount of commitments which IDA would make for sub-projects under each
of the categories over the first phase of Program implementation. Full
commitment of credit proceeds for each of the categories would be subject
to a balanced progress of sub-project implementation of all other categories.
Although all the sub-projects which IDA will finance have not been finally
identified yet, it is expected that commitments will be made in accordance
with the above schedule.
Sector Measures
70.        IDA participation in the Road Sector Program is conditioned
upon ERA and other sub-sector agencies to taking measures on a continuing
basis, aimed at protecting the existing road system and ensuring balanced
implementation of the Program. These measures include satisfactory
progress in:
(a) enforcing axle load limit (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 4.02);
(b) meeting physical completion targets for construction and
improvement of roads of various classes (Development
Credit Agreement, Annex to Schedule 2);
(c) maintaining the main and rural road networks (Development
Credit Agreement, Section 3.04 and Project Agreement,
Section 3.02); and
(d) implementing the agreed training program (Development
Credit Agreement, Schedule 2, Part D and Project Agreement,
Sections 2.02 (c) and 2.07)
Should satisfactory progress not be made in meeting these general sector
measures, IDA would be entitled to suspend approval of subsequent sub-
projects submitted for financing until satisfactory corrective action
is taken (Development Credit Agreement, Section 2.05 (e)).
Sub-Project Acceptability
71.        After credit effectiveness, ERA would submit individual
subprojects to IDA for acceptance for financing. Before funds would
be committed for road construction or improvement of primary, secondary
or feeder roads, IDA would require (Development Credit Agreement,
Section 3.03 and Project Agreement Section 2.05):
(a) completion of detailed engineering to satisfactory
standard with contract drawings, documents including
specifications and bills of quantities;



- 24 -
(b) a feasibility study showing a rate of return of at least
12%;
(c) a demonstration that there are no higher priority sub-projects
within the respective category which require financing; and
(d) for any main road sub-project whose justification is based
on complementary development activities (para 46), a detailed
description of such activities including the necessary
arrangements required for their execution and confirmation
that the resources necessary would be made available.
Procurement
72.       At least half of the main road construction financed by IDA
will be awarded to contractors after international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank/IDA Guidelines for Procurement. At Government
request a 7% preference for domestic contractors will be applied.
Force account construction of main roads will be financed on the same
terms as under the Sixth Highway Project: i.e., an independent manage-
ment team will be responsible for execution and supervision on the
basis of an agreed set of sub-project documents and drawings, including
specifications and a priced bill of quantities. Equipment purchases
proposed for IDA financing will be agreed with IDA beforehand and
procured through international competitive bidding. In the case of
rural roads equipment, IDA will review plans for rehabilitation and
use of existing equipment before agreeing to finance additional equip-
ment. For consultants services/technical assistance proposed for IDA
financing, the Association will review terms of reference, conditions
of employment and ERA selection of personnel and require that suitable
counterparts be assigned.
Disbursement
73.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed on the basis
of:
(a) 60% of total expenditures, representing the estimated
foreign exchange element, for civil works contracts;
(b) 50% of total expenditures, representing the estimated
foreign exchange element, for civil works done by
force account;
(c) 100% of foreign cost of any rural roads equipment,
including workshop equipment and tools;



- 25 -
(d) 100% of amounts disbursed for domestic contractor
loans by AIDB; and
(e) 80% of total expenditures, representing the estimated
foreign exchange element, for technical assistance
experts and consultants services.
The IDA credit would provide up to $100,000 in retroactive financing from
February 1, 1977 to cover the costs of consultant services for economic
analysis of feeder roads,so that priorities for feeder roads can be
well advanced by credit effectiveness. The credit is expected to be fully
disbursed by June 30,1981.
74.       For the equipment loans to local contractors, the execution
and delivery of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and
AIDB, the terms of which will conform with the provisions under the Sixth
Higway Project, will be a condition of disbursement of that portion of
the credit.
Project Benefits and Risk
75.       The Project would:
(a) support road development in Ethiopia;
(b) reduce vehicle operating and road maintenance costs;
(c) open new areas of the country for agricultural development
through new road construction, especially rural roads
which will contribute to reducing transport costs of
agricultural inputs and produce,and to providing social
services in presently remote areas;
(d) continue ongoing efforts to strengthen the ERA; and
(e) assist development of the domestic contracting industry
through equipment purchase loans.
No overall economic rate of return has been calculated for the sector
program, although individual sub-projects, exclusive of prpposed rural
road construction, are estimated to yield returns of 19-25% (para 59),
and the minimum return required of any main road financed under the
project would be 12%.
76.       The principal risk to implementation of the project lies
in the general country situation, especially security difficulties,
although as noted in para 26, implementation of ongoing IDA road



- 26 -
projects has not been adversely affected by this. The sector credit
approach should prove to be superior to the project approach in this
respect, since the sequence and location of sub-projects can be adjusted
to take account of prevailing conditions. Furthermore, very little
risk is attached to the institutional capability of the ERA, which
remains a strong and efficient organization. In other respects, project
risks are no greater than can normally be expected in highway projects.
PART VI - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
77.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and
the Association, the draft Project Agreement between the Association
and the Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA), the recommendation of the Committee
provided for under Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement
of the Association, and the text of draft resolution approving the proposed
development credit are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
78.       Features of the Development Credit and Project Agreements of
special interest are detailed in Annex IV to this report.
79.       A condition of disbursement of the proceeds to AIDB for
onward lending is the execution of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Borrower and AIDB (para 74).
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would
comply with the Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VII - RECOMMENDATION
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
April 28, 1977



ITIrAtOPS          - SShItIltt"r9S DATA StLET
LA" S *A    Tu    Z                  _I_         _                    _
--  -------ETHII                                                       REFERENCE COLETRIES 119701
TOTAL     1221.9                                     MOST RECENT
ACRIC.      t86.6                     1960      1970   ESTIMATE             8tUA       Mao XS*
GNP PER CAPITA (US)I                    40.0 T0.0          100.0              70.0          .4      1*0.0
POPULATION ANO VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION tMIO-YR, MILLIONI         20.0       24.6      27.9               2.8       14.0        11.2
POPULATION OENSITY
PIA SQUARE KM.                      16.0      20.0      23.0               4.0         6.0       19.0
PER SQ. KRN. AGRICULTURAL LAND      29.0     3:-0       33.0                ..       46.0       2Ae
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BlRTH RATE I/THOU, AVI       51.2       50.3      49.4              47.7       48.9        49.0
CRUDE DEATH RATE I1THOU,AVI         32.9      28.7      25.8              23.8        20.2       17.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE I/THOU)      84.Qq        ..        ..                ..         ..        55.04
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH IYRSI      33.5      38.5      41.0              38.5        47.6       47.5
GROSS REPROOUCTION RATE               .        2.9       2.9               3.0        3.4         3.4
POPULATION GROWTH RATE IlI
TOTAL                                1.t       2.1       2.5               2.4         2.2,       3.1
UR?AN                                 .        9.9&      6.5               6.1         5.5        6.5
URBAN POPULATION tS OF rOTALI          6.0a      9.7      11.3              25.6        11.8        9.9
AGE STRUCTURE IPERCENTI
0 TO 14 YEARS                     43.1       43.0      43.6             .46.5       45.0        48.4
1 TO 64 YEARS                     5A.3       54.3      53.7              5t.6       52.0        48.0
65 YEARS AND OVER                    2.6       2.7       2.7               1.9         3.0        3.6
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                   0.8       0.8       0.9               0.9         0.9        1.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               .         ..       1.24              1.24        1.5        1.14
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOUI          ..        ..        ..                ..          ..       66.1
USERS (I OF MAPRIED WOMENI            ..        ..        ..
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE ITHOUSANDI            ..        ..   102 DO.DA          10oo.0     4500.0      SIO1.0 A
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE IJI        ea8.      85.0         -              82.0        80.0       90.0
UNEMPLOYED tY OF LABOR FORCEI           ..        ..        ..              20.0.
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
S OF PRIVATE INCOME REC*D BY-
HIGHEST 5 OF HOUSEHOLDS              ..        ..        ..                ..          ..       Z4.z 7e
HIGHEST 20 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..        ..                ..        49.2/4     52.6
LOWEST  201 OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..        ..                ..        S.s 7       3aq
LOWEST  40Y OF HOUSEHOLDS             ..        ..        ..                ..        14.S       11.7
DISTRI1L8TION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
Y OWNEO AY TOP lOt OF OWNERS            ..        ..        ..
S OWNED BY SMALLEST 10 OWNERS          ..        ..        ..
HEALTH ANO NUTRITION
POPULATION PEP PHYSICIAN           88910.0   73300.0   69220. O&         21420.0     14200.0     7810.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PFRSON            .   23640. r  2?280o0            3260.0A    1370.
POPULATION PER HOSPtTAL 8ED         3000.0    2980.0    3OB0.0   r         580.0       930.la     770.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES tY OF REQUIRENENTSI       8E,0       92.0      93.Qh             77.0       91.0       101.0
PROTEIN IGRAMS PER DAYI            66.0       69.0      72                5.0         63.0       7t.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       24.0/      25.0        ..              27.0       24.04       29.0
DEATH RATE I/THOu) AGES 1-4             ..        ..        ..
F DUCATI ON
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                      6.0       19.0      19.                10.0       33.0       64.0
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     1.0       4.0       S.la              4-0         6.0        S.O &
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
IFIRST AND SECOND LEVELI           12.0       12.0      12.0              12.0        12.0       13.0
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENt
tt OF SECONDARYI                   20.0        4.0       3.0                ..         1.0        2.04
ADULT LIIERACY RATE (It                 ..        ..       7.0                 *-       15.0       30.0
HOtU S I NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URSANI                                                                 2S7-
OCCUPIED OWELLINGS WITHOUT 2T2.5~.
PIPED WATER 1I1 .l                                                                     36. 0.
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
It OF ALL DWELLINGSI                                                                 26 
AURAL OWELINGS CONNgCITED             5.-0t       .-        ..                                        *-
TO ELECTRICITY IAI
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS IPER THOU POP)         4.0       6.0       7.0              18.0                   460
PASSENGER CARS fPER THOU POPI          1.0       2.   2                       20         2.0        9.0
ELIC7T1CITY IKWH/YR PER CAPI           5.0      21.0      !,.:E              10.0 a.               60.0
NEWSPRIE T b KG/YR PER CAP) tNIT                           O.N ON                                   0.5
SEE NOTES ANDO DEFINITIONS ON RtEVERSE----



Pag 2 of 4. pgs
Tolea. otJsewio noted, data for 1960 refer to amy year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betmanc 1968 and 1970, And for Most Rgent Eatleate between
1973 and 1975.
-   Kenya has been solected    as,a objective coutry becouca it is a neighboring developing country aceewhat further up the incme coal. than Ethiopia
withMie       ecological ocadltion..
ETHopia               1960    /a  1963;     ab 196%;     /.   1961-63;    Ld  Addis Ababe only;     /a   Data "nfer to households.
12_2    a    1965-70;    ab  Inoludiog n1idee..
KMS flO   T fl2fI(ATZ.     a-  Ratio of population under 15 end 65 year     and over to tota  labor force;          O   hc    ua
labor force ie 9 aillion;     /e   1972;   /d   Inciudes  idwivee;     a.  196-f avrage;
If 1971.
SONALIA        ~1970     /a  gatie of Population undr 15 and 65 aM over to total labor force;         /b   Urban only;    /c   Including midivee;
7- 196L-66.
RW              ~~~1970  a   Uner reision;       /b   Wifferene bemeen UNmi rlof natural Increase and UMi      populationl growt rate dae to di!-
ferent eceiMe ba8cee;        Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 and over to total labor foree;        /d  1967-68i
a Including cidwiree       fioneruaeet only;        a   1966-66;     a   hitn refer to househeldo;    /I  Urban only.
M"A            ~  ~~1970  a  Raglotere   only;    a   Rtio of population under 15 end 65 and over to labor force age 15-59 yeare;          /_ Labor
force In ag  group 15-59 yere;     J   .gUrban;     .   Regiotered, not all practicing in the oeotruy;       at  Including
aecietant medical officers;   ZSIclding aideivee;          Z   Tot-1a oeondaq7 inolsdee teacher training at the third
RB, Jlanuary 26, 1977
PEPINlIfNli OP OWM INDICATORS
Land Are  (that he2)                                                              P.poictic  pot num   n   oi     - popuI.laton divded by noobor of preciriog
Total   Total e-f-vatprtuisr toed ares and inlood acor.                              ol  and fotual  graduate  uu.     "trai-d' or 'v-rif isd    nOr... - nod
Agric.-  Most retest onti-ot   of agricul1-oca oSoco o.d toaporurily or             auoiiiary p-rs-1 witb training or eupori-r..
per-ocoly for crpo, pectu-c,       -akor b kitchOc gardens or to Ie.           Poulat-o pct ca-pitol bed - Population divdod by nmber of bospitci bodi
fallou.                                                                           -ntisbic io public Anod privatc genera I nd opc~ialcd boepirai and
rchnbilita-ion   ontscc, occludes ouruing toesnd esc-bliub-t.st       for
GNPpIc copita (ill) - GNP per ..pita citostss cc -urcot oarkst pricsS              .u.iodioi nod ptevctivotao
cIculated by ones tonverclion  ethod so World iaob Atiac (i973-75             Pot -coicn cori~Lo    Sciorics (7 of rec.i--om  tLS  - Computed from sonrgy
basIs, 19b0, 1970 and 1975 da,                                                   equivalent Of not food anppii- avalable is tottocy pot -apita Pot day
availab~le uoppli- o-sprine d-.stit p-od-otiom, iportn loSs oports,
PPoooltion nod vito1 stotiati-s                                                     ad cbnSo is      totk, cat eupplites coolode    i    feed, aseds, qu...si-
Pocolotian (old-yr nillion) A- dOof July firt       if -o a-alobic,                 ctic  need So food proS-o og and loose    io diotrtb-it-o r-q.i-conts
a-ergo Of ava -d-y-ar vsciao, 19b0. 1977 nod i975 data,                          acr   ot-oord by tAO bo..od on pbyailalgi-Ia.. sdo for naroal atinity
and bolbrnioigovrsoon                 eprtv.bdy weights,           gc sod
Popuiatioo doosity - so   ooecio-      Mid-poor poplat-n Pot uquaro kuio-            000 ditributiono of popointiom, and altenio     il% for unute tf hoiS.-
tnro  (100 h beocrco  ftta      ra                                              hoid icani.
Pcpul.crio  do..otiy - per snuar  lo of agrin. loand - C-pyncod as abovo for       Parooo      orya       rti     ganpr      day) - Pitot-a -tOOtt of Par
agri-toliru1 Iood 001y.                                                          topitosoc-    rrply of food Poe day: net ouppiy of food to dsfi-od as
obv.rqlet~lo-co   for all ooaotri-s oacabliubsd by 15DA Fpoo-it
Virl  tniofivo                                                                   Roac-th Sorvi.as proide for a niniow      allo1-- of 60 gr-cofc total
Crodo birob rate pet ~toosand. aeg       -Aponi ... ono. births Psr tbo...eod        protcin pot doy,..cd 20 genon of noloni nod poise protein, of whiob
of old-you   popo .into; too-your Srith-cit oSrgocding lv 1960 ned                 10 cr0-  hboo d bo. asisal proroin. tboscuuodards ar      bane thar those
1970, and five-year storge andof in 1971 for mo        --uct vs-cot.               of 75 grunt of tint. prototn and 23 crono nf .eina1 protit 05 00
Crado donoh pass cor   h-ouacd. Inr        Ano-1 d-uha P pth .b..cnd of oid          dap-9ago7 tap  ch aorld, prcp-ood by fIA. to tbt ThIrd Warld Food Sorsy.
your  opuloono,  ot-par oricho ..t...r..o ondog It 1960 and 1970 anti         i       toinuupplYftro   griQoL . aoi 2coac -_ II enat  s-ple uc foos
Is-tcaoaoodi.g in17               Iotnoco          tostnu  .                  --.Wvdfn           nmls sdpOo,in g--,n         yP-   a7.
Infaot nortality -tac  (/thou) - Anonl. doatbo of iofa-coond-r one y-o of         ka1%.It          Int oA ib      - no  1 dontho per th-usund Io ag,e group
sgc per eboonund lio bIrths                          i-f. yours  to ti ildroo in eb   aggoup     ougood no no indi_rsorfc
Life caao an_ atbirth fra) - A-oroor on-br of yocro of lifo roaSoag-         8          strt
at birth, osoally fins-Ysnr I..r...a c.oding o- 1960. 1970 and 1975 for
don_lopi     ...uno lis-                                                       iduc- itoo
Gross rcsr-d-tfom rota - Average .tonhe    of [- too aghtrs a cona     will        Adluated erl[otratio - prinary Snhool - toro1llovt of all sg-; an
bssr is, her no-ln reprodu.tt- period if aSh sopericoorn presen.t ago-            psrtsota7O of primary -hb-l-age population, -ouldot children agod
aPotific fortilitY   - .at.u usuallY fiv y-po at -nercc  ending to 1960,          h-l1 yasro boo udjotted   or. dlffferv-t  iogobs of prio-ry odot-iu.-
1979 ad 1975 for develOping ...truOc m                                            for  -tonoris  uith oieo      odottion, anr11lost may -nosd 101Q
lpcclt~ilon growth rats (7.) -  .tota  -_Cnnpoodcao1 growth .tars    of aid-          in   non-  pupils ar  hol., or shoe cthe offiosa1 school age.
y     trpp iaoon for 1950-il, 1960-i a0nd 1970-75.                        Adlu-tsd enroti-cot rotia -Aeondt       school - Conputed as   bono,
PasI.toipio  oR-th rats (7.) - orbon - CnPo cod like growth rate of total            scondary odacation reqOirsa at least fouf pant; of appro-d pris-ry
popuatio, diferst deInItonsof orb.n areas oy affect tosporn-           -  taco si_te      'rovd- geO-c1, v-ctica..I or t-enoo     cr0 i.ing
bIIIty oftdSa oog        _  _scco.                                                inscroccbono far popils 00 12 to 17 your    of non,   -.rr. p-lenoc
Urboo popuintia,, (% of totals - R,ctt. of orb- to total pnpolation,                 ...r-es ore goocra lly  -Ntldod.
different dofisitluo   of orb. on  rn  saY uffert catopurahility of data       lasre o AScho'Iknjii2ig_jato ded,ii  ndscndlvl            - Total yonro of
noog vo"trin                                                                      sobh-ling, at secondary leve, voationn1 i-otr--i-on.sy ho yo-
ioccroous(pa-Ot 0 - Chiidren (0-14 yours),..onking-ugs (15-h64 ye-se),               tielly -r completely e-cld.d.
and roti.red (615 yeses, and over) asyrscg       of aid-year popointion.        V.cationa  eacoLtioto (7   f  eooap      - loc-tlonel inutlt.ttt -
000 dosodoce  atio- Itti  of Pnpoltinn ondar 15 and 69 nod once on             include te-hntoal. indOutrlal or other prog-n       which operte
thbans of isa. 15 chroogh 64.                                                     inde pendently or as dopoettonnts of So-odory iso-itutioni.
fE-nonit deca-dency ratio - Rntlo of popOlacion Ondcr 15 and 65 nod coe            Mttltrayrrj()              Literate nd,t,ic  (shin to read and write) n
to1 the lebo   forts to oga group 11-64 ypaces                                     p.rcetog    of total adult population aged 15 loots cudovr
fontly oisannig -Ctetr       tnuaietnl           -   .Cu1tiv- masher of
.c.eptura of birth-cotrol d-vites   nder aunPIcos of natinso1 foily          NLoutaog
planigprogro-   ataco inception.                                              Pdroen  cer coon [urba)-    Aeaosna         of yt-ooa.polr.coos in
Fsoiiy   ann       cost iof naried utssnl- P-rrencogs of carriedocpd                           oavPiongdulinoi onthno orsu,             Iwsliugs .-c lde
wonn of child-booing ageS (15-4po)oboso              irthcnrldeie                   Mo-pcr..n.ot St ntnreS nd nuoPidpr.
to oh1 serried waso   to noon ug   groop.                                       Ogousied dssIlinga without sisd untar_(3)     0- I  ptad c  -nnstion..l
d-etlinga iln urban Sd ruralara      satotmad         rotside Piped
tEsoIuscot                                                                           asterf foitoiss as prcen.tage Of aIocu          d duclling.S
Totei io.b2r force (tho,,Aoad) - Econonicalty Ontive P-rSn, iccinding              Accos  to c1actrioicy M,uf all dseling.)2       C-tovoi...o   d-cilinc
ora-dforoc SaSd unoaptayed hoc ctlodng huciv              todento, sto.,           with si-ttritity in ljivtg quatrthe   no Peren    of coral dwellisgu is
deficcin'no is       " vaio tconciS  I nrc 010 -noble.                            arben oud cuca1 ....o.
Laha-r fsoin norlioulcurs 1%     - Agerolcocot1lp lobr forts (toicinnf=Jg          Rural dcllinRa connectd to electrjity ,7        - Cop.ted an above for
forootry,,booting ald fishing) cu p0 r-etago of toto1 Iobor force                  us   dellioga only.
_nsoniovd(7 of lbor forts) - I-.lusolpd are uauoily defined Sa pecronu
.h. ar  obio sod wiiiing to rake a job, out of a Job on a give     doy,         Conoom t ticr
remaine d nut of a job, and se-kiog ..nk for a specified ntninon psriod         Radio r..cio-r   (.ro thou co)-All typos of       -ooivra for radio hbcad-
not euceeOding one week, cay not he -operebls between c.Oomtiso duoe to           costs tc g..er-1 poblic    O pthcbnunad of poyolatino,..eulides
difforont definitione of omnploysd cud aOcsre of dace, s.g., c.play-              olio..snod rs.etiero In co"ntcica end in pan.ro whe    recintrraion OF
nnoffice utetiation, n.-P. atirvep, oonpnia..rY unnploy,nnt ino        c.      radio Sets asn io effect, dat fA   freolY     Ya;    napas  bec toporoblo
I-oc   dincribuogon - Poc..ctuon  of private incom   (both tn ..ab hood bind)     P..asgoroora iper thou cr.) -Pnco- ar              oprise nator cars
r-ocivd by richest 5%, richeat 20%, p-oreat 20%, and poo.rsut 401% of             seeiu   icnShee eight peruon-,      Setnue   -hblo-c.- hencues ond
bunhlda                                                                       sigitosry veicls
glstrtcto hsh/y  oarcar  -cA.. Ioou  co-ooptio  of industrio1, cn
Diotrihotion Of i1nd -werohip - Preco.utagee Of lond ownd by aeslthiest                eciai, pug     and private e-ctr icity in kilowoot hon-     Per capita,
10. Sond poorest ill of Iced mnf.geac-alip booed on prodootten data,                                                      ithbOc c11wonte for to.o.. in
grId, but 11ioig for lanports eud onporta of el1-triciry.
geoith Sad actritiom                                                               Newoertat (ha/yr pear cool - Per o-pitu annua    t-a-ption to ktilagta,a
Pneuiotiom see pbrsoiaa - Popuietiom divided by onshar of practicing                 astinnted from domcstio produttiom pi.o ost inpgrt.of ni    eSprint.
physici.u. qualifiad fra   o medical Schooi at   niveraity 1-eve.



iCoumuc DRV]0IWPHT DATA
(Aso-to in millions of U.S. dollars)
1  1975  Actual_  Eatinated             1965-   1973-   1975-  190-
_1973   1974    1975    1976   __W   !%__      1973    1975   1980    1935    1973    1975    1980
Annual Data   at 1967-1969. Prig  & Exchbang Rate  Average Annual Growth Rate.     An Percent of GDT
Gross DeeaUe Product       1906.8  1933.8  1945.7  2004.1  2397.1  2933.9  4.1     2.3     4.0     4.1    98.1    99.4    98.5
Gaine fnro T     of Trade (4) 37.3   27.0    10.8   8.A     36.8   0..       . a.19                               _A .
Gross Domestic Income      1944.1  1960.8  1956.4  2012.7  2433.9  296.7   3.9     3.0     4.0     4.0   100.0   100.0  100.0
Imports (iucl. NFS)         194.0   198.9  223.6  201.9    336.0   407.4  -3.2    29.2     4.2     3.9    10.0    11.4   13.8
porta " (import capacity) -1 .L -.       12A   1 -261.         7 -309.7 1,6        4.7     3.9     3.4   -12.5    =Lj   -_10.8
isource Gap                 -50.0   -8.2    39.5     9.8    74.3    97.7     .      .       ,             -2.5     2.0    3.1
Conaumption Rxpenditures   1680.6  1763.2  1805.3  1829.5  2206.7  2690.2   3.5    6.4     3.6     4.0    86.4    92.2    90.7
Inveatent " (incl.          213.5   189.4  190.6   183.2   301.5   372.2    2.1   -2.6     8.3     4.3    10.9    9.7    12.4
Domestic Savings            263.5   197.7  151.1   173.4   227.3   274.5    6.9  -22.1     8.0     3.8    13.5     7.7     9.3
Rational Savings            267.7   220.3  166.2   213.8   229.7   264.7    6.1  -18.1     5.7     2.9    13.7     8A      9.4
III6DISE TRADE /                    A   nl Data at Current Prices                                         As Percent of Total
Imports
Cepital Goods            65.3    48.1    44.6   55.8   103.2                                            30.0    13.2    17.2
Fuels                    21.6    58.0    63.2   71.6   117.6                                            10.0    18.6    19.7
Intermediate Goods       56.7    77.8    91.4  100.6   158.2                                            26.0    27.0    26.4
Conaumytion Goods        74.2   111.6   139.7  148.9   219.4                                            34.0    41.2    36.7
Total March. Imports    d17.8   295.5   338.9   377.0  598.4                                           100.0   100.0   l
(cif)
Exports
Primry Products         187.5   195.7   164.6  260.8   267.4                                            78.1    68.6    67.2
Nenufactured Goode       52.6    80.1    75.5   82.0   130.4                                            21.9    31.4    32.8
Total March. Eorts      240.1   275.8   240.1  342.8   397.8                                           100.0   100.0   100.0
(fob)
Tourism & Border Trade   ..
Merchandise Trade Indices               Avera_e 196i-69 - 100
Export Price Index      165.37  206.76  195.27 212.40  254.13  340.73
Import Price Index      140.09  179.77  183.86 195.80 218.37  306.88
Terms of Trade ITde     118.05  115.02  106.20 130.84  116.37  111.03
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR 1t  Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates Averate Annual Grovth Rates   As Percent of Total
Agriculture                890.8   885.9   868.7  896.8  1175.6  1415.2     ..     0.4    3.8    3.9    50.4   48.4     48.3
Industry and Mining        293.8   292.2  287.8   280.1   401.6   496.1    ..      2.9    4.3    4.4    16.7    16.0   16.5
Services                   579.9   612.0   638.4  672.2   856.7  1053.5     ..     5.4    &-3    4.3    32.9    35.6 '35.2
Total                     1764.4  17790.0  1795.  1849.1  2397.1  2933.9           2.3    4.0    T-    100.0   100.0   10D.0
PUBLIC FINANCE (Millionsl/ 1972/73   1973/74   1974/75      1975/76 3/    1976/77-/                       As Percent of /GP
of Birr) (Central                                                                                   1973/74  1975/7613
Government)
Current Receipts            556.8      618.9     711.4      793.9         844.9                          11.2   13.4
Current Expenditures        476.7      529.5     737.8      858.8         927.1                           9.6   14.4
Budgetary Savings            80.1       89.4     -26.4      -64.9         -82.2                           1.7   -1.1
Other Public Sector           . .        ..        ...
Public Sector Investment    129.9      134.3     192.4      248.7         424.9                           2.4    4.2
CURRENT EXPENDITURE DETAILS 1/
(As A Total Current Expend)
Actual          Prelim.     Eat
1973/74   1974/75  1975/76     1976t77 A
Education                    20.4      18.9     16.8        19.4.
Other Social Services         7.4      8.5       6.3         8.3
Agriculture                   2.8       3.3      3.7         3.8
Other Economic Services      10,9      11.8      7-1 j       &Q
Administration & Defense     49.7      48.6     56.5,       47.6
Other                         8.8      8.9       9.6        12.9
Total Current Expendites    100.0     100.0    100.        *IX
1965-   1973-   1975-  1980-
SELECTED INDICATORS 1/              1973   1975    1980    1985
(Calculated from 3-year
averaged data)
Average ICOR                         3.2    4.7     3.0     3.1
Import Elasticity                   -0.8   11.2     1.1     1.0
Marginal National Savings Rate       0.2   -1.0     0.1     0.1
Not applicable
Not available
1/   Ethiopian filcal years.
y    Calenda years.
3 Praviaitoal.
EACPIB



ANNEX I
Page 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS. EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
(amounts in millions of U.S. dollars at current prices)
Avg. Annual
Actual              Estimated           Projected                     Growth Rate
SUMMARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS          972    1973    194     I75     1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1985    1972-1980
Exports (incl. NYS)              246.8   341.9   372.3   342.6   420.0   444.4   475.9   519.9   571.5   950.0       11.1
Imports (ine. NFS)               236.7   271.8   357.5   414.9   486.9   525.7   590.7   659.9   733.7  1250.4       15.2
Resource Balance (X-M)            10.1    70.1    14.8   -72.3   -66.9 , -81.4  -114.9  -140.0  -162.2  -299.9
Interest (Net)                    -6.1    -3.0     9.4    15.3    12.0    23.3    19.8    13.5     4.8   -26.9
Direct Investment Income         -13.1   -16.9   -20.6   -29.1  )        -15.0   -12.0   -10.0   -10.0   -10.0
Workers' Remittance                 -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -
Current Transfare (net)           17.7    25.7    51.9    39.9    56.4    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0
Balance on Current Account         8.6    75.9    55.6   -46.2           -63.1   -97.0 -126.5   -157.4  -326.9
Private Direct Investment          9.7    31.0    36.2    19.1     ..    -45.0   -45.0   -45.0     5.0     5.0
Official Capital Grants             -       -       -       -               -       -       -       -       -          -
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                   32.9    38.6    36.0    80.8     ..     86.6    78.8    86.9   181.0   383.4       23.8
-Repayments                     -13.3   -13.2   -11.5   -14.6           -18.8   -16.9   -17.0   -15.0   -29.9        0.2
Net Disbursements                 19.6    25.3    24.5    66.2            67.8    61.9    69.9   166.0   353.5
Capital Transactions n.e.i.       -1.1   -13.5   -10.1    -9.4     ,.                                   Actual         Estiated
Change in Not R esrves           -34.1  -105.3   -88.9   -10.4    ,14.8                          1972    1973     1974    1975
DEBT AND DiMI 8VI"            2.
Publie Debt eat. & M sburseA  226.4   257.6   284.1    389.9
GRANT AND LOA COMNTlNNTS                                               Interest on Public Debt      8.1     8.9     9.7     11.4
Official Grants & Grant-like        -       -       -       -        Repayments on Public Debt   13.3    13.3    11.5     14.6
Total Public Debt Service   21.4    22.2    21.2    26.0
Public M&LT Loans                                                    Other Debt Service (net)      -       -        -       -
IDM                             10.8      -       -       -        Total Debt Service (net)     21.4    22.2    21.2    26.0
IDA                             34.3    53.0    52.9      -
Other ieltilataral                -       -       -     14.2     Burden on Export Earnings (Z)
Govermeents                     19.4    26.6    42.5   4U.2
Suppliers                         -       .1      .1      .4       Public Debt Service)         8.7     6.5     5.8      7.6
Financial Inatitutions            -      6.0      -       -        Total Debt Service )
Bonds                             -       -       -       -        TDS + Direct Invest. Inc.    14.0    11.4    11.5    13.0
Public Loans n.e.i.               -       -       -      7.0
Total Public HALT Loans           64.5    85.7    95.6    69.8     Average Terms of Public Debt
KXThRRAL DEBT              Actiw 1  bt Outatanding oa Dec. 31. 1975     Int. as % Prior Year DO&D    3.6     3.5     3.4     3.0
DiLbursed Only           Percent         Amort. as x Prior Year DO&D  5.9      5.1     4.0     3.6
World Bank                        69.4                  18.2
IDA                               73.4                  19.2        IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed
Other Meltilateral                14.2                   3.7        IBRD as Z Public Debt O&D     28.3    26.2    23.4    17.8
Governments                      193.2                  50.7        IBRD as % Public Debt Service 28.9    33.7    39.0    34.6
Suppliers                          0.6                   0.2
Financial Institutions            25.2                   6.6        IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed
Bonds                               -                     -         IDA as % Public Debt O&D      14.7    17.6    19.3    18.8
Public Debts n.e.i.                5.4                   1.4        IDA as % Public Debt Service   1.3     2.2     2.4     2.3
Total Public M&LT Debt           381.4                 100.0
Other M&LT Debts                    -                     -
Short-term Debt (disb. only)
not applicable                                                   e   staff estimate
not available                                                    -   nil or negligible
...  not available separately                                         -   less then half the
but included in total                                                smallest unit shown
EACPIB



ANNEX II
Page 1
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
A.                         STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of March 31, 1977)
Amount
Loan or                                                           (US$ Million)
Credit                                                     (less cancellation)   Undis-
Number    Year    Borrower              Purpose                 Bank     IDA     bursed
Ten loans fully disbursed                                       93.3
Five credits fully disbursed                                             34.8
605-ET    1969    BTE 1/       Telecommunications IV             4.5              0.5
243-ET    1971    Ethiopia     Education II                               9.5     3.2
269-ET    1971    Ethiopia     Dairy                                      4.4     2.6
818-ET    1972    AAWSA 2/     Addis Ababa Water Supply
and Sewerage                  10.8               1.1
290-ET    1972    Ethiopia     Coffee Processing                          6.3     3.6
304-ET    1972    Ethiopia     Agricultural & Industrial
Development Bank                        11.0     0.9
332-ET    1972    Ethiopia     Highways V                                17.0     6.6
365-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Livestock II                               5.0     3.7
416-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Agricultural Minimum Package              21.0     4.5
417-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Education III                             10.0     9.4
418-ET    1973    Ethiopia     Amibara Irrigation                        17.0    15.7
453-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Telecommunications V                      21.4    15.7
485-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Drought Areas Rehabilitation              10.0     8.3
486-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Wolaita Agriculture II                    12.0     9.8
516-ET    1974    Ethiopia     Lower Adiabo                               9.5     8.5
552-ET    1975    Ethiopia     Highways VI                               32.0    19.0
553-ET    1975    Ethiopia     Education IV                              23.0    20.6
554-ET    1975    Ethiopia     Telecommunications V (2nd Tranche)        16.0    16.0
603-ET    1976    Ethiopia     Rangelands Development                    27.0    26.9
Total                                                 108.6   286.9   176.6
of which has been repaid                            39.6     0.7
Total now outstanding                                  69.0   286.2
Amount Sold                          6.0
of which has been repaid          6.0                -       -
Total now held by Bank & IDA
(prior to exchange adjustments)                    69.0   286.2
Total undisbursed                                       1.6   175.0   176.6
1/ Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia
2/ Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Authority



ANNEX II
Page 2
ETHIOPIA
B.                              STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1977)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                                  Type of             Amount
Year                 Obligor                           Business    Loan    Equity    Total
1965     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I                  Textiles    1.5      1.0       2.5
1966     Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.                   Paper                1.9       1.9
1968     HVA Metahara, S.C.                            Sugar       5.5      3.5        9.0
1970     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II                 Textiles    0.4      0.2        0.6
1973     Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III                Textiles    1.5      0.2       1.7
Total Gross Commitments                                   8.9      6.8      15.7
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                               5.7      3.1       8.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC                         3.2      3.7       6.9
Total Undisbursed                                          _        -         -



ANNEX II
Page 3
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION - ETHIOPIA 1/
Ln. No. 605  Telecommunications IV Project:   US$4.5 million Loan of June 3,
1969; Date of Effectiveness: September 2, 1969; Closing Date:
December 31, 1973, postponed to December 31, 1974, subsequently
to December 31, 1975, then to December 31, 1976, and then to
December 31, 1977.
The project is physically complete. However, the three
microwave routes, though carrying commercial calls, have not yet been
finally accepted because of some component failures. US$0.45 million
still remaining is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Cr. No. 243 Education II Project; US$9.5 million Credit of May 6, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1971; Closing Date:
June 30, 1976, postponed to December 31, 1977.
Physical implementation is progressing satisfactorily with 54
institutions completed or near completion, including the Academy of Pedagogy
and its teachers institute. Of the remaining institutions, completion of 11
is well under way. In June 1976, assistance for completion of three addi-
tional primary teacher training institutes as well as for extension of an existing
junior secondary teacher training institute have been included in the project;
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4
those additions are scheduled for completion during 1977. The education
survey has been completed and technical assistance for four programs
progresses quite well. Latest project cost estimates show savings in the
credit account of USeC.71 million due to bilateral technical assistance.
The Government wishes to use the savings for upgrading junior to senior
secondary schools and will shortly present its detailed proposal for IDA
approval.
Cr. No. 269 Addis Ababa Dairy Development Project; US$4.4 million Credit of
August 30, 1971; Date of Effectiveness: May 1, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.
The project called for the development of 350 dairy farms near
Addis Ababa and the improvement of milk marketing and processing. A total
of 41 dairy farms were provided with loans under the project; however, this
program came to a halt with the introduction of the land reform in April
1975, and lending procedures for providing long term loans to the farming
community have not as yet been formulated. It is intended that future loans
will be made to peasant associations and state farms. International tenders
have been obtained for expansion and renovation of the Addis Ababa dairy
plant, and the contract is being awarded. Milk output at the Addis Ababa
dairy plant has gone down and serious efforts are required to increase milk
supply. Government has decided to establish a new Animal and Fisheries
Development Authority and this would absorb the Dairy Development Agency.
Cr. No. 290 Coffee Processing Project; US$6.3 million Credit of March 20,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: December 15, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977.
The project was to increase Ethiopia's coffee export earnings
by improving processing methods and in particular to construct 100 coffee
washing stations, 400 km of roads, provide credit for the rehabilitation of
private coffee washing stations, fund a coffee research program and be
involved in a survey of Ethiopia's coffee economy. To date, the project has
only constructed six stations and about a half of the roads program, mainly
due to initial staffing and procurement delays and subsequently due to
political changes which made various project concepts and financing un-
workable. A September 1976 supervision mission's findings indicate that
because of significant increases in coffee prices the project remains econo-
mically and financially viable in spite of substantial cost escalations.
The Project Implementation Unit have the necessary key personnel and resources
to carry out the project with a reduced target of about 58 coffee washing
stations, but the closing date requires a 12 months' extension to December 31,
1978. The balance of IDA funds will be sufficient for this purpose.



ANNEX II
Page 5
Ln. No. 818 Addis Ababa Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$10.8 million
Loan of May 2, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: September 8, 1972;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
The water supply component is substantially complete, ahead of
schedule and of good quality, disbursements for this component are expected
to continue until the closing date. Financing of the first phase of the
sewerage component has been facilitated by a supplementary loan from the
ADF equivalent to US$5.5 million and by a Government loan equivalent to
US$2 million. Completion is expected by March, 1978, 15 months behind
schedule. Financial and management problems are aggravated by the country's
political climate.  Lack of progress in revising    tariff is due to AAWSA's
delay in submitting a tariff proposal to the Government, as well as the
Government's reluctance to consider tariff increases. Government action on a sub-
stantial tariff increase is being urged by the Bank.
Cr. No. 304 Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank Project; US$11.0
million Credit of May 10, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: October
25, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1976, postponed to
December 31, 1977.
The funds provided by the credit have been almost fully committed,
including the reallocation of $1.4 million to the industrial portion from the
agricultural portion which has proceeded more slowly. An additional $1.5
million of the agricultural portion has been redesignated to finance an
Emergency Tractor Ploughing and Seed Distribution Program. The World Bank
has recently signed a Project Agreement as Executing Agency for a UNDP project
to provide a financial advisor to AIDB for two years to advise in the planning,
organization and control of its financial operations.
Cr. No. 332 Fifth Highway Project; US$17.0 million Credit of September 29,
1972; Date of Effectiveness: July 24, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1976, postponed to December 31, 1977.
Three of the four roads under the Fifth Project have been completed,
one by a domestic contractor assisted under the project, and the fourth is
expected to be completed by end 1977, all within the contract prices. Other
project components have been or are being satisfactorily implemented.
Cr. No. 365 Second Livestock Project; US$5.0 million Credit of April 2, 1973;
Date of Effectiveness: August 24, 1973; Closing Date: July 15,
1977.
The project has been effective for over three years but has not
yet completed its first year construction program. However, the construction
program has recently been stepped up, and marketing and abattoir operations
are scheduled to commence by end-1976. The project faces managerial problems
and future operations may suffer unless management is soon strengthened.
Because of cost overruns, the scope of the project has been reduced, and
available funds are expected to be exhausted by end-1977.



ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 416 Agricultural Minimum Package Project: US$21.0 million Credit of
July 5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: April 15, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977.
The project lost some of its momentum during the 1975/76 growing
season as a consequence of staff turnover in ECODD, some management problems,
continuing ramifications of the land reform and general unrest in several
provinces. The flow of information from the extension areas to Addis Ababa
has also suffered. Although adequate fertilizer for the 1975/76 growing
season was made available to ECODD marketing centers, the extent of actual
sales to farmers is not known. Similarly, 1975/76 data on credit recovery,
yields and production and future fertilizer requirements have not been
clearly determined. About 100 junior staff positions are still vacant in
ECODD. However, road and storage construction has started as well as other
activities such as soil conservation, livestock improvement, horticulture
and home economic programs, all of which are progressing well. Due to
high fertilizer costs, disbursements are ahead of schedule and are expected
to be complete by the closing date.
Cr. No. 417 Third Education Project; US$10.0 million Credit of July 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness: August 30, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
After initial delays, project implementation is now progressing
satisfactorily. Most civil works are scheduled for completion by early to
mid-1977. Consequently disbursements are expected to rise rapidly in the
near future. Government has requested deletion of the Orthodox Church
Training Center and proposes substitution of 180 community skill training
centers as part of its rural development program; this request was favorably
endorsed during appraisal of a proposed fifth education project. Preparation
of furniture and equipment lists, tender and contract documents is complete.
Technical assistance programs and fellowship for the AHI are being implemented
satisfactorily. The Government is providing adequate financing and final
total project cost may remain within the appraisal estimate including
contingencies.
Cr. No. 418 Amibara Irrigation Project; US$17.0 million Credit of July 5,
1973; Date of Effectiveness; August 30, 1974; Closing Date:
March 31, 1979.
Initially 14 months delay in credit effectiveness was mairly caused by
a delay in parliamentary ratification of the credit. Meanwhile, project
consultants estimated a 3-4 times increase in project costs, and questions
were raised whether the project was still financially feasible and economically
viable. Consultants prepared alternative proposals, and an IDA mission
visited Ethiopia in February 1975 to examine the alternative ways cf
constructing project works and implementing the project. A basic gravity
irrigation scheme was chosen and reappraised in February 1976. A supple-
mental financing plan of US$34 million has been arranged with Government,
IDA, African Development Fund and European Development Fund participation.



ANNEX II
Page 7
Cr. No. 453 Telecommunications V Project (First Tranche); US$21.4 million
Credit of January 17, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: August 23,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Following initial delays of about 6-12 months due to management
and staff changes, procurement and initial installation work, the project
has been steadily progressir.g. The Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia
is now endeavoring to make up for the initial delays by accelerating the
subsequent works.
Cr. No. 485 Drought Areas Rehabilitation Project; US$10 million Credit
of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: November 7, 1974;
Closing Date: September 30, 1977.
Implementation of most sub-projects is underway, although seriously
behind schedule. The progress of implementation is difficult to estimate
since quarterly progress reports are not being prepared. A shortage of staff
in the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission's Finance Department is similarly
causing delays in preparation of financial statements of expenditure, which
in turn has delayed requests for disbursement. Future supervision attention
will focus on proposals for reorganization of the project's overall management
and accounting. The closing date will have to be postponed.
Cr. No. 486 Second Wolaita Agricultural Development Project; US$12.0 million
Credit of June 26, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: June 4, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Due to staff unrest and difficulties in meeting conditions of effectiveness,
initial project implementation was slow. Some senior staff were replaced in
1975 and although the project is understaffed, it is now gaining momentum.
Despite supply problems, construction of roads and cooperative marketing center
stores is on target but other construction activities are behind schedule.
Farmers' interest in the project is growing steadily with 140 Peasant
Associations out of the 273 in the Wolaita Awraja involved in the project. Farm
inputs supplies for the 1975/76 season increased by 32% compared with 1974/75.
The livestock component is still lagging behind, mainly due to staff shortage.
Credit recovery remains low with total repayments amounting to about 60%.
Cr. No. 516 Lower Adiabo Development Project: US$9.5 million Credit of
October 18, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: February 5, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The security situation in the project area has deteriorated
during recent months causing the project difficulties in obtaining supplies
and preventing both ECODD extension and IDA supervision missions from
visiting the project area. Progress had previously been made with village
cooperative society formation, land use planning and farm development, but
work on building construction, borehole development, and cooperative ranch



ANNEX II
Page 8
development is not known to have started as yet. We propose to ask the
Government to set up a reporting system which, in the absence of supervision
missions, would enable us to obtain at least some information on a continuing
basis. The future of the project will be reviewed in this light in due course.
Cr. No. 552 Sixth Highway Project; US$2.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979.
Implementation of the project is proceeding well. Three of the
four roads have been let to contract, with the contract prices all within
appraisal estimates; the fourth road is being constructed by force account.
Contracts for the road maintenance equipment and weighbridges have been
awarded and most of the equipment has been delivered. Plans are in hand
for the construction of rural roads workshops for the provinces of Wellega
and Illubabor.
Cr. No. 553  Fourth Education Project:   US$23.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: August 6, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
The Project Unit is making very satisfactory progress. The
construction program is well advanced and most facilities will be completed
by mid-1977. Procurement of furniture and equipment for different project
facilities is'proceeding on schedule.
Cr. No. 554 Fifth Telecommunications Project (Second Tranche); US$16.0 million
Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 26, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
Following initial delays of about 6-12 months due to management
and staff changes, procurement and initial installation work under the project
has been steadily progressing. The Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia
is now endeavoring to make up for the initial delays by accelerating the sub-
sequent works.
Cr. No. 603 Rangelands Development Project: US$27.0 million Credit of
January 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: May 18, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981.
The project is somewhat behind schedule. However, most key
staff have been recruited and tenders for the construction of Project Head-
quarters buildings in two of the three rangeland areas are being prepared.
Some vehicles have been purchased. A road and stockpond construction program
using non-project funds made good progress in the Southern Rangelands project
area but has had to be stopped because of deteriorating law and order. There
are some indications however, that security is being restored in the South
and the Project can operate freely in the Jijiga area and in the central part
of North East Rangelands. Veterinary staff have been recruited in two areas



ANNEX II
Page 9
and discussions are being held with pastoralists regarding their organizational
role in the development. Some delay is inevitable during the ongoing reorganization
of the Ministry of Agriculture and its associated institutions. This is not
expected however to seriously affect Project implementation.



ANNEX III
Page 1
ETHIOPIA - ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:                ETHIOPIA
BENEFICIARY:             Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) and Agricultural
and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB).
AMOUNT:                  US$32 million equivalent
TERMS:                   Standard
RELENDING:               Of the US$32 million, US$1.0 million equivalent
would be relent to the Agricultural and Industrial
Development Bank (AIDB) at 8.5% per annum. AIDB
would onlend these proceeds to contractors for the
procurement of construction equipment at an interest
rate of not less than 10% per annum on a term equal
to the operating life of the equipment financed.
Repayment to the Government would conform to the
aggregate of the amortization schedules of the
sub-loans.
PURPOSE:                 To support road development in Ethiopia in order to
complement planned agricultural development and
increase social service coverage, and to improve
the main road network to accommodate forecast
traffic.
PROJECT                  The Project is the first phase (1978-80) of
DESCRIPTION:             Ethiopia's Five-Year Road Sector Program and
consists of:
(a) Improvement and construction of main roads
including rehabilitation and upgrading of
primary and secondary roads (1,100 km) and
construction of feeder roads (1,400 km);
(b) Maintenance of main roads;
(c) Rural road development, including road main-
tenance and construction and the establishment
and initial operation of provincial rural roads
offices;
(d) Improvement of ERA management and operations; and
(e) Provision of loans through AIDB to domestic
road contractors for the purchase of road
construction equipment.



ANNEX III
Page 2
PROJECT COSTS:            Total planned expenditure for the first three
years of the Program is US$368 million, in-
cluding $35 million of taxes and duties. The
foreign exchange component is estimated at
$160 million, or 43% (51% including taxes and
duties). The IDA contribution would support
all major Program components in the following
amounts:
US$       %
million
Strengthening of Existing Paved Roads        4.00    12
Upgrading of Existing Gravel Roads to
Bituminous Paved Standards                 4.50    14
New Feeder Road Construction                15.00    47
Strengthening the ERA                        1.00     3
Rural Road Development                       6.50    21
Equipment Purchase Loans for
Ethiopian Contractors                      1.00     3
Total                                       32.00   100
FINANCING:                                                            US$       %
million
IDA 1/                                      44.0    13.2
Government & Other Donors                  289.0    86.8
Sub Total     333.0    100.0
Taxes and Duties                            35.0
Total         368.0
ESTIMATED DISBURSEMENTS:                               US$million
Fiscal Year           Annual        Cumulative
1977/78              3.2             3.2
1978/79             11.8            15.0
1979/80             10.8            25.8
1980/81              6.2            32.0
1/ Includes an estimated US$12 million to be disbursed under IDA 332 and 552.



ANNEX III
Page 3
PROCUREMENT               Contracts for equipment and at least half of
ARRANGEMENTS:             the main road works (i.e., at least $11.75
million) to be financed by IDA would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with Bank/IDA Guidelines. The
balance of main road works would be carried out
through force account on the same terms as under
the Sixth Highway Project.
TECHNICAL                 Technical assistance/consultant services would
ASSISTANCE:               be recruited as needed for the first phase of
the Program, and suitable ERA counterparts would
be assigned.
RATE OF RETURN:           No overall economic rate of return has been
calculated for the sector program, although
individual sub-projects, exclusive of proposed
rural road construction, are estimated to yield
returns of 19-25% and the minimum return required
of any main road financed under the project would
be 12%. No detailed rate of return analysis
will be performed for rural roads, which will
either be justified as integral parts of general
development projects or on the basis of a
socio-economic points score.
APPRAISAL REPORT:          Report No. 1416b-ET, dated April 28, 1977
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Highways Division



ANNEX IV
Page 1
ETHIOPIA
ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLEMIENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project: Thirteen months
(b) Preparation by: ERA assisted by Bank missions
(c) Initial discussion with Bank: October 1975
(d) Bank Preappraisal: February and June 1976
(e) Appraisal mission: September 1976
(f) Negotiations: March 1977
(g) Planned date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1977
II. Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government would use its best efforts to obtain from
sources outside Ethiopia the other external financing required
for Project expenditures, and on an annual basis, would furnish
to the Association for its comments a work program and associ-
ated financing plan for expenditures to be incurred in the
following year and adjust the scope of the Project in line with
available financing (para 67).
(b) The Government would sign a subsidiary loan agreement with the
AIDB under which $1.0 million of credit proceeds would be passed
on to the AIDB to finance equipment loans to domestic road
construction contractors (Conditions of Disbursement, para 66 (e)).
(c)  Any main road sub-project financed by IDA will have to yield a
rate of return of at least 12%; .for any main road sub-project
whose justification is based on complementary development acti-
vities, a detailed description of such activities including the
necessary arrangements required for their execution would be fur-
nished to the Association, and the resources necessary for the
carrying out of these activities would be made available (para 71).



ANNEX IV
Page 2
(d) A study of road user charges in relation to road network
expenditures would be completed not later than June 30, 1978,
and the study's findings would be reviewed with the Association
(para 58).
(e) All necessary action would be taken to ensure that the dimensions
and axle loads of vehicles operating on the public road network
do not exceed the limits consistent with appropriate road design
standards.
(f) The ERA would (i) not later than December 31, 1977 establish and
maintain a Rural Roads Organization as a separate administrative
unit within its organizations; and (ii) monitor and evaluate
the progress and benefits of its road construction operations
through the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to be established
under the Project (para 66 (c) and (d)).



-     |      4.                           0'C                              AWEM ZD' 9 ; E r S j O p  10174RI
J.,                     1~~~~~~~~~~~~ANUARY '917
* g   ft  aX             k                     ROAD SECTOR CREDIT
t A F RI CA  jI .r /                         \                       '>                   SEVENTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ETIBOIIA  ~~~~~~~~-         ~ROADS TOD B CONOSROLOTED OR IMPROVER 1D7R-82
ETHIOPIA  4--                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASPHIULTIC CONCETE OVERLAY
}                                                   -THI OPIA -0 1 I.<, APO_RADIP O TO BIrIMINOCO PAVED STANDARD
..  (  0 p ........ R  e   d  S  e  a  .   | EI......ALL FEEDER ROAD CONSTRRCIDN
Jf                                                             X,STIALL.EAIOAD a   -i  IE OADS
O-hER ROADS PEDFIVETLY SEIRG O-ENRUETER OR IRPROVED
V+>ARTOAM                                      t                                          / M> t  =----  MAINTENANCE DISTRICT UO ARNPVIES
ASMER  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~II       3   MAINTENANCE DISTRICT OFFICRS
S  S U D A N          V     _          .    1  - - -- ,  >        n              | cg  R,AVKEEs*A
A 13d Se;>t' *I  ]   _ INTERNATIDNAL BOUNOARIES
-- PROVICE ROOVOARIES
,ICER ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     2
-    <           I I  7                  .    ua   
12   >     L TAM Wdil 7emen  o  {                /; r   |                         J    | *   F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PUDSWUIU, 4lA "CV7,4
J g= <--_+teld ea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IF             44.VV44  4 , '11 -  I1  i _
j~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                            00     200    300he3=   /he
A  M,H~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4                              IE
Z > gt k f           g                          .            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S C M A L I A
S U D A N   o,   8-1m F A C&ld5ole   K ble Meng   <~~~~~~~~~~~~A  A  G  El+   \
u~  ~ 9             A                      MR                         _ 
UGANDA  4           >   E N Y ~~~~~~~~ARA -.        - a    A    /O     0I         , EIE                             8



