CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 708 ET
Development Credit Agreement
(Road Sector Project)
between
ETHIOPIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT -3SOCIATION
Dated July 5, 1977


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1977, between ETHIOPIA (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development and the Association have previously made available to
the Borrower three loans and four development credits for the
purpose of assisting the Borrower in financing six highway
projects designed to rehabilitate and develop its road transport
system;
(C) the Project constitutes the first phase of the
Borrower's five year Road Sector Program (as hereinafter defined),
and the Borrower intends to request other donors to assist in the
financing of said Program;
(D) Parts A, B, C and D of the Project will be carried out
by the Ethiopian Road Authority with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available
to such Authority the proceeds of the Credit allocated to said
Parts of the Project as hereinafter provided;


﻿-2-
(E) Part E of the Project will be carried out by the
Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to said Bank the proceeds of the Credit allocated to
said Part of the Project as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the
Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association
and the Ethiopian Road Authority;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿3
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein,
subject, however, to the following modification thereof, namely
that the following is added at the end of paragraph 9 of Section
2.01: ", and, in respect of Part A of the Project, such term shall
include the Sub-projects to be carried out under said Part, unless
the context otherwise requires." (said General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the Association, as
so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ERA" means the Ethiopian Road Authority (formerly
the Imperial Highway Authority or the Ethiopian Highway
Authority), an agency of the Borrower established and operating
pursuant to the Highway Authority Proclamation (Proclamation No.
115 of 1951) of the Borrower, as the same may be amended from time
to time;


﻿-4-
(b) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ERA of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement;
(c) "AIDB" means the Agricultural and Industrial Development
Bank established and operating pursuant to Decree No. 55 of 1970
and Notice of Approval No. 10 of 1971, as the same may be amended
from time to time, or any successor to AIDB;
(d) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and AIDB pursuant to Section
3.02 (a) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(e) "Ethiopian Contractor" means any Ethiopian registered
contractor or construction enterprise managed and majority owned
by the nationals of the Borrower;
(f) "Contractor Loan" means a loan by AIDB to an Ethiopian
Contractor under Part E of the Project;
(g) "Sub-project" means the rehabilitation, upgrading or
construction, as the case may be, of a particular road under Part
A of the Project, selected for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated to said Part by agreement of the Borrower and
the Association on the basis of a proposal by ERA, as described in


﻿- 5 -
Part A of Schedule 2 to this Agreement and Section 2.05 of the
Project Agreement;
(h) "RRO" means the organization to be established by ERA
pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of the Project Agreement;
(i) "Road Sector Program" means the Borrower's five year
program for the road sector to be carried out during the years
1978 through 1982, and estimated to cost about one billion
sixty-nine million Birr (Birrl,069,000,000, in 1976 prices), of
which about 46% is estimated to be expenditures in currencies
other than Birr; and
(j) "Birr" means the currency of the Borrower.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to ERA,
shall be procured in accordance with the provisions set forth or
referred to in Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
aad outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each
April 1 and October 1 commencing October 1, 1987, and ending April
1, 2027, each installment to and including the installment payable
on April 1, 1997, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafer to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other oblic,ations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause ERA to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable ERA to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make the proceeds of the Credit
allocated to Parts A, B, C and D of the Project available to ERA.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing:
(i) The Borrower shall use its best efforts to obtain
from sources outside Ethiopia the other financing
required to meet the expenditures in currencies
other than Birr to be made under the Project.
(ii) Prior to the commencement of each fiscal year, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association ERA's
work program and related financing plan showing on
the basis of realistic estimates the expenditures
to be incurred for Project investments for which


﻿-9-
firm commitments must be made during such fiscal
year in order to meet the road construction and
maintenance targets set forth in the Annex to
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, as well as the
financing available to meet such expenditures.
(iii) The Borrower and the Association shall review
each such work program and financing plan and, in
the event that it shall be reasonably determined
that there is a shortfall in the financing
available under the plan, the scope of the Project
shall be adjusted as shall be required to meet
such shortfall in accordance with appropriate
economic, administrative, financial and engineering
practices.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall cause AIDB to carry
out Part E of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and
in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
banking practices, and, for this purpose, relend to AIDB the
equivalent of one million dollars ($1,000,000), or such other
amount as may be agreed upon from time to time between the
Borrower and the Association, out of the proceeds of the Credit
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and AIDB on the same terms and conditions as those set


﻿- 10 -
forth or referred to in Section 3.09 (a) of the Development Credit
Agreement (Sixth Highway Project) dated June 4, 1975, between the
Borrower and the Association, except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to ensure the carrying
out of Part E of the Project in accordance with the provisions of
the Development Credit Agreement and, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend,
abrogate or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.03. For any proposed Sub-project whose economic
justification, as described in Section 2.05 (c) (ii) of the
Project Agreement, is based on complementary development
activities in the area to be served by the proposed Sub-project,
the Borrower shall:
(i) furnish to the Association, together with the
Sub-project proposal a detailed description of
such activities and of the arrangements for
their execution;
(ii) take or cause to be taken all action necessary
to carry out such activities with due diligence
and efficiency; and


﻿- 11 -
(iii) provide or cause to be provided the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required
for the carrying out of such activities.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall ensure that, in the event
that any road or facility referred to in Section 3.02 of the
Project Agreement shall be maintained or operated by a department
or agency other than ERA, such road or facility will be adequately
maintained, and all necessary repairs and renewals thereof will be
made promptly as required, all in accordance with appropriate road
engineering standards and economic practices.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out a study, to be
completed not later than June 30, 1978, or such other date as
the Borrower and the Association may agree, to examine the levels
of road user charges in relation to the capital and recurrent
expenditures on its road network.
(b) Upon completion of the study referred to in paragraph
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall furnish such study to the
Association and review the results thereof in consultation with
the Association.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action necessary
to ensure at all times that the dimensions and axle loads of the
vehicles using its public roads and bridges do not exceed limits
consistent with the design standards of such roads and bridges.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained facilities adequate to collect and record, in
accordance with appropriate statistical methods and procedures,
such information as shall be reasonably required for the proper
planning of its public road network.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) ERA shall have failed to perform any covenant, agreement
or obligation under the Project Agreement.
(b) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolutEIf or disestablish-
ment of ERA or for the suspension of its operations.
(c) The Highway Authority Proclamation (Proclamation No. 115
of 1951) establishing ERA shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to materially and adversely
affect ERA's ability to carry out the covenants, agreements and
obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.
(d) A default shall have occurred in the performance of any
obligation of AIDB under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
(e) Before the Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have
terminated in accordance with its terms, the Borrower or any other
authority having jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the
dissolution or disestablishment of AIDB or for the suspension of
its operations.


﻿- 14 -
(f) An extraordinay situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that ERA will be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement or that AIDB will be able to
perform its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (b), (c) and (e) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following event is specified as an
additional condition to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of
the General Conditions, namely, that the execution of the
Project Agreement on behalf of ERA has been duly authorized
by all necessary corporate and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement
has been duly authorized by ERA, and is legally binding upon ERA
in accordance with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date October 3, 1977, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.03, 3.04, 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement and the provisions of
Section 5.02 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the
date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or
on a date twenty-five years after the date of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿- 16 -
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the Generu Conditions.
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
P.O. Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFINANCE                         21147 MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿- 17 -
IN WIThESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
ETHIOPIA
By /s/ Mohammed Hamid Ibrahim
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By Is! Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works for            23,500,000        60% of expendi-
Sub-projects                                tures under con-
under Part A of                             tracts and 50%
the Project (in-                            of expenditures
cluding equip-                              on account of
ment required                               force account
for works exe-                              works
cuted by force
account)
(2) Equipment, vehicles         6,500,000        100% of foreign
and tools for Part C                        expenditures
(3) of the Project
(3) Specialists and             1,000,000        80%
consultants' services
for Parts C (3) and
D of the Project
(4) Equipment                   1,000,000        Amounts disbursed
purchases under                             under Contractor
Contractor Loans                            Loans
TOTAL           32,000,000


﻿- 19 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds
of the Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for
taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods
or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as
required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the
Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:


﻿- 20 -
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $100,000, may be made in respect of
Category (3) on account of payments made for such expenditures
before that date but after February 1, 1977, for consultants'
services for Part D of the Project;
(b) expenditures under Category (4), until evidence
satisfactory to the Association shall have been furnished to the
Association: (i) that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
signed on behalf of the Borrower and AIDB, respectively; (ii) that
the execution of said Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and AIDB
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary governmental
and corporate action; and (iii) that said Agreement is legally
binding upon the Borrower and AIDB in accordance with its terms;
and
(c) expenditures under Category (1) on account of civil
works executed by force account in excess of an aggregate amount
equivalent to $11,750,000, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1
above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficent


﻿- 21 -
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then
allocated to another Category and which in the opinion of the
Association are not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii)
if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall,
reduce the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such Category
may continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been
made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the first phase of the Borrower's
Road Sector Program, and consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Improvement and Construction of Main Roads
(1) Rehabilitation or upgrading of about 1,100 km of
primary and secondary roads.
(2) Construction of about 1,400 km of feeder and service to
traffic roads.
Technically and economically feasible Sub-projects which have
a high priority for the economic and social development of the
Borrower, in particular its agricultural and rural development,
shall be selected for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit
by agreement between the Borrower and the Association in
accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit Agreement
and the Project Agreement.
Part B:   Maintenance of Main Roads
A program of routine and recurrent maintenance of the
Borrower's main roads.
Part C:   Rural Road Development
(1) A program of maintenance of about 4,500 km of rural
roads.
(2) Construction of about 2,200 km of rural roads.


﻿- 23 -
(3) Establishment and initial operation of regional rural
road offices, including provision of equipment and
vehicles for workshops and for the construction and
maintenance of rural roads, as required to carry out
Parts C (1) and (2) hereof.
Part D:   ERA Management and Operations
(1) Improvement of ERA's road planning, construction and
maintenance operations, including training of ERA's
staff and the provision o:7 equipment and facilities
therefor, and the carrying out of a pilot work
performance road maintenance budgeting program.
(2) Strengthening of ERA's Planning and Programming Division
through the establishment of a Monitoring and Evaluation
Unit.
(3) Strengthening of ERA to enable it to make the economic
analyses of the feeder roads to be constructed under
Part A (2) hereof.
Part E:   Road Works Contractor Loans
Provision of loans through AIDB to Ethiopian Contractors
who are successful bidders for road works contracts with ERA


﻿- 24 -
for the purchase of equipment required for the carrying out of
such contracts.
Parts A, B and C hereof shall be carried out so as to meet
the annual targets specified in the Annex to this Schedule.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.


﻿- 25 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Road Construction and
Maintenance Targets
1.   Road Construction Targets (expressed in kilometers)
Year*
Road Categories                   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Primary Roads                       378       234       281
Secondary Roads                     110        -         70
Feeder Roads                        237       326       351
Service to Traffic
Roads                          276       110        57
Rural Roads                         700       700       800
2.   Road Maintenance Targets (expressed in Birr millions)
Year*
Road Categories                   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80
Main Roads                           42        45        48
Rural Roads                           2         5         6
The amounts specified reflect 1976 price levels and
shall be adjusted to take account of subsequent price
increases.
*    Fiscal Year of the Borrower, from July 8 to July 7.


