CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 708 ET
Project Agreement
(Road Sector Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ETHIOPIAN ROAD AUTHORITY
Dated July 5, 1977


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 5, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and ETHIO-
PIAN ROAD AUTHORITY (hereinafter called ERA).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to
the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty-two million dollars ($32,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, and with
the understanding that ERA agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS ERA, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Subject to the provision of paragraph (c) (iii)
of Section 3.01 of the Development Credit Agreement, ERA shall
carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project described in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and
efficiency, in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, economic and road engineering practices and so as to
meet the annual targets specified in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. (a) ERA shall employ by December 31, 1977,
rural road construction and maintenance specialists, whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association, in such
numbers as shall be required to assist ERA in the establishment of
RRO and in the carrying out of Part C (3) of the Project.
(b) ERA shall employ by September 30, 1977, consultants and
by March 31, 1978, specialists, whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to
the Borrower and the Association, in such numbers as shall be
required to assist ERA in the carrying out of Part D of the
Project.


﻿(c) ERA shall ensure that at all times suitably qualified
counterpart staff will be assigned to work together with said
specialists and consultants on a full time basis, for the purpose
of training an adequate number of its staff in the activities of
said specialists and consultants.
Section 2.03. Except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for
civil works to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to ERA, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) ERA undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made
available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of
use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall
be payable in a currency freely usable by ERA to replace or
repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit made available to ERA by the Borrower shall be used
exclusively for the Project until its completion, and thereafter,


﻿- 5 -
for the further implementation of the Road Sector Program;
provided, without limitation to the foregoing, that goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated to Part C (3) of the
Project shall be used for equipping rural road offices in the
Administrative Regions of Illubabor, Kefa and Wellega, or such
other Administrative Regions as the Borrower and the Association
may agree.
Section 2.05. (a) To carry out Part A of the Project, ERA
shall prepare Sub-project proposals for each particular road
to be rehabilitated, upgraded or constructed, as the case may
be, under said Part of the Project.
(b) ERA shall submit each Sub-project proposal through
the Borrower to the Association for their review and approval
and shall carry out such Sub-project in accordance with the
p-ovisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement promptly
after the Borrower and the Association have agreed to such
proposal.
(c) Except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, ERA shall furnish to the Borrower and the Association, in
requesting their approval of any Sub-project proposal, the
following supporting documentation established in accordance with
road engineering, financial and economic practices satisfactory to
the Association:


﻿-6-
(i) a detailed description of the works to be carried
out under the proposed Sub-project, including
detailed engineering plans, drawings and
specifications, a work schedule, and cost
estimates as described in sub-paragraph (iv) of
this paragraph;
(ii) a detailed economic justification of the proposed
Sub-project, including a description of the
objectives of the proposed Sub-project and the
benefits expected therefrom and an estimate of
the economic rate of return of the proposed
Sub-project;
(iii) a description of the procurement procedures to be
followed in carrying out the proposed Sub-project
and a procurement schedule, including in the case
of force account construction, a detailed descrip-
tion of the staff and equipment proposed to be
assigned to such Sub-project; and
(iv) estimates of the foreign and local costs (includ-
ing taxes and duties, if any) of the proposed
Subproject, broken down by major items and showing
amounts to be financed by the Borrower and out of
the proceeds of the Credit, respectively, and an
estimated disbursement schedule.


﻿-7-
(d) The Sub-projects proposed by ERA for approval by the
Borrower and the Association shall be of the highest economic
priority and shall each have an economic rate of return estimated,
in accordance with paragraph (c) (ii) of this Section, to exceed
twelve per cent (12%).
(e) Without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development
Credit Agreement or the Project Agreement, the Association may
postpone consideration of any Sub-project proposal submitted
for its agreement by ERA through the Borrower, if the Borrower is
in default in performing any covenant, agreement or obligation
under the Development Credit Agreement, or if ERA is in default in
performing any covenant, agreement or obligation under the Project
Agreement.
(f) Except as the Borrower and the Association may otherwise
agree, all Sub-project proposals shall be submitted by ERA through
the Borrower to the Association not later than June 30, 1979.
Section 2.06. (a) For the purpose of carrying out Part C of
the Project, ERA shall, prior to the commencement of each fiscal
year, furnish through the Borrower to the Association, for its
review and concurrence, a rural road construction program
indicating the design standards for the rural roads to be con-
structed during such fiscal year by any of the rural road offices
referred to in Section 2.04 (b) of this Agreement, and shall


﻿-8-
thereafter carry out such program as agreed to by the Borrower and
the Association.
(b) The regional rural road offices included in Part C (3)
of the Project shall be established and thereafter transferred to
the respective regional authorities in accordance with a plan
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.07. The training of ERA's staff referred to in Part
D of the Project and Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement (including,
without limitation, the required increase in the capacity of ERA's
Alemgena Training Center, the provision of training equipment, and
training targets for specific categories of staff) shall be
carried out in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Borrower
and the Association.
Section 2.08. (a) ERA shall furnish to the Association,
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports,
contract documents and work and procurement schedules for Parts A,
C and D of the Project, and any material modifications thereof or
additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) ERA: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project (including the
cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower, and to disclose the use thereof in said Parts of the


﻿-9-
Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the provisions of
paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites
included in said Parts of the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the said Parts of the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of
the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c) ERA shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of ERA and any relevant records and
documents.
Section 2.09. (a) ERA shall, at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, the performance
of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating
to the purposes of the Credit.
(b) ERA shall promptly inform the Association of any condi-
tion which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress
of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, or the performance by ERA
of its obligations under this Agreement.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of ERA
Section 3.01. (a) ERA shall at all times manage its affairs
and carry out its operations in accordance with appropriate
administrative, financial, economic and road engineering
practices, under qualified and experienced management, assisted by
experienced and competent staff in adequate numbers.
(b) Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph
(a) of this Section, ERA shall: (i) monitor and evaluate the
progress of its road construction operations and the benefits
derived therefrom through the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit to
be established under Part D (2) of the Project; and (ii)
establish, not later than December 31, 1977, or such other date
as the Association may agree, and thereafter maintain, a rural
roads organization as a separate administrative unit within its
organization, for the purpose of carrying out the rural road
development included in the Road Sector Program.
Section 3.02. ERA shall adequately maintain, or cause to be
adequately maintained:
(i) the primary, secondary and feeder roads included
in the Borrower's road network and the rural
roads included in Part C of the Project; and


﻿- 11 -
(ii) its road maintenance equipment and workshops;
and shall cause all necessary repairs and renewals thereof to
be made promptly as required, all in accordance with appropriate
road engineering standards and economic practices. For this
purpose, ERA shall assign the highest priority in the allocation
of its resources to the maintenance and rehabilitation of the
existing road network of the Borrower.
Section 3.03. ERA shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. In order to provide a basis for future road
planning, ERA shall continue to collect traffic statistics and
take such steps as may be agreed upon from time to time between
ERA and the Association for improving such traffic data collection.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) ERA shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition,
including separate records for expenditures for civil works
executed by force account and for which the Borrower has requested
withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(b) ERA shall, until one year after the Closing Date, retain
the separate records referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
and all such documents (orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
other documents) evidencing the expenditures referred to in said
paragraph as the Association shall reasonably request, and shall
enable the Association's accredited representatives to inspect
such records and documents.
Section 4.02. (a) ERA shall: (i) have its accounts and
financial statements (balance sheets, statements of income and
expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by the Auditor General of the Borrower or any other
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified


﻿- 13 -
copies of its financial statements for such year as so audited,
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
ERA and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
(b) ERA shall furnish to the Association all such informa-
tion concerning the separate records and the expenditures referred
to in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement, as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. ERA shall furnish to the Association, on a
quarterly basis, a report indicating for each subhead of ERA's
ordinary and capital budget: (i) amounts requested from the
Borrower; (ii) amounts received from the Borrower; and (iii)
amounts actually expended by ERA.


﻿- 14 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of ERA thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms; or
(ii) a date twenty-five years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
ERA of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 15 -
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For ERA:
Ethiopian Road Authority
P.O. Box 1770
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:                     Telex:
HIGHWAYS                           21180
Addis Ababa


﻿- 16 -
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of ERA may be taken or executed by the General
Manager of ERA or such other person or persons as the General
Manager shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. ERA shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of the person or persons who will, on behalf of ERA, take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by ERA pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 17 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Willi A. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa
ETHIOPIAN ROAD AUTHORITY
By /s/ Mohammed Hamid Ibrahim
Authorized Representative


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts B and E hereof, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   All civil works contracts shall be based on a unit price.
3.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, bidders
for civil works included in the Project shall be prequalified as
described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines. A period
of at least 60 days shall be allowed for submission of bids from
prequalified bidders. Bids shall be accompanied by a bid bond or
bank guarantee amounting to no less than 1% of the bid amount.
4.   The bidding documents for civil works shall meet, inter
alia, the following requirements:
(a) the successful bidder shall be required to furnish, at
his option, either a 100% performance bond or a bank guarantee
by an acceptable financial institution in an amount of 10% of the
contract price, which bond or guarantee shall remain in effect


﻿- 19 -
until the provisional acceptance certificate has been issued under
the terms of the contract; and
(b) the contract with the successful bidder shall contain
the following provisions:
(i) retention by ERA of 10% of the cost of works on
each monthly invoice up to a limit of 5% of the
contract sum; one-half of the retention monies
shall be released when the provisions1 acceptance
certificate has been issued, and the other half
after termination of the contractor's responsi-
bility in respect of defects; in lieu of such
retention the contractor may, at his option,
substitute a bank guarantee;
(ii) the warranty period during which the contractor
remains responsible in respect of defects in the
works (fair wear and tear excepted) shall extend
for one year after acceptance of the work; and
(iii) a provision for settlement of disputes acceptable
to the Borrower, ERA and the Association.
5.   ERA shall, before the award of any civil works contract, sub-
mit to the Association the proposed staffing plan for the super-
vision of construction under such contract, and no such contract
shall be awarded until the relevant staffing plan has been agreed
upon between the Association and ERA.


﻿- 20 -
6.   Identical or similar items of equipment will be grouped
together wherever practicable for the purposes of bidding and
procurement.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts for goods estimated to cost less than the
equivalent of $20,000 may be procured on the basis of competitive
local procedures acceptable to the Association; provided, however,
that the price of the contracts so procured shall, in the
aggregate, not exceed the equivalent of $200,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods; (ii)
customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and
sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to ERA of inland freight and other
expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of
their use or installation shall be included.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works; Preference
for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included under
Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1


﻿- 21 -
to the Development Credit Agreement and to be procured in
accordance with the procedures described in Part A. 1 of this
Schedule, ERA may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A. 3 of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification accepted by the Association, a
particular firm or group of firms qualifies for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the
preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by ERA,
responsive bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an
amount equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids
received under group (ii) above.


﻿- 22 -
E.   Procurement Without Contracting
Civil works under Part A of the Project may be carried out
by force account through ERA in accordance with the following
procedures:
(i) a Sub-project management team, headed by a Sub-project
manager acceptable to the Association and ERA
(hereinafter called the Sub-project Manager), will be
employed to supervise the execution of the works;
(ii) payment for works executed will be made on the basis
of a priced bill of quantities acceptable to the
Association and monthly measurement certificates,
certified by the Sub-project Manager;
(iii) the works will be carried out in accordance with an
agreed schedule of works; and
(iv) equipment to be used by ERA in force account
construction to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured, subject to the provisions of
Part B of this Schedule, on the basis of international
competitive bidding procedures consistent with the
Guidelines, and procurement decisions in respect of such
equipment shall be subject to review by the Association
as set forth in Parts F. 2 and 3 of this Schedule.


﻿- 23 -
F.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. ERA shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and, where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic
preference under Part D above and of the reasons for the exclusion
of any applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility
shall be furnished by ERA to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified of ERA's decision, and ERA
shall make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications
in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, ERA shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding,. and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿- 24 -
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, ERA shall,
before a final decision on the award is made, inform the Associa-
tion of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award the
contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time
for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, and such other information as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform ERA and state the
reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
ERA shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution


﻿- 25 -
and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform ERA and state the reasons for
such determination.


