Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 18488
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN 3302-IND)
October26, 1998
Rural Development and Natural Resources Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
1990 - $1 = 1845 at appraisal
1991 - $1 = 1950
1992 - $I =2030
1993 - $1 =2080
1994 - $1 =2160
1995 - $1 =2237
1996 - $1 =2372
1997 - $1=2980
1998 - $I = 9680 at ICR
FISCAL YEAR
April I - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB        -  Asian Development Bank
APBN       -  Central Govemment Budget
BAPPEDA  -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS -  National Development Planning Agency
BPKP       -  Financial and Development Supervisory Board
BPN        -  Badan Pertanaban Nasional - National Land Board
DAAD       -  Directorate of Agriculture Area Development (in DGFCA)
DGFCA      -  Directorate General of Food Corps Agriculture (in MOA)
DGRLR      -  Directorate General of Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation (in MOF)
DGWRD    -  Directorate General of Water Resources Development (in MPW)
DIP        -  Daftar Islan Proyek (development budget allocation)
DIPERTA   -  Provincial Agricultural Service
DOI-I&II   -  Directorates of Irrigation I and II (in DGWRD)
DPP        -  Directorates of Planning and Programming (in DGWRD an DGFCA)
DPU        -  Provincial Public Works
EOM        -  Efficient Operation and Maintenance
GOI        -  Government of Indonesia
ICR        -  Implementation Completion Report
INPRES    -  Revenue sharing grant programs from GOI to provincial, district and village authorities
ISF        -  Irrigation Service Fee
ISSP       -  Irrigation Subsector Project (Loan 2880-IND)
Kabupaten  -  Administrative District (headed by Bupati)
LC&D       -  Land Clearance and Development
LT&C       -  Land Titling and Certification
MHA        -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOA        -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF        -  Ministry of Forestry
MPW        -  Ministry of Public Works
O&M        -  Operation and Maintenance
OECF       -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
Palawija    -  Secondary food crops (grown mainly in dry season)
PBB        -  Property and Building Tax
PIADP      -  Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Development Project
PPL        -  Village level agricultural extension worker
PRIS       -  Provincial Water Resources Service
PROM       -  Preparation for Operation & Maintenance
Repelita    -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita V, 1989-94
SAR        -  Staff Appraisal Report
Sawah      -  Lowland rice fields
SID        -  Survey, Investigation and Design
SPIDP      -  Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2375-IND)
WUA        -  Water Users' Association (P3A)
Vice President                       Jean-Michel Severino, EAPVP
Sector Manager                       Geoffrey Fox, EASRD
Country Director                     Dennis de Tray, EACIF
Task Manager                         Christopher Konecki. EASRD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
PREFACE  .......................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................................ii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..................................
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND  DESCRIPTION                                 .       ............................1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ........................................                     2
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS
AFFECTING  THE PROJECT .....................................................3
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY ...................................................8
E. BANK  PERFORMANCE .....................................................8
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE .....................................................8
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME ...................................................9
H. KEY  LESSONS LEARNED  ...................................................9
PART  II: STATISTICAL  TABLES ..................................................... 12
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments ....................................................            12
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans/Credits ....................................................         13
Table 3:  Project Timetable ....................................................                 14
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual ............... 14
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation ..................................... 15
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation ................................                  16
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project ................................                           17
Table 8A: Project Costs ................................                                         18
Table 8B: Project Financing ................................                                    18
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits ..........................                                 19
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants ..........................                                  20
Table 11: Lack of Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ............. 21
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ....................................................... 21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions ........................................................         22
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR ............................ 23
ANNEX  B: ICR  MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE .................................................... 3 8
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S POST COMPLETION OPERATION PLAN ........ 50
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(LOAN 3302-IND)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Provincial Irrigated
Agriculture Development Project in Indonesia, for which Loan 3302-IND in the amount
of US$125.0 million equivalent was approved on March 14, 1991 and made effective on
June 24, 1991.
The loan was closed March 31, 1998, compared with the original closing date of
December 31, 1996. On December 14, 1994 and February 17, 1997, amounts of
US$20.5 and US$1.0 million were canceled from the loan. Final disbursement took place
on August 19, 1998, at which time a balance of US$9.23 million was canceled.
The ICR was prepared by a joint FAO/World Bank Cooperative Program' and
World Bank mission, finalized by Christopher Konecki (Task Team Leader, EASRD),
and reviewed by Mark Wilson and Theodore Herman, EASRD and Oscar de Bruyn Kops,
EACIQ.
Preparation of this ICR began during the final supervision mission in
February/March 1998. The ICR is based on materials in the project files, discussions
with staff and stakeholders involved with the project and data provided by the
implementing agencies. The implementing agencies contributed to the preparation of the
ICR by providing views reflected in the ICR mission Aide-Memoire, and by submitting a
consolidated final evaluation report on project implementation, associated project reports
and post completion operational plan.
lsee ICR Mission Aide-Memoire in Annex B



- 11 
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(LOAN 3302-IND)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.   Irrigation has absorbed a major part of Bank lending for Indonesian agriculture
over the past 25 years with loans/credits of some US$1.6 billion for 24 operations
preceding this project.  During this period the Bank supported: (a) rehabilitation,
modernization and construction of irrigation and drainage systems, a multi-purpose dam
and new development of tertiary canals, (b) institutional strengthening and manpower
development; and (c) policies to increase land tax revenues. More recently, Bank lending
was to improve operation and maintenance (O&M) of existing systems, assist turnover of
small public schemes to farmers' groups and introduce an irrigation service fee. Most of
the Bank's involvement has been on Java, where there is a long established tradition for
irrigated agriculture. This project aimed at improving irrigation performance in the Outer
Islands, where experience with irrigation is less developed.
Project Objectives
2.    The main objectives of the project were to:
(a)   complete and fully develop ongoing small and medium scale irrigation
schemes on the Outer Islands of Indonesia to achieve potential benefits
from irrigated agricultural development; and
(b)   assist development of institutional capacity to  enable improved
coordination of irrigation with agriculture and other related services.
3.    Covenants in the loan agreement required budgetary allocations for each fiscal
year that (a) provided financing to implement the respective Annual Provincial Project
Work Program agreed between the Borrower and the Bank; and (b) maintained in real
terms financing for nation-wide irrigation O&M at the FY90/91 level, and provided
incremental funding needed for efficient O&M. The project, due to its integrated
approach and dispersed location, was demanding on the technical, administrative and
managerial capacity of implementing agencies to deliver. It involved six agencies in 13
provinces outside of Java.
4.    The objectives, although reasonably clear, were over ambitious given the
complexities of an integrated approach and regional setting for the project. However, the



- iii -
objectives provided important support for the 1987 National Policy Statement on the
Irrigation Subsector, the Bank's country assistance strategy and GOI's intention to focus
on full agricultural development in the Outer Islands. In accordance with project design
criteria, programs were reduced by about 30% after screening. Despite the cited
challenges which could affect long term sustainability of the project's initiatives,
objectives were significantly achieved and results are shown in Table 5.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The project's main objective was mostly achieved through completion and
development of 109 schemes on about 183,000 ha to provide increased benefits from
agriculture and reduce poverty for some 140,000 rural families in the Outer Islands.
However, only 70% of the original target areas were implemented after the project was
scaled down due to soils suitability and water availability constraints. Overall, actual
impact on agricultural production is considered mostly satisfactory. The related objective
to assist development of improved institutional capacity for better planning, evaluation,
analysis and coordination of integrated projects was supported by adapting organizational
structures and providing facilities, services and training in each province. The project
also improved operational management and coordination capability among provincial
agencies, especially within the BAPPEDA offices.
6.    An implied objective of the project was to support sustainable irrigation in the
Outer Islands of Indonesia by ensuring that irrigation systems are maintained in
satisfactory operating condition through existing programs. In the light of the current
economic situation, shortfalls in public funding support are anticipated in the near future.
Considering these unforeseen pressures, sustainability of the project outcome is uncertain
and will largely depend on government's continued commitment to turning over to Water
User Associations (WJUAs) entire small schemes and up to secondary canals on larger
schemes. The role of government would then be to maintain head works and primary
canals with beneficiary contributions, and provide guidance to the WUAs. Pilot projects
to this effect are ongoing and are being considered nation-wide in recognition of the need
to rationalize government support of infrastructure maintenance costs.
7.    The total cost of the project was about US$138 million (Rp318 billion), some
65% of the US$215.4 million SAR estimate despite currency fluctuations and
restructuring. Approximately US$94.3 million has been disbursed out of a total loan of
US$125.0 million and about US$30.7 million has been canceled. The project was 70%
completed after reduction in scope and the loan closing date was extended by 21 months.
The economic rate of return has been estimated at 14.2%, compared to 17.5% at appraisal
and 16.1% by the interim scheme performance evaluation. The rates of return varied
considerably by region, ranging from 21.9% for Sulawesi to -4.3% for Kalimantan sub-
project schemes (para. 32. and Table 9). The lower than expected overall rate of return is
due to increased unit costs for farming inputs, indirect costs (increased overhead and
reduced project scope), slower utilization of newly developed lands and reluctance by
farmers to abandon increasingly profitable tree crops.



- iv-
8.    Key factors which negatively affected achievement of major objectives are cited
in Section C and include: (a) rising goods and services unit rates and costs of inputs, due
to the Asian financial crisis, unforeseen during implementation, will negatively affect
agricultural production and O&M of the irrigation systems; (b) constraints due to soils
suitability and irrigation water availability necessitated a downsizing of the project;
(c) several natural disasters which damaged irrigation infrastructure and caused an
increase in overall construction costs; and (d) project start-up delays due to weak initial
central coordination and management, and late appointment of TA consultants combined
with insufficient and late budget releases.
9.    The Bank consistently supported project objectives and was flexible on program
changes by deleting and adding project elements as appropriate. As the supervision task
was managed from the Resident Mission, the Bank was able to provide the needed
follow-up and client liaison in addition to regular supervision missions. In late 1993, the
shift in responsibilities for project coordination to DGWRD from BAPPENAS provided
more efficient and effective arrangements and improved performance. The Borrower
generally complied with the covenants of the loan agreement. The overall outcome of the
project is therefore rated as mostly satisfactory.
Summary of Findings and Key Lessons Learned for Future Operations
10.   Main findings are that; (a) centrally managed projects which are complex and
demanding on the Bank and Borrower, can be more successfully implemented with good
coordination and management at lower government levels and if both parties are flexible
in adjusting objective targets to institutional capacity; (b) the Borrower and Bank inter-
action can be more effective if there is supervision support from the Resident Mission;
(c) quality controls and assurance must continue to be rigorously pursued by project
management, as most construction quality deficiencies are due to non-compliance with
existing specifications and standards; (d) although improved farm practices have been
introduced under the project, adoption has been slow due to constraints of credit access,
supply  and  distribution,  conmmunications  and/or  perceived  non-profitability;
(e) settlement activities should not have been part of the project prior to preparatory area
development; and (f) management information requirements should be kept separate from
data requirements for project assessment.
11.  Improving operation and maintenance and ensuring project sustainability of
irrigation systems requires increased Borrower commitment. The sustainability of future
operations could be improved by assigning more responsibility to users in addition to
their present responsibility for tertiary system operation. User responsibility for
secondary systems should be proposed on a larger scale than is now undertaken. Funding
of primary system operation and maintenance should be enhanced by improving
efficiency in collection of water delivery fees (ISF or similar) and greater accountability
by local agencies for the performance of O&M services and reliable irrigation water
delivery and by farmers for improved on farm water management practices.



v 
12.   Lessons for future projects include: (a) chances for satisfactory project outcome
improve if responsibility for project preparation and implementation is delegated to the
provinces and technical assistance is placed at that level; (b) with increased demand and
increased scarcity, future water related projects should continue to emphasize water use
efficiency; (c) the role of village organizations should be enhanced to leverage farmers
land holdings in accessing credit facilities and to avoid farm input supply shortages; and
(d) projects with widely dispersed target areas should adopt flexible implementation
criteria, area specific benefits analyses and performance indicators which reflect regional
agronomic, cultural and economic diversities.



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
(LOAN 3302-IND)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The project was designed to complement and strengthen the Bank's strategy to
support the Government's objectives in the agriculture sector of sustained growth and
reduction of rural poverty, increased productive employment opportunities in rural areas
and a more balanced regional growth pattern. The project was part of a long-term
program to support the goals outlined in the Government's policy statement for the
irrigation subsector as well as Government policies on decentralization of activities
related to operation and maintenance (O&M).
2.    The main objectives of the project were to:
(a)   complete and fully develop ongoing small and medium scale irrigation
schemes on the Outer Islands of Indonesia to achieve potential benefits
from irrigated agricultural development; and
(b)   assist development of institutional capacity to enable improved
coordination of irrigation with agriculture and other related services.
3.   In support of these objectives the project provided financing for making fully
functional 109 selected and screened schemes, under 8 components namely: (a) surveys,
investigations and design; (b) completion of irrigation works and preparation for
operation and maintenance (PROM); (c) land clearing and development (LC&D);
(d) agricultural development activities including a downstream support program (DSP)
and a seed production program; (e) land titling and certification (LT&C);
(f) environmental protection including forest survey and erosion control; (g) settlement;
and (h) coordination and management of irrigated agricultural development.
4.    The objectives, although reasonably clear, were over ambitious given the
complexities of an integrated approach and regional setting for the project. However, the
project objectives were important in providing continuity for the 1987 National Policy
Statement on the Irrigation Subsector, particularly the GOI expressed intention of
focusing on full agricultural development in the Outer Islands. The objectives support



-2 -
the Government goal of sustained, regionally distributed growth, poverty reduction and
employment opportunity. The project's broad scope was very demanding for the
implementing agencies in terms of administrative and operational management capacity
requirement, involving six agencies at national and provincial level. Project formulation
followed an innovative approach whereby a large investment decision was based on
limited detailed project preparation material, covering only about ten percent of the
investment. The approach was largely programmatic (whereby a screening framework
was provided to determine final scope) with recognized associated risks and uncertainties
at appraisal involving   170 candidate irrigation schemes in 13 provinces.  The
programmatic approach adopted a standardized screening framework and categorization
process to confirm that candidate schemes matched project objectives. Considering these
risk factors together with the inherent complexity of an integrated approach, standardized
methodology, socio-economic diversity and widely dispersed project locations off Java,
the outcome has been mostly satisfactory.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The project has been mostly successful in achieving its main objectives by:
(a) completing and fully developing 109 incomplete small and medium scale irrigation
schemes on the outer islands of Indonesia to achieve the potential benefits from irrigated
agriculture development with an estimated ERR of 14.2%; and (b) improving the
institutional capacity, in most project provinces, for successful coordination of irrigation
with agriculture and other related services. This success was recognized through the
adoption of the organizational arrangements for coordination by other operations.
6.    The impact of completing and fully developing irrigation schemes has been
substantial. At appraisal, some 170 schemes in 13 provinces proposed by Government
were pre-screened and categorized to confirm that they matched the project objectives.
Subsequently, some 131 schemes were included under the project, with the potential to
serve about 273,000 ha. Of these, about 146,800 ha were estimated to be newly
developed functional area. Following surveys and design and through further screening
during the first two years of the project it turned out that only 109 schemes in 12
provinces covering 182,900 ha, or about 70% of target were suitable for implementation.
This area comprises 94,500 ha of originally functional area and 73,200 ha of newly
functional area (about 50% of appraisal target). The relative reduction of new area can be
attributed to soils and water availability constraints in the remaining schemes, thus
limiting their potential for extension. This information was not available during the
appraisal of the project.
7.    The overall impact of the project in terms of increased agricultural production
compared to appraisal estimates has been partial, as: (a) only about 70% of the original
target area could be implemented with about 50% of target newly developed land; (b)
cropping intensities are expected to increase to 1.6 rather than the 1.8 estimated at
appraisal; (c) the yields are expected to increase by about 0.5 ton/ha/crop which is in line
with estimates; (d) this would result in an incremental paddy production of about half the



-3-
original estimate; and (e) benefit about 140,000 farm families or 60% of the appraisal
estimate. The net result of these changes is an anticipated increase of about 30% in
average income of directly benefiting farmers. In retrospect, the appraisal estimates were
enthusiastically optimistic and could not be fully realized. The actual overall impact on
agricultural production is rated mostly satisfactory and, being based on newly available
site-specific data, is considered more representative than the appraisal estimates and
targets.
8.    The institutional aspects of the project design emphasized assistance in making
provincial coordination effective rather than institution building. This related objective
was to strengthen capability in provinces to coordinate multi-disciplinary project
activities through organizational arrangements and provision of support for administrative
costs, vehicles, equipment and training for BAPPEDA, PRIS and PRAS staff. In addition
the Bank agreed to fund continuation of the BIPOWERED technical skills development
program. Improvement in coordination of activities, particularly between DGFCH and
DGWRD at all levels, has been substantial. After initial provincial level reluctance,
regular coordination meetings were implemented to discuss project programs and related
issues. At provincial level, BAPPEDA showed positive overall commitment and played
a key role during the verification and handing over process. Capability to undertake
technical analyses and economic evaluation was strengthened in the provinces through
hands-on-training and consultants support. The project has made valuable and lasting
contributions to strengthening of coordination capacity in provincial agencies, especially
the BAPPEDA offices.  With the exception of Ministry of Forestry, all agencies
participated and cooperated fully in the promotion of effective coordination practices.
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
9.    The loan was approved in March 1991, became effective in June 1991 and closed
on March 31, 1998, being extended by 21 months past the original closing date of June
30, 1996. Implementation observations for each component and major factors affecting
the project are presented in the following paragraphs.
10.   Surveys, Investigations and Design (SID) activities have been adequate during
screening and preparation of the project, but require continued development in the area of
technical rigor and quality assurance. Total expenditure for this component totalled Rp.
11.4 billion or nearly 3% of the project cost. Work included technical investigations for
some 80 schemes, economic evaluation for about 60 schemes, detailed design of
irrigation for about 52,000 ha, land development design for about 38,000 ha in 45
schemes, as well as controlled drainage and soil toxicity studies. The screening process
resulted in the rejection of some 20 deferred schemes and a sizable reduction of the
proposed extension areas in the 'go-ahead' schemes. From a total of 170 candidate
schemes, the list was reduced to 131 at appraisal of which 110 schemes remained
following a subsequent change in scope.



-4 -
I.   Completion of Irrigation Works involving construction was generally  of
acceptable quality. The project was reduced in scope from 129 schemes to 108 or about
70% of the original with total expenditure of some Rp. 161 billion or about 50% of
project cost. The 108 completed schemes comprised command areas of some 184,000 ha
with about 81, 000 ha of tertiary development. Shortcomings were observed in the
remotely located schemes, and were often due to quality assurance deficiencies in
construction supervision and contractor capabilities. Response by the Borrower to
quality and supervision concerns was positive. However, there is an identified need to
further develop professional capacity and accountability in the provinces. Following
construction, preparation for O&M turn-over activities (PROM) provided staff and WIUA
training, manuals, equipment and transitional O&M support for some 90 schemes.
12.   The Land Clearing &Development (LC&D) component completed activities on
some 24,000 ha in 59 schemes at a cost of about Rp 39 billion or roughly 13% of total
expenditure. Initially under DGFCH control, it was transferred to DGWRD in 1993 after
merging the land leveling with tertiary system, farm road planning, design and
construction activities. DGFCH remained responsible for socio-economic investigations
to ensure that land conversion and development was done with the full consent of the
farmers. The quality of land clearing was initially, but improved in the later project
years, when new guidelines were developed ensuring acceptable profit margins for
contractors. The new contract guidelines were successfully adopted at national level.
Another positive outcome was the introduction of farm roads in larger project schemes.
Farmers voluntarily donated their land and were very satisfied with the improved access,
resulting in a shorter crop cycle, less field losses, and lower costs of transport.
13.   Agricultural Development activities had a notable impact on productivity in spite
of diminutive project budget allocations and Rp 12 billion or 4% of total expenditure.
Seed farms were established in all 13 locations. Seed certification programs extended to
about 5,000 ha, roughly four times more than planned. Over 700 demonstration plots of
0.1 ha each and over 900 of 1.0 ha were established. This effort shifted towards
providing about 200 larger demonstration areas of 25 ha each, which were more cost
efficient and operationally effective for community oriented demonstration of diversified
agriculture and farming methods. In addition to the program proposed at appraisal, new
activities have been introduced to support agricultural development in problem areas,
namely crop management and farming systems, crop trials in newly developed areas and
controlled drainage demonstrations in deep peat areas.
14.   Land Titling and Certification (LT&C) program implementation achieved a high
level of success with about 192,000 land titles and over 186, 000 land certificates issued
or some 90% compared the revised target of 211, 000 parcels. The program provided
BPN with opportunity to advance the usage of aerial photo mapping technology and
improve operational efficiency and effectiveness. BPN technical and management staff
responding to the completion schedules, provided the needed commitment towards
achieving the results. The results of the BPN work provides opportunity for farmers and
WUAs to leverage landholdings to access much needed rural credit.



-5-
15.   Environmental Protection component activities outlined in the SAR have not been
fully implemented. Approximately less than 0.5% of the project expenditure was
allocated and spent in providing soil erosion surveys on about 18,000 ha in 40 schemes
and inventory surveys on some 540,000ha in 52 out of 108 schemes. Activities
anticipated at appraisal turned out of lesser scope and urgency than anticipated and in
some instances could not be practically and effectively delivered . In particular, the
completed catchment area inventory surveys, made available an important vehicle to
implement and foster soil conservation initiatives in degraded watersheds, but the
Ministry of Forestry did not provide the necessary inputs. Main constraints to successful
implementation were dispersed project sites and institutional capacity of responsible GOI
agencies.
16.   Settlement component activities, at appraisal, included five candidate schemes
with a limit of 1,400 families needed to fully utilize the planned facilities. However, in
the period between appraisal and actual planning and implementation, all available land
was settled by local people through spontaneous migration. Government then proposed
settlement in one additional under-populated scheme and 200 households were brought in
from Java. Once again the local population spontaneously occupied the developed land
and some of the newly arrived families settled in an area which was subject to flooding
and requiring extensive measures to protect. Land ownership became contentious under
adat or local law. Subsequently, some newly arrived families sought local employment
opportunities and since, about 65-70% have sold their holdings and returned to Java. In
retrospect, settlement activities should not have been included in the project and the
critical risks recognized and mitigated during preparation.
17.  Institutional Support was designed for and focussed on improved coordination.
The work extended to include the delivery of workshops and seminars, specialized
technical training, international comparative study tours for BAPPEDA, PRIS and PRAS
officials and funding for the performance monitoring program. The Special Study
Program for Water Resources Development (known as BIPOWERED) at the Institute of
Technology in Bandung was also supported for three years and contributed significantly
to the technical know-how in this field in Indonesia. The Bank agreed to reallocate loan
proceeds to support the program after the cessation of Dutch grant funds by GOI in 1992.
In addition, the PROM activities on some 90 schemes assisted in developing about 660
active WUAs and establishing 250 more compared to about 200 active ones at the start.
18.   Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) initiatives namely, the Scheme Performance
Evaluation Program (SPEP) and the Interim Scheme Performance Evaluation (ISPE),
formed the basis for updating the economic benefits. SPEP included extensive survey
work in 15 schemes during 1996-97; collecting relatively reliable site-specific data on
land use and cropping patterns, crop yields, production practices, perceived constraints,
income sources, among others. On this basis, sample data was correlated with the project-
wide data base (collected by PRAS & PRIS) to develop, what is viewed as somewhat
more reliable, comprehensive, and consistent data base for all PIADP schemes. ISPE was
an attempt to consolidate the basic economic data on all 109 schemes and generate an



-6 -
expost ERR estimate using both existing and projected estimates of cropping patterns,
crop yields, production practices, and prices. The focus of this work was to derive ERR
estimates (16.9%) which may then be compared with those in the SAR (17.5%) so the
economic efficiency of the PIADP, as it was actually implemented, can be more easily
assessed.
19.   Three sets of factors affected implementation performance. First, factors not
generally subject to government control including: (a) rising commodity prices due to the
Asian financial crisis; and (b) natural disasters including earthquakes, floods and droughts
(El Nino effect). Second, factors subject to government control including: (a) during the
first project years, weak central coordination and management combined with insufficient
budget and late release of it; (b) lack of experience and control on implementation and
budget for environmental activities; and (c) lack of management and supervision in the
settlement component. Third, factors subject to agencies control including: (a) slowdown
in implementation due to reorganization of lead implementing agency; (b) late start of
implementation consultants; (c) flaws in investigations and design; and (d) late start of
monitoring and evaluation. These factors are discussed in some detail below.
Factors not Subject to Government Control
20.   The Asian financial crisis came at the end of the project period and therefore had
little effect on implementation. However, the unsettling and lasting effects of the national
financial/economic instability will undoubtedly affect productivity and sustainability
levels, at least during the next few years. In particular, the rising costs of farm inputs will
negatively impact agricultural production. Anticipated budget shortages will be a likely
cause for insufficient operation and maintenance inputs for irrigation systems, thus
further decrease scheme efficiencies and agricultural output.
21.   During the course of project implementation, several natural and catastrophic
events occurred causing damage to irrigation infrastructure. Some major weirs were
completely or partially destroyed and excessive sediment transport clogged irrigation
canals. Reconstruction of these weirs and additional canal rehabilitation has increased
the overall project costs. It is to be expected that similar events will happen in future and
special emergency funding should remain a priority of provincial and central government.
Factors Subject to Government Control
22.   Government counterpart funding was delayed pending project effectiveness,
causing several months delay in start-up activities. Central project coordination and
management remained weak during the first two years of implementation and consultants
were appointed very late. This caused difficulty in preparing acceptable integrated annual
work plans, related cost estimates and budget requirements. Late approval of the work
plans resulted in late budget release and slow cash flows.
23.   An attempt was made during the first two project years to carry out the
environmental assessment studies as required. However, the results were marginally



-7-
satisfactory due to the inexperience of local consulting firms and the lack of follow-up by
the central Ministry of Forestry to implement conservation measures. Inexperience, lack
of focus and funding levels under the loan and national budget are perceived as the main
factors affecting the outcome. Almost all activities under the Ministry of Forests were
unsatisfactorily performed or incomplete.
24.   Settlement activities depended on the successful determination of viability using
social, technical and technical economic parameters, including spontaneous
transmigration, land suitability and availability of irrigation infrastructure. Ministry of
Transmigration was largely responsible for the implementation and did not provide
reliable site selection inputs and implementation supervision. Government policy had
little influence in the land ownership and population migration issues in the project.
Factors Subject to Agencies' Control
25.   Project coordination and management improved significantly in mid 1993, with
the establishment of a three level coordination structure and daily representation of the
key implementing agencies, with the Director of Planning of DGWRD entrusted with day
to day management. However, overall reorganization of DGWRD in 1994 disrupted
smooth project implementation with slowdown of activities in 1994/95, causing many to
be carried over to 1995/96. Fortunately coordination at the provincial level improved
much faster and after an adjustment period, the groundwork was laid for an exemplary
and successful inter-agency coordination, led by BAPPEDA, which has been retained and
adopted by several provinces in the implementation of other projects.
26.   The appointment of the main project implementation consultant was delayed. The
Bank rejected the tender evaluation which did not follow the agreed methodology.
Consultants mobilized more than one year behind schedule and provided assistance in
scheme preparation, including surveys, design and implementation of individual schemes.
They were very helpful to the Borrower and the Bank in monitoring project
implementation progress, including the annual work programs.
27.   Shortcomings in SID have caused undesirable results in several project schemes..
Main factors are occurrence of peat, sandy and toxic soils and lack of reliable
hydrological data, causing reduced agricultural production. The over-optimistic irrigation
efficiency criterion used by DGWRD has resulted in water shortage and under irrigation
at the far reaches of several schemes. Standard designs for water distribution and
regulation gates proved too sophisticated for use in the outer islands.
28.  It was agreed that monitoring and evaluation (M&E) would be given special
attention by the project agencies, given under-achievement in previous Bank supported
projects in the sector. However, in the early stages, improvement was marginal due to
counterpart funding shortages and staffing changes. In later stages, the Bank agreed to
make Loan funding available and efforts continued to develop an adequate M&E system.



-8 -
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
29.   An implied goal of the project was to make irrigation in the outer islands of
Indonesia more sustainable by ensuring that irrigation systems are maintained in full
operating condition. However, the unforeseen economic and monetary crisis, will greatly
reduce availability of sufficient government funded operations support in the immediate
years ahead. Project sustainability is therefore judged as uncertain, being less certain in
the short term and in future dependent largely on government commitment to implement
the actions as agreed and indicated in the attached post loan period Operational Plan.
Government plans to turn over the smaller schemes under 500 ha to WUAs, including
most secondary irrigation canals of the larger schemes. The Bank has supported turn-over
and self-sufficiency and resource management initiatives under this and other loan
projects. These Bank commitments should continue in the direction of institutional
reforms towards integrated water resources management and reducing the dependence on
public sector support of irrigation infrastructure. The role of government would be
limited to maintaining primary structures and canal systems as well as providing
guidance to the WUAs. Pilot projects of this nature are ongoing or are being planned
nation-wide. The collection of ISF or similar beneficiary contributions are being sought
for maintenance of secondary and main systems. Provided that such turn-over and cost
recovery can be realized within the next few years, which seems feasible given the sector
reform initiatives, there is optimism that most rehabilitated schemes will be maintained in
a self-sufficient manner. However, the farmer managed systems will require technical
and financial assistance from government when major or emergency repairs are
necessary.
E.  BANK PERFORMANCE
30.   The Bank consistently supported project objectives, innovative design and
integrated methodology during the preparation stages. During implementation the Bank
was flexible on program revisions to support adapting to diverse project needs. However,
the ambitiously appraised project was complex to manage and required extensive
supervision effort. Appraisal assumptions and uniform criteria for benefit predictions, in
the areas of agricultural production improvements, O&M sustainability and institutional
capacity to implement, have been overly optimistic. The supervision task was managed
from the  Resident Mission in Jakarta until 1996. This provided, in addition to the
regular supervision missions, opportunities for regular follow-up and client liaison. The
regular interactions made possible the successful inter-agency communications and
coordination arrangement which was adopted by other projects.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
31.   Project preparation was based on work by consultants employed by the borrower.
It took more than one year to procure the implementation consultant, causing a delay in
project start-up. In the early project years, there was insufficient budget allocation, late
budget release and administrative constraints. In the later stages, implementation



-9 -
performance improved considerably in particular the planning, design and construction of
civil works, the agricultural down stream program and the preparation of title deeds.
Until late 1993, BAPPENAS was the agency responsible for project coordination.
Subsequent delegation of responsibilities to DGWRD provided a more feasible and
effective arrangement and improved performance. Reorganization of DGWRD in 1994
disrupted smooth project implementation for some time. The activities performed by
Ministry of Forestry were often delayed and incomplete. Monitoring and evaluation
programs required additional Bank funding to support continued performance.
Implementation consultants employed by the borrower have, in general, performed
satisfactorily and provided good assistance and project implementation records. The
borrower generally complied well with the covenants of the loan agreement.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
32.   The outcome of the project has been rated mostly satisfactory as it achieved most
of its major objectives. The ERR for the overall project is re-estimated at 14.2%,
compared to 17.5% at appraisal. At the same time, this aggregate economic assessment
obscures the diverse social/cutural setting, structure, and performance of the 109
independent irrigation schemes funded under the project. About half the schemes (mostly
in Sulawesi) covering nearly three-quarters of the project area are generating good to
excellent rates of return, whilst an almost equal number of schemes (mostly in Sumatra,
with the exception of West and South Sumatra, and Kalimantan) on about one quarter of
the project area, generate a marginal to poor economic rate of return (Table9). Lower
rates of return are generally due to higher unit costs of inputs (especially overhead),
slower than expected use of newly developed land, a reluctance to switch out of relatively
profitable tree crops, and relatively low cropping intensities in the newly expanded
command area. The main reasons cited are insufficient or unreliable irrigation water
supply, other sources of income are more profitable, and that working capital and labor
constraints prevail. In particular, the lower ERRs in Sumatra may be partly due to the
occurrence of high rainfall, starting from a high agricultural production base and thus
limiting incremental benefits. In summary the variability of outcomes reflect the diverse
project setting. Expectations should be aligned with such anticipated regional disparities.
H. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
33.   The project provided the Bank and the Borrower with a number of lessons. These
include:
(a)   Centrally managed projects that are complex and demanding on the Bank
and Borrower, in terms of location and administration, can be more
successfully implemented with good coordination and management at
lower level of government, and both parties are flexible in adjusting
targets to institutional capacity. Implicitly project outcome improves as
responsibility and capability is established in the provinces. Projects



- 10 -
should continue to be designed in a inter-disciplinary manner, thus
encouraging and mandating inter-agency cooperation.
(b)   Integrated approaches to implementation require sustained  inter-action
between Borrower and Bank and among executing agencies. Decisions on
implementation management issues can be resolved in a mutually
acceptable and efficient manner. Such client inter-action may be
effectively established with supervision support from the Bank Resident
Mission.
(c)   There is a very strong correlation between unit cost of planned
interventions and their profitability. This basic screening criterion is a
simple and cost effective, pre-feasibility stage, management tool for
ranking target areas.
(d)   Comparative profitability is also an important selection criterion and
should be considered because farmers will employ it to decide on the
cropping patterns and degree of diversification. Thus a project supporting
a policy which favors rice production over already productive tree crops
will be less successful.
(e)   Future projects in this sector should continue to emphasize increased water
use efficiencies through improved O&M and on farm water management.
With increased demand and scarcity, the supplementation strategy must
eventually give way to the efficiency strategy, especially if a is
strictly"user-pays" policy is adhered to. This is particularly true where
existing water use efficiencies are low.
(f)    Future project design should be more adaptable and area specific. Broad
geographic distribution of project areas produced varying success in
implementing the rather standardized elements. Integrating irrigation with
diversified agriculture should account for a range of sensitive local
conditions. Adaptation is important in engineering and agronomic
considerations. It is necessary to reflect local agronomic, social/cultural
and economic conditions.
(g)   A major reorganization of a large Directorate such as DGWRD can be
expected to cause considerable disruption in the smooth running of
projects and programs under its control. Work plan adjustment is required
to compensate for structural adjustment and organizational change.
(h)   Quality control and assurance must continue to be rigorously pursued by
project management. Most construction quality deficiencies are due to
lack of compliance with existing construction specifications and standards;
there is a need to establish additional  accountability.  Activities
undertaken by local consulting firms needs more guidance and control by



experienced technical agency staff. There is a need for further developing
capacity of local consultants and contractors.
(i)   Improving operation and maintenance and ensuring sustainability of
irrigation systems requires further review. Assigning still more O&M
responsibility to the system users, in addition to tertiary system alone, and
handing over responsibility for secondary systems should be tried out on a
larger scale. Successful ongoing pilot programs on Java should be
replicated and adapted on the Outer Islands. Funding of primary system
operation and maintenance would be enhanced by improving efficiency
and incentive in collection of 1SF or similar water delivery fees, with
emphasis on the accountability-transparency-local responsibility ethic.
(j)    Although improved farm practices have been introduced under the project,
these were not fully adopted during the project period. This is attributed
to credit constraints, supply-distribution constraints and communications
constraints and/ or perceived non-profitability. Future project must focus
on reducing such constraints by supporting the strengthening or modifying
the key institutions and presently involved in the input-delivery system,
and leveraging landholdings to access credit through further land titling
and certification initiatives.
(k)   Settlement activities should not have been part of the project, prior to
preparatory area development, including land clearing and development
and improved infrastructure. Too many a priori developmental elements
were involved to reasonably assure success in implementation.
(1)    Management information requirements (including monitoring) should be
kept separate from project assessment data requirements if administrative
capabilities are limited. Evaluation can be successfully conducted by a
dedicated independent team using adequate baseline data and follow-up.



-12-
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial      Partial       Negligible     Not applicable
Macro Policies                O               O               O                V
Sector Policies               O               / V             0
Financial Objectives          V0                              0                0
Institutional Development     V               0               0                0
Physical Objectives           00                                               0
Poverty Reduction             V0                              0                0
Gender Issues                 O0                              V                El
Other Social Objectives       Ol              0               O                /
Environmental Objectives      O               0               V/               0
Public Sector                 o               V
Management
Private Sector                E               O               O                V
Development
Other (specify)               0               O               0                E
B. Project Sustainability       Likely                 Unlikely                Uncertain
(V/)                    (V/)                     (V)
03                      0                        V
Highly
C. Bank Performance              satisfactory         Satisfactory              Deficient
(V)                    (V)                      (V)
Identification                0                       V                        0
Preparation Assistance        O                       V                        0 
Appraisal                     O                       V                        O
Supervision                   O                       V                        O
Highly satisfactory     Satisfactory              Deficient
D. Borrower Performance           (V)                     (V)                     (V)
Preparation                     E                      V                        0
Implementation                  0                                               El
Covenant Compliance             O                      V                        O
Operation (if applicable)       E                                               El
Highly                                          Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome         satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory    unsatisfactory
(V)            (I) (V)                          (V)
Ol             V               O                El



- 13 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS
Year of
Loan/Credit Title                   Purpose              Approval          Status
Preceding operations:
1.  Seventeenth Irrigation (East  Improve farm incomes through     1982         PCR 1992
Java Province) Project       irrigation rehabilitation;
(Loan 2119-IND)              irrigation survey and design.
2.  Central and West Java Irrigation  Improving capacity and       1986         PCR 1994
Project (Loan 3392-IND)      efficiency of PRIS.
3.  Irrigation Subsector Project  Efficient O&M; introduction of   1987         PPAR 1995
(Loan 2880-IND)              ISF; completion of schemes;
TA and training.
4. MPW Institutional Development  Evaluate Ministry's MIS and      1989          ICR 1997
and Training Project          provide staff training.
(Loan 3112-IND)
Following operations:
1. Irrigation Subsector II (O&M)    Strengthening cost recovery;   1991          ICR 1996
Project (Loan 3392-IND)      efficient O&M; turn over small
schemes; support institutional
development, incl. river basin
planning.
2. Groundwater Development        Develop groundwater in less      1993        In progress.
Project (Loan 3588-IND)      developed regions; promote
multipurpose use.
3. Dam Safety Project             Reduce risk of dam failure.      1994        In progress.
(Loan 3742-IND)
4. Integrated Swamp Development  Reduce poverty; help coastal      1994         In progress.
Project (Loan 3755-IND)       zone management.
5. Java Irrigation Improvement and  Foster water resources         1994        In progress.
Water Resources Management    management; efficient O&M;
Project (Loan 3762-IND)       expand ISF; privatize small
schemes; construction of
irrigation works.



- 14 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date           Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle                    Planned         Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)               N/A.            June 19, 1989
Preparation                                               N/A.          Sept./Oct. 1989
Pre-Appraisal                                             N/A.          Jan./Feb. 1990
Appraisal                                              May 1990         May/June 1990
Negotiations                                        November 1990    Feb. 4-8, 1991
Board presentation                                    January 1991      March 14, 1991
Signing                                                  N/A.            May 3, 1991
Effectiveness                                         March 1991        June 24, 1991
Mid-term review                                          N/A.             June 1994
Project completion                                   June 30, 1996     March 31, 1998
Loan closing                                          October 31,        July 31, 1998
1996       11
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ thousands)
FY91   FY92       FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96    FY97    FY98
Appraisal estimate        4,400      19,300  44,100  67,700  92,100   118,200   125,000  125,000
Actual                    7,000'     9,800   17,600  36,800  61,900    80,300    90,240   94,2702
Actual as % of estimate    159          51      40       54      67       68        72      75
Date of final             August  19, 1998
disbursement
'Including Special Account of US$7.0 million.
2 US$20.5 and US$1.0 million were canceled from the loan in December 1994 and February 1997 respectively. An additional US$9.2 million
was canceled on March 31, 1998, the loan closing date.



- 15 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
I. Key implementation indicators in   Unit    Estimated       Actual
SAR/President's Report
Target Command Area                        ha         273,000       182,900
Existing Functional Area (net irrigable)   ha          126,200       94,500
Target New Functional Area                 ha          146,800       73,200
Completion of Irrigation work
Civil Works of main system              schemes          131           110
Tertiary development                      ha            N/A.        64,300
Tertiary rehabilitation                   ha               0        16,300
PROM                                    schemes          131           110
Land Clearing and Development
Land clearing                             ha          27,000        24,100
Land development                          ha          41,170        20,400
Sawah rehabilitation                      ha               0        12,400
Agricultural Development (Downstream
Program)                                  unit            200           198
Verification trial                       unit          6,000           688
Demonstration plot 0.1 ha                unit           1,500          934
Demonstration plot 1.0 ha                unit              0           214
Demonstration Farm 5.0 ha                unit              0           204
Demonstration Area 25.0 ha               unit              5            13
Seed Farm                                 ha            1,200        5,130
Seed Certification                      persons        14,350        7,664
Training in class
Land Titling and Certificate
Land Certification                        ha         227,900       114,000
Environmental Protection
Micro survey/Field orientation            ha                        28,200
Forest inventory                          ha          41,200             0
S/V logging                               ha          41,200             0
Soil erosion control survey               ha          41,200        17,600
Boundary survey                           ha          41,200             0
Inventory survey in Catchment areas       ha            N/A.       537,000
Transmigration
Settlement                             families         1,400          450
Institutional Support                    province          13            13
Training                                province          13            13
Equipment and Facilities



- 16 -
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
Key Operating Indicators in SAR           Estimated            Actual !
0 & M Budget (Rp.1997)                Rp 40,000/ha/year   Rp 15,000/ha/yr (est.)
Paddy Yield Change (10 yrs.)           0.5 tons/ha./crop    0.5 tons/ha./crop
Field Yield Potential                      1.0 ton             1.13 ton 2/
Increase in Irrigated Area/yr (ha)        111,510 3            94,277 A'
Resulting Cropping Intensity (total)      150-175%               147%
Result. Crop Intensity (command area)     175-200%               159%
Increase in Use of Improved Varieties       N/A.                 60%
Increase in Use of Fertilizers (all areas)  40%                  20%
Increase in Knowledge of IPM                N/A.                 40%
Ten-year expectation based on current performance indicators.
' The difference between "average" and "good" paddy yields. (1997 SPEP Survey)
3 159,300 x 70% to reflect realized project scale.
4' Command area x cropping intensities. Potential at CI =2= 163,375 ha..



- 17-
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Purpose as defined
Study                  at appraisal/redefined          Status         Impact of Study
1 Technical and Economic Evaluate and confirm the command area  Completed  Reinstated 76 deferred
Feasibility Study     and scope of each deferred scheme                  schemes to go-ahead and
dropped 19 deferred
schemes
2 Soil Survey           Assess land capability for irrigated paddy    Completed  Input to the above
and demarcate possible LC&D areas for 12          Feasibility Study
deferred schemes
3 Hydrological Analysis   Assess available water source, water  Completed  Input to the above
requirement and possible cropping intensity        Feasibility Study
for irrigation of 80 deferred schemes
4 Environmental Impact  Detailed environmental study (SEL) for 8    Completed  Input to the above
Study                 deferred schemes                                  Feasibility Study
Preliminary environmental study (PEL) for  Completed  Input the above Feasibility
3 deferred schemes                                Study
5 Overall LC&D Program  Thorough review of LC&D program at     Completed  Updating Coordinated Work
appraisal                                         Program and Cost Estimate
6 Overall Downstream    Thorough review of DSP at appraisal    Completed  Updating Coordinated Work
Program (DSP) for                                                        Program and Cost Estimate
Agriculture                                                              on need basis
Development
7 Study for Muko-Muko   Formulate agriculture development plan  Completed  Basis of the development of
Kiri scheme           and drainage water management plan in             the deep peat soil area in
deep peat soil area                               Muko-Muko Kiri scheme
8 Additional Soil and   Formulate agriculture development plan of  Completed  Basis of further development
Agro-economic Survey  the problem soil in 4 schemes in Riau             plan
9 Scheme Performance   luate the economic performance of the   Completed  Final project evaluation
Evaluation            PIADP schemes in terms of cost-benefit
and diagnose main water supply/
_  management and socio-economic factors



- 18-
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate (US$ m)            Actual/latest estimate (US$ m)
Item                Local costs    Foreign costs   Total    Local costs    Foreign costs    Total
A. Survey, Investigation &           3.8            0.0      3.8           5.8            0.0        5.8
Design
B. Irrigation Works                 33.1           54.2    87.3           30.5           45.7       76.2
C. Land Clearance &                 20.0            5.4    25.4           14.2            3.6       17.8
Development
D. Agricultural Development          1.5            0.3      1.8           3.4            1.0        4.4
E. LandTitling &                     8.1            2.1    10.2            6.4            1.7        8.1
Certification
F. Environmental Protection          0.5            0.0     0.5            0.4            0.0       0.4
G. Settlement                        5.7             1.0     6.7           1.1            0.2        1.3
H. Institutional Support             1.9            0.4     2.3            5.4            1.3        6.7
Services
I. Consultant Services              5.1             3.5     8.6           7.1             4.8      11.9
J. Land Acquisition                  1.5            0.0     1.5           0.0             0.0       0.0
K. Project Administration           13.5            0.0    13.5            5.3            0.0        5.3
L. PPF Refinancing                   0.8            0.5      1.3           0.7            0.4        1.1
Base Cost                 95.5           67.4   162.9           80.4           58.6      139.0
Physical Contingencies            8.7            6.2    14.9
Price Contingencies              22.0           15.6    37.6
Total Project Costs          126.2           89.2   215.4           80.4           58.6      139.0
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
Appraisal estimnate (US $ M)                  Actual/latest estimate (US $ M)
Source    Local costs  Foreign costs         Total        Local costs   Foreign costs        Total
Bank                35.8            89.2            125.0            35.7            58.6            94.3
GOI                 90.4                            90.4            44.7                             44.7
TOTAL            126.2            89.2            215.4            80.4            58.6           139.0



- 19 -
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Appraisal Estimate     ICR Estimate
Economic Rate of Return:
All schemes (12 provinces)                    17.5%                14.2%
Sumatra (5 prov.; 24% area)                   19.6%                6.5%
Sulawesi (4 prov.; 73% area)                  17.0%                21.9%
Kalimantan (3 prov.; 3% area)                 9.6%                 -4.3%
Underlying Assumptions:
Project Life                                 30 years             30 years
Build-up of Benefits                         10 years             I0 years
Economic Investment Cost Items         Includes physical cont.  Excludes land
supervision and VA tax  acquisition, PPF
refinancing, tax and
duties, Bipowered
Overheads                              9.2% of Total Costs    21.1% of Total Costs
Construction CW (civil works)                  0.9                  0.9
Design CW                                       1.0                  1.0
Labor CW                                       0.8                  0.8
Annual O&M Cost Estimates              Approx. 1% x total    2% x civil work
costs                 costs
Farm Input Costs                      IBRD border price     IBRD border price
projections for       projections for
fertilizer; other: market fertilizer; other:
prices 1991.          market prices 1997
Economic Commodity Prices, Exchange    IBRD border price    IBRD border price
Rates, and Inflation                   projections, 1990     projections, 1997.



- 20 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-             Original     Revised
Agree-                    nant    Present  fulfillment  fulfillment
ment       Section       type     Status     date        date              Description of covenant        Comments
LOAN    Sch. I para I      3b       CP                             That for all schemes, in each of the project   Budget reduced by
provinces, GOI would make budgetary     10-20%/o for FY97/9
allocation to implement the agreed annual    (local/foreign portio
provincial work program for each.      adjusted).
Sch. I para I    3c        C                              For any deferred scheme, except the SID  Completed.
component, obtain prior approval by the Bank
before staning scheme implementation.
Sch. I para I    3d        C                             For any additional schemes, financed under   Completed.
the project, except for the SID component,
obtain prior approval by the Bank before
starting scheme implementation.
Sch. I para I    3e       CP                              For irrigation works in each of the project    Budget shortfalls
provinces, GOI would make budgetary    anticipated due to
provisions for O&M which maintain in real  economic crisis.
terms financing for O&M at the FY90/91
level.
Sch. 4          Sec. ll   CD                              By Aug. 15, 1991, employ consultants to  Consultant appointe
assist with project implementation.    in September 1992
completing
assignment 31,
March 1998.
Sch. 5            1       CP                              Screen, select and commission schemes in    Commissioning over
accordance with procedures agreed by the    95% completed by
Bank.                                  March31, 1998.
Sch. 5            2       CP                             Cause DGWRD/PRIS to collect and analyze
regular and sufficient hydrologic and climatic
data to standards satisfactory to the Bank.
Sch. 5            3        C                              Classify catchment areas of scheme, where
appropriate forest.
Sch. 5            5        C                              Submit for review, for each project province: Post loan draft
(a) not later than September 30 each year, a   Operational Plan
coordinated work program and cost estimates submitted February
for following fiscal year; (b) by December 31, 1998.
each year, coordinated budgetary proposals for
work programs.
Sch. 5            6        C                              Through BAPPENAS, undertake overall    Guidance and
coordination of project activities satisfactory  direction provided
to the Bank.                           via NPCWG.
Sch. 5            7        C                              Through each BAPPEDA, undertake        Coordination effort
provincial coordination NOF project activities and effectiveness
satisfactory to the Bank.              during the late stages
of the project are
exemplary.
Sch. 5            8       CP                              Cause all agencies to monitor and evaluate    M&E results
project activities and performance satisfactory processing for ICR
to the Bank.                           underway Feb./Mar.
1998.
Covenant Class:                                                                  Status:
I = Accounts/audits                8 = Indigenous people                      C   = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue    9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting    CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not          CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project     covered by categories 1-9
funds                        I  = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                 budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the           allocation
project or executing agency   12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy!
6 = Environmental covenants             regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement      13 = Other



- 21 -
TABLE 11: LACK OF COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title         Describe and comment on lack of compliance
NONE
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned            Revised            Actual
Stage of Processing Cycle   Weeks    US$       Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal           -        -         -         -        58.3    132.8
Appraisal                          -        -         -         -         3.0      7.2
Negotiations through Board approval -       -         -         -         0.6      2.0
Supervision                        -        -         -         -       202.5    334.0
Completion                        20.0       33.5    _                   20.0    33.5
TOTAL                  -        -                           284.4    509.5
1/ Data on "planned" and "revised" except for completion are not provided by the MIS.
Source: FACT



- 22 -
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance Rating
Stage of                             Days        Specialized       Imple-     Develop-
Project Cycle     Mo./      No. of       in         Staff Skills    mentation      ment
Yr.     Persons    Field2      Represented3       Status    Objectives
Preparation        09/89        3         25          I,W,OA              .
Pre-appraisal      01/90        3          5          I,W,OA
Appraisal          05/90        7         30       I,I,W,A,A,V,OA        -
Board approval     03/91             -            -                      -
Supervision 1      05/91       4          20         I,W,VE,A            2           1
Supervision 2      10/91       5          20         I,I,W,E,V           2           2
Supervision 3      04/92        6         20         I,I,I,W,A,D        34           2
Supervision 4      12/92       4          18          I,W,A,V            3           2
Supervision 5      05/93        6         18        1,I,W,A,V,AC         2           2
Supervision 6      12/93        5         17        I,W,A,V,AC           2           2
Supervision 7      05/94       4          15          I,A,V,AC           2           2
Supervision 8      01/95        4         18           I,I,A,A           S           S
Supervision 9      09/95        4         18          I,I,A,AC           S           S
Supervision 10     01/96        3         7             I,I,A            5
Supervision 11     07/96       4          19          I,I,W,A            S           S
Supervision 12     02/97        5         18         I,I,W,W,A           S           S
Supervision 13     11/97        4         18           I,I,W,A           S           S
Completion         03/98        6         18         I,I,W,A,E,V
2 Generally including other projects.
3 V = Environmentalist
E = Economist
A = Agronomist
I = Irrigation Engineer
W = Water Resources Specialist
D = Disbursement Officer
AC = Accountant
OA = Operations Assistant
4 Problems included: weak project coordination, lack of budgets and over one year delay in appointment of
implementation consultants.
5 Form 590 was not prepared.



- 23 -                      ANNEX A
ANNEX A: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
PREFACE
Borrower's Contribution
to
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOAN No. 3302-IND)
Consolidated Final Evaluation Report
Introduction
1.  Despite the large expansion of irrigation infrastructure in Indonesia over the last two
decades, small and medium scale schemes on the outer Islands remained incomplete and
agriculture development has lagged because of several reasons.6
2. Recognizing the lack of returns to the large sunk investments in irrigated agriculture, the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance for a Provincial Irrigated
Agriculture Development Project (PIADP; the project).7
3.  In response to the request, the Bank sent an appraisal mission to Indonesia during May 5
and June 6, 1990 and the mission agreed with GOI: (a) the concept of objectives and scope
of the proposed project; (b) institutional arrangements; (c) procedures for coordination of
implementation at the national and provincial levels; and (d) post-appraisal action.8 Then, the
loan agreement for PIADP, Ln. 3302-IND (L/A), was signed between and by the Bank and
GOI on May 3, 1991 and became effective on June 24, 1991.
Objectives and Components of the Project
4.  Objectives. The major objectives of the project were to: (a) complete and fully develop
incomplete small and medium scale irrigation schemes on the Outer Islands of Indonesia; and
(b) achieve the potential benefits from irrigated agricultural development. Related objective
6 Para. 1.01 Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) No. 9137-IND
7Para. 1.02 SARNo.9137-lND
8 Para. I World Bank Supervision Mission Aide Memoire, July 2, 1990



-24-                       ANNEX A
was to assist development of institutional capacity to enable improved coordination of
irrigation with agriculture and other related services9.
5.  Component. The project included the component of: (a) survey, investigation and design
(SID); (b) completion of irrigation works, including farm road construction, and preparation
for operation and maintenance (PROM); (c) land clearance, development (LC&LD) and
sawah rehabilitation; (d) agricultural development through implementation of downstream
program (DSP), including seed multiplication programs, demonstration of standard farming
practices, crop trials for problem soils, training of farmer groups and extension workers, pest
management, agriculture special supporting packages, and procurement of vehicles and farm
tools; (e) land titling and certification (LT&C) consisting of preliminary survey, land use and
capability survey, land consolidation, cadastral survey, inventory survey, land titling and land
certification; (f) environmental protection including orientation survey, catchment area
survey and erosion control; (g) settlement; and (h) coordination and management of irrigated
agricultural development through institutional support packages.
6.  Scope of the Project. The project encompassed the province of: Aceh, Riau, Bengkulu,
West Sumatra, South Sumatra and Lampung; West, Central and South Kalimantan; and
North, Central, South and South-East Sulawesi.
7.  In SAR and L/A, 129 schemes were included under the project. Through the preparation
of Scheme Document (status report and action plan) for the deferred schemes and updating
the Coordinated Work Program and Associated Cost Estimate annually (the Work Program),
there were changes in number of the schemes and in the scope of the work of each
component. Table-I shows the change of scope of work for the major components at the
beginning of the project (February 1991), at reinstatement of the last deferred scheme (March
1994) and the progress of the project work at the end March 1998.
Project Organization
8.  Institutional Frame Work. The project has been implemented under the existing
organizational structure. As the project encompassed multi-disciplinary components,
technical agencies under the Ministry of Public Works (MPW), the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA), the National Land Board (BPN), the Ministry of Forestry (MOFr) and the Ministry
of Transmigration (MOTr) have been involved in survey, investigation, planning, design,
construction, and various services in respective components at both central and province
levels. BAPPENAS and BAPPEDA have been involved in the project for coordinating those
technical agencies in planning, budget proposal and other inter-agency issues.
9. Project Organization. MPW through the Directorate General of Water Resources
Development (DGWRD) and Provincial Irrigation Service (PRIS) through Provincial
Irrigation Project Office in each PIADP province were responsible for SID for and
9Para. 3.01 SAR No.9137-IND



-25 -                      ANNEX A
completion of irrigation civil works and PROM component. At the beginning of FY1994/95,
the responsibility for LC&LD was transferred from the Directorate General of Food Crops
and Horticulture (DGFCH) of MOA to DGWRD.
10. MOA through DGFCH, the Provincial Agriculture Service (PRAS) and the Regency
Agriculture Service (REAS) were responsible for SID and implementation of LC&LD
component (up to the end of FY1993/94) and agriculture development component.
11. MOFr through the Directorate General of Inventory and Forest Land Use (DGIFL), the
Directorate General of Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation (DGRLR) and each Forestry
Regional Office in respective PIADP provinces, and the Directorate General of Forest
Utilization (DGFU) were responsible for Orientation survey (referred to as Micro Survey at
the beginning of the Project), for Soil Erosion Control survey and Catchment Area Inventory
survey, and for Forest Inventory and Supervision Logging in the LC&LD area, respectively.
12. BPN through Deputies - I (General Affairs), - II (Land Use and Reform), - III (Land
Authority), and - IV ( Survey and Land Registration) and each BPN Regional Office through
the BPN Regency Office in the respective PIADP provinces was responsible for LT&C
component.
13. MOTr through the Directorate General of Settlement Preparation and Regional
Transmigration Office of West Sumatra was responsible for settlement component.
3.7 Coordination Group. For smooth inter-agency coordination in planning, budget proposal
and implementation, Project National Coordination Working Group (PNCWG) and Project
Provincial Coordination Working Group (PPCWG) were organized at the preparatory stage
of the project implementation and those groups have functioned during the implementation
period. PNCWG was led by BAPPENAS and assisted by DGWRD as secretary, while
PPCWG was chaired by each of BAPPEDAs and comprised of representatives from the
technical agencies in respective PIADP provinces.
Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project
14.   Project Period. The implementation of the project was commenced in June 1991,
immediately after L/A became effective, and is going to finish on March 31, 1998 with a 15-
month extension of the project period. The Consultant was mobilized at the middle of
September 1992. The original 4-year service period of the Consultant was extended by 18
months so that the constancy services last to the end of the revised project period.
15.   Project Expenditures. The total of the project expenditures was estimated with actual
expenditures up to December 1997 and estimated ones during January, February and March
1998 at Rp.318.1 billion, which was Rp. 79.3 billion less than Rp. 397.4 billion estimated in
SAR, corresponding to 80% of the same. Table-2 shows the summary of cost estimated in the
SAR and in the Work Program updated at the time of reinstatement of the last deferred
scheme (March 1994), and the project expenditures.



-26-                         ANNEX A
16.   Annual Expenditures (Indonesian fiscal year) are shown below:
90/91  91/92  92/93   93/94   94/95  95/96  96/97  97/98
Total
Annual Expenditure   0.7  12.9  27.9   60.7    90.5  60.6  29.2        35.5
318.1
Cumulative Expenditure    0.7  13.6  41.6   102.3   192.8  253.4  282.6    318.1
17.   Amendment of Loan. The original Loan amounting to US$125 million was
reallocated with cancellation of US$20.5 million in December 1994 based on the agreed
project cost updated in March 1994. The amended loan, US$104.5 million, was further
reallocated with another cancellation of US$1.0 million in April 1997 based on the agreed
cost estimated in December 1996. Third reallocation and partial cancellation of the second
amended loan of US$103.5 million was proposed to meet the anticipated project expenditures
by DGWRD in December 1997 for further process. Proposed amount of the cancellation was
US$10.0 million resulting in the final project loan of US$93.5 million.
18.   Disbursement of Loan reached US$85.3 million as of December 1997 and most
possibly amounts to US$93.1 million as of end June 1998. Annual disbursement (Bank fiscal
year) progress is summarized below:
90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94   94/95   95/96  96/97  97/98
SAR schedule  1.3   7.5  24.9  50.8    73.0    98.8  125.0
Actual            2.8  10.6  29.8    54.9   73.3  84.8  93.1
19.   Major Factors Affecting the Project. Decrease in project cost from the SAR's to
March 94's (Para. 4.2) resulting in the first amendment of the loan amount (Para. 4.4) was
mainly attributed to: (a) the fact that the project cost estimated in the SAR covered 129
schemes with an aggregated target command area of 260,284 ha including 95 deferred status
schemes, while the cost estimated in March 1994 covered the cost for 110 go-ahead schemes
with an aggregated command area of 183,610 ha and that for SID for 19 dropped schemes;
(b) changes of unit costs and LC&LD area based on overall review and updating work
program and costs; (c) changes of unit costs and work quantities based on thorough review
and updating the overall work program for agriculture development activities; (d) increase in
unit costs for LT&C;  and (e) additional costs for construction of Mini Watershed
Management as follow-up activities of the Catchment area inventory survey.
20.   There was little difference between the project cost estimated in March 1994 and total
project expenditures (Para. 4.2), however, there were differences in each of work components
due to reasons: (a) SID: additional SID for farm road and tertiary systems, drainage of Muko-
Muko Kiri scheme, weir rehabilitation of Pilohayanga scheme, and the review of the previous
SID for LC&LD after inter-agency transfer of its responsibility; (b) Irrigation Works:
introduction of farm roads; natural disasters; additional drainage works; (c) LC&LD:
decrease in LC&LD area; and switching the cost for Farm Tools from LC&LD component to
DSP component; (d) DSP: incorporation of the cost for the Farm Tools; special DSP



-27 -                       ANNEX A
programs (Para. 5.9); additional DSP program on need basis; and increase in Demo Area and
Demo Farm programs; (e) LT&C: decrease in both unit cost and area of Land Consolidation;
(f) Environmental Protection: cancellation of Mini Watershed Management program, part of
Soil Erosion Control survey and part of Catchment Area I.nventory survey; (g) Settlement:
cancellation of Community Development Program; and (h) Consultant: change of Team
composition at province level; extension of service period (Para. 4.1); depreciation of Rupiah
currency and appreciation of yen currency.
21.   Extension of the project period was mainly attributed to the 95 deferred schemes at
the initial stage of the project and late mobilization of the Consultant (Para. 4.1), which was
evident from the progress of the reinstatement (Para. 5.3) that 19 schemes were promoted to
go-ahead and 7 schemes were dropped during 15 months from July 1991 to September 1992
while 57 schemes were promoted to go-ahead and 12 schemes were dropped during 18
months from October 1992 and March 1994.
Achievement of Project Objective
22.   Overall progress (estimate) at the end of March 31,1998 stood at 98% of the work
program updated finally in October 1997; accounting for SID 100%, Irrigation Work 97%,
LC&LD 99%, Agriculture development 100, LT&C 94%, Settlement 100%, Environmental
protection 100%, and others 100%.
23.   Achievement of key components is summarized in Table 1 and is enumerated by
component in the following paragraphs.
24.   Reinstatement of the Deferred Schemes. Based on the survey, investigation and other
necessary technical and financial analysis/study, the deferred schemes were reinstated to go-
ahead categories during June 1991 and March 1994 excluding 19 dropped schemes. The
progress of the reinstatement is summarized below:
Time of reinstatement  New Go-ahead scheme    Accum. Go-ahead scheme
Nos.    Area (ha)      Nos.      Area (ha)
SAR                          34        22,779          34        22,779
August 1991                  10        10,268          44        33,047
August 1992                   9        56,955          53        90,002
February 1993                32        32,657          85       122,659
June 1993                     3        31,715          88       154,374
October 1993                  1         2,307          89       156,681
December 1993                21        26,931         110       183,612
Note: Area shows the target command area at the time of reinstatement.
25.   Review of Program. After the completion of the reinstatement of the deferred
schemes, LC&LD program and DSP program were reviewed thoroughly and updated in
December 1993 and April 1994, respectively.



-28 -                      ANNEX A
26.   SID. the following SID were carried out for the reinstatement of the deferred schemes
or for construction on: (a) hydrological survey for 80 deferred schemes; (b) soil survey in
17,128 ha in 12 deferred schemes, (c) economic evaluation for 57 deferred schemes; (d) soil
investigation for canal lining in 40 schemes; (e) design of irrigation/drainage civil work for
108 schemes; (f) design of tertiary system for 51,876 ha in 51 schemes; (g) design of farm
road for 4,513 ha in 8 schemes; (h) LC for 32,109 ha in 45 schemes; (i) survey and design for
LD for 37,582 ha in 45 schemes; (j) design of sawah rehabilitation for a total area of 4,313 ha
in 4 schemes; (k) additional study for the agriculture development in deep peat soil area in
Muko-Muko Kiri scheme; and (1) additional soil and agro-economic survey for agriculture
development in the problem soils (coarse textured soil and Fe-toxicity) in Mantaro,
Nagedang, Doranan and Sei Tambang schemes.
27.   Irrigation Completion Work. Irrigation completion work consisted of civil works and
PROM. Civil works were implemented for 108 schemes including: 1 new Headworks
construction, 22 weirs rehabilitation including Sausu Atas weir damaged by earthquake in
May 1995 and drafting logs transported by flood flow in June 1996, construction/
rehabilitation of main and secondary canals and their related structures, 'drainage canal
construction, normnalization of natural drains, expansion of existing drainage canals,
upgrading of access/inspection roads, and construction of farm roads of 167 km with 3.0 m
wide and 350 km with 1.0 m wide for 32 schemes.
28.   PROM activities executed are: (a) O&M staff training for 88 schemes; (b) WUA
training for 66 schemes; (c) procurement of equipment and vehicles for 71 schemes; (d)
preparation of O&M manual and calibration of measuring devices for 104 schemes; and (e)
implementation of transitional O&M for 106 schemes.
29.   Agriculture development program implemented under the project consists of the DSP
activities shown in Table-3 and special DSP programs of: (a) crop trials in new LC&LD
areas in 8 schemes; (b) farming system trials in Muko-Muko Kiri; (c) drainage water
management demonstration units (DDU) for Muko-Muko Kiri; (d) agriculture supporting
packages (ASP) for Muko-Muko Kiri; and (e) ASP for Air Gegas scheme.
30.   Land Certification. Finally the project encompassed a total target command area of
182,879 ha, of which functional areas has been expanded to 167,720 ha, in which there
existed some 32,831 ha and 7,646 ha of paddy land areas where the land certification had
been issued under respective transmigration and other BPN projects. Those areas were
excluded from the target area of issuance of the land certification to avoid double land
certification, and hence actual target area for the land certification was 127,243 ha. Issuance
of land certifications of 186,41 1bd or for 114,026 ha thus corresponded to 89.6% of the
127,243 ha.
31.   The above land certifications were issued after a series of preparatory activities, i.e.,
preliminary survey on 196,753 ha, land consideration on 172,755 ha, cadastral survey on
180,984 ha (Para. 4.8), inventory survey on 159,911 ha and land titling to 191,814 parcels.



-29 -                      ANNEX A
32.   Settlement. Settlement program of 450 households proposed for Indrapura scheme by
BAPPEDA West Sumatra was approved by the Bank in September 1993. Spatial Planning
for the settlement program was conducted in FY1993/94 by a local consultant under
supervision of Bureau of Planing of MOTr. Construction of civil works including land
clearing for irrigated sawah development, social infrastructures such as roads, bridges, water
supply, other community facilities and settler's houses was constructed in FY1994/95 and
1995/96. The settlement program of 450 households consisting of 250 households from local
area and 200 households from Java Island was implemented in FY1994/95.
33.   Land distribution to the settlers was carried out in FY1995/96 with priority for the
local settlers, resulting in no room available for the settlers from Java Island, For them, the
local government and BAPPEDA West Sumatra allocated a new land area for irrigated paddy
cultivation of about 300 ha about 8 km away from the original one by June 1997. The 300 ha,
however, has little utilized by them because: (a) the 300 ha land is subject to flooding; and
(b) conflict of the allocated land with local people for some 177 ha out of the 300 ha.
34.  Institutional Support. To materialized the objective of strengthening the capacity to
coordinate multi-disciplinary project activities in each of the project provinces, institutional
support was extended to: (a) providing equipment to BAPPEDAs; (b) fund for administration
service for coordination of technical agencies to BAPPEDA; (c) fund for various trainings by
BAPPEDA and technical agencies; (d) fund for overseas training for one each official from
BAPPEDA, PRIS and PRAS; and (e) fund for scheme performance evaluation program.
35.   The trainings conducted were broadly divided into two programs, i.e., trainings at
national level and provincial level. The forner included the training for: (a) Project Account
for the relevant agencies in Jakarta in 1992; (b) Project Account for the relevant agencies of
the provinces in 1993, (c) a workshop for PNCWG in Jakarta in 1993; and (d) workshops for
PPCWGs in West and East Regions in 1993. While the letter consisted of: (a) comparative
study overseas in 1993; (b) on-the-job training for coordination and monitoring by
BAPPEDA in FY1993/94 and 1995/96; (c) other technical training (so called alternative
training) in FY1995/96 and 1996/97; and (d) technical meetings, which were likely a
combination or in-between of training and workshop, in such various aspects as DSP, LT&C,
LC&LD, SPEP and coordination between FY1994/95 and FY1997/98.
36.   Scheme verification was conducted in two stages, i.e., Verification I to verify
completion of main irrigation and drainage system and Verification II to verify completion
of, in addition to the main irrigation and drainage system, tertiary system, LC&LD,
substantial part of LT&C, and substantial part of DSP activities and environmental
protection. The Verification II was followed by informal handing over of the scheme from
the Project to PRIS for routine operation and maintenance with a sort of completion
certificate of the scheme.
37.   The Verification II was conducted for 105 schemes (including 14 schemes to be
conducted before the end of March 1998). The Verification for another 5 schemes will not be
carried out because: (a) Alun Dua and Way Kulur had entered into ISSP II; (b) Kalaena FC



-30-                       ANNEX A
has the flood control component only; (c) Kembang Merta was part of the other irrigation
system; and (d) Batulicin has no schedule yet. While an official report (Berita Acara)
certifying that the scheme had been completed as planned and requesting accordingly for
routine O&M to PRIS from the Provincial Governor or chairman of BAPPEDA has been
issued for 37 schemes, and is scheduled to be issued for further 68 schemes.
38.   Scheme Performance Evaluation Program (SPEP). Aiming to measure the economic
performance resulting from the implementation of the project and to provide indications of
the main factors affecting scheme performance, the monitoring and evaluation were carried
out through field survey for the performance of 4 cropping seasons of 1995/96, 1996,
1996/97, 1997 on the selected 15 schemes, and through collecting scheme performance data
from PRIS and PRAS on the 109 schemes from time to time.
Assessment of Project Outcome
39.   New Functional Area. At the commencement of implementation of PIADP, the
project scope covered 129 schemes with an aggregated target command area of 260,284 ha,
of which only 34 schemes with the target command area of 23,289 ha corresponding to 8.9%
of the total target command area were at go-ahead status and 95 schemes with the total target
command area of 236,995 ha (91.1%) remained at deferred status. After the reinstatement
procedures (Para. 5.3), the 110 schemes with an aggregated target command area 183,610 ha
(70.5% of SAR) finally proceeded to further implementation by the end of March 1994. At
the same time, target new functional area decreased from the SAR's 146,763 ha to 81,770 ha,
corresponding to 55.7% of the SAR's one.
40.   The new functional area developed under the project reached 73,179 ha or 89.5% of
the March 1994 program. Balance between the target command area and the total functional
area at the end of the project period is 15,159 ha, of which 2,187 ha and 8,153 ha are being
utilized as upland and tree crop land, respectively. Thus 4,719 ha or 2.6% of the final target
command area of the 182,879 ha remain undeveloped.
Area Category        SAR (ha)   Program (ha) Performance (ha) Ratio (%)
Feb.91     Mar.94       Mar.98    Mar.98/Mar.94
Target Command area    260,284      183,610     182,879      99.6
Original functional area  113,521   101,840      94,541      92.8
Target new functional area   146,763  81,770
New functional area         -                    73,179      89.5



- 31-                      ANNEX A
41.   Number of WUA. Before the commencement of the project, WUA established were
820 in total, accounting for the active 197 WUAs and inacti ve 623 WlUAs. After the project it
increased to active 661 WUAs and inactive 870 WUAs. Another 52 WUAs have not been
organized yet.
42.   Agriculture Development. The overall annual cropped area of irrigated paddy in
1996/97 extended over some 212,000 ha with an increase of 39,000 ha from the before
PIADP status or 123% of the same. The overall annual cropping intensity of irrigated paddy
to the total functional area of 167,720 ha was estimated at 126% with an increase of 23%
from the before PIADP status. Similarly, the overall average yield of irrigated paddy have
increased from 3.4 ton/ha at the before PIADP status to the current 3.6 tonlha and the
production increase of the same was estimated at 166,000 tons. The performance rates of the
development to the target after built-up period of the project was estimated at 71%, 84% and
59% in respect of the overall cropped area, cropping intensity, paddy yield, and production
stand respectively of the targets. Application of the improved variety of paddy increased by
79,800 ha between 1992/93 and 1996/97. Use of fertilizer changed as shown below:
Fertilizer         192/93      1996/97      Changes/Increase
Urea (kg/ha)         68          115          47
TSP (kg/ha)          39           71          32
KCL (kg/ha)          13           37          24
43.   LT&C. Land certifications for 211,022 parcels have been issued in 114,026 ha of
lowland paddy field under the project, which corresponded to 89.6% of the actual target area
of 127,243 ha (Para. 5.9).
44.   Environmental Protection. At the appraisal a forest inventory survey and supervision
of logging for assumed "Production Forest" of 41,170 ha in 79 schemes having original
LC&LD program. In practice, however, SID for LC&LD revealed that there was little forest
land with commercial value then all the inventory and supervision plan were finally canceled.
The objective of the soil erosion control survey is generally incorporated into design of
irrigation and drainage system by DGWRD/PRIS and hence practically has been achieved
through irrigation civil works although the soil erosion control survey was not followed by
construction.
45.   Scheme Performance Monitoring and Evaluation. The weighted IRR for all 109
schemes (except for Kalaena FC) combined is 17.7%. Out of the 109 schemes, 73 schemes or
88% in terms of scheme area are economically viable schemes with an IRR greater than 12%;
11 schemes (4% of the same) are marginally marginally viable schemes with an IRR between
10-12% ; and the remaining 25 schemes (8% of the same) are uneconomic schemes with
IRRs below 10%.
46.   The economic impact of PIADP at full development is estimated in constant 1996/97
prices the project to make a net contribution to the economy of Rp.97 billion or
US$37.3 million per annum, which is an increase of some 30% of the pre-project GVA of



-32 -                      ANNEX A
326.2 billion. The project's Capital/Output (C/O) ratio is estimated at 3.95, which is relatively
high compared with the average C/O ratio of 52 irrigation project financed by ADB prior to
1986 of 3.4 ranging from a high 6.5 to a low 1.9. Average cost per ha (including project
overheads) is US$718 per ha or US$1,062 per ha in case Sadan scheme (54,106 ha) is
excluded.
Project Sustainability
47.   Readiness for Routine O&M. Through the completion of irrigation civil work,
implementing PROM activities, implementing agriculture development through DSP, issuing
the land certification, and conducting scheme verification by a composite team of PPCWG
member agencies and the representatives of beneficiary farmers, the capacity to the
sustainability of the irrigation and drainage systems of the PIADP schemes has been much
improved. To ensure routine O&M after construction phase, completion of the schemes were
confirmed through Scheme Verification activities, which was followed by a official
statement (Berita Acara) of Head of BAPPEDA or Provincial Governor (Para. 5.15 & 5.16).
48.   Post Project Operation Plan. Although the project works have been mostly
implemented as expected, the Verification revealed the remedial works to be conducted
beyond the project period to keep the completed system sustainable, based on which scheme
specific post PIADP operation plan for FY1998/99 was prepared and budget proposal for the
plan is likely being processed under the coordination of BAPPEDA by each implementing
agencies in respective PIADP provinces.
49.   Besides, new operation plan for the completed irrigation and drainage systems is
contemplated from 1998/99 onward by DGWRD basically in line with the reformed Policy
Statement for Irrigation Operation and Maintenance 1987 (IOMP1987), which will be
basically follow the IOMP1987 with special attention on: (a) improving funding for O&M
and quality of the irrigation services through increase of ISF levies and expanded irrigation
turnover program (PIK); (b) more involvement of WJUAs for O&M and collecting ISF; and
(c) enhancing monitoring of O&M performance. O&M costs for the main and secondary
irrigation system will be funded with either/both national budgets (APBN) or/and the
Provincial budget (APBD) with increasing contribution of ISF. To achieve high contribution
of ISF, a clear linkage of the fees and quality of O&M services will be sought by attaining
that beneficiary farmers are confident that ISF collected from them is used for the O&M
services for their land.
50.  In relation to the increase of ISF contribution to O&M funding, irrigation turnover
program (PIK) will be expanded to irrigation systems with a command area of more than 500
ha, for which the local Dinas Pengairan would be responsible for O&M of the primary
irrigation system while cooperative (consisting of WUAs) and each WIA will be responsible
for that of the secondary and tertiary systems respectively. In order to ensure post PIK
operation, the Dinas Pengairan will provide technical guidance and assistance for the O&M
for the cooperative and the WUA.



33 -                     ANNEX A
51.   After PIADP completion, the irrigation area which has not been incorporated into
national Intensification Program will be proposed for providing the Intensification program
to Secretariat of Mass Guidance Board (Sekretaris Badan Penylidiki Bimas) MOA by DLRD.
In addition, the following PIADP specific operational plan will be implemented using mainly
the national fund (APBN): (a) routine "LAKU " (Latihan dan Kunjungan; training and
visiting) system by each PPL to respective irrigated paddy land; (b) activating the seed farms;
(c) activating guidance for formulation of WUAs; (d) continuing the demonstration plots
where deemed to be needed; and (e) distributing selected paddy variety of "Lalan" for
farmers outside of ASP area of 1,250 ha in Muko-Muko Kiri scheme.
52.   BPN Regional Offices proposed to complete the remaining LT&C program by using
the fund from either BPN national routine program (PRONA), Land Re-distribution program
(Land Redis), other BPN program, or even beneficiaries self-supporting basis (Swadaya
Masyarakat). DGRLR of MOFr noticed to importance of the implementation of the Mini
Watershed Management.
53.   To address the land conflict Indrapura scheme (Para. 5.12), local government in
Kabupaten Pesisir Selatan started seeking additional land adjacent to the already allocated
land. The agreed time frame of the necessary follow up actions at a coordination meeting
chaired by Bupati of Kabupaten Pusisir Selatan on March 20, 1998 are: (a) organizing a task
force team with SK Bupati to resolve the land conflict by the end of March 1998; (b)
inventory survey on the conflict land and re-allocation of land by the task force team by April
1998; (c) land clearing the settled land in May 1998; and (d) starting land preparation for
cultivation in May 1998. Awaiting for reconciliation of the land conflict, drainage condition
will be improved by expanding existing drainage capacity and constructing flood protection
dike during FY1998/99 and 1999/00.
Bank Performance
54.   Project appraisal by the Bank was very detailed, comprehensive and sophisticated.
However, allowing to introduce go-ahead/deferred status led to decrease in scope of works
during the implementation phase, entailing partial cancellation of the project loan and to
extension of the project period. The Bank consistently supported the objectives of the project
and, to achieve them, flexibly coped with the need of program changes and additional
programs. The Bank through its regular supervision mission provided timely and adequate
assistance to GOI in implementing the project. The cooperation between GOI and Bank was
very good.
Borrower Performance
55.   The project preparation undertaken with the assistance of consultants left indistinct
features for project implementation. The organization for project implementation and staffing
were mostly as set out in the preparatory stage. Monitoring and reporting at central level were
generally week except for DGFCH. Inter-agency coordination at provincial level through
PPCWG has been much improved and remained at satisfactory level, while that at central



34-                      ANNEX A
level still has room to be strengthened. Executing agencies at provincial and regency levels
pursued the agreed program in generally satisfactory manner. Field supervisors were,
however, in need of upgrading technical skill in respect of quality control. Periodical
personnel changes in the implementing agencies some times affected negatively to the
progress, the flow of and monitoring of the implementation. More than one year delay was
experienced in procurement of the consultant. The performance of the consultants was
satisfactory. GOI was generally compliance with the covenant of the Loan Agreement.
Lesson Learned
56.   Go-ahead and Deferred Categories. At the commencement of the project, only 8.9%
of the total target command area or 26% of the total number of the schemes were at go-ahead
status and ready for implementation and the remaining major part of the project schemes
were retained at deferred status. This entailed; (a) extending the project period (Para. 4.1); (b)
program changes; and (c) cancelation of US$20 million Loan (Para. 4.4). This go-
ahead/deferred system make the project status uncertain after entering construction phase. It
is desirable to promote a project with a firm implementation plan for all part of the project.
57.   Wide Range in Size of Scheme. Average size of the target command area of the 110
go-ahead schemes is 1,663 ha. However, the area size varies so widely ranging from the
largest Sadang scheme of 54,106 ha to the smallest Air Susup Kanan scheme of 109 ha. Due
to wide range in the target command area of the schemes, issues/problems were not always
properly addressed for all the schemes without customization or even tailor-made.
58.   Project Management. At the national level, PNCWG was established at the
preparatory stage of the project and it was re-structured in April 1993 to three sub-groups of a
Steering Committee, a Technical Working Group and a Task Force Team, and key staff of
each implementing agency was designated as the additional temporary post for the member
of the groups. Yet, neither exclusive secretariat nor government staff was established/
assigned at any of the three sub-groups although full time general project manager had not
been appointed. This resulted in Government's heavy dependence on the Consultant and as a
consequence missing an opportunity of transfer of knowledge from the Consultant.
Appointing the project manager for the whole project or establishing secretariat with
exclusive Government staff, working with the project consultant, is needed to make
accountability clear, upgrade monitoring and coordination and facilitate transfer of
knowledge for an inter-agency and inter-province project like PIADP.
59.   Category. In L/A, project loan divided into 13 categories for each of work
components, equipment, pre-project financing and Bipowered with 6 kinds of the percentage
of expenditures to be financed. This complicated system of the parentage of expenditures
caused the project staffs concerned much confusion in their accounting/ payment
administration and arrangement of the fiscal year budget which sometimes hampered an
implementation of the project works.



35-                      ANNEX A
60.   Standard Format. The standard formats of the Consolidated Project Account (CPA)
distributed by the Bank were not consistent with the loan category in its items. This
mismatch of categorization in the CPA formats entailed much confusion in accounting report
and difficulties in financial monitoring in a timely manner on the respective loan category.
61.   Enhancement of Role of Agriculture Cooperative (KUD). Although extension
services on the improved farming practices had been made to the farmers through DSP
activities, they faced to difficulty in applying such improved manner in the schemes situated
remote place because of less availability of those farrn input. In order to improve this
situation, it is highly expected to enhance the role of the agriculture cooperative (KUD). This
enhancement will also expedite the self-endeavor of the farmers as a secondary effect.
62.   LT&C: Out of the 181,629 ha of cadastral survey, 76,469 ha or a total of 125,923
parcels (59.7%) were identified by means of aerophotograpy, for which aerophotogrametoric
survey had been conducted on an aggregated area of 120,106 ha consisting of Muko-Muko
Kiri, Toraut, Sausu Atas, Sadang, Sanrego, and Kalaena Ka/Ki schemes. This cadastral
survey using aerophotograpy is the main cause of successful achievement of issuance of the
land certification.
63.   Sector Final Evaluation Reports by DGWRD, DGFCH, BPN and MOFr are
attached to this consolidated Final Evaluation Report.



-36 -                           ANNEX A
Tab 1- Scope/Achievement of PIAD
Work component             Unit         SAR          Program     Achievement   Achieved Rate (%)
(2/91)        (2/94)         3/98      3/98 -SAR  3/ 94- 3/ 98
Target Command Area       ha (sch.)*   260,284 (129)   183,610 (110)  182,879 (110)   70       100
Exist Functional          ha (sch.)*   113,521 (111)   101,840 (109)  94,546 (109)   83        93
Area
Target New Functional    ha (sch.)*   146,763 (129)   81,770 (109)  73,174 (109)   50          89
Area
Completion of Irrigation Work
CWofmainsystem        sch.            123            108           108         88          100
Tertiary development    ha (sch.)*    N/A (114)   69,000 (63)   64,252 (54)    -            93
Tertiary rehabilitation    ha (sch.)*    -          9,300 (31)    16,334 (49)  -           176
PROM                  sch.            124            107           108         87          101
LC & LD
Land Clearing         ha (sch.)*    27,000 (65)    30,400 (62)   24,097 (60)    89          79
Land Development      ha (sch.)*    44,200 (79)    31,000 (63)   20,382 (60)    46          66
Sawah Rehabilitation  ha (sch.)*        0          10,400 (26)    12,360 (28)    -         119
Agricultural development (Downstream program)
Verification trial    unit            200            171           198         99          116
Demonstration plot 0.1 ha unit       6,000           743           703         12           95
Demonstration plot 1.0 ha unit       1,500           878           915         61          104
Demonstration Farm 5.0  unit            0             78           217         -           278
ha
Demonstration Area 25.0 unit            0            105           204         -           194
ha
Seed Farm             unit              5             13            19 (11)   380          146
Seed certification    ha             1,200          5,302        5,127        427           97
Farmer training in class  persons   14,350          6,908         7,072        49          102
Land Titling and Certificate (LT & C)
Land certification    ha          227,900         158,700       114,026
Environmental Protection
Micro survey/Field    ha (sch.)*                   85,300 (39)   28,158 (24)    -           33
Orientation
Forest Inventory      ha (sch.)*    41,170 (79)    31,745 (28)            -                 -
S/V logging           ha           41,170 (79)     13,200 (35)            -                 -
Soil erosion control  ha (sch.)*    41,170 (79)    52,800 (94)    17,566 (40)    43        33
survey
Boundary survey       ha           41,170 (79)    not fixed yet      -         -            -
Inventory survey in   ha (sch.)*      N/A       1,207,80 (108) 536,985 (52)    -           44
0
Catchment areas                                                                -            -
Transmigration
Settlement            hh (sch.)*     1,400 (5)       450 (1)       450 (1)     32          100
Institutional Support
Training              province         13             13            13        100          100
Equipment and Facilities  province     13             13            13        100          100
N/A: not available
Program Mar. 94 Scope when the whole scheme was reinstated to "Go-ahead".
* (sch.) = schemes



-37 -                           ANNEX A
Table - 2 Estimated Project Cost and Expenditures
(Unit: Rp. Billion)
Estimated'       Estimated          Expenditures
Item                   SAR              Mar.94              Mar.98
SID                                8.2               9.3                11.4
Irrigation Works                201.3              138.1               160.9
LC&LD                             58.8              49.3                39.0
Downstream Program                 3.9               9.1                12.1
Land Titling and Certification    23.6              23.0                21.8
Environmental Protection           1.1               7.6                 1.1
Settlement                        15.8               5.1                 2.6
Institutional Support(BAPPEDA)     5.0               3.9                 4.0
Consultant                        19.4              17.2                30.3
Land Acquisition                   2.7               0.0                 0.0
Bi-powered                         0.0               0.0                 2.5
Project Administration & Tax     55.3               49.7                30.2
PPF Refinancing                    2.3               2.3                 2.2
Total                        397.4              314.6               318.1
Table - 3 Achievement of DSP Activities
Activities                                                Achievement
Verification Trials                                    units       198
Demo plots 0.1 ha                                      units       703
Demo plots 1.0 ha                                      units       915
Demo Farm (Paddy, palawija, cropping pattern, buffer zone)    units  217
Demo Area                                              units       204
Seed Certification                                     ha        5,127
Seed Farm/construction (& equipment)                   units        19 (11)
Agro-meteorological Station                            unit          1
Demo Drainage water management                         packages      5
Farmer (sawah formation, skill, O&M, WUA) Training     Persons   7,072 (plus 6 packages)
PPL (Refresher, induction) training                    Persons     566 (plus 39 packages)
PPL house construction                                 unit        116
Farm Tools                                             ha       19,783
Farm Tools (Hand tractors)                             units        14
Comparative study/ field school                        packages     36
P3A Formation/activation Guidance                      packages    204
Pest/Disease control Campaign Guidance                 packages    31
New Sawah/Seed Campaign                                packages    45
10 Tables 12, 13 and 14 Annex 3 of SAR



-38 -                      ANNEX B
ANNEX B: ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Development Project
Implementation Completion Report Mission
February - March, 1998
Aide Memoire
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    A mission from FAO/World Bank Co-operative Program (FAO/CP) and World
Bank consisting of Jan Pruntel, rural development/agricultural engineer and ICR co-
manager, Marvin Anderson agricultural economist consultant, Pramod Agrawal, World
Bank (EASSD) resettlement specialist and Christopher Konecki, World Bank (EASRD)
task team and mission leader visited Indonesia from 23 February to 19 March 1998 to carry
out the final supervision and collect information for the preparation of the project
implementation completion report (ICR).  The mission worked closely and was
accompanied by Ilham Abla, irrigation and drainage engineer and Soemaryo Soemardjo,
agricultural projects officer, both of the World Bank resident staff as well as staff and
consultants of BAPPENAS, DGWRD, DGFCH, BPN central and provincial
representatives. The mission visited West Sumatra, Bengkulu, Lampung and South
Sulawesi in addition to holding discussions in Jakarta. The mission expresses gratitude to
all PIADP personnel who assisted in achieving its objectives.
2.    This Aide-Memoire is based on information from the project staff appraisal report
(SAR), draft Borrower's Contribution to ICR, observations in the field, consultants reports
and implementing units as well as discussions with staff concerned with the project. The
large amount of information available and recommendations made in the many reports
studied have been synthesized in this Aide-Memoire and reference should be made to the
original reports for further details on conclusions and recommendations.
3.    A wrap-up meeting, chaired by Ir. H. Remiel Baswan, Director Planning and
Programming, DGWRD, was held at BAPPENAS offices on 11 March 1998 to record the
views of the Bank, the borrower, and implementing agencies on project implementation and
operation. Invited representatives from MOFr and MOT did not attend this meeting.
Representatives of responsible agencies were informed on the particulars of mission
findings in a debriefing meeting held in advance. An overview of mission Aide-Memoire
and observations on the post Operational Plan was presented with particular attention to
the presentation of ICR, its constituents, Borrower and Bank responsibilities, and
scheduling.



-39 -                      ANNEX B
B. THE PROJECT
4.    The project was designed to complement and strengthen the Bank strategy to
support the Government's objectives in the agriculture sector of sustained growth and
reduction of rural poverty, increased productive employment opportunities in rural areas
and a more balanced regional growth pattern. The project was part of a long-term program
to support the goals outlined in the Government's policy statement for the irrigation
subsector as well as Government policies on decentralization of activities related to
operation and maintenance (O&M). The main objectives of the project, as expressed in the
SAR, were:
(a)   to achieve potential benefits from irnigated agricultural development by
completing and fully developing small and medium scale irrigation schemes
(110 of 131 original SAR candidate schemes) in 13 provinces on the Outer
Islands of Indonesia;
(b)   to assist in the development of further institutional capacity to enable
improved co-ordination of irrigation and agriculture related services.
5.    The schemes considered under the project were those with completed diversion and
main distribution works but not yet ready for handing over for efficient operation and
maintenance (EOM) initially financed under the SPIDP (Loan No. 2375-IND) and ISSP
(Loan No. 2880-IND). The project provinces are Riau, Bengkulu, Lampung, West and
South Sumatra, West, Central and South Kalimantan, and North, Central, South and
Southeast Sulawesi. Aceh province schemes were dropped during the screening process.
6.   In support of these objectives the project provided financing for making fully
functional the 110 selected and screened schemes, namely: (a) surveys, investigations and
design; (b) completion of irrigation works and preparation for operation and maintenance
(PROM); (c) land clearing and development (LC&D); (d) agricultural development
activities including a downstream support program (DSP) and a seed production program;
(e) land titling and certification (LT&C); (f) environmental protection including forest
survey and erosion control; (g) population re-settlement; and (h) coordination and
management of irrigated agricultural development. Progress on these components, at the
time of the ICR mission, is presented in Table 1 (attached).
7.   In the SAR, the total estimated project cost of US$215.4 million was to be financed
with the help of an IBRD loan of US$125 million. The remaining local currency portion
equivalent US$90.4 million was to be financed by GOI. The foreign exchange component
was estimated at about US$89.2 million. In addition to supporting Bank strategy and GOI
policy objectives, the project was expected to benefit some 227,000 farm families with an
overall economic rate of return (ERR) of 17.5%. Costs and expenditures, at the time of the
ICR, are summarized in Table 2 (attached).



-40 -                      ANNEX B
C. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ACHIEVEMENTS
Survey, Investigation and Design (SID)
8.    Implementation of this component achieved 100% of planned progress. The
specific outputs include: (a) hydrological survey for 80 schemes; (b) soil survey on 17,100
ha; (c) feasibility studies of 57 schemes; (d) soil investigation for canal lining in 40
schemes; (e) irrigation and drainage civil works design for 108 schemes; (f) tertiary
system design for 51,900 ha; (g) farm road design in 8 schemes; (h) land clearing for
32,100 ha; (i) land development survey and design for 37,600 ha; () sawah rehabilitation
design for 4,300 ha; (k) specialized soil and agro-economic studies for agricultural
development in problem soils; and (1) monitoring and evaluation activities (ISPE and
SPEP)
Irrigation Civil Works
9.    Irrigation civil works implementation achieved 98% of planned progress in 108
schemes. The remaining 2% of these works will be carried over to FY 98/99 and
FY99/00 for implementation under GOI budget. The works included: I new headworks,
22 weirs rehabilitation including earthquake and flood damage repairs, irrigation and
drainage canals and structures, normalization of natural drains, upgrading/construction of
access and farm roads. Tertiary development and rehabilitation was implemented on
some 64,250 ha and 16,300 ha respectively.
10.   Preparation for Operation and Maintenance(PROM). Activities completed
under the projects are: (a) O&M staff training for 88 schemes; (b) WUA training for 66
schemes ( 710 WVUAs formed, about 90% increase); (c) procurement of equipment and
vehicles for 71 schemes; (d) preparation of O&M manual and calibration of measuring
devices for 104 schemes; and (e) implementation of transitional O&M for 106 schemes.
11.   Although, training programs for the formation of Water User Associations have
been carried out, and O&M manuals have been provided to most schemes, little if any
improvement has been observed. The mission is concerned that the poor state of system
operation may render schemes unsustainable over time. This issue may be taken up at
both central and local levels and remedial actions are being proposed in the post PIADP
Plan of Operation (attached).
12.   As noted in the previous Aide Memoirs, from visits and observations in the field,
some 40% of O&M budget is spent on operational staff and office support, while 60% is
spent on actual maintenance. Maintenance consists mostly of major improvement works
and nominal expenditure on preventative measures, which is another serious concern
regarding long term viability of the schemes. O&M funding through APBD and
provincial funding sources appear to vary widely. Estimates, obtained during site visits,



-41-                       ANNEX B
range from Rp. 12-20,000/ha or about 50% of a typical 'needs based budget' (NBB). In
South Sulawesi, the information indicates about 40% of requirement, whereas in Central
Sulawesi the level of funding is said to exceeded 100%. Fortunately, as observed in the
field, farmers in several schemes are helping out when normal flow conditions are
obstructed and remedy such problems through the 'gotong-royong' (cooperative labor)
approach. Another positive development is the introduction of ISF, to which farmers
interviewed by the mission, in South Sulawesi, responded positively. At the central level,
DGWRD is diligently undertaking initiatives to firmly establish turn-over and O&M
delivery mechanisms and responsibilities, to enhance operational effectiveness.
Land Clearing and Land Development
13.   Progress on LC&D reached 99% of the planned targets for the final year of
implementation. At appraisal it was estimated that about 27,000 ha would be cleared of
vegetation and about 41,000 ha (SAR Annex 3)developed and leveled for rice cultivation.
This target has been partially achieved, with about 24,100 ha or 90% cleared and 20,400
ha or about 50% developed. In addition, sawah rehabilitation was needed in some 12,400
ha due to unsatisfactory earlier land development, which was not foreseen during
appraisal. This reduction in target area was mainly due to poor soil conditions and water
shortages, thus limiting the potential and feasibility for scheme extension. Because of
improved guidelines developed under the project, in particular regarding phasing and
costing, the project methodology was adopted as the national one. The LC&D
component, initially under the responsibility of DGFCH, was transferred to DGWRD in
1993 after merging of land leveling with tertiary system and farm road planning, design
and construction activities.
14.   Subsequently, the survey, investigations and design (SID) component was split
into two parts. DGFCH became responsible for socio-economic investigations to ensure
that land development was done with the full consent of the farmers, in particular the
conversion of tree crops into paddy fields. DGWRD remained responsible for the
technical SID and implementation. Also BPN's activities were integrated in the two step
SID. Some remaining LC&D works will be completed in FY 98/99 under GOI budget.
(For instance, the Air Kedurang scheme, where due to poor contractor performance,
implementation was delayed to 98/99 fiscal year with GOI funds)
Agricultural Downstream Program.
15.   A summary of the DSP program realized under the project has been presented in
Table 3 (attached). In addition to the program proposed at appraisal, several new
activities have been introduced to support agricultural development in problem areas, in
particular crop trials in newly developed areas and farming system trials, a drainage water
management demonstration and agricultural support packages for Muko-Muko Kiri
scheme. Because it was considered more effective, there has been a shift away from
small demonstration plots of 0.1 ha as proposed in the SAR, towards larger demonstration
areas of 25 ha each. Farmers have become more aware and understand the new



-42 -                      ANNEX B
technologies of better seeds, balanced fertilizer, IPM, etc., but due to external factors such
as cultural preferences and limited access to credit and farm inputs, they can not yet fully
apply the recommended practices.
16.   The cumulative progress of implementation of DSP has reached about 87% of the
physical targets. Because of the prolonged drought in 1997, many activities were delayed
during implementation. As mentioned in the previous Aide Memoire, the mission
recommends that portions of the planned program which can not be completed prior to
closing of the project, be programmed for completion under the GOI budget in FY 98/99.
17.   ASP in Muko-Muko Kiri Because of the prolonged drought, the ASP program
has been delayed. Farm inputs and equipment had been procured and distributed by end
November 1997, except part of the rock phosphates fertilizer. Nursery preparation or
direct planting of paddy started in December 1997. It has been reported that in parts of
the target tertiary units, the commencement of paddy cultivation has been suspended due
to water shortage or draw-down of the groundwater table. It is expected that harvesting
will start in mid April 1998. This mission has visited the site to update information on
the current condition of the planting. Two varieties of paddy, 'Lalan' and 'Banyuasin'
were introduced in this area. The water requirement for both the varieties vary but many
farmers are not fully aware of this difference resulting in vary low expected yield from
the Banyuasin variety. With the introduction of new varieties close monitoring and
follow-up should have been provided by DGFCH staff.
18.  ASP in Air Gegas. Based on a field inventory, the actual target areas were
reduced from 360 ha to 236 ha. Prior to implementation of the ASP, training of farmers
had been conducted. Distribution of farm inputs was carried out in November 1997 and
planting of paddy and soy beans was done in December 1997. It was reported that, due to
persistent droughts, there has been insufficient irrigation water supply resulting in poor
growth in several targeted tertiary units. The mission recommends that the ASP program
both in Muko-Muko and Air Gegas will continue to be closely supervised and monitored
in the post loan period.
19.   Seed Farms. As requested by the previous mission, DGFCH has submitted a
report on the status of the seed farms constructed or rehabilitated under PIADP. Only
seven seed farms (out of a total of 13) were reported to be fully functional due to
technical and financial constraints. The performance of the newly developed seed farms
was generally deficient The mission visited a seed farm in S. Dareh (West Sumatra) and
noted that the condition there was good.  However, the mission learned that the
operational budgets provided were irregular and insufficient. Also the seeds were sold at
a very low price (Rp. 500/kg) based on the Governor's decree. The mission
recommends: (a) that GOI provides sufficient budget for annual operation of the seed
farms; (b) better monitoring of the operation and seed production; and (c) that the price of
seeds be reviewed considering actual production costs to avoid losses.



-43-                      ANNEX B
20.   Result of DSP Impact Surveys. DGFCH/PRAS has conducted an assessment of
the impact of the DSP on farming practices of beneficiary fanners in PIADP schemes.
Data on changes or improvement were collected during four cropping seasons from 1995
to 1997. The results are encouraging, as: (a) the annually cropped area planted with
improved varieties has increased by some 60%; (b) the use of fertilizers has almost
doubled; (c) number of farmers with knowledge on IPM has increased substantially; and
(d) yields, in the DSP areas, have increased from 3.5 to 4.0 ton/ha and net return per ha
for irrigated paddy cultivation has increased by about 80%. The mission recommends
that assessments be continued in the post loan period
Land Titling and Certification
21.   Overall achievement on LT&C was 74% of the planned progress on current year.
The final project target command area was of 182,900 ha, with fully functional
(irrigable) areas accounting for 167,700 ha. Land certification was planned for 127,200
ha, the remaining areas is being processed under transmigration and other BPN programs.
Achievement of land certification for 114,000 ha corresponds to about 90% progress.
22.   The LT&C program implementation provided BPN with opportunity to advance
the usage of modern technologies (aerial photo mapping) and improve operational
efficiency and effectiveness. The ambitious program achieved a high level of success
with the remaining program being committed to in the Operation Plan by BPN with
APBN funds and own schedules.
Settlement
23.   Originally, 1400 households from 5 candidate schemes were included in the
program. None of these schemes were taken up by the project due to changes not
anticipated at appraisal. Instead, a resettlement program involving 450 households for
Indrapura was requested by GOI and approved by the Bank in September 1993. Planning
for the resettlement program was conducted in the last quarter of FY 93/94 by a local
consultant under supervision of Bureau of Planning of MOTr. Construction of civil
works was carried out in FY 94/95 and FY 95/96. The settlement of some 450
households was implemented in FY 94/95.
24.   Land distribution to the settlers commenced in FY 95/96 with priority being local
settlers, resulting in lot shortages for settlers from Java Island. Local government and
BAPPEDA West Sumatra allocated new lands for irrigated paddy cultivation of about
300 ha about 8 km away from the original location at the end of FY 96/97. Since this
land is subject to flooding, drainage improvement was programmed in FY 97/98.
Drainage improvement works were not implemented due to the "economic crisis" which
commenced in late 1997 and were deferred for completion under the post PIADP
Operational Plan in FY 98/99 and FY99/00. Following the discussions with the
transmigrants the mission observed that since the allocation of 'lahan 1' in January 1997,
the transmigrants have not been able to enter their plots because of conflicting ownership



44-                      ANNEXB
claims by the local population from the adjoining settlement despite an agreement
between the local population and Bupati on the release of the land for allocation to
transmigrants. The matter has been brought to the notice of the local administration
during several supervision missions but no action seems to have been taken.
Transmigrants have been looking for other employment opportunities in the vicinity.
Many transmigrants from Java have sold their properties to households from other
provinces and have gone back to Java. During the discussion with BAPPEDAs and other
officials from all the related agencies in Padang, it was agreed that:
(a)  all the related agencies, in coordination with local administration, will
review the tenure issues and determine availability of land for transmigrants;
(b) re-survey and revision of the plan if necessary;
(c)  reallocation of plots to transmigrants and clearing by transmigration
department;
(d) drainage improvement. It was further agreed that no drainage improvement
work in this area should commence until the tenure issue of fully resolved
and transmigrants are allowed to possess their agricultural plots.
Due to the close proximity of the local population to the transmigrants' agricultural plots,
the mission also requested DGFCH/DGWRD to consider sharing, in some form, of
benefits from the PIADP among the local population. The mission also requested to
include above activities in the proposed Operational Plan in FY 98/99 and FY 99/00.
Environmental Protection
25.   The environmental component activities outlined in the SAR have not been fully
implemented. These activities turned out to be either of less significance than anticipated
or could not be practically and effectively delivered. Main constraints to successful
implementation were the fragmented and dispersed nature of the project sites as well as
the institutional capacity of the GOI agencies primarily responsible for the work (MOFr).
26.   An attempt was made during the first two project years to carry out the
environmental assessment studies (SEL and PEL) as required. Results were less than
satisfactory due to limited experience of local consulting firms. Some proposed activities
could not be implemented due to lack of funding. In particular, the catchment area
survey could have been an important vehicle to implement erosion control measures.
Although most of the field surveys have been conducted by provincial staff, there has not
been any follow up by the Ministry of Forestry. The mission reiterates earlier
recommendations to MOFr to prepare a summary report presenting the main
observations, conclusions and follow-up to the surveys.



45 -                      ANNEXB
27.   During this and previous missions, the need to address the sedimentation and
watershed management issues was observed. Previous plans for studies by MoFr to
determine the proposed erosion control measures in four critical watersheds, where the
irrigation schemes suffer from serious sedimentation problems, have been abandoned.
Institutional Support
28.   PPCWG (Project Provincial Coordination Working Group) and PNCWG (Project
National Coordination Working Group) have continually played an active role, as
coordinators, in this multi-sectoral type project.  Under the strategic guidance of
BAPPENAS, the Working Groups facilitated coordination of various activities
implemented by DGWRD, DGFCH, MOFr, MOT and BPN at central as well as at
provincial level. By the end of March 1998, the project expenditures for institutional
support will reach Rp. 7.9 billion or about 4% of total project cost. The support program
included local and overseas training for staff from the technical agencies and
BAPPEDAs. This project has made valuable and lasting contributions to strengthening
of operational management and coordination capacity in provincial agencies, especially
the BAPPEDAs offices. Several BAPPEDA offices have adopted and replicated or intend
to adopt this type of inter-agency project coordination systern.
Consultant Services Technical Assistance
29.   The Borrower contracted two international general project consultants to assist the
agencies with project implementation and institutional capacity building. The first was a
short and directly appointed bridging consultancy and their output was limited to general
project implementation guidelines. The second consultancy assisted in most of the
scheme preparation, including surveys, design and implementation of individual schemes
and was most helpful to the Borrower and the Bank for monitoring project
implementation progress, including the Action Plan. Several local consultancy firms were
contracted by the Borrower for SID services, their output generally being acceptable. It
was difficult to find experienced consultants to carry out the environmental assessment
studies and considerable support from the Bank was needed to achieve an acceptable
output. Because of project extension, the contract of the general implementation
consultancy was extended by 18 months. The total cost for consultant services was
US$10.8 million or about 12% over SAR estimate of US$9.7 million. The cost overrun
was mainly due to project extension and foreign exchange fluctuations.
Monitoring and Evaluation of Project Impacts
30.   Over the years, there has been a concerted effort to develop an adequate
monitoring and impact evaluation system for the PIADP. The two principal initiatives
have been the Scheme Performance Monitoring Program (SPEP) and more recently, the
Interim Scheme Performance Evaluation (ISPE).



-46 -                      ANNEX B
31.   SPEP has involved extensive survey work in 15 schemes during 1996/97-97/98
and covering four cropping seasons. Relatively accurate representative data was collected
on land use and cropping patterns, crop yields, production practices, perceived
constraints, income sources, etc.. On this basis, it has been possible to correlate sample
data with the project-wide data base (collected by PRAS & PRIS) and develop what is
believed to be a somewhat more reliable, comprehensive, and consistent data base for all
110 PIADP schemes. Interim ERR estimates and related diagnostic work have been
especially useful. SPEP Report Summary for 1996/97 crop season is still required to
refine assessment project impacts in the ICR.
32.  ISPE is an attempt to consolidate the basic economic data on all 110 schemes and
generate an ex post ERR estimate using both existing and projected estimates of cropping
patterns, crop yields, production practices, and prices. Projections are derived from PRAS
& consultant personnel. The focus of this work is to derive ERR estimates which are
comparable to those in the SAR so the economic efficiency of the PIADP as it was
actually implemented can be more easily assessed. A summary table of these results for
all 110 schemes, in conjunction with some draft documentation, is available and (as
indicated during the last Mission) still suggests an overall ERR of about 17% per annum,
on a value-added basis. A final report is expected by 31 Mar 98 to facilitate a more
rigorous project performance assessment (vis-a-vis the SAR) in the ICR.
D. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
33.   The project has been successful in achieving its main objectives of: (a) completing
and fully developing incomplete small and medium scale irrigation schemes on the outer
islands of Indonesia; and (b) achieving the potential benefits from irrigated agriculture
development. Also the related objective of improved coordination of irrigation with
agriculture and other related services has been successful in most project provinces.
34.   At appraisal, some 170 schemes in 13 provinces proposed by Government were
pre-screened and categorized to confirm that they matched the project objectives.
Subsequently, some 131 schemes were included under the project, with the potential to
serve about 273,000 ha. Of these, about 146,800 ha were estimated to be newly
functional area. Following surveys and design and through further screening during the
first two years of the project it tured out that only 110 schemes in 12 provinces covering
182,900 ha, or about 70% of target were suitable for implementation. This area consists
of 94,500 ha originally functional area and 73,200 ha of newly functional area (about
50% of original target). The relative reduction of new area can be attributed to poor soils
and limited water availability in the remaining schemes, thus limiting their potential for
extension. This information was not available during the appraisal of the project.
35.   The overall impact of the project in terms of increased agricultural production,
employment generated, and farm families directly benefiting from full development is
presently expected to be approximately as follows: (a) 127,600 directly benefiting farm
families; (b) about 73,000 hectares (+78%) of additional irrigable land; (c) a total annual



-47 -                      ANNEX B
rice production increase of about 330,000 t/annum; and (d) perhaps 150,000 person-
years/year of additional farm employment.
36.   Related indicators of the extent to which agriculture will benefit include: (a) a
project-wide average annual dry paddy yield increase of about 0.5 t./hectare; (b) an
increase in the overall cropping intensity of about 0.2, climbing from about 1.3 to about
1.5; and (c) a resulting increase in the value added/hectare/year of about 30 percent.
37.   The net result of all these changes should see an increase in average farm income
of directly benefiting farmers of about this same 30 percent. Thus, in terms of constant
1996/97 prices, the project at full development is estimated to make a net contribution to
the economy of perhaps Rp. 100 billion/annum (the equivalent of US$38 million/annum).
This increase in the project-area GDP (or Gross Value Added) is also some 30%
compared to the pre-project GVA of the project area.
38.   Coordination of all aspects of project implementation and in particular between
DGFCH and DGWRD at both the central and provincial levels proved to be satisfactory.
After some reluctance during the earlier years of the project, in particular at provincial
level, regular coordination meetings have been held to discuss project related issues. This
procedure has been so well accepted now that in several project provinces it has been
instituted for other projects as well. BAPPEDA showed overall commitment and played
a key role during the verification and handing over process. Except for MoFr, all
agencies participated fully in the promotion of effective coordination practices in the
project.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
39.   Project formulation followed an innovative approach as a significant investment
decision was based on limited detailed project preparation material, which evaluated only
about 10% of the investment target areas. The approach was largely programmatic with
associated risk covering a large number of irrigation schemes scattered over many
provinces. Considering this and the project's complexity being off Java and integrated,
the outcome nevertheless has been generally satisfactory.  The Bank consistently
supported project objectives and was responsive to practical program changes by
adjusting project components accordingly. The Bank provided regular supervision
missions and, as the task was locally managed, the project received considerable support
between missions from the Bank's Resident Mission in Jakarta.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCIE
40.   Project preparation was based on work by consultants employed by the Borrower.
It took more than one year to procure the implementation consultant, causing a delay in
project start-up. In the early project years, there were insufficient budget allocations, late
funds releases as well as administrative constraints. In 1993, BAPPENAS, the agency
responsible for project coordination, delegated responsibility to DGWRD and provided a



-48 -                      ANNEXB
more practicable, effective arrangement and improved performance. The transition
period following   DGWRD  reorganization in  1994 disrupted smooth project
implementation.  As the project matured, implementation performance improved
considerably and in particular the planning, design and construction of civil works, the
agricultural down stream program and the land titling and certification elements. The
activities assigned to MoFr experienced considerable delays and were often incomplete.
Project impact monitoring and evaluation for irrigated agriculture development
experienced long standing systemic problems in data acquisition, reliability and
completeness. Implementation assistance consultants assisted the Borrower in providing
good project implementation records. The Borrower has generally complied well with
the covenants of the loan agreement.
G. SUSTAINABILITY
41.   An implicit objective of the project was to make irrigation in the outer islands of
Indonesia sustainable by ensuring that irrigation systems are maintained in full operating
condition. In the light of the ongoing monetary crisis, it is highly unlikely that in the
immediate future sufficient funding can be made available through national or provincial
government. As indicated in the attached Operational Plan, government plans to turn
over the smaller schemes under 500 ha to the Water User Associations as well as most
secondary irrigation canals of the larger schemes. The role of government would then
largely be limited to maintaining headworks and primary canal supervision and giving
guidance to the WUAs. Pilot projects to that effect are ongoing or are being planned
nation-wide. The collection of ISF or similar beneficiary contributions are being sought
for maintenance of the secondary and main systems. Provided that such turnover and
funding can be realized within the next few years, there is reason to believe that most
rehabilitated schemes will be maintained in a sustainable manner. However, the turned
over systems are likely to require technical and financial assistance from government
when major or emergency repairs become necessary.



-49-                       ANNEX B
H. FOLLOW-UP
42.   The World Bank and FAO/CP team undertaking the ICR mission will prepare a
draft ICR for submission to the World Bank during April 1998. The Bank will submit the
draft report to the borrower for comment before mid-June. The borrower should complete
its final evaluation of project implementation and operation experience and transmit it to
the Bank with a summary by mid-June, 1998. The summary or the full unedited text,
totalling about ten pages, will be attached to the final ICR.
I. GUIDANCE ON GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION TO ICR
43.   Government's own final evaluation of the project implementation is an important
part of an ICR. It can be selective in its coverage and should address issues and lessons
learned in project implementation, from the borrower's perspective. Topics covered can be
the same as in the ICR, namely, project design, appraisal, implementation and project
results. At each stage of the project the contribution should comment on both World Bank
and the implementing agencies' performances, with the observations, where possible,
supported by evidence or reasoned argument. Guidance on the government's contribution
to the ICR has been provided by the Bank in the course of previous supervisions
commencing March, 1998, including provision of official policy and guidelines reference
documents.



-50 -                      ANNEX C
ANNEX C: BORROWER'S POST COMPLETION OPERATION
PLAN
Scheme Completion
1.    Verification of Scheme Completion. After completion of the civil works of the
main irrigation canal system first verification (Verification I) was undertaken by a
composite team of BAPPEDA and PRIS (later PRAS was also involved in the
Verification I), then the second verification (Verification II) of scheme completion has
been carried out for most of the schemes by a composite verification team consisting of
BAPPEDA, PRIS, PRAS, BPN Regional Office, Forestry Regional Office and
representatives of WlUAs. Through the two verification activities, scheme completion has
been confirmed in respect of completion of the irrigation civil works, PROM activities,
DSP, environmental protection and issuing the land certification, and remedial civil
works were identified in some schemes. Those remedial works will be completed with
APBN in FY1998/1999 except for the remedial works in Indrapura scheme (Para. 12),
which is scheduled to be completed by FY1999/2000 because of budget limitation.
2.    Readiness for Routine O&M. Then by issuing "Berita Acara", stating that the
scheme has been completed and hence the scheme is requested to be prepared for O&M
with routine O&M budget to Head of Dinas/Subdinas Pengairan from Head of
BAPPEDA or Provincial Governor, irrigation and drainage systems of the most of
PIADP schemes are now practically ready for routine O&M.
O&M of Irrigation System
3.    Reformed IOMP1987.  Since nature of the irrigation and drainage system
including its commanding area is apt to be vulnerable unless the system is properly
operated and maintained nor is continuously utilized in a right manner, prerequisite is
effort to keep the system sustainable in the post construction phase. To this end integrated
post PIADP operation plan from 1998/1999 onward is contemplated basically in line with
the reformed Policy Statement for Irrigation Operation and Maintenance 1987
(IOMP1987), which will be integral part of Repelita VII starting in 1999/2000 and would
be partly implemented as transition in 1998/1999. Implementation of the reformed IOMP
will be prioritized to those systems which have been rehabilitated/completed and are
ready for routine O&M like PIADP's ones.
4.    IOMP 1987 included: (a) to ensure funding for efficient operation and
maintenance (EOM) based on need-based budgets (NBBs); (b) to achieve cost recovery



- 51-                      ANNEX C
for O&M through introducing ISF; (c) to strengthen O&M institutions; and (d) to
simplify and rationalize mechanism of programming and budgeting for O&M. The
reformed IOMP1987 basically will follow the IOMP1987 with special attention on:
(a) improving funding for O&M and quality of the irrigation services through increase of
ISF levies and expanded irrigation turnover program (PIK); (b) more involvement of
WUAs for O&M and collecting ISF; and (c) enhancing monitoring of O&M
performance.
5.    NBB requirement for EOM, varying with time and systems, will be some
Rp. 35,000 /ha/year in 1996/1997 prices ranging: (a) from Rp.32,000 to Rp.38,000 in the
case of APBN fund only; (b) from Rp.24,000 to Rp.52,000 in the case of
APBN/INPRES(OP); and (c) from Rp.28,000 to Rp.40,000 in the case of
APBD/INPRES11.
6.    Operational Plan. O&M costs for main and secondary irrigation system under
PIADP were funded during construction phase by the project as part of PROM (project
development budget). After completion of PIADP, they will be funded with either/both
national budgets (APBN) or/and the Provincial budget (APBD) with increasing
contribution of ISF. Current target ISF contribution, 50% of the NBBs for the main and
secondary irrigation system, will be increased to 100% ultimately. The fundamental issue
to achieve high contribution of ISF is clear linkage of the fees and quality of O&M
services. In other words, it is needed to achieve high ISF levies that beneficiary farmers
are confident that ISF collected from them is used for the O&M services for their land. In
this regard, the mechanism of ISF will be simplified as such that: (a) WUAs will be
empowered and responsible for not only collecting ISF but also channeling it back to
O&M budget; and (b) the local Dinas Pengairan will not be involved in ISF activities
much but in the guidance of O&M done by WUAs.
7.   In relation to the increase of ISF contribution to O&M funding, irrigation turnover
program (PIK) will be expanded to irrigation systems with a command area of more than
500 ha, for which the local Dinas Pengairan would be responsible for O&M of the
primary irrigation system while cooperative (consisting of WUAs) and each WUA will be
responsible for that of the secondary and tertiary systems respectively. In order to ensure
post PIK operation, the Dinas Pengairan will provide technical guidance and assistance
for the O&M for the cooperative and the WUA.
8.    As discussed above, WJUAs will be more deeply involved in and to play more
important role in O&M of the irrigation system. During the implementation of PIADP,
the number of active WUA in the PIADP schemes increased to 661 from 197. However,
870 WUAs are still inactive and 52 WUAs are to be organized. In order to ensure the
implementation of the operational plan stated above, institutionalizing and activating
those WUAs will be done soon by PRIS in collaboration with PRAS (Para. 10).
lO&M Expenditure from APBN & APBD Budget in FY96/97, Java Irrigation Improvement and Water Resources
Management Project/irrigation Development and Turnover



- 52 -                     ANNEX C
Extension Services
9.    After PIADP completion, the irrigation area which has not been incorporated into
national Intensification Program will be proposed for providing the Intensification
program to Secretariat of Mass Guidance Board (Sekretaris Badan Penylidiki Bimas)
MOA by DLRD. More concretely, irrigation area with newly developed sawah will be
proposed to be included in the INMUM (Intensifikasi Umum; General Intensification
Program for individual farmers), while the irrigation area for which farmers groups have
been established will be proposed to be included in INSUS (Intensifikasi Khusus; Special
Intensification Program for the farmers group) or SUPRA INSUS (Supra Intensifikasi
Khusus; Super Special Intensification Program for the association of the farmers groups).
The latter will be applied for a unit of the irrigation area of some 500 ha where farmers
groups have been established and agreed cropping patterns/calender and water
management have been appropriately pursued. The Intensification Program is to keep the
farm input and guidance from relevant agencies/institutes ready for providing with an aim
of sustaining the productivity of the irrigation area improved and production level
achieved through the project.
10.  In addition to involvement into the national program stated above, the following
PIADP specific operational plan will be implemented using mainly the national fund
(APBN):
(a)   routine "LAKU " (Latihan dan Kunjungan; training and visiting) system
by each PPL to respective irrigated paddy land;
(b)   running of the seed farms, in particular 7 seed farms which has not been
well functioning as programmed;
(c)   activating guidance for formulation of WUAs with a priority to the newly
developed paddy land;
(d)   continuing the demonstration plots where deemed to be needed;
(e)   distributing selected paddy variety of "Lalan" for farmers outside of ASP
area of 1,250 ha; and
(f)   continuation of training to the farmers group on farming practices.



-53-                      ANNEX C
Outstanding Works of LT&C
11.   BPN Regional Office (Kanwil BPN) proposed to complete the remaining LT&C
program by using the fund from either BPN national routine program (PRONA), Land
Re-distribution program (Land Redis), other BPN program, or even beneficiaries self-
supporting basis (Swadaya Masyarakat).
Settlement in Indrapura Scheme
12.   Settlement for 300 households (hh) was implemented by June 1997 with Bupati
statement (SK Bupati) on the settlement. However, the land allocated for some 170 hh
out of the 300 is under conflict with local people who are insisting land ownership and
whole the allocated land is subject to seasonal flooding. To address the land conflict,
local government in particular Kabupaten (regency) and Kecamatan (sub district)
concerned will seek additional land adjacent to the already allocated land. The agreed
time frame of the necessary follow up actions at a coordination meeting chaired by Bupati
of Kabupaten Pusisir Selatan on March 20, 1998 are: (a) organizing a task force team
with SK Bupati to resolve the land conflict by the end of March 1998; (b) inventory
survey on the conflict land and re-allocation of land by the task force team by April 1998;
(c) land clearing the settled land in May 1998; and (d) starting land preparation for
cultivation in May 1998. Awaiting for reconciliation of the land conflict, drainage
condition will be improved by expanding existing drainage capacity and constructing
flood protection dike during FY1998/1999 and 1999/2000.
Monitoring and Evaluation
13.   The current system for the monitoring and evaluation of O&M for the irrigation
system will be continuously utilized in FY1998/1999. From 1999/2000 onward, however,
a new monitoring and evaluation system in accord with the O&M system to be
established in reformed IOMP would be introduced on a national scale. In the new
monitoring and evaluation system, more responsibility for the monitoring would be
entrusted to Regency Irrigation Service (Dinas P.U. Pengairan Dati II) rather than the
current PRIS (Dinas P.U. Pengairan Dati I) at province level and to Directorate of
Construction instead of current Directorate of Planning and Programming at central level.
14.   Monitoring on crop yields, cropped/harvested area, production, etc. will be
continued for PIADP schemes in FY1998/99 with APBN funds. In addition, the
monitoring will be carried out as routine activities for those scheme incorporated into the
national Intensification Program (Para. 8 above) by Dinas Tanaman Pangan Dati II
(Agriculture Service Regency Office). Reporting will be made to relevant Directorates in
MOA through each PRAS.



MAP SECTION



7<      T--`iAILAND                                                1IW'                                                              1                                   (\
,Banda Aceh
MALAYSIA                                        ( SCjLBIIfira Sra           ~                                  !E  Q     \               PHILIPPINES
-     ' ^                ~~~~~~~~~MALAYSIA                                                                   BRUNEI ,ia-
1 Medon
'LUMPUR
<'s>wrerA7 E RX   .  - j   R    r                               ,~~~~~~~'  MALAYSIA    )
Bandar Panng 9      Batongldngki                                                                                                                       Pulahenti
-(Batu 8oki'nikE  l ^/Sei Tandf        ilNGSINGAPORE                                                                                                 Didingga\                      0Mnado
Oat, PAnoeiTrn~b                                                                                                                                            'I        Buko    )A SuJu Paslaten
Bondo'r Scmgk~-,\Q             Peka=Ot~        *                                                                                                                                      rng~A,SI7hop        1
8ondor Taojun~~~  ~  ~ A   ~-A~    taro                                                                                             m                             .-clooua
o           -          ,A%   |~  g<ek>          ang-                     Pontianak >3|                                                             S-bous             o       ;nopao
<,Sungaitung                   D                                                                                    S Pa0onmg  ,  b amorindra  To,zp < 
Bandar So                                                                                                                                       Pal,3'`
SBatang Suhi~~ rt    Seberang                                       -                                                   ,-'                    BoropeP
Air   s otenon                  A     rg: A
AiM em     jDekoA~irua k  iNGKlA                                                                                                          ''
Air SemSe            9                       )      -,b                                       Palangkaraya             -          Laf        -           s 
Ap                       BumiAgung O                     S riT0N(i  '                         .               i. ubOneBaya
Air Susup Kancin,-A          m                .A                                                                                                v        oa
Bengkulu                                                                                                      LakkAnd ~          ,,        Danamulya
Bengkulu  @     A 8  / AlunJ>3 3                   /                            Banjarmasin0                                 And4.ng              Kendari
A  ~f.Air ~ilas                                                             15
Air Tal Ker l -e.    A        Air le n I                                                                        Leong Lonrong        Woluluh   bo nto
Air Nant        Air ~Takl Berikon            .Java Sea                                              Combo JawayaA: WaIubang~r~ cn
Air Bengkenn    B.aldrnapn                                                                                             Ujung Pandang <    A   Poleang
Air Kdrn/           Ar c4BndramngAparang Hulk                                                                                                      vOl~  l
Air Nasal Kanan  Air S~~~~~~~~~~~~~an  .1                                               S~~~iang Keke.V      ~        twS        i1Ae
Air Nasal Kini     tt        I  ,       .A
-,           3Bandurn Ag
INDONESIA                                     A,                                            MADaRangA ,
PROVINCE IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE                                                   Yogyokorta                   '           '- a  ;
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(PIADP)                                                      D.Y.,/GYAKARA                         1 /   T>llA,
(EX - SPIDP SCHEMES)                                                                                   DeGpasorf  rarn                 )           rTh1fGARA 
Go-Aheod Irrigation Schemes                                                                             LOMBOK                                                          Ti  R . IMFIo l-
/     Deferred Irrigation Schemes                                                                                                 SUMBA                    K      u n      flMCDR flMAUR
O      Province Capitals                                                              INDIAN OCEAN                                                            r
*      Nationol Capitals                                                                                                                                                      I     ea
Province Boundaries
Internafional Boundaries
MILES 0        100      200       300       400      500
Note: Second Provincial lrrigated Develpoment Project,                                                                           I                          i  an oneW.d r%rnk.ynd Rnoe. rW- c. O of cno
z                   Loan 2375-IND, Closed in 1988.                                  K          0          20          40                                                     a 80 I/y .    0 &-, ^O-wr f -h  OnrA   
>                                                           KILOMETERS ~~         ~~~~~~~~~0 200  400      600         800
100_                                                               11'                                                                  125                                                  tA)
'0                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0 I  I  .   '



<> AILAND                                        IloI                                                              I           V
,Banda Aceh                                 A       ,1                                                                                                        im           0
aing                                                                South Chino Sea                                                                               PHILIPPINES
. AluE                      MALAYSIABR
a edan   ,                                                    A
*  KUAL_                                                                                                                        Celebes
LUMPURSe
MATER                                                                                   MALAYSIA
B, 8.n Tbka  ef   a  ~ <=               SINGAPORE SN                                                                                                                 TA...r R\  TRA nodo
B. Tin kor  ~Lubuk Tabbui4Sanggau  doa
-l                           0        * Pek.anb                                                  A AMerowi                       fmbun                                     M o           0    ut
6-ATER   <    >SnaSm                                        Pntaa.KLMNA                                   '    Samarindo
Padoan      '/ %       P                                                      ti  1i3                                                ,     us Alas
ung~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A0uai
` TKemunin a               _                                       P D                        oTrinsing                                             iKpaan
1;b7o   -                              ' A  KA                                           Tolohen~
5    gir Laisa   Air Malus. :<V;;>   \)' A                        t                  Palangkaraya   I              $                      alo    K
Mus      a Ia Air Gegas I                            \ ,-)                     s                 :  N
Bengk I                                                                       BPanemormo                        m
Air Selum.    WaJernjin    Jo gRMas                                           BoflOrmOSInL                         SaM os                 O    Kendari
i        y Rarem                                                                                                            15
-Us Wby Ui,a  0(  tn2P`] NG                                                                                         Ro
wal Peng                ~a Ngay  Rato            Java Sea                                              U    Pad            Sanrego              i7 WESi TENGGARA
Way Pdng  u                auupUjung Pnaon
Way Se                  pung D i B  AAARTA
Way Ket , n 0 PUfl9 l~r.AKARTA  JAWA                                                                           F
INDONESIA                                             u n B     Semarang                                                                               Flores
PROVINCE IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE                                                                    r               MADORA                                                     Sea
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(PIADP)                                                      Yagya        k            TEA RAL'                    SUM8AWA
_   U___!ORFS                            ?
(ISSP and Government Financed Schemes)                                             DOYOGYYAKARTA
_ 10-         A      Ga-Aheod Irrigation Schemes(ex - ISSP)                                                               Denpasar Matara                           N    TIMR AIE,
A     Deferred Irrigotion Schemes(ex - ISSP)                                                                                                                                                    lo-MG
*     Other Go-Ahead Irrigation Schemes                                                                                                                                           TITM-SE  Kupana  TIMOR TIMUR
O     Other Deferred Irrigation Schemes                                                        INDIAN OCEAN
(      Province Capitals                                                                                                                                                            Timor Sea
69     National Capitals
-        Province Boundaries
International Boundaries                                           0                                                                    thj i
> | ffi | a s | RGE7t r_n. th. . _d Gi rN, X ths _m do not iO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d d f b.d-b-ffu7=
cz           Ncte: ISSP Irrigation Subsector Project, Loan 2880-IND.                                     A           I                 *     *                        g          o ,     o,ooo    &dr
>                                                                                    ILOMETERS 0         200        400         600          800
_w                                                                 11tO                                                               120                                                Wa



