Docurrent of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9137-IND
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
FEBRUARY 19, 1991
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department V
Asia Regional Office
This dociqment has a restricted distribution and maN be used by recipients only in the perfornance of
thei-r official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUI"ALENTS
(As of September 1990)
Currency Unit    =      Indonesian Rupiah (Rp)
US$  1.00        =      Rp 1,845
Rp    100        =      US$ 0.054
Rp    1 million   =     US$ 542
INDONESIAN FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES - METRIC SYSTEM
1 meter (m)                      =         39.4 inches
1 kilometer (km)                 =         0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq km)       =         100 ha or 0.39 square miles
1 hectare (ha)                   =         2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)                  =         2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)               =         2,205 pounds
INDONESIAN FIVE-YEAR PLAN
Repelita V               -        Fifth Five - Year Plan, 1989-94



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS. ACRONYMS ANDQ INDONESIAN TERMINOLOGY
ADB                -  Asian Development Bank
APBN               -  Central Government Budget
BAPPEDA            -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
BAPPENAS           -  National Development Planning Agency
BPKP               -  Financial and Development Superisory Board
BPN                -  Badan Pertanahan Nasional - National Land Board
DAAD               -  Directorate of Agriculture Area Development (in DGFCA)
DGFCA              -  Directorate General of Food Crops Agnculture (in MOA)
DGRLR              -  Directorate General of Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation (in MOF)
DGWRD              -  Directorate General of Water Resources Development (in MPW)
DIP                -  Daftar Islan Proyek (development budget allocation)
DIPERTA            -  Provincial Agricultural Service
DOI - I&II         -  Directorates of Irrigation I and II (in DGWRD)
DPP                -  Directorates of Planning and Programming (in DGWRD and DGFCA)
DPU                -  Provincial Public Works
EOM                -  Efficient Operation and Maintenance
GOI                -  Government of Indonesia
INPRES             -  Revenue sharing grant programs from GOI to provincial, district and
village authorities
ISF                -  Irrigation Service Fee
ISSP               -  Irrigation Subsector Proj xt (Loan 2880-IND)
Kabupaten          -  Administrative District (headed by Bupati)
LC&D               -  Land Clearance and Development
LT&C               -  Land Titling and Certification
MHA                -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOA                -  Ministry of Agriculture
MOF                -  Ministry of Forestry
MPW                -  Ministry of Public Works
O&M                -  Operation and Maintenance
OECF               -  Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund (Japan)
Palawija           -  Secondary food crops (grown mainly in dry season)
PBB                -  Property and Building Tax
PlAIDP             -  Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Developmnent Project
PPL                -  Village level agricultural extension worker
PRIS               -  Provincial Water Resources Service
PROM               -  Preparation for Operation & Maintenance
Repelita           -  National Five-Year Development Plan (Repelita V, 1989-94)
Sawah              -  Lowland rice fields
SID                -  Survey, Invesdigation and Design
SPIDP              -  Second Provincial Irrigation Development Proc c- (Loan 2375-IND)
WUA                -  Water Users' Association (P3A)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties, Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



INDONF I
Loan and PrQjeci Summay
Boffower        :  Republic of Indonesia
1,oan Amount       US$ 125.0 million equivalent
Twenty years, including five years of grace, at the Bank's standard variable
interest rate.
project Description:  The main project objective is to achieve potential benefits from irrigated
agricultural development by completing and fully developing ongoing small
and mnedium scale irrigation schemnes in 13 provinces on the Outer Islands of
Indonesia. A related objective is to assist development of institutional capacity
to enable improved coordination of irrigation with agriculture and other related
services. To meet the above objectives, the proposed project would comprise:
(a) survey, investigations and design; (b) completion of irrigation works on
some 130 schemes serving about 273,000 ha, includirg construction of minor
canal and drainage systems and preparation for operation and maintenance
(PROM); (c) land clearance and development of about 40,000 ha; (d)
agricultural development activities including seed multiplication programs,
trials for problem soils and training of farmer groups; (e) land titling and
certification; (f) environmental protection including forest surveys and erosion
control; (g) settlement; and (h) coordination and management of irrigated
agricultural development.
Benefits and Risks:  The project should generate substantiai incremental benefits from the low cost
mninor works and land development required to complete schemes. The
benefits derive from increased crop production, improved performance and
sustainability of irrigation schemes and better coordination and improved
management. The primary benefit would be increased agricultural (rice)
production and the main beneficiaries would be farmers with land within the
design command area of schemes, but which has yet to be served by irrigation
and fully developed. Major quantifiable benefits at full development would be
incremental annual production of about 1,100,000 tons of paddy. About
127,000 rural families would benefit directly from the new areas brought
under irrigation with some improvements for an additional 100,000 families
presently receiving an irrigation service. The project would settle some 1400
families on schemes in Sulawesi and Kalimantan. The project should result in
significant indirect benefits in more isolated regions and generate important
socio-economic benefits. It would also alleviate oroverty as about 30 percent
of the beneficiaries are recent transmigrants or landless local settlers. The main
project risks, generally known from 1-ssons learnt under previous operations,
relate to instfi itional coordination, quality control of planning, design and
implementation, whether all farmers will fully utilize irrigated and developed
land, and whether agricultural extension and the development follow-up would
be satisfactory. These risks are acceptable given the Government's recognition
and commitment to achieving full benefits from irrigated agricultural
development and the willingness to implement necessary policy actions.



E3stimated Costs: ML
LI/cal        Foreign         Total
--------------------- ($ million) ------------------
Survey, Investigation and Design        3.8            0.0           3.8
Irrigation Works                      33.1            54.2          87.3
Land Clearance and Development        20.0              5.4         25.4
Agricultural Development                1.5            0.3            1.8
LandTitlingandCertification             X.1            2.1           10.2
Environmental Protection                0.5            0.0            0.5
Settlement                              5.7             1.0           6.7
Institutional Support Services          1.9            0.4            2.3
Consultant Services                     5.1             3.5           8.6
Land Acquisition                        1.5            0.0            1.5
Project Administration                 13.5            0.0           13.5
PPF Refinancing                        -.-            _.5             1.
Base Costs               95.5            67.4          162.9
Physical Contingencies                  8.7            6.2           14.9
Price Contingencies                                   1Q 3 5.6
Total Project Costs            126.2            89.2         215.4
a/  Including taxes and duties estimated at US$ 13.3 million equivalent;
rounded to one decimal place.
Financine Plan:
Local            Foreign         Total
-------------------($ million)-------------------
Government of Indonesia               90.4                          90.4
IBRD                                  8I&              9.2         i25 
Total                       126.2            89.2         215.4
Disbursement:
Bank FY       1291       192        1993       1224        1995     1229     1227
----   --------------------  (US$ million)--------------------------
Annual          1.3       12.4       23.7       25.0       23.1     25.8      13.7
Cumulative      1.3       13.7       37.4       62.4       85.5    111.3    125.0
a/ Disbursement in FY1991 relates to PPF; rounded to one decimal place.
Estimated Rate of Economic Return:  17 percent (weighted average for all project schemes).
Maps:   IBRD 22361 and 22362



- iii -
INrDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page N
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  .............................................................   i
I.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND.                                                I
Background.                                                                1
Agriculture Sector .1
Irrigation Subsector.                                                      2
Institutional Framework.                                                   2
Challenges Facing the Irrigation Subsector.                                3
II.  BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNT.                                         4
Bank Involvement in the Sector.                  .       .                 4
Issues and Lessons Learnt in Irrigation Development in Indonesia...        4
-  Major Lessons in Indonesian Irrigation.                            6
- Technical Constraints.                                              6
-  Institutional and Human Resource Constraints.                      6
- Financial Constraints.                                              7
- Environmental Constraints.                                          7
- Determinants of Sustainability.                                     7
Proposed Strategy and Rationale for Future Bank Involvement ...            7
-  Government Objectives and Strategy.                                8
- Bank Strategy.                                                      8
- Rationale for Bank Involvement.                                     9
III.   THE PROJECT ................................10.................................... 10
A.    Project Objectives and Strategy  ............   10
-  Project Objectives   ............   10
- Project St.ategy ............  10
- Projtct Scope ............ 10
B.  Project Compoilents ............   10
C.  Detailed Features ............  10
-  Survey, Investigation and Design  ............  10
-  Completion of Irrigation Works ............  11
-  Land Clearance and Development ............  11
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising of Messrs.
J. F. Cunningham (Task Manager); E. Boerema, T. Daves, D. Subasinghe (Bank) and S. Allison,
R. Crooks, T. Prins (Consultants) which visited Indones;a in May/June 1990. The Peer Reviewers
of the project were Messrs. D. Leewrik (agriculture); A. Raza (links with other Indonesian irrigation
subsector operations); C. Rees (environmental aspects); H Frederiksen (irrigation); and B Fisher
(institutional aspects). Messrs. Russell J. Cheetham, Director (ASSDR) and Antony P. Cole,
Division Chief (AS5AG) have endorsed the project.



- iv -
Page No.
-  Agricultural Development                        2.................... ' 2
-  Land Titling and Certification   ..12
- Environmental Protection       ..12
- Settlement                          ..    13
- Institutional Support       ..13
-  Consultant Services .......................... ................................... 13
D.    Status of Preparation and Implementation Schedule  ...... .............  14
-  Status of Preparation  ...................  14
-  Implementation Schedule  ..................  15
E.    Environmental Aspects ..................  15
F.  Role of Women ................... 16
IV.   PROJECT COSTS AnD FINANCING  ..................  16
Project Costs .................. 16
Project Financing  ...................  17
Procurement .................. 17
Disbursements  ..................  19
Accounts and Audits ...............................................................20
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................................. 21
A.  Background.                            .                     .................. 21
B.    Project Organization  .............22............. ................... 22
C.    Project Management ..................    24
-  Scheme Preparation, Analysis and Documentation .25
- Scheme Completion .25
-  Verification & Certification of Scheme Completion .26
- Monitoring and Evaluation .26
- Progress Review and Reporting .26
- Annual Implementation Review .27
- Multiple Financing .27
- Budgetary Procedures .27
VI.   PRODUCTION, MARKETING. FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY  ... 27
-  Agricultural Production .........    ...............  27
-  Cropping Intensities ..........      ..............  27
-  Crop Yields ........................  28
-  Marketing  ............................                          28
-  Financial Prices  ..........       ..............  29
-  Farm Budgets  ..........          ..............  29
-  O&M Funding  ..........           ...............  29
-  Cost Recovery  ................................................................... 29
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIRICATION AND RISKS  ...............  30
-  Project Benefits and Beneficiaries  ...............  30
-  Economic Justification  ................  31
-  Sensitivity Analysis  ...............  32
Risks and Uncertainties  ...............  32
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .......................... 34



v e
Page No.
TABLES IN TH)E MAIN TEXT
Table  2.1  Irrigation Subsector - Project Comp'tion and Performance Audit Reports  ...  5
Table  4.1  Summary of Costs  .......................  17
Table  4.2  Project Financing Plan   .......................  17
Table  4.3  Procuremc,nt Plan   .......................  19
Table  6.1  Cost Recovery Indices  .......................  30
ANNEXES
1.     Main Tables
Table 1.  List of Schemes and Cost Estimates ('Go-ahead' schemes) .............  36
Table 2.  List of Schemes and Cost Esdmates (Defered' schemes) ...............   37
Table 3.  Estimated Disbursement Schedule  ..........................................   39
Table 4.  Proposed Allocadon of Loan ................................................    40
Table 5.  Analysis of Repaymnent Capacity (using farmgate prices) ........ .......   41
Table 6.  Analysis of Repayment Capacity (using GOI support prices) ...........  42
Table 7.  Economic Indicators - Megang Tingkip Scheme (South Sumatera)  ....  43
Table 8.  Economic Indicators - Padang Sapa Kiri Scheme (South Sulewasi)  ....  44
Table 9.  Economic Indicators - Sanggau Ledo Scheme (West Kalimantan)  ......  45
2.     Assumptions for Financial and Economic Analysis  .............    .....................   46
3.     Detailed Cost Estimates by Provinces/Components ..............    .....................   65
4 .  Project Coordination ............                                                     87
5.     Irrigated Agriculture Development  .......................................................    98
6.     Land Clearance and Development  ........................................................  119
7.     Land Titling and Certification .........................................................   126
8.     Agricultural Development . .........................................................  128
9.     Environmental Aspects   .................................. .......................  140
10.   Proiect Supervision    ........................      .................................  150
11.   Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ..........  .................  151
CHARTS
1      Overall Project Organization   ...................    ...........................  152
2      Project Organizational Arrangements for Irrigation Development ..................... 153
3      Overall Organization and Management of Land Development ............... .......... 154
4      Project Organizational Arrangements for Land and Agricultural Development  ...... 155
5      Phasing of the Activities for Irrigation and Land Development ............ ...........  156
MAP
IBRD   22361 - Project Schemes from SPIDP (Loan 2375-IND)
IBRD   22362 - Project Schemes from ISSP (Loan 2880-IND) and Other Financing Sources.



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
I. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Background
1.01    The large expansion of irrigation infrastructure in Indonesia over the last two decades has
made a major contribution to bringing Indonesia to self-sufficiency in rice. However, most of this
success has been on Java with a long established tradition of irrigated agriculture. It has not been
matched by a similar performance on the Outer Islands. Furthermore the expansion in infrastructure
has only recently been accompaniea by a country-wide effort to maintain and operate irrigation
schemes efficiently. On the Outer Islands, small and medium scale schemes remain incomplete and
agricultural development has lagged because: (a) financing and implementation have been piecemeal
and uncoordinated; (b) the construction stage was generally entered without adequate design and
planning; and (c) there has been little incendve for the implementing agencies involved to focus on
achieving potential benefits rather than continuing expenditure programs.
1.02    Recognizing the lack of returns to the large sunk investments in irrigated agriculture, the
Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested Bank assistance for a Provincial Irrigated Agriculture
Development Project (PLADP) to: (a) finance a five year program of completion and full development
of selected on-going irrigadon schemes on the Outer Islands; and (b) implement and consolidate
institutional arrangements at central and provincial levels to enable full potential benefits to be achieved
from irrigated agricult.. I development in a timely manner.
Agricultural Sector
1.03    Agriculture remains thc key sector of the Indonesian economy, contributing about 21 percent
of GDP (in constant terms), providing employment to some 55 percent of the labor force and
generating about 56 percent of the non-oil exports. Food crops constitute the largest subsector,
contributing 52 percent of the agricultural GDP. Rice, the staple food and dominant crop in
Indonesia, accounts for about 30 percent of the agricultural GDP. Growth in agricultural production
has re-attained the level of about 4.0 percent achieved during the 1975-85 decade, after a decline of
between 2.0 and 2.5 percent in 1986 and 1987. A growth of 5.5 percent was achieved for rice
production in 1987 as a result of good rice prices and rainfall, and increases of 3.0 and 2.3 percent in
area planted and yields respectively. The area increase was partly due to some 45,000 ha of previously
designated sugarcane area reverting to rice and to farmers responding to higher rice prices by shifting
out of soybeans and comn.
1.04    Rice was the most important crop in the sector growth over the last two decades.
Consequently, the expansion in irrigated command area has made a major contribution to taking the
economy over the threshold of food security. Paddy production of some 41.6 million tons in 1987 is
more than double the 1970 level, with the increase coming mainly from higher irrigated crop yields.
Paddy yields in many areas of Java with full and reliable irrigation now average 4.5 to 5.0 ton/ha and
are amongst the highest in Asia. Paddy yields are lower on the Outer Islands, but are still in the order
of 3.5 to 4.0 ton/ha where full and reliable irrigation is available. Although higher yields account for
about 75 percent of the rice production increases, the harvested area has also increased by some
30 percent since 1970. National yields for irrigated paddy average about 4.2 ton/ha compared to an
average of about 1.7 ton/ha under rainfed conditions. Although precision is impossible, according to
recent Government studies, irrigation investments have contributed some 20 to 30 percent of the
growth in rice production since 1970. This has happened in combination with other inputs, such as
improved variedes, increased ferdlizer use and extension services on the existing cropped area.



- 2 -
1.05    Agriculture continues to be the main source of income of the majority of the rural population
in Indonesia who comprises about 75 percent of the total population. After a decade and a half of
impressive performance, (some 4.0 percent growth per annum), the sector is now adjusting to lower
prices for commodities, resource constraints on public sector support, reduced scope 'or expansion of
migation infrastructure, and the possibility that rice may no longer be the engine for growth in the
sector. The major issue in agriculture is how to sustain growth, employmtnt, income and exports in
the sector on an efficient basis. For agriculture to continue to play a major role in growth, employment
and poverty alleviation, the best prospect will be through greater economic efficiency, intensificadon,
and a more diverse pattern of production. This would entail a changing role for the Government,
geared towards providing support services and intervening less in pricing, marketing and trade.
Irrigation Subsecto
1.06    Surfac Esiadon. The total irrigated aea in Indonesia is estimated at about 5.5 million
hectares with about 1.1 million ha of village-operated irrigation area and some 4.4 million ha of public
sector irrigation. The designated area under public irrigation includes some 2.3 million ha of technical
irrigated area, 1.3 million ha of semi-technical area, and 0.8 million ha of simple irrigated amea 1/.
However, since most irrigation schemes are run-of-ihe-river without storage, in any particular year,
the actual service area may be less. Thus, at present, the percentage of irrigated land classified as
technical exceeds 50 percent of all public irrigated land.
1.07    Goundwater. The estimated potential for groundwater development in Indonesia, presently
estimated at about 175,000 ha, is limited by the lack of suitable aquifers. Up to a decade ago, there
was little private development except through hand-dug and manually operated wells and mninor
development on sugar estates. As of 1986, only about 25,000 ha have been developed with about
15,000 ha by public sector and 10,000 ha by privately financed shallow we'ls in East and Central
Java. Groundwater technology has been extended to the Outer Islands only on a very limited basis.
1.08    Over the last two decades, irrigation expenditures have amounted to some Rp 13 trillion
(1988 prices), equivalent to over US$ 7.0 billion, of which about one-half comprised external
assistance from bilateral and multilateral sources. In addition to the Bank, with loans of some US$ 1.6
billion for 24 operations (para 2.04), several other external donor agencies are engaged in supporting
irrigation development in Indonesia. These include ADB and bilaterals (USAID, OECF, Australia,
CIDA, Netherlands, Italy). The coordination between these agencies, whether it entails parallel
financing/cofinancing, or support for future strategies, has been generally good.
Isiutina Franmework
1.09    The Ministries of Public Works (MPW) and Agriculture (MOA) are the two major institutions
involved in irrigated agriculture development. Within MPW, the Directorate General of Water
Resources Development (DGWRD) is responsible through the two Directorates (DOI - and II) for the
planning, design and construction of irrigation schemes. Within the Provincial Public Works (DPU),
the provincial water resource services (PRIS) are responsible for construcdon, and operation and
maintenance of the public irrigation schemes. The chief of PRIS is administratively responsible to the
Provincial Governor, through the chief of DPU. However, for all technical and personnel matters, the
PRIS chief is under the jurisdiction of the DGWRD. Each PRIS, at its provincial headquarters,
includes sections for planning, design, construction and O&M. Within the MOA, the Directorate
General of Food Crop Agriculture (DGFCA), through the Directorate of Agricultural Area
Development (DAAD) has responsibility for land clearance and development with the Directorate of
Food Crop Agricultural Extension (DFCAE) responsible for agricultural extension and other inputs.
1/  Technical areas have full Government control to tertiary canal level; sei-technical areas have
permanent canals with Govemment control to main canal level; and simple irrigated schemes have
few permanent structures and are usually farner managed.



The Provincial Agricultural Services (PRAS or DIPERTA) have responsibility for the various
agricultural activities at provincial level through subservice u. its reflecting national level organization.
1.10    Other institutions at the national level include: (a) BAPPENAS (through its Agriculture and
Irrigation Bureau) with responsibility for planning, budget coordination and monitoring; (b) BP'N, the
National Land Board, which is responsible for land titling and certification through central staff based
in the provinces; (c) the Ministry of Transmigraton (MOT) with provincial staff responsible for
settlement of transmigrants; and (d) the Ministry of Forestry (MOF) with provincial staff responsible
under the proposed project for forestry aspects of irrigation development and environmental protection
of natural resources.
1.11    At the provincial level, the BAPPEDA. which is responsible for planning, coordinating and
monitoring, reports to he Governor through the Chairman of BAPPEDA, as do the other provincial
staff through the chiefs of the respective provincial agencies. The BAPPEDA is structured along
sectoral lines with the Agriculture and Physical Infrastructure divisions sharing responsibility for
inigated agriculture. An important function of BAPPEDA is the planning and budget coordination of
the various line agencies involved in an inter-agency development such as irrigated agriculture.
Challenges Facing the nrrigation Subsector
1.12    Notwithstanding Indonesia's achievements in developing its food crop subsector, its present
position is tcnuous, particulariy with regards to rice self sufficiency and the growing population. The
easy opportunities for irrigated agriculture have been exploited. The challenges stem from .imited
expansion potential for irrigation, which is now primarily on the Outer Islands. In addition, there are
emerging competing demands on water resources, primarily on Java, where most of the effective
irrigated agriculture is located. Another challenge is the need for an effective interface and coordination
between the institutions responsible for agriculture and irrigation infrastructure.
1.13    Limits on Expansion of Irrigation Network. The costs of irrigation investment have
increased steadily as the portfolio of less expensive projects has oeen depleted and potential areas for
new construction have shifted primarily to off-Java locations. Bank commodity price projections
indicate declining real rice prices and increasing fertilizer prices beyond the year 2000. This,
accompanied by levelling otr in yields and no major breakthrough in rice research on the horizon,
could make the achievement of rice self-sufficiency an objective which will be difficult to sustain.
Furthermore, it is not known for certain what expansion in irrigated area is needed to maintain growth
in rice production in line with potential domestic demand. Some estimates indicate that an irrigation
development program which wvould create new service areas of some 25-35,000 ha per annum would
suffice to maintain balanced growth in rice production (ADB, 1987). However, there are other
estimates from Government agencies, which indicate that as high as 100,000 ha per annum of new
area should be brought under irrigation.
1.14    Complefing Existing Irrigation Schemes. Various studies have also shown that a further
300,000-400,000 ha could be irrigated from existing incomplete irrigation schemes, if there is
adequate and coordinated land and tertiary development (para 5.15). This opportunity to expand the
irrigated area should have high priority because it would be relatively low in cost, takes advantage of
large sunk invest. ,ents in existing irrigation infrastructure, and can be implemented quickly. Thus,
perhaps the mo-. important challenge in the irrigation subsector, particularly on the Outer Islands, is to
strengthen the interface and coordination between irrigation and agriculture. This would also help to
strengthen the institutional capacity to cffectively plan, execute, manage and then operate and maintain
new irri,ated command area.
1.15    Competing Demands on Water Resources. Water requirements are not only for irrigated rice
and nLn-rice crops. It is also required for: (a) aquaculture in fresh and brackish water ponds, rivers
and lakes; (b) municipal water supply for drinking and urban, industrial and commercial uses;
(c) flushing and low flow maintenance; (d) hydro power generation; and (e) inland navigation and
recreational use. Except for hydro power generation and recreation, all other uses of water are



-4.
out-of-stream uses. The need is becoming acute, particularly in Java, for protecdon and conservation
of catchment areas, increased attention to water quality, and improved management ol r.ver basin water
resources and their allocation. This wili become increasingly important given the growing shortages of
dry season water supply, which can adversely affect productionl of the second season paddy crop.
I,. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.01    Experience with irrigation development, not only in Indonesia but in many other countries as
well, demonstrates that the subs^ctor is facing a number of technical, financial, institutional and human
resource challenges. The Annual Review of Evaluation Results for 1989 2/ suggested that successful
irrigation projects have yielded important long-term benefits, particularly in supplementing national
food supplies and raising income, which were also the major thrusts of Indonesian Government
investment programs for irrigation, due to cridcal shortages and large imports of rice in the 1970's.
The review also found that the overall operational perfornance of irrigation systems has been poorer
than anticipated at the time of project appraisal and completion. The physical infrastructure has often
deteriorated leading in some cases to a long term decline in production Fnd low efficiency in water use.
Inadequate O&M funding and institudonal and organizational problems have contributed to this
shortfall in performance. The review suggested that the Borrowers concerned have often disengaged
too early from projects, leaving irrigation and drainage systems incomplete and land development
unfinished. For maiy projects, complementary services (e.g. extension, research, marketing) and
beneficiary participation, associated with the productivity of irrigation development, have been
inadequate or seriously delayed.
2.02    These shortcomings are also present in Indonesia. Many problems, in particular technical
problems, are project specific. However, the solution to some of the causes of poor performance are
generic subsector issues extending beyond the boundaries of individual projects, relating to public
finance, human resource policy and institutional organization and development. The major issues at
present facing the irrigation subsector in Indor.esia, and the lessonL learnt under Bank projects, are
described below. It is, however, worth noting that irrigation development has played a critical role in
Indonesia achieving rice self-sufficiency, and rice has provided a major impetus to growth in the
agriculture sector.
Issues and Lessons Learnt in Irrigation Development in Indonesia
2.03    Irrigation has absorbed a major part of Bank lending for Indonesian agriculture over the past
two decades with loans/credits of some US$ 1.6 billion for 24 operations (Table 2.1). During the
decade of the 1970s, the Bank supported: (a) rehabilitation/modernmzation of irrigation and drainage
system, construction of new irnigatiout and drainage systems, a multi-purpose dam, and construction of
tertiaries; (b) institutional strengthening and staff development, although with limited impact; and (c)
policies aimed at increasing generation of land/property tax revenues, through land reclassification and
valuation. More recently, especially under the Irrigation SubsecLor Project (ISSP I), Loan 2880-IND,
the increased focus of Bank lending has been on improved O&M of existing systems; suppoit for
policies entailing turnover of small public schemes to farmers' groups; and the introduction of an
irrigation service fee. These policies are aimed at increasing efficiency and sustainability of
investments by reducing dependence on central government budgets for O&M funding, imnproving
resource allocation and increasing beneficiary participation.
21   Annual Review of Evaluation Results for 1989, Agriculture and Rural Development Sector
Working Paper, OED, August 29, 1990.



2.04        Of the 19 Bank loans closed to date, 14 have been evaluated by the Bank's Operation
Evaluation Department (OED) as summarized in the Table 2.1 below.
Table2.1: IRRIGATION SUBSECTOR - PROJECT COMPLETION AND PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORTS
Credit/Loan      Dates                           Project               Original      PPARWPCR               PCR
Ref.     No.       Effective  Closed                                        Principle Report No   Diate   Repor No   Date
(USS M)
I   Credit 0127     1969    1976    Irrigation Rehabilitation 1                 6.0     2047   May-78
2   Credit 0195     1970    1978    IrTigation Rehabilitation 11               19.0     3269   Dec-80
3   Credit 0220     1971    1978    Irrigation Rehabilitation III              15.0     3269   Dec-80
4   Credit 0289     1972    1979    Irigation Rehabilitation IV                12.6     3269   Dec-80
5   Credit 0514     1974    1982    Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension             30.0     5183    Jun-37
6   Credit 0995     1980    1987    Irrigation V                               45.0     7956    Jun-89
7    Loan 1100      1975    1985    Irrigation VI                              65.0     6864    Jun-87
8    Loan 1268      1976    1983    Irrigation VII                             33.0     5881    Oct-85
9    Loan 1434      1977    1985    Irrigation VIII                            63.0     6864    Jun-87
10    Loan 1435      1977    1984    Irrigation IX                              35.0     6864    Jun-87
11    Loan 1578      1978    1986    Irrigation X                              140.0     7956    Jun-89
12    Loan 1579      1978    1984    Irrigation XI                              31.0     6864    Jun-87
13    Loan 1645      1981    1986    Irigation XII                              77.0     7313    Jun-87
14    Loan 1691      1981    1985    LowerCimanuk Flood Control (XIII)          50.0     6864    Jun-87
15    Loan 1811      1980    1987    Irrigation XIV                            116.0     7956    Jun-89
16    Loan 1958      1981    1987    Swamp Rec'amation 1                        22.0                         7930    Jun-89
17    Loan 2118      1982    1988    IrrigationXVI                              37.0                         8199   Nov-89
18    Loan2119       1982    1989    IrrigationXVII                             70.0
19    Loan 2375      1984    1988    Second Provincial Irrigation               89.0                         8336    Jan-90
20    Loan 2431      1984   *1992    Swamp Reclmanation 11                      65.0           on-going
21    Loan 2543      1985   *1991    Multipurpose Dam & Irrigation             156.0           on-going
22    Loan 2560      1985   *1991    West Tarum Canal Improvement               43.4           on-going
23    Loan 2649      1986   *1992    Central & West Java Provincial            166.0           on-going
24    Loan 2880      1988   *1991    Irrigation Subsector                      234.0           on-going
Totl      1620.0
Note: * expected closing date
The most recent anc; relevant Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARs) are Reports Nos 6864 3/
and 7956 41. In addition, there have also been two Project Completion Reports (PCRs) 5-1 relevant to
recent performance that have not yet been audited by OED and a report by the International Irrigation
Management Institute (IIMI) on Indonesian irrigation development 6W. The issues and lessons from
these reports are discussed below.
3a     PPAR, Irrigation Projects VI, VIII, IX, XI and XII, (Loans 1100, 1434, 1435, 1579
and 1691-IND), June 30, 1987, Report No. 6864.
41     PPAR, Irrigation Projects X, XIV  and XV  (Loans 1578, 1811 and Credit 995-IND),
June 30, 1989, Report No. 7956.
5-I    PCRs, Irrigation XVI Project (Loan 2118-IND), November 27, 1989, Report No 8199
and Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project (Loan 2375-IND), January 26, 1990.
Report No. 8336.
t/ Efficient Irrigation Management and System Turnover, IIMI,Colombo, Sri Lanka, December
1989, Report No. TA-937 Ind.



- 6-
2.05    Maior Lessons in Indonesian Irrigation. These lessons fall into four broad categories -
technical, institutional and human resource, financial and environmental - and include, inter alia:
(a) quality control; (b) Government's lack of priority for non-construction and O&M activities;
(c) institutional and human resource constraints; (d) coordination of the irrigation-agriculture
programs; (e) monitoring and evaluation of irrigadon system performance and the impact of irrigation
on agricultural production; (f) local funding constraints, use of available funds and cost recovery
mechanisms; (g) beneficiary participation in formalized water users organizations; and (h) environ-
mental impact.
2.06    Technical Constraints. Insufficient physical resources data (hydrology and soils), at the
evaluation of the technical feasibility of many irrigation projects, has resulted in flaws in planning and
design. These combined with deficiencies in construction have caused huge periodic reconstruction
expenditures that are often treated as O&M. Priorities have not been geared to improving operations,
but on the degree of physical disrepair. Maintenance activities are generally uncoordinated and often
do not relate to efficiency or operational objectives. An underlying problem is that many schemes,
particularly on the Outer Islands, have never been fully completed and thus the irrigation systems are
generally inadequate to achieve full benefits of irrigation. Because there is little accountability for how
or whether existing schemes function as planned and designed, inefficient irrigation management has
developed. Government and the Bank are addressing the O&M related issues, including
institutionalizing processes whereby plans for O&M are in place, operational procedures are simplified
and schemes are verified and certified that they operate as designed, before they are handed over to
provincial O&M authorities. For future projects, whose preparation is supported by the Bank, a
concerted effort is in place to ensure adequate physical resource data.
2.07    Institutional and Human Resource Constraints. The developmental impact of the irrigation
subsector depends on effective coordination and cooperation between the Ministries of Public Works,
Agriculture, Home Affairs, Transmigration and the Provincial authorities. On the Outer Islands, in
particular, coordination is not effective. Each agency follows its own budget provision (which for
development activities are directed by parent agencies in Jakarta), program and priorities and functions
as if each project activity was self-contained. In addition, no agency involved in irrigated agricultural
development undertakes a regular evaluation of either its own performance or its contribution to the
overall benefits from irrigated agriculture.
2.08    The planned central approach, followed until recently, of most ministries/agencies involved
in irrigation development tends to be non-participatory. As a result, an inability to provide adequate
staff incentives, limited career prospects and insufficient resources contribute to the staffing problems.
These are compounded by unclear accountability and Government's heavy dependence on consultants
who substitute for shortages of technical skills within the public services. The impact of training,
supported by various donors, is also unclear. In this respect, the Bank is supporting improved
monitoring and coordination of consultancies by Govemment and the assignment of suitable
government staff to work with consultants to facilitate transfer of knowledge.
2.09    It is generally not possible to evaluate with any certainty the impact of projects or institutional
management because of lack of reliable data, reporting and monitoring. Most progress reporting of
either schemes or individual contracts relates to monitoring budget allocations and expenditures with
little useful data on performance of investments. As a consequence, there is a lack of diagnostic
analysis on performance of both irrigation service and the related agricultural impact.
2.10    There has been inadequate participation in the irrigation subsector by the private sector,
including the local community. While informal farmer groups are found in irrigated areas in all
provinces, more formalized organizations are required. An adequate legal basis for WUA
organizations, and effective catalysts in getting such organizations started and functioning are needed.
On the Outer Islands, delays in land and agricultural development of many schemes has also
contributed to non-participation of farmer beneficiaries. In this respect, under the ISSP (Loan 2880-
IND), the Bank is supporting the establishment and strengthening of WUAs so that they can operate,
maintain, manage and own small schemes previously under public sector management. In addition,



-7 -
legal and administrative procedures needed to facilitate the turnover of small public schemes to farmer
groups.
2.11    Financial Constraints. Insufficient and unpreaictable local funding for key activities has been
an important constraint, particularly for land acquisition, settlement and agricultural development,
which are not usually supported by donors under irrigation projects. The generic funding problems
have consisted of two parts, namely availability of funds and the budgetary process. In general, few
schemes have full and secure financing commitments when they are started.
2.12    Until recently, the cost recovery mechanism was through the land tax (IPEDA/PBB), of
which only a small percentage was allocated for O&M of irrigation and drainage systems. There have
been some initiatives towards collecting irrigation service fees in a few areas. More recently,
Government changed its position and the service fee is being collected in pilot schemes under the
ISSP I (Loan No. 2880-IND). This is expected to reduce the dependence of provincial and local
governments on financial transfers from the central government. The fee will be linked to actual
financial requirements for O&M in specific irrigation schemes and water users encouraged to take
greater responsibility for their systems. The Bank is strongly supporting these recent efforts by
Government.
2.13    Environmental Constraints. There has been limited consideration of the environmental
impact of irrigated agricultural development, primarily because irrigation projects have been generally
planned, designed and implemented as civil works rather than developmental operations. As a result,
nominal attention have been given to the effect of irrigation development on the surrounding area, or to
the long term environmental impact. Consequently, the need is becoming acute, paricularly in Java, to
protect and conserve natural resources and catchment areas. In addition, the growing competition for
water between the various users has increased the problems associated with water quality and
managerment of river basin water resources, including groundwater, and their allocation. Finally,
involuntary resettlement ac.ivities are not always planned and implemented with a thorough analysis of
viability, sustainability, and sensitivity to the needs of the population adversely affected. The
proposed project has been designed to help Govemment meet these challenges.
2L.14    Determinants of Sustainabilitv. Resolution of the above issues and lessons learnt are pre-
requisites for sustainable development in the irrigation subsector in Indonesia. As expressed in OED's
Annual Review for 1989, the achievement of sustainability requires attaining a balance across all forms
of capital participating in irrigation development. Based on the lessons learnt and the underlying
causes of the problems, the Government, with the Bank's participation, has identified a strategy to deal
with these issues.
Proposed Strategv and Rationale for Future Bank Involvement
2.15    Government Objectives and Strategy. Government's objectives for rice-based farming
systems in irrigated lowlands are to: maintain food security, facilitate crop diverstification during the
second crop season, alleviate poverty and support regional development. Government's 1987 Policy
Statement for the Irrigation Subsector defined these irrigation policy objectives and laid a basis for
irrigation subsector priorities. These are: (a) introduce appropriate O&M practices/procedures so that
irrigation systems can be sustained in the future; (b) increase local revenue generation and cost
recovery from beneficiaries; (c) turn over (privatize) smaller public irrigation schemes, which are now
operated by Government; (d) rationalize planning, programming and budgetary procedures; and (e)
complete viable high-priority projects, particularly those with large sunk investments. In carrying out
the latter, Government has more recently also expressed its intention of focusing increasingly on the
completion and integration of agricultural development activities along with the physical infrastructure
so as to realize fully and more quickly the potential agricultural benefits.
2.16    These initiatives enabled Govemment to undertake appropriate action programs and
expenditures throughout the subsector, and for the Bank to support a program of essential reforms. A
first phase Irrigation Subsector Project (ISSP, Loan 2880-IND, US$ 234 nillion) became effective in



-8-
January 1988 and is being implemented over three years. The project represents a shift from area
specific or provincial operations to a national focus, and from construction of new irrigation systems to
improved operation and maintenance of existing projects. It has set in motion a process of
improvement in O&M funding, rationalization of budgeting/programming procedures and investment
strategies, improved cost recovery, and institutional strengthening. More recently, in response to the
lessons learnt, primarily from the Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project (SPIDP, Loan
2375-IND, PCR No. 8336, dated January 26, 1990), Government has focused on completion and full
irrigated agricultural development of ongoing schemes, especially in the Outer Islands. The objective
is to realize more quickly than in the past, potential benefits from sunk investments in river diversion
structures and main canal systems. The Government concern with incomplete irrigation development
is reflected by: (a) the priority given to the proposed project; (b) a basic policy change to make land
development a budget item to catch up with the backlog of undeveloped land within irrigation
command areas; and (c) actions to develop and implement arrangements and procedures for
coordination/management at the national and provincial levels.
2.17    Bank Strategy. The Bank fully supports Government's objectives in the agriculture sector of
a sustained growth and reduction in rural poverty, increased productive employment opportunities in
rural areas and a more balanced regional distribution of growth. Irrigated agriculture will continue to
be important to achieve these objectives, although the emphasis will continue to shift towards
achieving growth through greater efficiency in water use, and more diverse patterns of production.
Even in the rice-based farming systems in irrigated lowlands, there is a scope for crop diversification
in the second crop season; in the third season, crops are already diversified. This will become
increasingly important to meet the future consumption requirements and to maintain food security.
2.18    The Bank strategy is to support Government's strong focus on: (a) ensuring efficiency and
sustainability of past irrigation investments, particularly in Java, where the expansion potential is
somewhat limited; (b) improving management and allocation of water in view of competing demands
on water resources, already emerging in Java; and (c) assessing the potential for and supporting the
expansion of irrigated areas, particularly in the Outer Islands, as needed to sustain growth in
production of food grains required to meet the growing and changing consumption demand. The Bank
would focus most in areas of institutional structure, organizational strengthening and human resource
development, particularly in the context of multipurpose management of water on Java, and in the
Outer Islands where the provincial capacities are limited. Private sector involvement in irrigation
would be fostered through privatization of small public irrigation schemes and private development of
groundwater resources in areas with shallow aquifers. Specific, area-targeted interventions would be
supported to promote objectives of regional equity and poverty alleviation.
2.19    The Bank strategy would be pursued through a coordinated lending program with each
operation focussed on important and complementary objectives.
(a)  The proposed Provincial Irrigated Agriculture Development Project would support the
integrated development and completion of schemes and institutional mechanisms and
procedures for irrigated agriculture in the Outer Islands, with emphasis on planning and
design of irrigation works, land development and related agricultural aspects.
(b)  A proposed follow-on project to the ISSP would focus, primarily in Java, on efficiency
and sustainability of existing infrastructure through support for O&M, cost recovery
and strengthening of O&M-related institutions and on improved management and
allocation of water both at the scheme level and in a river basin context. Inter-sectoral
water allocations and related institutional aspects are also being investigated under
various studies supported by Urban Development Projects as well as those being
carried out by the Bank.
(c)  Two operations under preparation (integrated swamps, and groundwater development)
would exploit resources in less developed regions, promoting specifically the objectives
of regional equity and poverty alleviation.



-9.s
(d) A proposed sector review would also benefit the longer-term investment strategy, so as
to decide if any major expansion in irrigated area or additional reservoirs are needed in
future, in addition to the consolidation and completion of existing investments.
2.20    Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Government requested Bank assistance to address the
issues related to incomnplete development from small and medium scale irrigation schemes and obtain
the full potential benefits from schemes. A second Government objective is to develop and implement
effective coordination'/management procedures for irrigated agricultural development at the provincial
and national levels. Biased on experience under past operations, the Bank is well placed to assist
Government in shifting the current Indonesian focus from construction programs to programs that
would obtain full benefits from irrigation works in a timely manner.
2.21    Under the proposed project, the Bank would encourage Govemment to give priority to
completion of on-going schemes rather than investments in new schemes, or existing schemes that
require major reconstruction or rehabilitation. The project would also require that the planning and
design of all schemes be criticaliy reviewed, in particular, the adequacy of the data base (hydrology
and soils) on which the schemes have been formulated. With Bank encouragement and support, the
Government is likely to give more priority to sensitive .ssues such as: (a) inter-agency coordination;
(b) local funding and budgetary process; (c) preparation for O&M until schemes are fully completed
and handed over to the provinces; and (d) procedures to test and certify that schemes are fully
operational. Specifically, the Bank role is required to shift the current institutional focus from
expenditure/construction programs to attaining agricultural benefits from irrigated agriculture and to
establish procedures to achieve above issues. This would be in tandem with Bank's support under
parallel operations to address policy and other institutional reforms.



-10-
Ill. THE PROJIEC
A. Proiect Obiectives and Strategy
3.01    Priect Objectives. The main project objective is to complete and fully develop ongoing
small and medium scale irrigation schemes on the Outer Islands of Indonesia, to achieve the potential
benefits from irrigated agricultural development. On-going schemes are those where the diversion
structure and the main distribution system have been completed, but are not ready for hand over for
efficient operation and mnaintenance (EOM). A related objective is to assist development of institutional
capacity to enable improved coordination of irrigation with agriculture and other related services.
3.02.       Strategv. The project would be structured as a five year operation with the first year
covering schemes presently well defined and categorized on technical and economic grounds. In the
remaining years, the project would support similar on-going schemes and activities to be defined and
agreed at annual implementation reviews scheduled to fit in with the Government's budgetary process
(para 5.19).
3.03.   EMi;ct Scope. Some 170 candidate schemes in 13 provinces proposed by Government 2V
were screened and categorized to confirm whether they matched the project objectives (para 3.01).
Following the screening process (summarized in para 3.19 and detailed in Annex 5), some
131 schemes were included under the project as shown on Maps IBRD 22361 and 22362. The
selected schemes were then categorized into two main types - 'go-ahead' and 'deferred' - to reflect the
status of preparation, technical and economic viab.1ity and risks. In this process, physical, technical
and economic determinants/constraints for each scheme were evaluated with special attention to the
quality of the original planning and design. Thirty-four 'go ahead' schemes, commanding about
23,300 ha, are ready to proceed immediately in the first year of the project period (Annex 1, Table 1).
A further 95 schemes, potentially serving about 249,500 ha, have been selected as 'd,ferred' schemes,
subject to further review of physical, technical and/or economic viability (Annex 1, Table 2).
B. Erolect Components
3.04.   The project would finance all activities until schemes can be verified and certified as fully
functional, namely: (a) survey, investigations and design; (b) completion of irrigation works on some
130 schemes serving about 273,000 ha, including construction of minor canal and drainage systems
and preparation for operation and maintenance (PROM); (c) land clearance and development of about
40,000 ha; (d) agricultural development activities including seed multiplication programs, trials for
problem soils and training of farmer groups; (e) land titling and certification; (f) environmental
protection including forest surveys and erosion control; (g) settlement; and (h) coordination and
management of irrigated agricultural developmnent.
C. Detailed Features
3.05    Surveys. Investigations and Design (SID). The SI) services would relate to irrigation and
land deve!opment works necessary to fully complete a scheme (para 5.15). The objective of the SID
activities would be to evaluate and confirm the command area and scope of each scheme such that it is
technically and economically viable. The activity relates primarily to deferred schemes where there is
uncertainty on: (a) adequacy of water availability and quality compared to the proposed command area;
(b) land capability (soils and topography); (c) land ownership and other land use issues; and (d) the
scheme scope where proposed expenditures on works (such as canal lining, drainage and flood
protection works) cannot be justified on the information available. The breakdown of SID services
and estimated costs by schemes are given in Annex 3, Tables 1 to 4.
2/   Primarily incomplete schemes financed under the SPIDP (Loan No. 2375-IND) and the
ongoing ISSP (Loan No. 2880-IND). The project provinces are: Aceh, Riau, Bengkulu,
Lampung, West and South Sumatra, West, Central and South Kalimantan, and North, Central
and South and South-East Sulawesi.



- 1 1 -
3.06    Completion of Irrigation Works. The existing irrigated area of all project schemes is about
114,000 ha (some 42 percent of the total command area of about 273,000 ha). For most project
schemes, the river diversion structure and most of the main canal distribution system are essentially
complete (Annex 5). The project would support the completion of the main canal system of each
scheme so a timely, reliable and equitab!- irrigation service can be provided to all parts of the
designated scheme command area. Minor irrigation works (commanding about 166,000 ha) would be
completed together with minor remedial and/or rehabilitadon works where schemes have deteriorated
over an extended construction period. In addition, drainage and flood control works would be
required for some schemes. The completion of irrigation civil works would include construction of
civil works and preparation for O&M. The breakdown of irrigation works by schemes is given in
Annex 3, Tables 1 and 2 for 'go-ahead' and 'deferred' schemes respectively.
3.07    The construction of civil works would include, inter alia completion of minor irrigation canal
and drainage systems (including some secondary canals and tertiaries), minor control and measuring
structures, maintenance and access roads, buildings, and completion or rninor rehabilitation of existing
infrastructure (weirs and main canals) so that a scheme can function as designed. Provision has also
been made to test three communication links between Jakarta and selected schemes using Very Small
Aperture Terminal (VSAT) technology (Annex 5). Land acquisition for irrigation works has been
included in the project cost estimates, but would not be financed under the Loan. With respect to
completion of irrigation works, DGWRD/PRIS would: (a) collect hydrological and climatic records on
a continuous basis for all schemes; (b) where land needs clearing, or steep slopes need levelling,
ensure that construction of tertiary canals be phased to follow land clearance and development; and
(c) defer works on schemes with soil problems (acid podsols and deep peats) until the agricultural
potential is confimed, based on actual experimental d;ta (para 3.12).
3.08    At present, there is no formal provision for operation and maintenance of schemes that are
under construction. Consequently, when a scheme remains incomplete for an extended period of time,
it often deteriorates into a rehabilitation project before the scheme starts to function. To avoid this
problem and to prepare for routine O&M (under 'recurrent' budget provisions) on the completion of a
scheme, the project provides specific support for O&M on completed parts of schemes during the
construction phase. Preparation for O&M (PROM) would constitute an essential part of the
construction process and thus be funded under 'non-recurrent' budget provisions. The PROM
component would support routinc O&M costs of those parts of a command area as they are completed
and also include for the overall scheme, inter alia, preparation of operational plans (POM) and O&M
manuals, some staff training, and general start-up activities for O&M including provision for facilities,
vehicles and equipment. Thus, when a scheme is designated complete, it would be ready to be tested
as functional before it is handed over to authorities responsible for 'recurrent' efficient O&M (EOM).
An essential process in accepting scheme completion would be to verify and certify that the scheme can
function adequately by physically testing the operation principles and irrigation performance (para
5.16).
3.09    Land Clearance and Development (LC&D). Prior to 1988, land clearance and development
was the responsibility of farmers and was based on an ineffective and inadequate credit system. It
took on average some 5 to 7 years from initial survey to full development for a typical land holding.
These delays were due to cumbersome and uncoordinated land titling programs, lack of funding,
complicated bureaucratic procedures, and for some schemes, slow settlement. For most schemes, land
developmnent seriously lagged civil works programs. Recognizing these problems, the Govemment
changed its policy in 1988 to undertake LC&D works at public expense through the Ministry of
Agriculture. Under the current five year plan (Repelita V), the Government plans to fully develop
some 375,000 ha of uncleared land within existing irrigated command areas.
3.10    Under the project, about 27,000 ha would be cleared and 40,000 ha developed for rice
cultivation. The LC&D component, described in Annex 6, would include: (a) survey, investigation
and design; (b) land clearance, including de-stumping; and (c) land development or leveling to form
sawah (fields suitable for rice cultivation). The scope and estimated costs are given in Annex 3,



- 12-
Tables 3 and 4. The LC&D programs would only be implemented in parts of scheme command areas:
(a) with suitable soils and assured water supplies; (b) where costs of LC&D works are justified on
economic grounds; and (c) when LC&D is wanted by the farmers. Land with slopes of greater than
8 percent would not be developed unless justified on technical grounds and only after a cost/benefit
analysis is undertaken to co-nfirm that the LC&D is economically feasible. Land under nature reserves,
protected or primary forest within the designated command area of schemes would be excluded and the
command area of a scheme adjusted accordingly. The LC&D program would be implemented as
quickLy as possible, since developed land can be used for dry land farming if there is some lag in
providing an irrigation service. It would also be implemented so as to avoid environmental damage.
In particular, the top soil would be saved and replaced after land levelling (Annex 6). To maintain
quality control, any ongoing LC&D programs funded from other sources would be completed and
reviewed for quality (para 5.20) before being considered for Bank support under the project. Thus all
schemes with ongoing LC&D programs have been included under the 'deferred' category (para 3.20).
3.11    Agricultural Development. The project would support several other agricultural development
activities to assure achievement of predicted benefits as described in Annex 8. Such activities would
be scheme specific and include, inter alia: support of facilities and equipment for agricultural extension
services (mainly for remote and isolated schemes), seed multiplication programs, trials for problem
soils and training of farmers groups in agricultural development activities. The scope and estimated
costs are given in Annex 3, Tables 5 and 6. The project would provide an irrigation agronomist under
the project consultant services (para 3.18) to assist provincial authorities in the preparation of
agricultural development plans. More general technical assistance for agricultural research and
extension would be forthcoming from the extensive technical assistance already available to
DGFCA/DAAD from other financing sources/donors.
3.12    Several schemes in Sumatra provinces (in particular, Riau) have problem soils which require
a program of trials to establish technically sound and economically viable crop production technologies
that are manageable by farmers/settlers. The Central Research Institute for Food Crops (CRIFC) in
Bogor has already established a range of recommendations for irrigated rice production on acid
podsolic and shallow peat/muck soils. However, these recommendations need to be locally verified
before they can be applied by extension agents to the local farning community. Once a specific soil
use recommendation has been made for a scheme, the recommendations would be incorporated in the
scheme planning and design (para 3.21). The CRIFC would make research staff available to formulate
and undertake appropriate trials on those schemes deferred for soiVtechnical reasons for the provincial
agricultural services (PRAS) involved, through MOA/DGFCA. A provisional sum has been included
to cover the cost of crop/soil trials.
3.13    Land Titling and Certification (LT&C). An essential requirement to plan irrigated agricultural
development is to establish land title within the scheme command area (Annex 7). Land titling and
certification is necessary to enable farmers to more easily obtain credit and also to provide the basis for
future taxes on the land owners. The poor progress to date on LT&C has been because the responsible
agency (BPN) lacked funding and has not been involved enough in the scheme implementation process
to coordinate the LT&C work with irrigation development. The project would therefore support all
LT&C activities to enable timely issuance of land title for all scheme command areas under the project.
These activities would vary for individual schemes, as detailed in Annex 3, Tables 7 and 8, but would
include cadastral and land use surveys, certification, equipment and administration. Most activities
would be undertaken departmentally and BPN would generally perform its duties when the land is
sufficiently cleared to enable the necessary surveys.
3.14    Environmental Protection. A detailed environmental review has been undertaken of all
schemes proposed for inclusion under the project (paras 3.23 to 3.25). To implement the
recommendations of this review, the project would support a series of activities, primarily to establish
a data base on which to plan a long term environmenmal action program. These activities would
include: (a) a forest inventory survey prior to land clearance; (b) independent supervision of logging
during land clearance; (c) a forest boundary survey to protect forest areas surrounding irrigation
commdnd areas; (d) survey of land use in the catchment areas of project schemes, particularly on



- 13-
adjacent forest lands; and (e) planning and design of soil erosion control works and activities (as
required). The scope and estimated costs of environmental protection works by scheme and provinces
are given in Annex 3, Tables 9 and 10. Results of the above activities would be monitored and
evaluated through the project period and, if necessary, support would be provided under the project for
essential preventive works by making minor revisions in scope from other components during the
annual review process. Forest clearing on project schemes would not be undertaken without approval
of the provincial forestry services.
3.15    Settlement. Reqiirements for settlement under the project would be limited to some
1400 families on five schemes in the provinces of Central and South East Sulawesi and West and
Central Kalimantan. All schemes with potential settlement requirements are in the 'deferred' category
and thus all settlement proposals would be evaluated under the status reports and action plans to be
approved by the Bank prior to scheme implementation. Such studies would include surveys of
existing population and use of land and water resources and of the target population group to be
settled. The settlement objective for each scheme would be to ensure that sufficiently experienced and
qualified farmers are available to cultivate the full command area developed under the project. Not all
settlement would be implemented under the Ministry of Transmigration (MOT). Some schemes are
expected to attract spontaneous migrants without incurring the high costs associated with Government
sponsored se -U;tnent. The project financing would only be made available for completing settlement
on schemes which are not already attracting spontaneous settlers. When Government sponsored
settlement is necessary, Government would provide the farrn and homestead holdings and the project
would support costs of surveys, land consolidation, land clearing and construction of housing, access
roads and public infrastructure, and transportation of settlers and initial agricultural development. The
MOT would undertake settlement on schemes under the project only after: (a) a detailed review of the
socio-economics of settlement is undertaken, including the prospects for spontaneous transmigration;
(b) the technical and economic viability has been confirmed; and (c) areas designated for settlement
have suitable soils and reliable irrigation supplies.
3.16    Institutional Support. The organizational structure of the project is described in para 5.01.
Most project activities are simple and straighEforward (i.e. routine data collection, planning and design,
supervision of construction and O&M). The activities continue the ongoing programs being
implemented by existing technical agencies and can be undertaken without technical assistance. If
Government decides to use consultants for routine tasks, costs would not be directly financed as
technical assistance from the Loan proceeds but funded by Government. All SID work would be
undertaken either departmentally or through local consultants (paras 3.05 and 3.10).
3.17  There are, however, a range of activities where institutional performance has been weak,
primarily because technical agencies have focused on construction programs and not on technical
performance of completed works. The process of coordinating project activities at national and
provincial levels has already identified areas where institutional support is required. The project
includes facilities, services, vehicles and equipment, and limited project specific staff training in each
province so that project provincial coordination (para 5.03) is effective. The items financed and
estimated costs are detailed in Annex 3, Table 13. In this respect, the project would support overseas
training in project and diagnostic analysis for three officials (one each from BAPPEDA, PRIS and
PRAS) from each province. General training and technical institutional strengthening are covered
under many other projects supported by the Bank and other donors and thus is not included under this
project.
3.18    Consultant Services. A major shortcoming during project preparation has been the limited
capability of Ministries/agencies involved in irrigated agricultural development to coordinate their
activities. Considerable progress has been made in the setting up of national and provincial
coordination arrangements and identifying procedures (para 5.02). However, the preparation has
depended on consultants to advise on technical issues and to analyze provincial preparation proposals
for consistency and viability. Although the project preparation has been a useful learning process,
much still has to be done, in particular, to process and evaluate revised proposals for 'deferred'
schemes and to monitor project progress. Thus, during the implementation phase, national level



- 14-
coordination to be carried out by BAPPENAS through the project national coordination working group
(PNCWG) would be assisted by the project consultant services. Selection of these consultants, with
extensive experience of irrigated agricultural development in all of the project provinces, would be
critical to project success. The project consultant services would be administered through DGWRD,
and consist of foreign and local consultants. Its main tasks would be to assist in the: (a) supervision
of coordinated project imnplementation for both irrigation and agricultural activities; (b) review of
scheme preparation and analysis; and (c) the verification and certification process to confirm that
schemes are complete and ready to be handed over for O&M. Terms of reference for the consultants
are given in Attachment 1 of Annex 4. The project consultant services would consist of three
international consultants (specialized in general irrigation development, irrigated agriculture and agro-
economics) together with national consultant staff to assist and monitor the project programs (Annex 3.
Table 14). An assurance was obtained that, by August 15, 1991, the Government would employ
consultants adrministered by DGWRD to advise with project implementation and supervision under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank.
D. Status of Preparation and Implementation Schedule
3.19    Status of Preparation. The project has been prepared by the line agencies at national and
provincial levels with assistance of consultants and the economic analysis of candidate schemes.
Candidate schemes have been screened and categorized to reduce the project risk (Annex 5). In this
process, proposals for schemes previously financed under SPIDP (Loan 2373-IND) were compared
with Status Reports and Action Plans under SPIDP and justification sought for any additional works
(in particular, area expansion or canal lining). For schemes financed under ISSP (Loan 2880-IND),
the preparatory review reports (1988), ISSP General Coordination quarterly reports, and Construction
Supervision reports were used to compare the project provincial proposals to avoid double financing.
3.20    For the 34 'go-ahead' schemes, contract documentation is under preparation and works can
commence, on or before April 1991. For the 95 'deferred' schemes, there is sufficient information to
prepare provisional proposals, but insufficient to define the present status and formulate a reliable
action plan. The deferred schemes have been subdivided into Sub-categories HA, IIB and IIC
(Annex 1, Table 2). The 43 schemes in the Category IIB would need special attention since, as
presented at appraisal, they have basic issues related to availability of physical resources and technical
viability. In addition, some 25 schemes under Sub-category IIB have economic rates of return (ERRs)
of less than 12 percent for the investments proposed under the project, excluding sunk investments to
date. These schemes would need special review to explain this lack of economic viability since the
schemes are designated as substantially complete. In addition, six 'deferred' schemes with serious
problems have been placed in Sub-category IIC. These schemes have been previously financed by the
Bank, but since Bank approval, substantial changes have been made to scope and estimated costs. The
schemes, as now presented, may not be technically viable and more information would be required to
confirm the planning and design. Some 10 percent of total base costs of all schemes have been added
to complete and develop about 45,000 ha under these Category IIC schemes and any additional
schemes that Government would propose for inclusion under the project.
3.21    For all 'deferred' schemes, technical status reports and action plans, based on adequate
surveys, investigations and design would be prepared satisfactory to the Bank. Such action plans
would include, inter alia,: (a) review of the resources available and their allocation to the scheme under
study, (b) agricultural and operational plans, (c) works and activities to be implemented with detailed
cost estimates, (d) institutional requirements, including Water Users' Associations (WUA. ), to
support the implementation, and the other support necessary from agriculture and other agencies; and
(e) an economic and environmental (if required) analysis. Schemes presently being financed by other
donors would be deferred until the other donors have completed their programs and the status of such
schemes can be reviewed (para 5.20). The selection process would be used through project
implementation to evaluate any additional schemes for which Government may seek support under the
project. The procedures and criteria to be used in this process are detailed in Annex 5. An assurance
was obtained that Government would screen, select and commission schemes in accordance with
procedures agreed with the Bank. In this respect, all agencies involved in the preparation for



- 15-
'aeferred' schemes would take into account: (a) the recommendations related to technical, economic
and environmentl viability in the project preparation documents; and (b) the status reports and action
plans prepared for schemes financed under the SPIDP and ISSP.
3.22    Implementation Schedule. The project implementation schedule by province and component
is given in Annex 3 (expressed in termns of annual expenditures). Deferred schemes have been
provisionally scheduled to reflect the timing and amount of SID work to be undertaken prior to
clearance for implementation. The implementation schedule would be updated and confirmed each
year (about May/June) at a joint Government/Bank Annual Implementation Review (para 5.19) so that
budget provisions and other resources can be made available in the following year. The review
process would decide what 'deferred' schemes are ready for implementation. For each scheme, the
phasing of the various programs would be reviewed to ensure that individual schemes are completed
and fully developed as soon as possible. An assurance was oftained from Government that the project
would be implemented in conformity with technical, financial, administrative, agricultural and
environmental practices, standards and criteria agreed with the Bank, and provincial work programs to
be agreed annually with the Bank, by June 30 each year.
E. Environmental Aspects
3.23    The environmental aspects of the project are summarized in Annex 9 and detailed in a full
report available in the Project File. The individual schemes pose minimal environmental risk since the
project supports only minor modifications of existing schemes where the principal impact has long
been registered. The risks of water-related diseases (malaria and typhoid) are small and the drainage
facilities where required would tend to reduce areas of stagnant water which are potential breeding
grounds for mosquitoes. However, there may be potential conflicts between development of some
small and medium scale schemes and protection and the maintenance of the surrounding national forest
estate. None of the schemes for implementation in the first year are assessed as being of sufficient
significance to justify detailed environmental analysis. However, four 'go-ahead' schemes (Air
Benkenang, Andowengga, Air Nasal Kiri and Air Kedurang) as proposed, include small areas
designated as nature reserves and Protection Forest (Hutan Lindung) land. These areas would be
excluded from the scheme commands.
3.24    Of the 'deferred' schemes under the project, Sadang, Maloso and Kaleana Kanan/Kiri
schemes in South Sulawesi, Air Seluma scheme in Bengkulu, Sitiung II scheme in West Sumatra,
Way Umpu scheme in Lampung, Gumbasa scheme in South Sulawesi and Merowi scheme in West
Kalimantan would require a detailed environmental study (SEL). The Sausu Upstream and Lambunu
schemes in Central Sulawesi, Air Lais scheme in Bengkulu and Padang Sappa scheme in South
Sulawesi would require a preliminary environmental assessment (PEL). Such assessments would be
prepared by DGWRD/PRIS. Government would complete environmental impact studies prior to
submission to the Bank for re-evaluation of the deferred status of these schemes (para 3.25). With
respect to the Sadang and Maloso Irrigation schemes, special attention would be given to flood control
and drainage impact and the interface between irrigation and the important coastal fishery operations.
3.25    For all project schemes, a comprehensive environmental planning approach would be
adopted. In this respect, the Ministry of Forestry (including soil conservation and forest management
specialists) would be added to the project coordination working groups at national and provincial levels
(para 5.03). The main responsibility of these specialists would be to monitor environmental impact
through the project period. They would ensure that: (a) no land clearance would take place in
designated 'Protection' or 'Production' Forest; (b) where approved clearing of medium or heavy forest
is to take place, a forest inventory would be undertaken prior to clearing; (c) arrangements made to
harvest and sell any merchantable timber prior to or during general clearing operations; (d) land within
the water catchment area of a scheme would be reclassified and gazetted, as required, as 'Protection'
Forest; and (e) effective soil erosion control procedures would be incorporated into civil works
contracts. In this respect, the project would support costs of environmental surveys, including
catchment surveys, and any corrective actions to be agreed with the Bank at each annual project
review. Assurances were obtained that Govemment would: (i) undertake detailed environmental



- 16-
assessments on deferred scheme satisfactory to the Bank as part of the project screening and selecdon
process; and (ii) cause MOF/DGWRD to classify catchment areas of schemes as Protection Forests.
With respect to item (ii) of the above assurances, DGWRD would undertake either detailed
environmental studies (SELs) or preliminary environmental assessments (PELs), depending on the
command area of the scheme to be assessed (para 3.24).
F. Role of Women
3.26    Provision is made under the project in the design of irrigation works to take into account the
role of women. For example, foot access structures would be provided to minimize the journey from
village to fields and washing steps are constructed where appropriate. It is also recognized that the role
of women is important in irrigated agriculture, particularly in rice transplanting, crop harvesting and
drying operations. Water collection for household use is also undertaken by women. The household
uses of irrigation water would be taken into account when the design of deferred schemes are finalized,
in particular, to reduce the burden of this task. The interest of women would be represented at the
scheme verification and certification process (para 5.16) when schemes are formally transferred from
the construction stage to routine O&M. In particular, for PROM acdvities (para 3.08) where small
schemes may be turned over to WUAs, an acdve participation of women would be supported. Data
collection and analysis for purposes of monitoring and evaluation of project impact would break down
by gender employment benefits that are generated by the project (para 5.17). Information would
include different employment opdons for men and women, wage rates and training requirements. The
participation of women in WUAs would also be monitored and evaluated. Any lessons learnt would
be incorporated in the detailed design of those schemes deferred to the later years of the project.
IV. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Project Costs
4.01    Total cost of the project, including physical contingencies and expected price increases, is
estimated at about Rp 397.4 billion (US$ 215.4 million), with a foreign exchange component of some
US$ 89.2 million, or about 41 percent. The cost estimate is based on September 1990 prices and
includes taxes and duties computed at about Rp 24.5 billion (US$ 13.3 million). Civil works
estimates are derived from costs of similar schemes already under execution and, in particular, the
costs of completion of ongoing schemes under the Bank supported ISSP (Loan 2880-IND). The cost
of civil works for deferred schemes is based on the anticipated scope of works identified at appraisal.
Costs of land clearance and developmnent and land titling and certification have been based on standard
unit rates for each activity and applied to each individual scheme. Cost estimates for equipment and
vehicles are based on price quotations from suppliers, cross-checked with prices of comparable units
recently purchased or currently being procured by various agencies. Consultant staff costs are based
on experience with recent consultancy contracts in Indonesia. Costs have been included for the
refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and also for consultant services for project 'start-
up' activities through to loan effectiveness (US$ 1.25 million). A provision, equivalent to 10 percent
of the estimated costs of all deferred schemes, has been included in the base cost to cover the
'deferred' schemes under Sub-category IIC (Annex 2, Table 11) and any additional schemes agreed by
the Bank for inclusion under the project. Physical contingencies for possible design variations in
'deferred' schemes have been assessed at an average of 10 percent of base costs of all works to
complete and develop schemes and equipment and vehicles. Price contingency estimates assume
increases in local currency costs of 6.5 percent in 1991 and 6.0 percent per annum thereafter (based on
expected domestic inflation), and in foreign exchange costs of 3.6 percent per annum in 1991 and
thereafter. Project cost estimates are summarized in Table 4.1 below and detailed by province and
components in Annex 3.



- 17 -
T,able 4.1: SUMMARY OF COSTS
ITEM               Local  Foreign    Total       Local   Forelgn     Total FE%
*--- --- (Rp. Billion  ).*.*-.*-.*--. .    (USS M)    ........
A  Survey, Investlgation & Design   7.1      0.0       7.1        3.8       0.0      3.8    0
B  Irrigatibn Works                61.0    100.0    161.0        33.1      S4.2     87.3   60
C  Land Cleafance & Development    36.9     10.0      46.9       20.0       5.4     25.4   20
D  Agricultural Developmenl         2.7      0.6       3.3        1.5      0.3       1.6   20
E  Land Tilling & Cenilicallon     15.1      3.       18.9        8.1      2.1      10.2   20
F  Environmental  Protection       0.9       0.0       0.9        0.5      0 0       0 5    0
o  Setliement                      10.5      1.8      12,3        5.7       1 0      8.7   15
H  Instlilutional Support Services  3.5      0.8       4.3        1.9      0.4       2.3   20
I  Consultant Services             9.5       64       15.9        51       35        86   40
J  Land AcquIsillon                 2.7      0 0       2 7        1.5      00        1.5    0
K  Project Administralion          25.0       0.0     2560       13.5      0.0      13 5    0
M  PPF Refinancing                  1.3       1 0      2.3        0.8       0.5      1 3   40
Bass Coat      176.2    124.4    300.6         95.5     67.4    162.9   41
Physical Contingencies         16.1      11 4     27 5         8.7     682       14.9
Price Contingencies            40.6      28.7     69 3        22.0     15.6      37.6
Total Project Costs    232.9    164.5    397.4        126.2     59.2    215.4   41
Note: a/ Including duties and taxes estimated at Rp. 24.5 billion (US$ 13.3 mlillon equivalent)
b/ rounded to one decimal place
4.02      The proposed Bank loan of US$ 125.0 million equivalent would finance 100 percent of
foreign exchange costs and about 28 percent of local currency costs of the project. This represents
about 62.5 percent of total project costs (US$ 199.4 million), exclusive of taxes and duties and the
cost of vehicles (reserved procurement). A provision for retroactive financing of US$ 2.5 million has
been included to cover eligible expenditures, including consultant services. This would finance start
up activities, particularly surveys, investigations and designs of schemes to be included in the
years 2 and 3. Government would finance the remaining project cost of US$ 90.4 million from its
development budget (or a net contribution of US$ 77.1 million after taxes and duties). The project
financing plan is summarized in Table 4.2 below, and the annual phasing of Government contributions
(by project element) is given in Annex 2, Table 15. In this respect, the Government would allocate
adequate funds, facilities, services and resources to implement and efficiently operate and maintain all
infrastructure and public facilities constructed under the project, and ensure tircly release of funds.
Table 4.2: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
Funding Source             Local CsQ t       Foreign Co           Total Cost             Percent
- ------------------  (US$ million) ------------------
Bank                             35.8               89.2           125.0              58 percent W/
GOI                              20A                                90.4 244 percent
Total                           126.2               89.2           215.4             100 percent
f     About 62.5 percent of eligible project costs, excluding taxes and duties (US$ 13.3 million) and
reserved procurement for vehicles (US$ 2.7 million).
ZE.:urement
4.03      The procurement under the- nroject would be undertaken by the respective implementing
agencies at nati t ial and provinciZl levels. The procurement of surve. invesiigation and design (SID)



- 18-
services would not be suitable for international competitive bidding (ICB) because the activities are
scheme specific both in location and scheduling. They would be partly undertaken by force account
(US$ 1.8 million) and partly through survey contractors under local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures acceptable to the Bank (US$ 2.7 million). Most of the irrigafion civil works
(US$ 106.6 million) for completion of ongoing projects would generally be small in scale, dispersed
over 13 provinces. Works, such as tertiary canal -onstruction, would require close interaction with the
local community, both as beneficiaries and as laborers. They are thus unlikely to attract foreign
competition, and would be largely tendered on the basis of LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Civil works packages larger than US$ 3.0 million would be procured through ICB. Such packages
are not expected to exceed more than four in number, and total about US$ 14.5 million in value. The
ICB contracts would only occur on 'deferred' schemes, with none in the first year of the project. This
would be the mros: cwon,mical and efficient procurement method in Indonesia for civil works on
remote schemes that cannot be fully defined in advance and for activi;des that need to be carried out
with least disruption to ongoing operations.
4.04    The land clearance and development works (US$ 30.7 million) are at present undertaken
through a large number of small contracts to enable local provincial contractors to tender. This has
proved to be difficult to supervise with the limited resources available and has often led to poor quality
implementation. The LC&D works would therefore be implemented, wherever possible, under as
large as possible contracts in each provinces, subject to size of the provincial work programs and rate
at which 'deferred' schemes are cleared for implementation. Because of contract size and the scattered
location of the schemes, the LC&D) works would not attract international bids and would be therefore
be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank. For similar reasons, agricultural
development works and services (US$ 1.9 million) would not attract intemational bids and would be
procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank (US$ 1.0 million) or undertaken by force
account (US$ 0.9 million). Land titling and certification works and services (US$ 12.2 million)
vwould also not attract international bids and would be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to
the Bank (US$ 9.8 million) or undertaken by force account (US$ 2.4 million). Settlement works
(US$ 8.6 million) consists of many discrete activities specific to individual schemes that cannot be
packa6W into large contracts and would be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank
(US$ 7.4 million) or undertaken by force account (US$ 1.2 million).
4.05    Institutional strengthening services (US$ 2.7 million) would be carried out by the BAPPEDA
in the provincial governments using force account. Consultancy services (US$ 10.1 million) would be
procured under Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants.
4.06    Most equipment and materials (US$ 1.7 million), including computers, survey and office
equipment and other materials, would be required in small batches by different agencies. They would
generally not be suitable for ICB and would be procured under LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank
(US$ 1.3 million) or international and local shopping (US$ 0.4 million). Nonetheless, packages
valued at more than US$ 200,000 would be procured through ICB procedures. In bid comparison,
local manufacturers would be allowed a 15 percent margin of preference, or the applicable customs
duty, which ever is lower. Government regulations, prohibiting importation of vehicles, make ICB
for procurement of vehicles impossible. Vehicles (US$ 2.7 million) must therefore be classified as
reserved procurement and would not be financed under the loan. However, an understanding was
reached that vehicles required for the project would be provided, or purchased from Government
budgetary sources, under a schedule agreed with the Bank.
4.07    Review of Procurement. For works contracts, the Bank would review: (a) all ICB contracts
prior to tendering and award; and (ii) LCB contracts over US$ 1.0 million, namely about 23 works
contracts (with an aggregate estimated value of US$ 41.0 million) covering about 26 percent of the
value of all works. The remaining works contracts (in aggregate about US$ 90.2 million) would be
reviewed by the Bank on a post award sample basis. The Bank would also conduct a prior review of
all contracts valued at US$ 200,006 or more for equipment and materials (with an aggregate value of
US$ 0.6 million) and for SID services (with an aggregate value of US$ 0.7 million). Contracts for
small equipment and materials and SID services not exceeding US$ 200,000 (with aggregate values of



-19-
US$ 0.7 million and US$ 2.0 million respectively) would be controlled by Govemment procurement
units, and reviewed on a random basis after award. All international consultant invitation docurnents,
proposed awards and contracts would be reviewed by the Bank.
4.08      The procurem'.nt arrangements are summarized in Table 4.3 below:
Table 4.3: PROCUREMENT PLAN
Proiect Element                             Pouem   ehd&
ICB         LCB          Other b/     N. A. i/    Total
-----------------------(USS  r,lillion).-------------------. ------------
A.  Survey, Investigation and Design Services            2.7          1.8                      4.5
(2.3)       (1.7)                    (4.0)
B .  Irrigation Civil Works                 14.5        92.1                                  106.6
(7.6)      (47.9)                                (55.5)
C .  Land Clearance and Development Works               30.7                                   30.7
(23.3)                                (23.3)
D.  Agricultural Development Works and Services           1.0         0.9                       1.9
(0.9)       (0.8)                    (1.7)
E.  LandTitlingandCertificationServices                  9.8          2.4                      12.2
(8.3)       (2.2)                    (10.5)
F..  Environmental Protection Services                                0.6                      0.6
(0.6)                    (0.6)
G.  Settlement Works                                     7.4          1.2                       8.6
(5.5)       (1.0)                     (6.5)
H:.  Institutional Support Services                                   2.7                      2.7
(2.5)                    (2.5)
1.  Consultan: Services                                              10.1                      10.1
(9.7)                    (9.7)
J.  Equipment and Materials                               1.3         0.4                       1.7
(1.2)       (0.3)                     (1.5)
K   Vehicles d/                                                                    2.7          2.7
(0.0)       (0.0)
L.  Land Acquisition                                                               1.6          1.6
(0.0)       (0.0)
M.  Project Administration                                                        16.9         16.9
'0.0)       (0.0)
N .  PPF Rcfinancing                                                               1.3          1.3
(1.2)       (1.2)
0.  Taxes and Duties                                                               3.3         13.3
(0.0)       (0.0)
P.  Unallocated                            __                                      8.0)        (8.0)
Total             14.5        145.0         20.1        ;.*.8       215.4
(7.6)      (89.4)       (18.8)        . s2)     (125.0)
Notes:   al Figures in parentheses indicate arnount financed by the Bank; rounded to one decinia, lace.
k/ "Other" includes force account, prudent shopping and consultant selection procedum's.
S/ No procurement is involved.
J/ Reserved procurement for vehicles.
Disbursements
4.09      Implementation Period. Disbursements under the Loan are expected to be completed by
December 31, 1996, about five years after Boared approval. While the disbursement profile for past
investment projects in the irrigation subsector in Indonesia has stretched over about 8 years, it is not
applicable to this project, which constitutes a five-year time slice of an investment program of schemes
presently under construction and most of which are substantially complete. The schedule of
disbursements is given in Annex 1, Table 3 and the detailed implementation schedules of the project
components (Annex 3) indicate that this disbursement schedule is feasible. The target areas to be
covered under each component and in each province are feasible related to the provincial institutional
capacity.



-20 -
4.10    Loan Allocation. The proposed allocation of the loan and percentage of expenditures to be
financed are given in Annex 1, Table 4 and would be as follows: (a) 60 percent of expenditures on
irrigation civil works (with an allocation of US$ 55.5 million); (b) 80 percent of expenditures on land
clearance and development (US$ 23.3 million) and settlement (US$ 6.5 million); (c) 91 percent of
expenditures on survey, investigations and design (US$ 4.0 million), agricultural development
(US$ 1.7 millioni) and land tiding and certification (US$ 10.5 million); (d) 1(X) percent of expenditures
on environmental protection (US$ 0.6 million); (e) 1(X) percent of eligible toreign expenditures for
directly imported equipment, 95 percent of local expenditures (ex-factory prices) and 65 percent of
locally procured items (US$ 1.5 million); (f) 100 percent of expenditures on consultant services
(US$ 9.7 million) and on institutional support (US$ 2.5 million); and (g) unallocated (US$ 7.95
million). In addition, US$ 1.25 million would be allocated for refinancing of the Project Preparation
Facility (PPF).
4.11    An assurance was obtained that as a condition of disbursement for schemes in the deferred
category, including any additional schemes financed under the project, except for the SID component,
prior approval by the Bank to the scheme design, scope and estimated costs, and confirmation by the
Bank that all agencies involved have cleared the scheme for implementation under the project. In
addition, assurances were obtained that as a condition of continuing disbursement: (a) for all schemes,
except for the SI) component, in each of the project provinces, Government would make a budget
allocation to implement the agreed annual provincial work program for each such province; and (b) for
irrigation works in each of the project provinces, Government would make annual budgetary
allocations (and furnish evidence that funds were expended in the previous year) for the fiscal year
1992/93, and each subsequent fiscal year thereafter until project completion, which at least maintain the
fiscal year 1990/91 level of total nation-wide irrigation O&M financing under the Central Government
budget in real terms and, if required, provide any incremental funding need for efficient O&M. In this
respect, Government has already furnished the Bank with evidence that: (a) the budget requests for
fiscal year 1991/92 provide for the agreed annual work programs; and (b) it has maintained the fiscal
year 1986/87 budget level for O&M in real terms for the entire irrigated area in Indonesia, as agreed by
Government under the ongoing ISSP (Loan 2880-IND).
4.12    Disbursements would be made against contracts valued at less than US$ 200,000, except for
works executed on force account basis which would be disbursed against statements of expenditure
(SOEs). Bank loan disbursements would be for works (including SID activities related to works),
materials and equipment. Documentation for SOE expenditures would not be submitted for review,
but would be retained by the project implementation units and made available for inspection by the
Baink during the course of project supervision. Total disbursements against SOEs is expected to
amount to about US$ 75.0 million, or about 60 percent of the Bank loan amount.
4.1' 3    Special Account. Government would establish a Special Account in Bank Indonesia to be
maintained by DG Budget and implement the new procedures for faster processing of disbursements
and withdrawals satisfactorily tested under previous Bank operations. The Special Account would be
used for all eligible payments made against all disbursement categories. The Bank would make an
initial deposit equivalent to an estimated four months' disbursement (US$ 7.0 million) into the Special
Account, which would be replenished quarterly, or when payments reach one-half of the initial
deposit. A monthly statement on the Special Account would be submitted by DG Budget to the Bank.
Accounts and Audits
4.14    For all Government agencies, each accounting section is headed by a qualified accountant
who reports monthly on budget and financial status. Internal audit sections are responsible for visiting
project sites quarterly and examining local accounting records. Accounting procedures currently in use
are adequate to support statement of expenditures (SOE) applications. Final accounts, including
consolidated receipts and expenditure statements, are prepared at year end that meet Bank
requirements. In this respect, accounting procedures presently utilized by provincial governments are
expected to change during the project period with the improvements being introduced by Govemment
under the Accountancy Development Project (Loan No. 2940-IND). These include, inr ali



- 21 -
introduction of a uniform chart of accounts, double-entry accounting and balance sheet accounting.
This should facilitate improved management reporting on project activities. With respect to auditing,
project accounts are subject to two audits: (a) by the Inspector General of the concerned ministry; and
(b) by the Financial and Development Supervisory Board (BPKP). The work of both auditors has
been found to be generally satisfactory on Bank-assisted irrigation projects.
4.15   Assurances were obtained that Government would cause each project executing agency at
both national and provincial levels to: (i) establish and maintain adequate and separate accounts from
the beginning of project implementation; and ii) maintain such accounts in accordance with the sound
and generally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank, so as to enable
these agencies to provide annual financial statements to reflect the financial performance and status of
project components. In addition, assurances were obtained that Government would:
(a)  keep all project related contracts, documents related to the SOEs, and orders and
receipts for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the loan account was made;
(b)  maintain the Special Account, including records and documentation of receipts and
witndrawals, as deemed satisfactory by the Bank;
(c)  complete consolidated annual financial statements of the project for audit within six
months of the close of each Government fiscal year for independent audit; and
(d)  undertake independent audits by BPKP of each year's project consolidated accounts,
including the audits of SOEs and the Special Account, and submit such audit reports to
the Bank within nine months of the close of each Government fiscal year.
4.16    The project accounting and audit arrangements would be complex given the number of
executing agencies and provinces under the project. Programming and the budgeting/accounting
advice from project consultancy services (para 3.18) would assist in establishing, the introduction and
monitoring the project accounting systems. These systems would include, int aia, financial
statements and consolidated income statements in accordance with the Government regulations and
procedures.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Background
5.01    The organizational structure for the implementation of the project is already in place. Each
project executing agency would be responsible for survey and investigations, planning and design,
implementation, and coordinating its own work program. The coordination activities, including
planning and integration of budget proposals at national and provincial levels, would be undertaken by
BAPPENAS (the National Planning Agency) and the BAPPEDA (the provincial planning bodies)
respectively. The technical agencies involved in irrigated agricultural development are: (a) Ministry of
Public Works (MPW) and the provincial water resource services (PRIS) for construction and O&M of
irrigation works; (b) Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) and the provincial agricultural services (PRAS)
for land and agricultural development; (c) BPN for land titling and certification; and (d) Ministry of
Transmigration for settlement. The Ministry of Forestry would be responsible for environmental
aspects related to natural resources protection.
5.02    They each have the potential capability to successfully implement their own work programs
or activities. However, since each agency is primarily concerned with its own activity, there is limited
interest in the overall performance of an irrigation scheme. Consequently, the work programs of the
agencies have continued on separate tracks with no real accountability for performance of the separate
components or the overall project. Arrangements set up under project preparation at the national a.id



- 22 -
provincial levels have demonstrated important steps towards an integrated and coordinated approach to
irrigated agricultural development (para 3.19). However, project preparation has shown that the
coordination necessary between irrigadon and agriculture development cannot be made the
responsibility of one of the technical ministries or agencies. Thus, at nadonal level BAPPENAS has
undertaken coordination of an inter-agency project national coordination working group (PNCWG)
chaired by BAPPENAS including the project ministries/agencies with a coordinating secretary from
DGWRD assisted by consultant services. These arrangements would continue under project
implementation, also assisted by consultant services (para 3.18). The main coordinating function at
national level would be to provide technical assistance and guidance and generally review and
coordinate provincial programs to ensure uniformity of planning and design standards, criteria and cost
estimates. In addition, any major policy issues (general and technical) that may arise would be
addressed as part of the overall project supervision. An important function would also be to undertake
project analysis and some diagnostic analysis. Most provinces have little or no capability in these tasks
which are essential if unjustified expenditure programs are to be avoided and priority given to
achieving benefits from investrnents as quickly as possible. Coordination of irrigated agricultural
development has started to work at the national level and a basic objective would be to support this
process through the project period (para 5.09).
5.03    At the provincial level, the BAPPEDA have undertaken the coordination of project activities
in each of the project provinces respectively. Inter-agency project provincial coordination working
groups have been established, chaired by BAPPEDA, and comprised of representatives from the
technical line agencies involved in the project (public works, agriculture, BPN, transmigration and in
some provinces, forestry). This provincial coordination process has started to work and in most
provinces there is a growing realization of present shortcomings and the substantial additional costs
and loss of benefits through piecemeal irrigated agricultural development. Under the project, the
provinces would be responsible for detailed planning, evaluation and analysis of work programs, the
budgetary process related to project schemes, reviews, appraisals and implementation (by each
technical agency), and reporting and monitoring. The project provincial coordination working groups
(PPCWG) would continue through the implementation phase (para 5.09). They would review
candidate schemes, agree to coordinated work proposals and programs for selected schemes, and
identify provincial policy issues associated with scheme compledon.
B. Project Organization
5.04    Irrigation. The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) through the Directorate of Water
Resources Development (DGWRD) and the PRIS in each province, would be responsible for any
surveys, investigations and designs required, completion of irrigadon civil works and for the PROM
component. For these activities, the concemed units within DGWRD would be responsible for project
planning and programming, standardizing O&M procedures, review of ongoing schemes, and pre-
qualification, selection and supervision of the work of local consultants for preparadon of designs and
tender documents. DGWRD/PRIS responsibilities would include supervision of project
implementation, and monitoring of their procurement actions. The designated staff from the main
executing bodies within DGWRD (DOI-I & II and DPP) would inform the PNCWG of the progress
made in project implementation and problems, if any, that need to be resolved. The DOI-I would be
responsible (at naional level) for the completion of ongoing projects and would provide technical
guidance and administrative support to the PRIS for the implementation of EOM of irrigation areas
(through the parallel Bank supported ISSP). The DOI-I would also be responsible for training related
to irrigation systems and on-farm water management for the middle and lower level admninistrative
officials, staff of agricultural and irrigadon services and (as applicable) the WUAs. It would also
provide the main interface with MOA through the Directorate of Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA).
The DGWRD would be responsible for administering the project consultant services to assist in project
implementation and supervision (pam 3.18) and also for quality control related to data collection,
planning and design and project programming. At provincial level, the PRIS in each province would
be responsible for implementation and for transfer for small schemes to WUAs.



- 23 -
5.05    Land and Agricultural Development. The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA), through the
Directorate of Agriculture Area Development (DAAD) within the Directorate General of Food Crop
Agriculture (DGFCA) would be responsible for the land and agricultural development (LC&D)
component. The implementation would be the responsibility of the PRAS in each province. The main
role of DAAD at national level would be assist the PRAS to strengthen their capability related to
preparation of specifications, contracting procedures and the effective use of staffing and general
administration. Special attention would be given to quality control of surveys, investigations and
designs, provincial planning and programming, supervision, monitoring and evaluation of preparation
and implementation of ongoing work programs. The DGFCA, through PRAS, would be responsible
for the agricultural development component (para 3.1 1) and assist the provincial authorities in the
preparation of agricultural development plans for each scheme. The Directorate of Planning and
Programming (DPP) in DGFCA would be responsible for monitoring overall project performance with
respect to irrigated agricultural impact. In addition, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in
coordination with DGFCA through the PRAS, would have overall responsibility for organizing,
reorganizing and developing WUAs and would undertake surveys, and conduct an inventory and
evaluation of WUAs for all project schemes. To coordinate agricultural activities at provincial level,
each PRAS would coordinate the provincial agricuiltural program through a unit comprising the
provincial Heads of Agricultural Area Development (AAD), Planning and Programming (P&P) and
Production Development Subservice (PDS). The Head of the AAD would chair the unit since the AAD
would be responsible for the major activity in each PRAS. An assurance was obtained at negotiations
that Government would cause MOA/DGFCA to provide appropriate staffing, facilities, services and
the other resources required to carry out effective agricultural extension and other agricultural services,
satisfactory to the Bank, throughout all the proposed project districts.
5.06    Settlement. The Ministry of Transmigration (MOT) at the national level and through its
provincial offices would be responsible for settlement component. Where spontaneous settlement does
not meet scheme requirements, settlement under the project would follow well established procedures
that have been tested extensively through the project provinces under Governments transmigration
programs supported by the Bank. There would be no need for institutional strengthening and training
under the project. T>1 main objectives would be to ensure that settlement is integrated into the
coordinated work r , grams, and there are sufficient experienced farmers to fully cultivate the
designated irrigation command areas of each scheme. In addition, MOT would monitor and improve
the welfare of existing transmigrants already located on project schemes.
5.07    Land Titling and Certification. The National Land Agency, or Badan Pertanahan Nasional
(BPN), would be responsible for the land titling and certification component. BPN is a revenue
generating agency and is supposed to support itself from charges to its clients. Routine BPN activities
include land registration, cadastral surveys, and land titling and certification. Land consolidation also
forms part of BPN's mandate. Individual land titles are issued to local farmers and transmigrants
except in those provinces where land is held in clian ownership, when the clan is issued the tidtle. The
timely issue of land title is important, because it provides the basis for future land taxation and also
enables farmers to more easily obtain agricultural producdon credit. BPN's poor performance to date,
with serious delays in issuing land certificates, has been due to insufficient funding and coordination
with the other agencies involved in irrigation development. Lack of funding has resulted in the need
for institutional strengthening, additional staffing, equipment and transportation. Once the flow of
funds is assured under the project, it is expected that BPN would be sufficiently strengthened to
continue its activities without further financial support. Project support for BPN is seen as a way of
breaking the cycle of funding constraints resulting from the inability of BPN to generate income from
incomplete ongoing irrigation schemes. It would also help to alleviate problems related to
farmers/owners unwilling to activelv support irrigation development, particularly in remote and
isolated areas where land ownership is often in dispute. Schemes with substantial areas with land
ownership in dispute have been deferred until the disputes are resolved. BPN would give priority to
these schemes.



- 24 -
5.08    Environmental Protection. The Ministry of Forestry (MOF) through the Directorate of
Reforestation and Land Rehabilitation (DGRLR) would have a minor, but important role, in
undertaking surveys and inventory of forested land within and surrounding command areas of all
schemes under the project. The DGRLR staff would also advise on soil erosion control and upstream
catchment protection on selected schemes to reduce the risk of negative environmental impact. The
project provides support to cover the costs of forest inventory and resurvey of forest boundaries and
associated overhead costs (para 3.14). In addition, forestry staff would participate in to the national
and provincial coordination working groups to ensure that MOFs interests are taken into account in
further management and implementation of project schemes.
5.09    Coordinalion. For project implementation, the national (BAPPENAS) and provincial
(BAPPEDA) coordination arrangements used during project preparation would be maintained and
strengthened. A project objective would be for each province to develop the capability to undertake
technical analysis and cost/benefit evaluations for schemes, (in particular, deferred schemes), included
under the project. The procedures for coordination of project implementation would be based on those
used during project preparation. These arrangements would be standardized and strengthened as
described in Annex 5. The project includes the administrative costs for the provincial working groups,
vehicles, equipment, and training for BAPPEDA, PRIS and PRAS staff in project analysis. Some
BAPPEDA would benefit from the project consultant services (para 3.18) to help in the setting up and
start up of implementation coordination. In addition, the BAPPEDA may be able to draw on technical
assistance of other donors (i.e. ADB, USAID, CIDA, etc) with ongoing programs in some of the
provinces.
5.10    At the district level, coordination and overseeing of project implementation would be under
the district BAPPEDA, channelled through the Irrigation Commnittee, which is represented by Cabang
Dinas irrigation, Kabupaten agricultural service and other related services, and headed by the local
Bupati. The Bupati, as chairman of this committee, would obtain technical guidance from the
provincial level project implementation agencies (PRIS, PRAS, etc.) through the district services of the
concerned agencies. Thus, an assurance was obtained that Government would cause BAPPENAS and
each provincial BAPPEDA to undertake project coordination at national and provincial levels
respectively, in a manner satisfactory to the Bank. In addition, to ensure that the effectiveness of
project coordination can be monitored, assurances were also obtained that Government would submit
to the Bank for its review and comments, for each province under the project: (i) not later than June 30
each year, coordinated work programs and cost estimates for the following fiscal year; and (ii), by
September 30 each yer:r, coordinated budget proposals for the agreed provincial work programs. A
budget allocation to implement the agreed work program would be a condition of continuing loan
disbursement for irrigation work programs in a province (para 4.11).
5.11   Farmer Participation. The project would benefit from an active and strong beneficiary
involvement in the planning, implementation and the O&M of completed schemes. In this respect,
under project implementation procedures (Annex 5), the MHA/DGWRD/PRIS/PRAS would: (a) set
up water user associations (WUAs) on all schemes under the PROM component; and (b) invite elected
representatives of the WUAs to participate in the verification process when a scheme is formally
certified as complete. Special attention would be given to the 49 schemes commanding less than
500 ha that may be candidates for turning over to farmer management.
C. Project Management
5.12    The main challenge to project management involved in irrigated agricultural development
relates to overcoming the lack of inter-agency coordination and cooperation and evaluation of project
impact. The following activities, described below, need to be put in place, or substantially
strengthened: (a) the quality of planning and design with special attention to data collection and project
and diagnostic analysis; (b) priority to completion of ongoing schemes; (c) timely provision of local
funding and coordination of budgetary provisions; (d) monitoring and evaluation and reporting; and
(e) reduction of unproductive technical assistance and training.



- 25 -
5.13    Scheme Pregaration. Analysis and Documentation. An important activity to be supported
under the project would be data collection and presentation. As evidenced by findings of the technical
audit on 84 SPIDP schemes 8/, present practice is to generally enter the planning and design and
construction stages of irrigation projects with inadequate physical resource data (water availability, soil
surveys and topography). Hydrologic and climatic data collection in all project provinces are given
low priority and are subject to unpredictable budget allocadons. Preparation reports for mos project
schemes qualify their recommendations by stating that the data base was inadequate, and then resort to
using empirical formulae for planning and design. The assumptions in the empirical formnulae are
generally not confurmed by subsequent collection of data as a routine activity 2/. In addition, river flow
data is seldom collected and analyzed on a regular basis for completed schemes under EOM. Because
of an inadequate data base, many substantially complete schemes proposed for the project have had to
be deferred, pending confirmation of reliable water resources (and suitable soils). To address this
problem, hydrologic and climatic data collection would be routinely collected on all project schemes.
An assurance was obtained that Government would cause DGWRD/PRIS to collect and analyze
regular and sufficient hydrologic and climatic data to provide a continuous and reliable basis for
assessing water availability and allocadon for each scheme under the project.
5.14    To ensure that collected data can be located, the geographic information systems (GIS) which
are being established in each province, would be used as the foundation for data monitoring and
evaluation of project schemes. Relevant data would be assembled and collated onto the base maps,
using the computer equipment recently installed in most BAPPEDA. Appropriate training would be
given to BAPPEDA and technical agency staff in the GIS process and procedures as they relate to the
project. The terdary block would become the basic planning unit. Physical infornation (soils and land
use) and economic parameters (costs and returns) would be assembled by tertiary block, and entered in
the GIS for analysis and presentation. For 'deferred' schemes, this information would then be used in
the preparation (or confirnation of existing) status reports and action plans. For this purpose, simple
and standardized formats would be adopted to elicit inter-agency coordination. The project consultants
(para 3.18) would assist the project agencies in this process (Annex 4).
5.15    Scheme Completion. A major shortcoming with irrigation development on the Outer Islands
is that the 'completion' status of an irrigation scheme is not clearly defined before construction is
started, often on the basis of partial funding. Consequently, substandal expenditures are made, yet
few schemes are functional before funding is exhausted. For many schemes supported under the
SPIDP (Loan 2375-IND) and the ongoing ISSP (Loan 2880-IND), the scope of works (and thus
proposed expenditures under the projects) were substantially greater than those put forward when the
schemes were approved for Bank financing. Expensive items, such as canal lining, have often been
added without technical justification, while essential works, such as completion of tertiaries that would
generate benefits, are deferred. Consequently, many schemes are left incomplete for extended periods
and deteriorate before the scheme, or in some cases, even part of a scheme, is functional. To avoid
these shortcomings, assurances were obtained that Government would implement all works required to
fully complete and develop each scheme under the project, as defined and agreed when the scheme is
approved by the Bank, before any additional development to a scheme or any expansion to the scheme
command area is undertaken.
I/   PCR, Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project, Report No. 8336, January 26, 1990.
2/  An example of this shortcoming is the flood control and drainage proposal for the Sadang
scheme in South Sulawesi where an expensive feasibility study was undertaken a decade ago
without an adequate data base. As a consequence, a US$ 30.0 million component proposed
for financing under the project was excluded.



- 26-
5.16    Verification and Cenification of Scheme Completion. An important step in irrigation
development is the transfer of a scheme from the implementation to the O&M stage. At present, the
transfer process and procedures are unsatisfactory and incomplete schemes are often prematurely
handed over for O&M. To address this problem, when a scheme is considered complete by the
implementing agencies, there would be a formal test to verify the satisfactory functioning of the
completed irrigation system and to confirm that the command area is fully developed (Annex 5). The
test would be undertaken by experienced staff from DGWRD/MOA together with representatives from
BAPPEDA, PRIS, PRAS, other provincial agencies involved in scheme implementation. The farmers
to be served, through their WUA, would also participate in this process. The verification process
would consist of a technical audit to confirm completion of all civil works and land clearance and
development, as agreed when the scheme was approved for implementation. Completion of the
preparation for O&M (PROM) activities would also be verified. The scheme would then be tested to
confirm that it can function as designed through the full operational range of discharges (i.e. the
scheme can deliver the design irrigadon service) and that the operadng principles and plan are practical.
If the scheme cannot function as designed, remedial works would be undertaken and the scheme re-
tested after such works are completed. The project consultants (para 3.18) would assist in this process
as required. Once the various representatives involved in the verification process agree that a scheme
is ready to transfer from the construction phase to routine O&M, a "Certificate of Completion" would
be issued and schemes formally handed over for O&M. An assurance was obtained that Government
would cause DGWRD/PRIS to certify and verify that such schemes are complete and can function as
designed before handing over project schemes to the O&M authorities within each PRIS or to the
farmers' groups, as appropriate.
5.17    Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluatdon (M&E) has been poor on previous
Bank supported projects and it is often not possible to define with certainty the physical status of
schemes designated as complete. M&E would be given special attention under the project, with each
project agency responsible for monitoring and evaluating physical and financial progress of their own
programs. Implementation performnance on individual components would be collated at the provincial
and central level through the respective coordination working groups. Socio-economic impacts, crop
incomes and margins, crop production and support services and water management practices would be
monitored by the Directorates of Planning and Programming in DGWRD and MOA, based on methods
and criteria previously agreed with the Bank. The M&E of water management practices would be
undertaken through the ISSP (Loan 2880-IND) and the proposed follow-up project. These M&E
activities would cover criteria such as water use efficiencies and understanding by field staff of routine
O&M procedures, such as operation of gates, water measurement and maintenance of canal systems.
The VSAT technology (para 3.07) to be tested under the project, should help to improve the efficiency
of routine data transfer. There is also an urgent need to strengthen the M&E of technical performance
of irrigation schemes, such as the percentage of water demand that was met, fluctuations in water use
efficiencies and the effectiveness of farmers' contributions (in cash or labor) to tertiary system
management. An assurance was obtained that Government would cause all project ag ncies to monitor
and evaluate project activities and performance according to standards agreed with the Bank.
5.18    Progress Review and Reporting. Progress reports would be prepared by each province,
collated at the national level using the project coordination arrangemkcnts and submitted to the Bank on
a biannual basis. Each report would include a brief description of the main events during the reporting
period including construction/activity progress; expenditures incurred; project staffing status; tender
and award of contracts; functional irrigation area developed; actual areas irrigated; and incremental
agricultural production under the project. In this respect, the progress reports would summarize
performance indicators of: (a) physical and financial progress of project implementation compared to
agreed targets for all components; (b) operation and maintenance; (c) environmental impact; (d) project
technical and economic impact through indicators such as system efficiency, cropping intensity, crop
yields and net farm income; and (e) institutional capability, including staff training and strengthening of
WUAs. Thus Government would provide the Bank with half yearly progress reports, to a format
satisfactory to the Bank, on June 30 and December 31 each year after the start of the project together
with a Project Completion Report submitted no later than six months after project completion.



- 27 -
5.19    Annual Implementation Review. There would be at an annual implementation review of the
project about May/June each year so that findings can be reflected in the Government budgetary
process. The review would take place concurrent with a regular supervision mission. The annual
implementation review arrangement would give flexibility throughout the project period to, inter alia:
(a) evaluate on a regular and formal basis what deferred schemes are ready for implementation; (b)
amend individual provincial programs to reflect performance during the previous phase; (c) amend
work programs between agencies to ensure priority for essential components; (d) consider any other
'additional' scheme not reviewed at appraisal which would meet the project concept and objectives; and
(e) incorporate any lessons learnt in the course of the previous year. The first annual implementation
review would take place in about June/July 1991 to review the previous year performance and agree
the work program for budgeting the following year (FY 1992/93). The work program for FY 1991/92
was reviewed and agreed at negotiations. The project consultants (para 3.18) would assist in the
preparation and collafion of information for the annual implementation review and the responsible
agencies would ensure that the necessary performance data are available.
5.20    Multiple Financing. Many schemes proposed by the Government have ongoing programs
for civil works, tertiaries and land clearance and development financed by other donors (i.e. ADB and
OECF). All such schemes have been deferred until the ongoing programs financed from other external
sources are completed in order to: (a) determine scheme status on completion of other financed
programs, particularly with respect to land clearance and development and confirm what has to be done
under the project; (b) enable work programming and scheduling to be fully coordinated; (c) standardize
specifications and technical criteria; (d) avoid double financing; and (e) evaluate the impact of works
financed by other donors on scheme technical viability and potential benefits. The project consultants
would assist in this process (para 3.18).
5.21    Budget Procedures. Present procedures for channeling fL. .ds for development of irrigated
agriculture need to be strengthened. Funds are allocated by individual agency which makes inter-
agency coordination difficult to achieve. Since the budgetary procedure cannot be changed for a
specific Bank-financed project, the project procedure to review and agree on annual work programs
and budget provisions (para 5.10) would be used to address the shortcomings inherent in existing
budget procedures. Thus, the BAPPEDA of each province would prepare an annual coordinated work
program and budget proposal for each provincial scheme using the project coordination process. At
the national level, these provincial programs would be collated into coordinated project proposal for
BAPPENAS review and processing. The BAPPENAS review of the project and provincial proposals
would ensure that the work programs are coordinated and funded.
VI. PRODUCTION. MARKETING. FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
6.01    Agricultural Production. The project consists of manv discrete schemes spread over
13 provinces with substantial differences in climatic conditions, water availability, soils and farmer
capability. Since the project would complete existing irrigation schemes, there would be some increase
in agricultural production in existing irrigated areas with the main increase coming from the new areas
brought under command. The reliability of irrigation services, availability of developed land and land
titling (to provide collateral for credit) would contribute to increased production. The estimates of
agricultural production reflects the best average estimate of project impact on agricultural production
for the islands of Sumatra, Sulawesi and Kalimantan and are detailed in Annex 2. An impact analysis
has been made for each candidate scheme using conservative estimates of incremental production based
on crop intensity and yield data provided by the Ministry of Agriculture from limited data collected on
similar irrigated areas in each province.
6.02    Cropping Intensities. Land use, cropping patterns and intensities, crop yields and production
for the 'present' situation and the 'future without' and 'future with' project situations have been
estimated for each scheme included under the project. Data for three typical schemes in Sumatra,
Sulawesi and Kalimantan are given in Annex 1, Tables 8, 9 and 10 respectively. Present cropping
patterns for areas presently being irrigated vary greatly by scheme, depending on the status of



- 28 -
completion and the reliability of the -xisti.ag irrigation service. The cropping intensities are expected to
average about 150 to 175 percent over the total project command area. For some completed schemes,
the cropping pattem would include minor increases in secondary foods crops, but the main impact
would be an increase in rice cropping intensity to some 175 to 200 percent at full development
(depending on scheme location and province) through the project area. In existing irrigated areas of
schemes, increased cropping intensities would be possible because of increased water availability for
dry season cropping and supplementary irrigation to guarantee wet season crops. In newly irrigated
areas of completed schemes brought under cultivation, there would be a transfer from rainfed to full
irrigated agriculture resulting in an increase in crop production during both the dry and wet seasons.
6.03      rpX Yields. Crop production intensification methods, with use of HYVs and fertilizer
inputs, are well established in the project provinces. Farm surveys indicate that improved technology
has been adopted on more than 90 percent of the area planted with rice on the Outer Islands where
there is reliable irrigation supplies. The present average yield of irrigated HYV rice in Indonesia is
about 4.0 ton/ha (dry unhusked rice), while the average yield on the Outer Islands is 3.0 to 3.5 ton/ha
for irrigated areas and 2.0 ton/ha for rainfed rice. The 'present' and 'future without' project yields are
based on limited information provided by the Department of Agriculture. in each province. The 'future
with' project yields are estimated on the basis of existing irrigated yields with a full irrigation service
and, where applicable, take into account soil fertility and other physical resource factors. Where
existing irrigated yields of rice exceed some 3.5 ton/ha, long-term average yields (assuming a 6 to 10
year build-up) of 4.5 to 5.0 ton/ha are anticipated. On schemes where there is little or no irrigation at
present, or soils are poor, 4.0 to 4.5 ton/ha are anticipated. On soils with known constraints (high
acidity) that can be overcome with additional inputs and a higher level of management, long term
average yields of 3.5 to 4.0 ton/ha are anticipated. Soils with known constraints which cannot be
overcome are excluded. Rice yield increases in areas already irrigated, and on which no further capital
expenditures are scheduled, would be restricted to less than 0.5 ton/ha to reflect the general
improvement in irrigation services.
6.04    Diversification to palawija (non rice) crops is likely to be limited since the preferred cx-,, is
rice when irrigation is available. The yields of palawija crops using reliable surface irrigation supplies
are expected to increase significantly by full development: groundnuts from 0.6 to 1.2 ton/ba. maize
from 1.5 to 3.0 ton/ha and soybean from 0.6 to 1.5 ton/ha. Such yields are feasible for small, isolated
schemes which have been fully completed and developed, with improved O&M that ensures timely,
reliable and equitable water supplies, and with more efficient application of farm inputs through better
agricultural extension services.
6.05    The higher yields derive from the interaction of several factors including: (a) reliable and
timely irrigation service; (b) where applicable, improved drainage and flood control; (c) provision of
inputs (improved seeds, fertilizers, etc); (d) better access to markets; and (e) improvements to farm
practices through better extension and farner training. Of these factors, reliable irrigation supply is
critical because it reduces the risk of crop failures and induces farmers to apply other essential inputs.
Seeds, fertilizer and pesticides are generally readily available in the project areas and no supply
constraint is expected under the project.
6.06    Marketing. Estimated annual incremental production generated by the project at full
development is given in para 7.03. Additional rice producLion under this project is not expected to
cauns marketing problems. 'l he amount of crop surplus which could be sold and that consumed in the
producing areas would vary considerably between schemes. About 10 percent of the marketed rice is
acquired by Government and any marketable surplus of rice is expected to be sold as paddy by farmers
to private traders or millers. The numerous private traders, operating in villages close to most schemes
and village cooperative owned rice mills, would provide competition and offer services such as
collection and drying of produce. Milling capacity is expected to be adequate for incremental rice
production in most provinces. Marketing of palawija crops is handled almost entirely by private
traders and well established marketing channels exists, especially for soybean, maize and groundnuts.



- 29 -
6.07.   Financial Prices. Rice prices in Indonesia are largely determined by local supply and
demand. Although there are price fluctuations between locations, seasons and years, prices in the
open market are generally higher than Government's floor prices. The fertilizer subsidy, irrigation
investment and price policy through trade regulations have in the past been the major quantitative
instruments influencing rice production. However, fertilizer subsidies are now being phased down
and pesticide subsidies have been eliminated. Thus, financial prices for all commodities used in the
project analysis are based on farm surveys conducted by the M&E unit within DGWRD and on
information provided by MOA. Prices have been adjusted, as necessary, to the farmgate prices
observed during appraisal.
6.08    Farm Budgeta. Farm incomes in irrigated arcas where rice is the dominant crop are largely
determined by the farmgate price of rice relative to input costs. Off-farm income is generally needed to
supplement farm income because of small farrn size. Crop budgets were prepared for each of the
Outer Islands 1Q/ for different crop yields, varying from 1.5 ton/ha to 3.0 ton/ha for rainfed rice and
2.5 ton/ha to 5.0 ton/ha for HYV rice. The budgets cover a representative range of conditions and
have been adjusted for soil conditions of individual schemes. Gross margins and the costs of
production were estirated using 1990 prices. Detailed crop budgets are given in Attachment 1 of
Annex 2.
6.09    The payment capacity of irrigation beneficiaries would vary considerably through the project
provinces. To simplify the situation, it has been tested by the preparation of farm models with
holdings of 0.5 ha, 1.0 ha and 1.5 ha, considered to be representative of conditions on the Outer
Islands, and is summarized in Annex 1, Tables 5 and 6. Farm costs and returns were estimated at
current farmgate prices for these farm size holdings. In the farm models, it is assumed that the
minimum living cost for a farm family would be about Rp 600,000 per year. On this assumption, a
farm size of about one hectare would produce enough income to provide for the family's living costs
and have sufficient savings to pay for O&M costs. Farmers with less than one hectare would only
have sufficient income to maintain a minimum standard of living and pay for O&M if they earn extra
income from off-farm work.
6.10    O&M Funding. At present, the Government is faced with funding of O&M on about
4.8 million ha of irrigated lands and some 600,000 ha of reclaimed swamp lands. It is expected that
this area would be gradually reduced by the turnover of the smaller irrigation systems less than 500 ha
to Water Users Associations (WUAs). In the projections, it is assumed that some one million hectares
would be turned over to WUAs by about year 1998. By year 2000, the proposed irrigation service fee
(based on conservative estimates) should produce an annual revenue of about Rp 45.0 billion. For this
project, the underlying assumption is that only as areas are brought under EOM, would irrigated area
be considered ready for levying the irrigation service fee. On the Outer Islands, a prerequisite for this
to happen would be that all irrigation schemes are completed and the command areas fully developed
so that schemes can function effectively.
6.11    Cost Recovr. The Govemment's objective is to reduce and eventually eliminate central
government subsidies for efficient O&M. To achieve this objective, the Government would recover all
EOM costs through an irrigation service fee (ISF). In the meantime, the ISF would be supplemented
by provincial/local revenues (in lieu of central govemment budgetary support) through PBB (land and
property tax revenue). The levels of irrigation service fees and mechanisms for estimation, billing and
collection are being tested in the pilot areas under the ongoing ISSP (Loan 2880-IND) and such tests
would continue under a proposed follow-on project. Over time, as appropriate levels of irrigation
service fee are determined and institudonal mechanisms for its collection developed, it is expected that
all EOM costs could be recovered by irrigation service fee together with a portion of the capital costs.
However, this objective can only be achieved if schemes are completed and function effectively, and
farmers receive reliable and timely irrigation service.
lQ/ The assumptions on crop budgets used for Sulawesi have been used for Kalimantan.



- 30-
6.12    Cost recovery indices are estimated to: (a) indicate the extent to which an irrigation service
fee (starting from Rp 15,000/ha in year I to Rp 35,000/ha in year 6 and thereafter) would recover the
costs of EOM; and (b) show the extent to which this minimum service fee plus any reasonable
allocation of PBB for O&M expenditures would recover the cost of EOM and the investment cost of
special maintenance (over and above routine maintenance). The relevant data are given below:
Table 6.1: COST RECOVERY INDICES I/
Cost and charges                                    Rp '000/ha             Rp '000/ha
Costs for efficient O&M                                                        270
Project Charges - Service Fee                                                  283
Direct cost Recovery Index (%)                                                 105
Costs for special maintenance and efficient O&M                                490
Project Charges - Service Fee                       283
- PBB share allocation                29
Subtotal                  312                       312
Direct cost Recovery Index (%)                                                  64
a/ Based on discounted (10 percent) values per ha over project life.
6.13    In addition to the recovery of O&M costs for the primary and secondary systems (for
schemes larger than 500 ha) from the ultimate beneficiaries via the irrigation service fee, it should be
noted that Government's long-term policy is to turn over (privatize) all schemes less than 500 ha to the
WUAs, who will than own, manage, operate and maintain these systems. The costs of land clearance
and dcvelopment and other agricultural development activities that are implemented on individual
holdings would be recovered through the PPB which relates to land capability and use. The
appropriate level of PPB are to be determined once actual unit costs of the LC&D and other activities
for individual schemes are established.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
7.01    Project Benefits and Beneficiaries. This project complements previous Bank support to
irrigation development on the Outer Islands. Investments aimed at completion of ongoing projects and
improving efficiency of O&M of existing facilities would have higher economic returns than new
investments, since considerable investment costs have already been sunk. Furthermore, since most
schemes have been under implementation for an extended period of time, project benefits are likely to
be as anticipated. Where there is still uncertainty, schemes have been deferred until sufficient
information is available to prepare a practical and viable action plan.
7.02    The primary benefits of the project would be increased agricultural (rice) production. rhe
main beneficiaries would be farmers with land within the design command area of schemes, but which
has yet to be served by irrigation and fully developed. Farmers presently receiving some irrigation
would also benefit with the introduction of more timely and reliable water supply. Major quantifiable
benefits at full development would be incremental annual production of about 700,000 tons of wet



- 31 -
season paddy and some 400,()00 tons of dry season paddy. T'here would also be small increases in
productioni of other crops including about 12,000 tons of maize and somne increase in soybeans and
grounLdnLIts in areas not suitable for rice. About 127,000 rural families would benefit directly from the
new areas brought under irrigation with improvements for an additional 100,000 families presently
receiving an irrigation service. The project would settle some 1400 families on schemes in Sulawesi
and Kalirnantan. In addition, an equivalent of 90,000 full-time farm jobs are expected to be created as
a result of crop intensification. Since project schemes are spread throughout the provinces involved,
the project should result in significant indirect benefits in more isolated regions. In addition, the
project would generate important socio-economic benefits and alleviate poverty since about 30 percent
of the beneficiaries are expected to be existing transmigrants or local landless settlers. The project
would also alleviate poverty by generating additional labor demand, mainly benefitting the landless, for
on-farm activities and through labor intensive activities such as minor irrigation works and land
clearance and development.
7.03    The overall impact of the project in terms of increased agricultural production, employment
generated and farm families benefited at full development is summarized below:
Directly benefitting farm families (no.)               227,000
Families settled (no.)                                   1,400
Increase in irrigated area (ha)                        159,300
Area with improved irrigation service (ha)             113,500
Increased rice production (tons/year)                1,100,000
Increased of maize production (tons/year)               12,000
Generated farm employment (no. of jobs)                 90,000
7.04    Economic Justification. Economic evaluations have been carried out using both intemal
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV) estimations. The assumptions and
calculations used in the economic justification are detailed in Annex 2. Economic analyses have been
calculated for all schemes under the project, with the results for typical schemes on Sumatra, Sulawesi
and Kalimantan given in Annex 1, Tables 7, 8 and 9. For 'deferred' schemes, cost estimates and
analyses assume that the schemes would be completed as appraised and also follow the
recommendations in the status reports and acdon plans proposed for ex-SPIDP schemes and the
scheme proposals on which ongoing schemes were justified for inclusion under the ISSP
(Loan 2880-IND).
7.05    Cost streams include all capital and operating costs, including physical contingencies, but
exclude price contingencies and transfer payments such as taxes and subsidies (Annex 3) and the sunk
costs to date. Cost estimates are summarized Annex 2, Attachment 2, which also gives the per hectare
cost for each scheme of sunk costs where available, the new costs, and the total unit costs to full
development. Agricultural benefits have been evaluated on a per hectare basis, making allowance for
the local physical determinants (such as rainfall and soils) in the provinces concerned. Benefits are
expressed in incremental crop yields and intensities and/or a prevention of decline in yields (resulting
from improved water distribution). Benefits from improved coordination of irrigated agricultural
development, technical assistance through the project supervision component and other institutional
support activities cannot be quantified directly to individual schemes, but would contribute to the
project impact. Hence the costs of these components have been included in the total economic cost of
the project.
7.06    An ERR for the nverall project has little significance since all 130 schemes are separate,
discrete investments. The objective of the economic analysis was to determine for each scheme,
whether proposed expenditures (excluding settlement costs) are economically viable and would
produce benefits sufficient to give an ERR of at least 12 percent. Schemes that are calculated to
produce an ERR of less than 15 percent have been considered marginal and have generally been
deferred (Annex b). For all schemes with low ERRs, proposed expenditures would be carefully
evaluated during the screening and review process (para 3.20) before schemes are approved for



- 32 -
implementation. If a candidate scheme still has an ERR of less than 12 percent, it would be excluded
from the project.
7.07    Economic indicators (ERRs and NPVs) for all ongoing and deferred schemes are
summarized in Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4 respectively, and detailed in Annex 2, Attachment 2. The
ERR for all schemes included under the project gives a weighted average of about 17.5 percent. For
'go-ahead' and 'deferred' schemes, the weighted average ERR wo'ild be about 20.1 percent and 16.6
percent respectively and ERRs of typical schemes are low given the large sunk costs to date (Annex 2,
Attachment 2). As proposed by Government, some 29 schemes have ERRs of less than 12 percent, as
detailed in Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4. Many of these schemes would however be economically viable if
unjustified expenditures that do not result in identifiable benefits are eliminated, and/or only those costs
that generate benefits inside the schemne comrnand area are included.
7.08    Sensitivitv Analysis. A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken for all schemes to test the
effects of variations in investment costs, variations in direct benefits and rice yields and the irigated
area to dry season rice and are summarized in Annex 2, Tables 3 and 4. Delays in implementation was
not tested since this is a negligible risk with all schemes substandally complete. The analysis has not
been undertaken for individual project components since all components are interdependent and
necessary to achieve tC.n scheme impact. Experience under previous Bank supported projects, in
particular, SPIDP, Loan 2375-IND, has shown that unless 41 activities are undertaken under a
coordinated program, irrigation schemes do not achieve projected benefits.
7.09    The analysis shows that schemes are relatively insensitive to cost overruns since most
schemes are substantially complete. An average 25 percent cost overrun on all project components
would lower the average ERR to about 14.7 percent. Schemes are more sensitive to reduced benefits
from both lower production, particularly in the dry season, and to a lesser extent crop prices.
A 20 percent reduction in benefits would lower the average ERR for all schemes from 17.5 percent to
about 9.3 percent. Thus, critical determinants in scheme viability are confirmation (through
hydrological measurements) of reliable water availability (para 5.13) and that completed schemnes are
sustained. The sensidvity of individual schemes varies widely as would be expected with the spread
of the project over 13 provinces. Some schemes, such as those in Kalimantan provinces would have a
relatively low ERR and thus be sensitive to changes in assumptions because the schemes are located in
remote areas with low potential. These schemes have been supported under the 'deferred' Sub-
category because of the important social and regional benefits.
7.10    Switching values have not been calculated for key parameters because of the number of
schemes indtuded under the project and lack of reliable data. However, based on some selected cases,
it is estimated that: (a) if the projected rice price during the 1990-2000 period were to decline by
20 percent, the ERR would on average fall by about four percentage points. However, if off-farm rice
prices were to drop substantially, farmers would probably diversify into other more profitable crops.
If the recurrent O&M expenditures on com 'leted schemes were reduced by 50 percent, with a
corresponding reduction in economic life, s . weighted average project ERR would fall from about
17.5 percent to less than 12.0 percent. This demonstrates the importance of sustaining schemes once
they are completed and fully developed. A similar negative impact would be expected on some
schemes if environmental aspects of the project are not adequately addressed.
Risks and Uncertainties
7.11   The risk of delayed or incomplete agricultural impact would be limited since the project
supports all activides required to fully complete and develop an irrigation scheme and obtain project
benefits. In addition, policy reforms introduced under the ongoing ISSP (Loan 2880-IND) should
result in all project schemes being sustained when they are completed and fully developed. These
reforms, which are now being applied under ISSP include: (a) improved O&M funding and cost
recovery from beneficiaries; (b) strengthening of provincial irrigadon services; (c) improved
coordination between irrigation, agricultural and local government services; and (d) development of
staff skills. These subsector initiatives should lead to better resource mobilization and utilization;



- 33-
improved efficiency in selection, design and construction of irrigation systems; and improved
operation and maintenance to the farm level.
7.12    Considerable institutional risks can be expected given recent Bank experience in Indonesia.
These institutional risks include: (a) inability to keep in place the organizational arrangements;
(b) inadequate staffing; (c) reliance on technical assistance; (d) unpredictable funding; and
(e) ineffective coordination of irrigated agricultural development. In addition, technical agencies have
to date focused on expenditures on construction programs with little attention to achieving benefits.
The project solution would contain these risks by strict control of funding through disbursement
conditionalities. Schemes and works/activities financed under the project would be specific, restricted
to priority expenditures, and include support for all agencies involved. In addidon, the focus on and
implementation of coordination/management procedures would reduce these risks. There would be a
risk of undisbursed loan amounts, if deferred schemes have eventually to be deleted. However,the
multi-agency approach under the project, with a direct financial interest for all agencies involved,
should increase public accountability for poor perforna nce. All agencies involved in implementation
of a scheme would suffer, if one agency does not perfo,,n. In addition, use of procedures for scheme
approval and project monitoring under BAPPENAS and JAPPEDA should stop one technical agency
following its own agenda and deferring action on its own problems.
7.13    TechnicAl risks would be contained through: (a) setting standards and criteria related to
planning and design; (b) ensuring that all schemes are formulated on an adequate and measured data
base, (c) coordinated procedures for scheme selection and implementadon, (d) verification and
certification of scheme completion, and (e) the requirement to prepare annual work programs, budget
requests and funding provisions. In particular, any 'deferred' scheme would remain deferred until a
technical status report and appropriate action plan (based on physical resource data) are prepared,
satisf?ctory to the Bank (para 3.20). Specific agreement would also be reached on the definition of
what constitutes a completed scheme (para 5.15) to avoid extended implementation periods. Tle
provision of consultant services (para 3.18) should help reduce risks related to the technical
supervision of schemes spread over 13 provinces.
7.14    Environmental risks are small since most project schemes are substantially complete and parts
of the command areas have been under irrigation for many years. Completion and full development of
schemes is not expected to produce a significant change in environmental conditions. However, many
schemes are located in remote parts of the Outer Islands and surrounded by environmentally sensitive
areas. The provision of a specific envixonmental protection component under the Ministry of Forests
would ensure that there is an agency, independent of the main works programs, evaluating
environmental impact. In this respect, specific provisions have been made to survey and plan for
induced environmental impact in areas surrounding scheme commands. Special attention would be
given to upper catchment impact and status of land bordering irrigated areas once schemes are fully
developed. The project would also: (a) exclude from land development any areas under reserve or
protected forest; (b) require an environmental assessment be made for deferred schemes (as required)
before the schemes are cleared for implementation; and (c) undertake special studies for schemes with
flood control and/or drainage problems and where downstream water use is sensitive to water quality.
A basic project assumption, agreed by Government, is that good environmental practices in the
irrigated agricultural subsector are nearly always synonymous to good irrigation, agricultuml and
forestry practices.



- 34 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
Assurances were obtained that Govemrnment would:
(a)  by August 15, 1991, employ consultants administered by DGWRD to assist with
project implementation and supervision, under terms of reference satisfactory to the
Bank (para 3.18);
(b) screen, select and commission project schemes in accordance to procedures agreed with
the Bank (para 3.21);
(c)  implement the project in accordance to technical, financial, administrative, agricultural
and environmental practices, standards and criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and
provincial work programs to be agreed annually with the Bank, by June 30 each year
(para 3.22);
(d)  (i) undertake detailed environmental assessments on deferred schemes satisfactory to
the Bank as part of the project screening and selection process; and (ii) cause
MOF/DGWRD to classify catchment areas of schemes as Protection Forests
(para 3.25);
(e) cause each project executing agency, at both national and provincial levels, to establish
and maintain adequate and separate accounts from the beginning of project
implementation and to maintain such accounts in accordance with the sound and
generally recognized accounting principles and practices satisfactory to the Bank, so as
to enable these agencies to provide annual financial statements to reflect the financial
performance and status of project components (para 4.15);
(f)  (i) keep all project related contracts, documents related to the SOEs, and orders and
receipts for at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal
year in which the last withdrawal from the loan account was made; (ii) maintain the
Special Account, including records and documentation of receipts and withdrawals, as
deemed satisfactory by the Bank; (iii) complete annual consolidated financial statements
of the project for audit within six months of the close of each Government fiscal year
for independent audit; and (iv) undertake independent audits of each year's consolidated
project accounts, including the audits of SOEs and the Special Account, and submit
such audit reports to the Bank within nine months of the close of each Govemrnment
fiscal year (para 4.15);
(g) cause MOA/DGFCA to provide appropriate staffing, facilities, services and the other
resources required to carry out effective agricultural extension satisfactory to the Bank
throughout all the proposed project districts (para 5.05);
(h) cause BAPPENAS and each provincial BAPPEDA respectively to undertake project
coordination at national and provincial levels respectively, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank (para 5.10);
(i)  submit to the Bank for its review and comments, for each province under the project:
(i) not later than June 30 each year, a coordinated work program and cost estimates for
the following fiscal yeaw, and (ii), by September 30 each year, coordinated budget
proposals for the agreed provincial work programs (para 5.10);



- 35 -
(j) cause DGWRD/PRIS to: (i) collect and analyze regular and sufficient hydrologic and
climatic data to provide a continuous and reliable basis for assessing water availability
and allocation for each scheme under the project; (ii) implement all works required to
fully complete and develop each scheme under the project, as defined and agreed when
the scheme is approved for implementation by the Bank, before any additional
development to a scheme or any expansion to the scheme command area is undertaken
(paras 5.13 and 5.15);
(k) cause DGWRD/PRIS to certify and verify that such schemes are complete and can
function as designed before handing over project schemes to O&M authorities within
each PRIS or to the farmers' groups, as appropriate (para 5.16); and
(1)  cause all project agencies to monitor and evaluate project activities and performance
according to standards satisfactory to the Bank (para 5.17).
8.02    An understanding was obtained from Government that:
(a) vehicles required for the project would be purchased from Government budgetary
sources under a schedule agreed with the Bank (para 4.06).
8.03    Assurances were obtained that, as condidons of loan disbursement, Government would take
the following actions:
(a) for schemes in the deferred category, including any additional schemes financed under
the project, except for the SID component, obtain prior approval by the Bank to scheme
design, scope and estimated costs, and confirm that all agencies involved have cleared
the scheme for implementation under the project (para 4.11); and
(b)  (i) for all schemes, except for the SID component, in each of the project provinces,
Government would make a budget allocation to implement the agreed annual provincial
work program for each such province; and (ii) for irrigation worcs in each of the
project provinces, Government would make annual budgetary aliocations (and fumish
evidence that funds were expended in the previous year) for the fiscal year 1992/93,
and each subsequent fiscal year thereafter until project completion, which at least
maintain the fiscal year 1990/91 level of total nation-wide irrigation O&M financing
under the Central Government budget in real terms and, if required, provide any
incremental funding need for efficient O&M (para 4.11).
8.04    With the above assurances and understandings, the project would be suitable for a Bank loan
of US$ 125.0 million equivalent with a 20 year maturity at the Bank's standard variable rate, including
a grace period of 5 years. The Borrower would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 36-
PiOV4CAL tGATD AGObCULTUIM DXWLOifT PNfWlCT
-00.A11D     t iM  (CAMONY I)
Use eo Gamma NW   Coat asUme   kw
scherme                                      Prvu  Irrlttle.,n LOIS urd                    tnb            Total ERR Blow
Ret. No.    Province & Schem     At  (O0A) rhwtIwla       Werl  Ax4r-0ev    LT4C Sottlomat Protetlen    Costs   12%
bi                                 (Ha)             ............a Mlillon   Np.) ....
ERAU
IRIAUOI    1. Kail Snmo             1014    Ex-SPiOP       1S      219.4       0                 S.2    363.6
IRIAU02    2.Dannu Kotorjob          231                    296       2.7    26.9                        327.6
IRIAU03    3. Parh Pangean           51    Ex-SPIOP         466       263      75                4.4    606.4
IRIAU04    4. SOebrano Ounung        250                  169.4       2.6    60.6                        222.5
Total I                 3076                 1110.4    467.7   164.4                  6.6   1741.1
W.SUAATRA
IWSUMtOI    1, lndrapura            3300    Ex-SPiDP    1261.3   1537.5   159.3                  33.2   2976.1
1IWSU02    2. Sullti                 1461    Ex-SPiOP    1436.6        6.3    65.2                       1526.1
IWSUM03   3. S. Sangir               1031    Ex-SPIDP      644.6      462      72.4              16.1   1399.2
IWSULW4    4. Satu Palano             276    Ex-SPiDP      501.6    253.4       27                3.3    562.2
1WSUbiOS    S. Sutgel IBtung          270    ExSPiDP       197.7      64.4    37.5                0.7    279.9
WsuMoe    6. L Ta,jung                464    ExWSPOP       370.7   1i6.7    40.7                  3.3    609.1
1WSUJt7    7. E.Sawr  Paiang          750    Ex-SPOP       372.6      13.6    45.2                        330.3
Total *                 7654                 4714.6      3l6s    467.6       0      66.6   7706.
WBQLU
I3ENCO01    1. Air Naa; Kli          223    Ex-SPIOP       530.4    119.3    20.2                 2.9     69.9    X
I3ENG02    2. AIr Kedurng           233    Ex-8PiOP       430.9    116.6    27.5                  1.4      577
1EtENO03    3. Alr Talo KsIl         361    ExSPIDP       279.6     67.9    32.7                 1.3    400.4
18EN004    4. Air Bengknrnan         336    Ex-SPiOP       104.2    399.6    31.4                 5.2    535.2
Total *                 1213                 1346.6    736.4   111.6         6       10.6   3162.6
ILUMPOI    1, Way Kulur              643    0O0Other        390      160.2    15.9                3.5    566,e
ILUMP02    2. Way JeIlnjing          419   Go0Other         395      159.1    15.9                3.5      570
Total'                  te62                   7T$      316.3    31.6        0         7   1136.1
. SUiLAWEU
INSUL0I    1. Plbohayanga           1045      Ex-lSSP      290.9        7     05.5                       393.4
lNSUL02    2. Marita a/             2490      Ex-iS8P      909.3     76.4   161.6                 1.8   1167.5
lNSUL03    3. Kembang Morn           322                   232.4              29.4                       261.6
INSUL04    4. Buko                   624    Ex-SPiOP    1097.6        26s    61.6                 6.7   1424.4
Total *                 4641                 3660.3    640.4   $66.6         0        6.6   3247.1
C WULAWES
ICSULOI    1. Sorone                 697    Ex-SPIOP       373.3     12.6    63.5                        449.6
ICSUL02    2. Bangga                 359    Ex-SPIOP       246.6       12     32.7                       293.5
ICSUL03    3. Pauigi Kanan           S00       1/VOther    206.6      3.4    45.5                        255.7
lCSULO4    4. Sbayu                  250    Ex-SPiDP       233.6       62     22.S                       336.4
Totaol                  160e                 1062.5    110.2   164.6         0         0   1337.2
IL SULAWE9t
ISSULOI    1. Laeko                 1256    Ex-SPIDP       206.9      6.5   111.6                        327.2    X
ISSUL02    2. Loang Longrong         6e6    Ex-SPIOP       235.9      3.5    77.1                        316.5
ISSUL03    3. Canba Jawaya           741    Ex-SPIDP       163.4      3.3    65.9                        252.6    X
ISSUL04    4. Blng Kork V            460    Ex-SPIDP        166        3.1    40.9                         212    X
Totel-                  3336                  774.3       6.4    1 5.7       a         0   1106.3
S.E. WLAWES
ISESLOI    1. Woblou                 351    Ex-8PIOP       169.4    121.3    33.9                 2.5    324.6
tSESLO2    2. Wtubangga              242    Ex-SPIOP        276      $2.6        0                1.7    356.6
ISESLO3    3. Andebwngga             366    Ex-SPIOP       102.1     36.4    35.4                        173.9
ISESLO4    4. Wonce III              136    Ex-SPIOP        146         3       11                         162
ISESLOS    S. Katangana              435    Ex-SPIOP      403.3      12.1        0                       415.4
Total'                  1632                 1009.6    166.6    60.0         0        4.2   1434.7
SUMMARY
ACEH      Acoh                        0                      0        0        0        0         0        0
WSLrI     W.Sumatra                7594                 4714.5     2535    457.3       .0      58.6   7706.8
RiAU      Riau                    2076                  1110.4    467.7   134.4         0       9.6   1742.1
EKO       8engkuiu                 1213                 1345.3    725.4   111.6         0      10.8   2162.5
SGLEd     S. Sumatra                  0                      0        0        0                  0         0
LAMP      Lanmpung                 1062                    765     319.3    31.6                  7    1136.1
NSUL      N.Sulaweai               4661                 2530.2    346.4   366.5         0       6.5   3247.1
CSLL      C. Sulaweai              1606                 1062.5    110.2   164.5         0         0    1337.2
S&L       8 Sulaweal               3325                  774.2      16.4   315.7        0         0    1106.3
SESL      8.E. Sulawsi             1532                 1090.6    255.6    60.3         0       4.2   1434.7
SKAL      S. Kalimantan               0                      0        0        0        0         0        0
CKAL      C.Kallmranlan               0                      0        0        0        0         0        0
WKAL      W. Kalimartan               0                      0         0       0        0         0         0
TOTAL                  13236                16430.9    4600  1164.3          0      66.7  19864.6
(34 Schemee)
Notes:  a/  Net of supervsion, contlngendes, tax nd in lation; See Anex   3 for detailed couts by sub-conpoments.
b/  Expanation of the referrnor number of each schemre is given in pao  1S, Annrx 4
c/ LC&D - Land Clearanoe and Dovelont (MOA)  LT&C - Land Tftling nd Certliatln (BPN).
d/    .lemea wkth ERRs of los than 12% would be su*ed to revision In scope nor review of beneit assumptions.
a I Expanaion of command aroa may be vlble rnd may be Induded under oaddtionai (dteerrd) sdrme category.



- 37 -                                                      Annex I
omwm"                                       ~~~~~~~Table 2
Sheet I
PROYVOSIL  r1RIAT00  GIOIAUfT  ovKmOUIT POCT
06PRE  OOMM  IOATh00S 1
Lim of . I0mw  ..d 0.68 Cm  toase  w
Oneylee ItleIatlea Land/AiJAorl               letlh
Schoe       64                 t H   Area          enig  war"      kauolay       L?bC aeete.t Premir.   slet1   LOW   Additionl wols to h  doe"
Rot. no.                   Categoty (Ha)         Nout.a              ..         M)   .                    .....    ERR di       ($" Now 61)
ACM
2ACEF0I1    Tnanggadi r        A       1000      Ex.ISSP      465 7     S07.6   170 2                32    1027 4         DeWed Adon Plan
2ACE H02    Atu LUbe           A       2641      Ec6ISIP       035 1    124.6   221.6                1.5   1441.0        DOetltd Adon Plo
2ACEH03    Pal'rh              A       1000      Ec-ISOP      175.0    2201       04.5               46     404.4         Detailed Ado. plan
Total                     so6o                  1s11.6   1132.1   407.3        6.0      6.0   2662.6
RIAU
2RIAUOI    Nagdeng             a        466    Ea4PIDP        279.0     U2S.       0.0              2 4     670.2         Reed SPIOP Adon Plan
2RIAU02    Dera..              A        300    Ex4PIOP        330.6       2.9      0.0                      3336          Rteled SPIDP Adon Plan
2RIAU03    Mantaro             A        120    Ex4PIDP        142.0       2.1      0.0                      144.1         Revied SPIDP Adio  Plan
2RIAU04    So Tam.hneg         A        55      Ez4PIDP       452.0    327.1       0.0               6.3    705.4         Detiled Adio  Plan
Total'                    1406                  1201.6 e    14.6      6.0      6.6    14.7   3123.6
W. SUMATR
2WSUi0l    8 Sanod It "                  421    Exl4PIDP    1224.7    246.6                          3.0   1477.6   X    tbous  wi11p4 problem
2W6Ubt02    Su0qui Aro          a        764   E!4PI0P       1269.3   236.0                          3.7   1022.0         DeWed Ado. PIM
2WSUIM3    B.Pe.q.              A        641    Ez4PIDP       236.6    11.6 S655.2                                         lrWd ue po
2WSUM04    KaIZ   Saltcu%lk     A        370    Ex4PlDP       1155.     363.6                        3.6    305.0         tr eeapaathe CCA
2WSOA05    I. Swan              A        437   GOClthes       460.6    333.0                         4.0   12110          De9 0 ed Adon Plen
2WSOU0    s. Ttntgka            A       1561    0ODthea    1220.          0.6 0*050.6                                     Detmed Adlioo Plan
2WSUI07    LubLi Tabuan         A        254     0/Others    363.4      160.0                        3.6   1603.7         Deaed AdO  Pbn
2WSthU6    Sun" Searak                   456   00I/Othom      002.0    523.7                         6.5  1060.5         DeWed Adon Plan
2WSU-09     Air Arm             8        100    001/Oth4e     561.0    300.2                         3.6   1793.9        D0t4itd Adiof Pien
2WSUbtIO    T. Kenmnintg        A        $65   001/oher       536.0      06.                         1.5   1306.0         Dot"d Aton Pien
2WSUMII    a. b1np              8       1051    00I/Othen     010.4 6   306.0                        3.4   1U25.2   X   Detailed Adon Pien
2WSUMY 2    Situng II 1         C       5400    Ex4SPIDP                                                                   xulOplo probeem
Tot1l-                   12061                  7167.?  2360.0        0.6      0.0    22.7  11642.6
LUMtPO1     Way TtAung Man     A          30     E.-ISSP      765.0   2333.3   253.4                56.0   1427.7         RAimed IUOP Adon Plan
2LUbP02    Way K4tbung         A          so     Ex-ISSP      477.0       0.0      0.0                      477.0         Rviseod ISSP Acon Pien
2LUMP03    Way Cu.up           A          20   GOD/Othwe      521.0       0.0      0.0                      521.0         Rabded IS6P Ad.. Pbn
2LUMP04    WayUrnpu            A       7500   GOI/Other       604.0    760.7    06.9                17.5   1471.6        0O.mloaeOEC progve'
2LUMPO      Way Ran.           A      22000   GOI/Others   1258.4   3081.7   315.5                  70.0   6214.7         Detailed Adion Pien
2LUMPO6    Way Pongubuen       A       5000   GOl/Otb rs    636.0    764.4    06.7                  17.5   6230.2         Detd Acion Pie.
2LUi4P07    Way Soenagka       A       2063   GOI/Otherc   t161.0    524.1    55.1                  12.2   3277.0         Detaled Acdon Pie.
2LUIPUO     Way Ped"  Re       A       1030   001/Othe        102.0    222.1    21.2                 4.0   2212.6         Veory Schem  SteOij
2LUMPOO    Way Ngaremie.u      A       1100   C01/Othems    212.3       332.0    30.6                7.4   1022.5         O,W.ed Adlo. Pln
Total'                   46661                  UU66.7   6020.1   040.4        0.0   106.0  24464.1
S. SUMATRA
2SSUNtAO    Surn Agung         a        50     Ex-SPODP      632.3    126 *      35.4               1.6    990.4    X   Detaled Adon Ple
2SSUM02    Air Doras I         A       1370    Ex-SPIDP       934 4     36 3      62.7               6.2   1411.6         Detaed Acdon Pien
2SSUMD3    Mgng rTinglip       A        0t5    Ex4PIDP        749.0    160.1      03.3               2.0    005.2         DetWed Adion Pien
2SSUU04    Air Giles           a        900    Ex-SPIDP    2135 0       705 2     54.0               5.6   2609.6    X   Revsed SPIDP A.ton Pian
2SSUMD5    Alun Due            A        220    Ex-SPtDP       105.7       2.9    132                        211.          0 etelled Acdo, Pien
2SSUMD6    AiMr Gcg             B      1900      Ex-ISSP     3363.1   1459 5    160.7               28.7   5012 0         Detaild Action Pien
2SSUM07    Air Satan           E        067   0OIOthsrt   1104 7        931.6    77 5               14.4   2126.4         Detailed Acdon P.an
2SSUIA08    Air Malus I        8        560   G01Others    629.9    335.9    20.7                    .3    999.6    X   Detied Adon Pien
2SSUMItO    Kesie (I)          B        351   GOI/Othres    594.7    310.6    21 2                   4.5    931.2    X   DeWed Actin Pie
2SSUtAIO    Kasie (11)         a        324    GOI/Others    7667       351.2    24.7                5.4   1146.0    X   Deted Acton Pien
2SSUlt11    Air Tupdk          8        700    Ex4PtDP        7434       573      42.0               0.9    643.6    X   Detaled Adion Pien
2SSULM12    Air Tk S"kodn      A        333    Ex-SPIOP       114.4       2.6    20 0                        137.2        Dete id Adon Pie.
2SSLUbt3    Air Dwus 11        A        942    Ex4PIDP        507.3    176.S    50.5                 2.6    U22.9         Revised SPI1P Adon Plan
2SSU1t4    Air Ken.            A        463    Ex4-PtDP       161.5      93.5    27.0                1.4    264.2         Detaled Acdon Plen
Totel'                   10444                 12012.1   $104.7   727.7        0.0    70.6  14624.1
2BENOt    Miko.lAiko Kid fi   A        4504    Ex4PIDP    2601.3   5325.5   400.6                  16.6   U434.2          Revised SPItP Adon Pien
2BE.G0      Air Su up Kanm     E        350    Ex4PWDP        113.0    240.1    29.0                 22     393.3         Deied Adion Pie.
28ENG03    Ai Semn.Deo         a        207    Ex-4PIDP        76.9    111.3   1.6                  2.0    210.6   X   DetWed Acion Pien
21ENG04    Air MuOi Koleto     A       1160      Ex-ISSP      301.2      09.6   106.6              12.4   1420.0          Detailed Aton Pien
2BEN005    Air Katepang        A        253    Ex4PIDP        135.4    170.6    22.3                 3.0    340.5         Detailed Acdor Pien
2SENGUS    Air Noet Kanan      S        173    Ex4PIDP        3" 4       41.6    15.6                1.1    446.9         Deild Adion Pin
2ENG007    Air Nanto           8        646    Ea4OPP         9050 4    506.0    57.3                71    1520.6         Detaed Adbon Pin
2BENX00     Air B. Kew"        a        314    Exi4PIOP       174.6      64.6    26.4                1.3    260.1         Detailed Acotion Pn
2BENG09    Air Suluma  f/      a       5539      Ex-ISSP     9452 3    4123.7   559.2              24 6   14150.8    X   PARvted SPIOP Ad.. Pien
28ENG01     Air Lai*  V/               2250      E-1ISSP      216.5   5055.0   603.0                       5776 5         Detailed Adion Plin
Total'                   15410                 14604.2  16566.4  1030.6        0.0    70.6  32671.0
N. SULAWESI
2NS01OI    Didngga             A        S33    Ex4PWDP        474.7      06.4    5e.6                109    631.6         RWveW sets. low Inmpi
2NSUL02    TongOp              A        023    E4tPIDP        261.6       1.3    63.0                       330.1         Cokmpble OECF pogrom
2Nh 'LOl3   Pa.tt              A        653    EY-OP4iP       493.6      13.4    59.7                       5066.         Cofffa. OECF pm
2NSuU04    Suiu Pnlaan         A        543    Ex4PIDP        210 3       0.0    22.3                       232.6         Colaee  OECF pmgram.
21.SA0O    Toritu  1/          A       7000    GO/Otherx   5035    1445.2   68. 5                  32.4   6122.9          Detated Adcon Plin
2NSLU0      Banro t/           A       4600   GOOthers         0.0   14U 0    46.0                        1936.0         SoPe to bedctaed
2NSLL07    Pulahent            8        663    Ex4-PIDP    3006.1        44,1     23                       3 S074.0   X   RPad  SPIDP Adon Plin
2NSUoit    Pinogwlumen                  3`13    Exz-PIDP      266.6      70 1     36.2               14     374.5   X   Revid SPRDP Adon Pien
Total                    16140             0  11040.1   $1500,   1423.7        0.0    66.7  16260.0
Not"   a/   Net at   evtaion, contingencite, Mox    Indbtuon.
bt  Etwi on dr the sdwnece me  numtr is given in p n 16, Annex 4
c/  Annex 5 lor details of subh-calegori: A * deat coltcion an  minor revision.     - noe basic revision to pWeng and deign;
C- Senous problem  rlaquing  "rsont.ahon
d/ ERR tes than 2%
a'  All resions nelt tde into accoue the rd.vdWu scheme rsc*mRsncdabom  in Annexon I to 13 of te PIADP Prerabo  Report (See Annex 5)
I/  Corm.ad area rmy be revmed atr lurhw survey



38 -
PNOVIINNAL UG"ATIO D AOReUL?UfE D^LhOPUENT P3ROA                                    Sheet 2
DEFERRED SCHEME (CATEGORY 6)
Libt of Scglamee and CeNt Enthagl. S
previous  tilgsl.ls LandiAgri               6Svireil
Sohee       Selhlne          so       Area,     wxehs       Wes OselaptI    LT7C bettlamI PreWels        Tetal LOW  Addiufflatl  itk to be dIne
Ib. iE.                   0*1"061                                 ..)...i......   (Fxt)                  . t ERR di         (See Noe a)
b/ II
S. SULAWlS
2SU1UO     Apren  Hi>u        A       1006     ExsISSP      300.2      6.6    6o.7 IS". 7                            Detaled Acdon Plta
2$SULo2     PdrqnSopm         A       6463     Ex ISSP     3107 2    521 0   575.1               7.5   4300.6 3sotvO land we ceoud
USULo3    Sadang W            S      64102   0      1Oder   13671 0  11.6  4404.4                    16617.1        EsekWd Flood conuldrdinag
2SSUL04    Mateso             A       6761 oOUOOxXs   4350.7           240    50. 3                     5363 0       Dome  AOcn Pla
2SSULOS    KaIeon Kamtan      C       4553     ExzISSP                                                           X   S6d.xt plandngd/de    poMl
25ULOU       Kttana Kid f/    C       1772     ExnlSSP                                                               Sedeu plmugitisdoiJgn pro
2ssULO?    Saro   fl          c       IC63tO2  ExIlSSP                                                               Seow planisnidln  prbl
Total'                  10646                21616.1    700.6  6677.6       0.0      7.6  25607 
c. SULAWESI
2CSUOt    Sunt I              S       2307    Ex4Plo       6616.6     70.4   206.6                     0664.6        DeWed Afton Pla
C021A     Torpe              A        6ee    Ex4FIOP       431.4      3.6    01.6                      466.6        W" crpsreodSAt, CCA
2CUL03    Saiau UIS In        A       a10     Ex-lSSP     6807.6     30.    745.3                     9612.4        Redsed ISP  toon Plw
2CUL04    Puns Kid            I 2      102     ExISUP      1403.0     30.0   167.6                      1610.5       R-d IOSP Alon Plwa
2CSUILOS    Laftbunu IV       b       6000     ExlISP      3665.6   4717.4   34.1  32S2.5    61.3  14254.6           Serious plme
2CSUOS    Olxly               A        541    Ex4PIOP       416.2      3.6    40.2                       446.0       Detald Adon Plan
2CSU07    Korontuo           A        401    Ex4RPIP       236.0      3.3    36.6                       276e0       DOtded Acfon Plan
2CSUoo    Olonhongo           a        377    Ex4PIDP       400.0      3.1    34.3                      437.4   X   DOtled Aclon Plan
2C8U06    Delego              B       2557   GOIOhers         0.0    176 0 254.0                        431.0        Detd Aalon Pln
2CSUL10    Ton.               a       2066   GOI/Othea        00     156.0   210.0                      3S6.0        DWed Acion Plan
2CS1A.1I    Anddes            S        SOO    Ex4PIOP    1464.2    337.0    42.0  1214.9         5.6   3065.6   X   Sdwcu  protem
208C12    Mloi.             a        710    Ex4RDOP       764.0      4.6 e     .6                     630.5        Sdweus problem
2SUt113    Tamtaraa               U   663    Ex.ISSP        367.9      6.4    62.6                       4S66,       Seidous problem
2cs08114    Ounbena eI        C       7000
Total                    04620               26662.7  5666.2  2664.?  4477.4    67.1  42266.1
s.r. SULAWES
26ESLO1    SnAY               a        256    Ex4FRDP       1e7.0     41 7      00               0.6    23e.5   X   Detailed alon Plan
2SESL02    Baito              A        251    Ex4PIDP       125.4     51.7      0.0              1.3    176.4        Detaled Acion Pln
25ESL03    Danamulyx          a        236    Ex4PIDP       450.0     29.4      0.0              0.0    480.3   X   DetWled Aclon Plan
2E5U04    Sim. BHwah         A        566    Ex5PIOP       316.7    267.5    54.6               5.0     44. 1       Detild Acion Plan
2SES1.05    Toobonto          A        200    ExnSPIDP      11735     14.3    10.3               0.4    151.5         Detailed Adion Plan
2SESLOO    Pobeang            S       2531    Ex4PDOP    4345.6   1460.6   15 0.5   15 S.       25.2   7156.1   X   Detaled Aclon Plon
21ESLo7    Rortya             B       1363   GOI/Othlbs   1192.3    645.0    54.7               16 .    2210.9   X   Deled Acon Plan
25ESL.0   MUos I              a        433   GOIOtie r      506.2    220.4    13.6               4.4    744.6        D"eWd Acon Plan
26ES4.00    Mowia 11         a        461   GOliOthars    5050     220.4    14.0                4.4   1043.6   X   Detaild Acton Plan
Total'                    6331                6056.7   3260.3   316.2  1156.6    61.3  12666.4
W. KALXANTAN
2WKALO1    1. Sanogmu Lete    B       1511     Ex ISSP     2214 3    677.3   107.3              12.103010.9   X   Detaled Adon Plan
2WKAL02    2. Maroel f/       B       2635     ExSISP      *214.4   2520.0   292.7  40456       43.6  16116.3   X   RPWed xSSP Acion Plan
Total *                 4046                11426.7   3127.3   400.0  4046.6    67.6  16126.2
C. KALEANTAN
2CKALOI    1. Tatohin I/      S        076     Ex IlP      1131.7    201.6    62.2               3,4   1416.6   X   Rewved IUP Acion Plan
2CKAL02    2. Tdnaing         a        667    OCtl/then    758.7    404.6    57.7   750.2        6,   1e61.3   X   Detaed Ation Plan
Total'                    166I                1660.4    606.6   136.6   750.2    10.2 2     400.2
S. KALIMANTAN
25KALOI    1. Satulican I 1/    a     1417     ExIS6P    2183.5   1411.7   164.3               21.2  11000.0   X   RPvised ISSP Action Pltn
SUMMARY
Provnceo                  Aroa              DOWRD      WOFCA    DP    Trsno   MOW       Total
. ''''''''''''''''''"''''''''''    (p     4 . ..........................
AEH       Acobh                     5550                 13338    11323    4872        00      65   2662,6
Vt         WSumatra                 12681                7367.7   25500        0.0     0.0    32.7  114601.
RIAU      Riau                      1466                 1203.9    914.9      0.0      0.0    14.7   21t3.5
WO;       bongltulu                15416                14504.2  105S6.4  1630.6       0.0    70.5  62071.S
Sam       S. Sumtda                10444                12912.1   51l4.7   727.7       0.0    79.6  18624.1
LAtP      Lon"w45 4563                                    414. 7    5038.3   649.4     0.0   165.5  24664.6
NSL       N Suxlawoei              16346                10646.1   3150.5  1433.7       0.0    35.7 1I266.0
Ct;LL     C. SumabSi               34523                2052.7   5503.2  25347   4477.4    67.1  42256.1
E;L       S Sdwee.i                60645                21916.1    703.6  50775        0.0     7.5  26807.?
gmL.      S SEut we0 6331                                0O5 7   3260 3   316.2  1155.9   61.3  12866.4
WKAL      S. Kahmanian              1417                 2163.3   1411 7   164.3       00     21.2  116000.
C4(L      C Kalimarntan             1665                 1660.4    6065   t1396    730.2    13.2   3406.2
WKAL      W  Kalmentan              4346                11428 7   3167 3   400.0  4045.6    57.6  11129.2
TOTAL                   236995               126267.6  52340 7 14661.4 10426.1  656 1 220770 7
Notes:  aI  Not of suporlsiion. contingends, tlaxea and infltion. See Annex 3 for detiled cswts by ul>eornponsa
bi  Elianation of the scheme reference numbr, is given in pare 1L. Annex 4
c I Annex S Ior densla of sub-eoce   A. data coacion and minor eviion,  r3  more basic rsvon to planning and design,
and C- Serious problbnst raquidnn tolnroiAtion
di ERRle aVthnl2%
c /  Al rvisone tlo re into sacusnt incidvual schem  recommendations (bY constdtAnts) in Annexe It o 13 of PIADP Prpearedon Repot (Annex 5).
fI  Command atm uedt tourthwr sufve of land capediy. 12.500 he he bow nsowed fr incdusion under oddtional scheme.
gi   Exhding flod end drainage woika on the Rang RNer



- 39 -                                  A      I
Table3
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Disbursemnt Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year             During
nd SemesLer   Profile b                       ulv           Cuulative c/
%        (US$S000)      (US$SOO)               %
1991
ist
2nd       0              1.3            1.3              1.0
1992
Ist      0               6.2           7.5              6.0
2nd       3              6.2           13.7             10.9
1993
1st      6              11.2          24.9             19.9
2nd       10            12.5           37.4             29.9
1994
ist      18             13.4          50.8             40.6
2nd      26             11.6           62.4             49.9
1995
1st      34             10.6          73.0             58.4
2nd      42             12.5           85.5             68.4
1996
Ist      50             13.3          98.8             79.0
2nd      58             12.5          111.3             89.0
1997
Ist      66             13.7          125.0  c/        100.0
2nd      78
1998    Ist      86
2nd      94
1999    Ist      98
2nd      100
a/  PPF (USS 1.25 million; rounded up to one decimal place).
b/  Standard Disbursement Profile for Asia, Agriculture Projects, by Semester after Board
Approval, CODMO, April 25,1990.
cl  Disbursements are expected to be faster than the standard profile as all schemes are on-going
and substantially complete with most started under previous IBRD operations.
d/  Loan closing date - December 31, 1996.



- 40.*
Annex I
Table 4
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Loan
% of Expenditures
Category                            Amount                  to be Financed
(USS M)
A. Survey, Investigations & Design Service.e    4.00                  91%)
B. Irrigation Works                       55.50                       60%)
C. Land Clearance & Development Works     23.30                       80%)
D. Agricultural Development Works           1.70                      91%)
S. Land Titling & Certification Works     10.50                       91%)  of approved
)  expenditures
F. Settlement Works                        6.50                       80%)
G. Enviromnental Protection Services       0.60                      100%)
H  Institutional Support Services          2.50                      100%)
I  Consultant Services                     9.70                      100%)
J  PPF Refinancing                          1.25                     100%)
K  Equipment and Materials a/              1.50                      100% I/
L  Unallocated                             7.95
Total                                 125.00
a/ Excluding vehicles (reserved procurement).
bI 100% of foreign expenditures for directly imported equipment;
95% of local expenditures (ex-factory prices) for locally manufactured equipment;
and 65% of locally procured off-the-shelf items.



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Analysis of Repayment Capadty af Water Uses
(Outer IsLand farm modds using 1989/90 famgate pnies)
Crop           Return per     Return per     Reurn per      Retrn per
Item                                         Returnha    Inensity            Hectare         farm            farm          tarm
(Rp M00)      (%)              (Rp VW)        (Rp '000)      (Rp 10)        (Rp VW)
Fwm Si2z (ha)                                                                                     1.5            1.0            0.5
Wet Seaon
Rice                                          566.20       100                566.2          849.3          566.2          283.1
Dry Secson
Rice                                          481.20       50                 240.6          360.9          240.6          120.3
Mai                                           284.30       30                  85.3          127.9           85.3           42.7
Soyabas                                       302.40       15                  45.4           68.0           45.4           22.7
Gn ndnats                                     337.80        5                  16.9           25.3            16.9           8.5
TOal                   1,971.90      200                 954.3         1431.5          954.3          4772
Miscellaneous costs                                                                             60.0           40.0           20.0
Additioeal family labor allowace                                                                 0.0            0.0           30.0
Far  Inee                                                                     1371.5          914.3          487.2
Off-fanl income a1                                                                                0.0          120.0          240.0
Totl Famlly Income                                                                  1371.5         1034.3          727.2
Poimblc Osgoins
Living costs                                                                                 600.0          600.0          600.0
Ipeda (cadit jises)                                                                           22.5           15.0            7.5
National rent                                                                                150.0          100.0           50.0
House tax                                                                                     20.0           20.0           20.0
Religious contribstions                                                                       10.0            5.0            3.3
Water Users Association (50 kg)                                                               12.8            8.5            4.3
Total Outgolng                                                                   815.3          748.5          685.1
Savings                                                                   S56.3          235.8           42.1
Notes:
a/  It is assumed that:- (i) a farm family with 1.5 ha would not work off farm; (a) a farm family with I ha would have a member working offlarm
and a farm fanrly with 0.5 ha would have a member working off farm full time at wages of Rp 20.000 per month.



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVLOUWPEFT PROJECT
Andysis of Rqpyment Capacity otWater Users
(Outr Idands fam models ui  Govameat Suppo lAvel Pio)
Crop              Retwd per      Retu  per      Retwd per      Retwd per
tem                                         Retwnd       Intusity               Hev ar                        Was           bM
(Rp W0)       (.)                 (p 'O)        (Rp 1000)      0ip M0)        (Rp 10)
Parm Am (bh)                                                                                       1.5            1.0           0.5
Wa Scow
Rics                                        664.80       1.00                  664.8          997.2          664.8          332.4
Rice                                        664.80      0.50                   332.4          4986           332.4          166.2
maimc                                       312.43      0.30                    93.7          140.6           93.7           46.9
Soyabea                                     144.86      0.15                    21.7           32.6           21.7           10.9
Ginmsas                                     169.25      0.05                     85            12.7            8.5            4.2
TOa                   1.956.13     2.00                  1121.1         1681.7         1121.1          560.6
Miucdssom coois                                                                                  60.0           40.0           20.0
Addictd f y labor ilaowu                                                                          0.0            0.0           3Q0
Fin 11come                                                                     1621.7         1081.1          570.6
Off-fm income                                                                                                    0.0          240.0
TOal Fadly hKaoo                                                                     1621.7         1081.1          810.6
PossbieOuopinp
living costs                                                                                  750.0          750.0          750.0
Ipeda (aaSi ittau)                                                                             22.5           15.0            7.5
Natnl  mt                                                                                     150.0          100.0           50.0
Houe tax                                                                                       20.0           20.0           20.0
Rdigious contribuions                                                                          10.0            5.0            3.3
Water Uses Associaon (50 cg)                                                                   12.8            8.5            4.3
Toal Ountdns                                                                      965.3          898.5          835.1
SavIngs                                                                    656A4          182.           -24.5
Notes:
at  I s assumed that: (i) a farm family with 1.5 ha would nol work ol farm: a farm amily wIh 1.0 ha would have a menber wodg  off
farm halt lime; and a tamn family wth 0.5 ha would have a member working of farm tuN time a wages dof p 20.000 per month.



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJEC
Economic Indicators - Megang Tingkip Scheme
(South Sumatera)
CROp                PRSEWT  FLifUR UWTWOU     FUTURE WTH
CROPMNG PATTERN          P,os.n,        Fuhitr    Ftuw                                      Y vod     Yelld                 YIId
LAND USE                 P-.e.u,   Frune       Furt.u                                         ha   WAitho. ha   Wth ka                                       Tiha      TIha                 TVlea
ha  wIhOuI          .llh          Rice-two (eCh-.Cal)          574          674      1.111           WET SEASON
ha          ha           RIce-ldc (ti-pie)                                                 FRe (tlchnfl               3 50      4 10                   * 44
Paddy lnd (samilh)         i.20    1.530        1309            Fbco-pololo                                                        Ftc. (eanpl6
Dry land (tegallladang)                                         Sec (loChllCh )                                     278           fio (.aml.d)                2 S       3 0
Via cape.                                                      FRe (on pl.                                                         PoI00q n     ,
Omh..                       159 5     is                        Ric V(aneld)                 650          35 0O Coconul
Totel land                 1 369    1. 69       1.3J9          Cocon.l                                                             Rbtu
ht.rgaud aea                574      0r         1.3J            Polo.o   1mre                                                      CO""
Inc.,v,eali area                                  SIS          Rubbe.
Colt9u (7.19 tree)                                                 ORY SEASON
Ouh.                         Is"          ISO                      Amc (ltchnic)             3 0       4 20                   * S
Tolal                       1.303        1.J33     1.309           fbc. (91-pial
CROP INTENsITY                                                     Po_o  .,,
O  ,&0                      ' 30%         152%      140%
AGRICULTURAL  ENEFITS            PRESENT SnlJATIN                  FUTURE %MTHOUT PROJECT                          FUTURE VATH PROJECT                            CAPITAL COST t Mon)                Fnwcia  EcorrFa
Cuop                       Arab    Yield N. l.ecnue  Froduct         A,*a      Y.ld  N. t,e4anu       P.Oducl      Ag.       Y..d Net,m,.    prod.d
ha     Tiha   I0D0 ha  l000lR.p          he      Trhi   lOWNWilp        loOOfOp         ha      Tiha  l000oRiha   ,0ODIo             PfTSJDOR
WET SEASON                                                                                                                                                         Soo                                     33        33
ftc. lechn-ca)              574       3.5      221S90  133.111        674       4 1       294 10      2S7.043      1.369       4 4      334 40    46.482           Chid V94a                              S43       577
Fbc. (I-bple)                                                                                                                                                      Adm. n *aip u                            4        94         ,
ate,nld                     6S0       2s      225 20  146.300        350       3 0       2Y 20        63.370                                                     PAASIDOFCA                                                   tA
P..jo .,.a                                                                                                                                                         Land D90iolli                           al        90
Coconuul                                                                                                                                                            SIa O                                   *
Rub1.. E1l,                                                                                                                                                        C                                       53        53
cones  .                                                                                                                                                           Ad  A *                                  4
TRNtUItORAT M
Swb-told                   1.226                       279.491       1.224                             340.4113    1.309                          406.442          S I O
ORY SEASONI                                                                                                                                                       BP"
Rt  (Idclican)              57        35       231 90  133.111        874       42        309034      270Y.33      1.111       45       34420    302.406           L.wd C     onbcaU.                      63         0
rSca (s%-p)
PoI,9no n mr                                                                                                                                                     TOTAL COST                              923       U37
S'ub-lou                    574                        133.111         74Z                             270.3C3     1.111                          312.406        OtCOST
bianenaao.d OWH                       130       121
TOTAL                      .79                         412.01      2.096                             610.117      2.500                           446.016         OW (ttU(  Pro"l                         42      31
____ __  _-_-__   __ _ _ _ ____         _    _     _--  ----------             -- --                                                                          06 ( ul pOt       (                      4         4
BUILD UP OF BENEFITS (1tlon Rtp (Asauma ht be.neSts In YVw:            10                                                                                         INCREMEMTAL O0t COWT                     3         34
VYar                           I        2           3        4          S         a            7            a         0         10          30                    (*- .4
WItho..tPr*ct               413      435          457      479        Sol0      all          all          oil       al        all          ell                    AGIcULTUMALE.XTENSN                       7         7
YW. tihe POecl              413      434          Q21      651        7308      i            702          52S       847       547         647                     (e    utn11111 anatid 0Ia)
Incr,qt.aa n.1.                        0           6s      173        230       141          171          214       230       238         236
ECONOLtIC COSTS * BENEFITS (MbUon Rtp)
Ye r                                    2           3        4          S         0            7            a         9        10          tO
hieC alC cOWl                 9      557          271        1
tne lecu nm Cost               3       20         107        3          3        41           41           41        41        41           41
li.emenleitl s hth                     0          as      173        236       140          171          214        236       238         236
bc rNo8t                   -12      -sm7        -313      149        24        101          130           174      laS        195         19
Ecouomic .ntemalaate of Ret..n                   17 5%
Net Prownl ValueO (0 10% dlou.ni cats)            54  ttlilon Rtp
Net e..it.u.enl Auto (at 10% dr)                  1 78
SEtSW(ITY ANALYSIS                           Varlalon in Construcbon Cost                Vari.atIn h. Wt.1 Pio.ecl 8aifito          Vndat in Rim Vetu W Wt. P.te               Varteion. 1. Cr S.c. ftc At"
Do... %0 t Up 2S%    Up 50%                  Up 10%    Domi, 1o%    On 20%                 Up 10%    lh  0*  On 20%                         Dooon 28%  OD.... 80%
Eclft-I Inw iu tiR  ol Reurun                    192%    14 4%       121%                   24 1%         99%      -1 6%                 31.8%   <cangel >    <1W>                            1 S%    < npgo>
Mai Pleasne Va.* l(at I0% dacooul 'ale)           613      376        210                   1.000           (4)    (SU)                 1.1.4       (B 66  (2.036)                           ()         (am



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROIECT
Economic Inelicators - Padang Sapa Kin Scheme
(South Sulewasi)
CIWP                FISENT FUTIUM WlIHOUIf FUTUf ViIH
CREPRG PATERN           Pfrnt  l       Fi.k,   FuS,                                          Yisld    yield                 Vild
LAND USE                 Pramo   Fuhhuf       Frlurs                                         ha  Vld1o.. he   VA[h ha                                       I&M,      1*.                   1Ma
he  Withot         eSh           Rca-vics (tecahncal)                     2.258     0.110     *      eET SEAS0W
ha          he          Rca-dIc (slntple)                                                   Ri(1,hlcd)                 30       40                     4 a
Paddy la" (ea,rah)        3.542    3.542       *,110           Rkc-PalDoo                                                         Rca (nift)
Driy lnd (lagaaldang)                                         RPA (techniclO              2.259                                   Flca (.anad)               2 5       30
Traa cops                   303      303         303           Rlcat (shipl                                                        Pdlowilo nw"s
Othr                       2.2     2.26tl                      Ra (raimand)               1.503         1.113                      Cconul
Tlog lnd                   8.43    O.43        6.483           Coonrl                                                              R ubbe
1igaed aa                 2250    2.259        0.110           PaIDerlo malls                                                    CoN"
acranwnlali a"                                 3.06i           RiubIS
CoN"                                                               DRY SEA9Of
Oh                        2.206        2.20t lca (F chnlc4                                             4 1                   4
Tatao                      0.110        0.110     0.110            ftR a(hnll_)
CWtOf OETENSITY                                                    POIOon
0-00                 ~~~03%       100%      200%
AORCULTURLMAL 6EFffS             PRESENT SITFTION                 FUTURE W1 HOOU1 PFAIJECT                        FUTt RWlTH PRDJECT                             CAPWITACOST-NI                     FP_d    E _
CrP                         Ai"     Yield Nal re.nu. Product        Ai"       YIw Id Il rseue,       Paoduct      Aias       Yield N4I rawe      Prai
ha    Tiha  looo1 Plha IOOOt.           ha      Ta   1000AP<hf i        0004P.p      hI        Tal  1000Pi,   l00o6P.                          D
WET SEASON                                                                                                                                                            1.0                                 20        20
Rbe (bechnical)            2.259     30        174.20  313.618     2.250       4.0       24030       600.010     *.110        40       311.00  1.mw7              C __a                                2.        2.12
Rbca (simple)                                                                                                                                                     Airs. Aeupeainl                        310        100
Rcamb (rantd)              16513      2.6     204.20  323.240       1.063      30        213 00      337.171                                                      PORASOFCA
Powww. maize~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LI swiusat163    .0
CRoubul                                                                                                                                                            SID                                    20        30
Ribber                                                                                                                                                             E    _rrmb                             60l       6
Co1b.                                                                                                                                                              Aim  &s_u r                                      111111
IAADUNUmIA%TM3
Sub-Soal                   3.042                      710.706      3.042                              00.000     0.110                          N.0em7S            SID
ODR  SEASON                                                                                                                                                        Ai*N N0WP
~0c. (lachlnIcal)                                                  2.25t       41        20330       644.700     0.110        40       311*0  1.03.07             OPN
Ric (shiple                                                                                                                                                        Land C.d                              67b7,     301
Polo.: amo.                                                                                                                                                       TOTAL COST                           1.426     C, b
Sub-loto                                                            2.261                            604.70      0.110                          1 .3.76          O00 COST
TOTAt                                                                                                                     Y.A.Sooo.W~~~~~T  _   0a              S1        127
TOTAL                     3.02                        710.70 1      .10R                            1.402.0U3    12.220                         3AOJ76.2           00 (.4101501)                        103       lob
SUeD ur OF HENEFllS (lImos RP) Asaums 1 h  benellhe 61 Year.          10                                                                                           4CI10ENTAL 00 COST 100 
Y.er                           I       2           3        4          6                      7 00                             10          20                     (mua-)
S0 Proisc                   71?      S03                  976       1002      14S3         143          143       1493       1403        1403                      TUr       K0ATlI. MENSON               31        31
00h lOM Prisel              717  6 i 7    1490    210               2720      3036         31S0         3344      3113       3100        30                       georarmilal mle  ass)
_bIranlal eeflil                      a          000     1132       1004      1042         18117       Ia1       2160       2311        2316
ECONOU-  C COSTS & ENEFITS (01on Rt.)
Yow                            1       2           3        4          6         0            7            0         0         10          30
C.Cap_CONI                1sin 6     102        1022    1107           6
n. PacoC                      14       4         101      17S        179       179          170          179       170        179         179
bao~tld SemeN                         as         Go0    1132        160       1642         1007        1I61       2100       2310        2210
be. "alnoelel             -1173   -1740         -623    -214         1400     1303        11S         172      1IUI        2130        2130
foE_s  hlac ale R_ das                          20% 
NsI PmrOl Vale (U 10% dioouike 105              S.072 ll1t5 RP.
M" BOWSlinvestslet fbf (aI 10% it)               301
SENSITMTY SANA&YS                           Verltlon In COIuClOl Cotl                   Vlallen In 6 10110 P c 6.ne5.51           Va_b   In 6 RlvIen Yl_ Puls                V_616.. In Dy   as 114 Am;3
Down 10%  Up 25%      UP 60%                 Up 10%    Doer 10%    On 20%                  Up 10%    Do 10%  Do a                                20%   Down 60%
EOoisollRWcnlRqelfewof sltrm                    301%    232%        200%                   31.0%        23.6%     190%                   33.6%      17.1%    CWmt>                         22.4%       10S0%
Net Pra.1 Vale. (0010%  1,. rts,)              0.279    7.0f2       .033                 11.240        0.400     4.11*                 122I2M      2.100    mle                            0.0         2.0
_ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _   _ _  _    _ _  _ _           _ _ _   _  _ _ _ _ _  __-_     _  _   _- -    _ _ _ _       _ _ _ __-_-_           _   _ __- -_    



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJL
Economic Ir.Jicators - Sanggau Ledo Scheme
(West Kaliffantan)
coop'                    P14661k   FLPTUFE4 VATNOUT  FuTIA46 VATH
CROPPING PATTERN          Ps.t.nu       F.w,u      f.t.i,,                                          v.34      Y344
LAND) USIE                P.e.enI    ,w Fu        int uw*                                       ha    Wt11ow. ha     6011 ha                                           T&         *,liha
ha  a,gwwwu         Wlh            fbcoa-k,k flechn"(a)          40           40        I .2-JO          WMET SEASON
IIa         ha            IOc.-nc. (kwa.)                                                        Flabd,f.chaa)                   20a      36                     40
P*d9V lan,d (Saavq            40       40        1.239           Ac.-polo.j                                                              Nat. iahuq,ig3
Div 1usd (mgamuIad-0         306      306                        RCa (34cDImCM                                                           Na.. (,.mled)
Ties.cmape                                                       lIce (simple)                                                           polornqoinala                  I a       I a
OUt.                        0103      60                         Face (rrnnIedl                                                          Cocornd
Tam 1us                     1.220    I. 229      1.22            Cocwwwt                                                                 P.bla
3449.1. mma                   40       40        1.230           Paillwo. cmdze                306          306                          Congo
bluemontal agsa                                  1.190           Ru-ble
CAM".                                                                  OAV SEASON
00...                        603           60                          lIce mcutc                     3.0       364                    4 I
Total               ~~~~~1.230    1.230       1.230             A"c Couple)
cwINTENSITY                                                         Pokwo-o.rmom
O0Il.am                       31%          31%        200%
ARCUATUPAIL OENEFITS           PRESEWT SITUATION                   FUTUNlE 011THOUT PROJECT                        FOY Al 96TH PFKk;ECT                                   CAPITAL. COST 049 Snimon           lb..sd   EcosaNE
Coop                        Ana    VON6  N.m  nem..  Piodac            eA,*      Vold  NeI,-O~nu         Piodoci        A,ea       Y.al  Ne.mwel..      Pieduc
VWF SEASON   ~        ha      TRas  IoooRpflpa   1000o4p.        ha      Tiha   IOOORp4ha        1000449.         ha       TA..  I000FIpi       ,300Pft              rfoiDe
Funepehfluca)                 40     320        174 20     0.060         40       3 6       202650         0.100       1.230        4 0       246.30    307.664              cIgd ww                               2.060     2.0614    .
Om. (fametled)                                                                                                                                                                2N.ep.0a                              27       227
PooNe (fMdn                                                                                                                                                                 PRASIVOPrA
P6b.4:o 3ae                   0        1.0       71.90    21.971        300        IS         716o0       21.07v                                                             Lmo6 Ovolimoonii                       003 
SID                                     10       6f
Co"s                                                                                                                                                                          fism                   6    is4S~        01
*Mb-Dud ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TRADSOWT63N
ub-Iaal             5~~~                        ~~46  201.630  3.6                               30.071       1.230                            307.0646.
Mm o(meduclo)                 40       3         72         .60          40       3 6       224 90         91.91061    1.239        41I       203 30    3822S.              BP"
gnu" (aaftsICINIGO4IClift                                                                                                                                                                                       107        60
Pabu49c maze                                                                                                                     301P6 COST                             3461     3.360~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OWt  OT  -41 3.4
Neb-lota                      40                           6.960         40                                6.906       1.230                            32.220              OM COST
TOTAL                                                                                                                             Im~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~uemalcomb 0600  46  dl
TOTAL                 206~~~~~3                   36.107        366                               39.907        2.476                           022.672               06004.00 p.ojmc                         37        33
003.0 WOE BENEITS ~&IUon 949 Asaum. leo baabs 1. Yarn.la                                                                                                  DCWUENTAL 0600 COST                      33        20
low                            I        2           3         34          6         61           7             61          010                  .0                          Imusual
101.a., Pogaeci               2        36           37        37         37               39                       39 2    0         3            20                         AGACIN TUPAL EXTIENtSON                   0        6
Vi6, oha P.o4.e.              36       60          126       Is$        xi$       464          61464                     bad0      0W4          634                           5a.fj.e.6..s.
bsc.anensdl Isn..N                     30           69       146        206       416          411,          106         h6b        6016        G0o
ECONOMIC COSIS A DENEFIUS (Mibon R 4)                                                                                                                                                                                     ----
vow.                           1        2            3         4          6         6             7            a           9         to       .30
MscCapflalCoal               36'    2036          1A4        377          I
16 kec-lmal Coal               3        3           43        39         30       .16           30            30          3t1        30          20
Inavemfefudalefteft                    30          a9        149        290       416          476           606         666        696         66
hkw. NaoSeteu               -364   -2000         -639       -266        261       370          439          440          620        660          "60
E.onVmc hslemal not. a# Mo.h.                    11.9%
Nao Present V.1,. jai 10% dkoacul IeEe)            U26 ffmUt  14,
No W   0051  IAneaauAe  Raw. Ca 10% d .4          1.20
WISTAMTYVf  ANALYSIS                         Veigahon in Co.stmemcan, Coa                  Va..aa  m Web4 PMopsc Senshie                 Vwvaoc in fbc. VEi WMs 6.Pc                     Vaaowo  I, MY SeAoNI Ra. A."a
Oo.n10 l t. p9  %    up 10%                   Uip 10%    Doe.. 10%      (in 20%                 top 10%    on 10%    on 29%                          00o0 26%   0. 50%
EcoeonoIc Ile.nal Nual olalWn                    13 1%      06%         76%l                  13 1%        1068%        01%                    Is 0%      a61%   c.aap>                                1%6%1
NeE P,a..ng V.1,.(al - ------- ------  --------  -----  ---0-- -~                              age           ISO        (224)                  1.490       4463       1.6                                43        4430



- 46 -                                  Annex 2
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT
Assumptions for Project Analysis
I.    Introduction. The project area (spread over 13 provinces) has substantial differences in
climatic conditions, water availability, soils and farmer capability. The project analysis has thus
been limited to a single analysis of each scheme (Appendix 2 to this Annex) in which only minor
modifications can be incorporated. Refornulating schemes as a result of the analysis has not been
done since the data base, from which the costs and benefits are derived, was insufficiently detailed
to make an optimization exercise either reliable or worthwhile (Annex 5). An analysis of impact
has been made for each candidate scherme using a conservative estimate of prsiect impact based on
crop intensity and yields collected on simnilar irrigated areas in each province by the Ministry of
Agriculture . This data has been checked and adjusted (as necessary) to take account of the analysis
given in the Status Reports and Action Plans prepared under the SPII)P and ISSP (Loan Nos. 2375
and 2880-IND).
2.    Construction Conversion Factors. The construction of project civil works requires the use
of a mixture of equipment, materials, and skilled and unskilled labor. The Uded comQlgnet
includes capital-intensive works that require imported materials and hence a conversion factor of
1.00 has been used. It is estimated that about 55 per cernt of the construction costs fall in this
category. The non-traded component includes works that require skilled labor and locally
manufactured materials and thus 0.90 has been used. These works include about 45 per cent of
construction costs. For unskilled labor, a ratio of economic tc, financial wages equal to that of
agricultural labor (67 per cent) has been used for unskilled construction labor. Unskilled labor is
estimated to constitute about 20 per cent of the total construction costs. Thus, the following
conversion factors were used to convert financial to economic prices: (i) 1.0 for designs of
irrigation civil works, land clearance and development, settlement, agricultural extension, and
preparation for O&M; (ii) 0.9 for construction of irrigation civil works, land development, and
annual O&M. For all other goods, domestic prices were converted to economic prices using a
standard conversion factor (0.8).
3.    Economic Prices of Commodities. The economic prices .or traded commodities such as
rice, groundnuts, sugarcane, and cottor were derived by using border prices in UJS dollars
according to IBRD commoditv projections and were converted to local currency values at the
exchange rate assu1iaed under the project (Tables 1 and 2). The domestic cost compor;ents (local
transport, handling, and marketing charges) were adjusted by a SCF of 0.80. Analysis of price
trends for major non-traded foodgrains indicates that prices in local markets are close to parity with
prices in the world market, and therefore no adjustments have been made. The assumptions used in
the calculation of economic prices and crop budgets are rice, maize, soybeans and groundnuts take
into account assumed crop balances past and future for Indonesia as follows:
1985          1990           1995         2000
---------------------------('000 tons)-------------------------
Rice (milled)                -126          +720           +480          +82
Maize                         -1           -271            -78          +25
Soybeans                     -302          -493           -562         -623
Groundnuts                    -16            -2             -4           -2
N=:   (-) denotes import requirements; (+) denotes potential exports or reserves.
Siource: Supply and demand for food crops in Indonesia, 1988, Director General Foodcrops
Economics (DGFE) within the Ministry of Agriculture.



- 47 -                               Annex 2
Page 2
On the basis of this data and other considerations, it has been decided to price rice, maize and
groundnuts as if Indonesia were self-sufficient (in the long term) and soybeans as an import
substitute.
4.    Coffee, rubber and copra have been priced as export crops. Quality discounts for Indonesia
rubber and coffee have been calculated as the ratio between Bank's current price projections for
rubber and coffee prices CIF New York and prices published by the Bank Indonesia. The
percentage of the coffee crop suitable for export has been obtalik 1 from other Governmens reports.
5.    Prices of Agricultural Inputs. Indonesia exports substantial quantities of urea. Phosphate
and potasaic fertilizer are either imported or mnanufactured from imported raw materials. Therefore,
fertilizers have been valued at projected world market prices. Except in Kalimantan, lime is
generally widely available and is usually obtained locally. Economic pesticide prices have been
obtained from a list of pnces of a major local supplier. The econormic price of seed and
miscellaneous charges has been assumed to approximate their financial price. The economic price
of farm power has been derived from current daily rental rates adjusted by a conversion factor. A
summary of economic prices is presented in Table 1 of this annex.
6.    Opportunity Cost of Labor. Monthly farm labor wage rates vary throughout Indonesia,
depending on the opportunities for work, and are notably related to the extent of irrigation
development in any particular area. Also taken into consideration is that almost all project schemes
are located in remote and isolLted areas. Thus labor is priced at 80 per cent of the mnarket rate of
unskilled labor (men and women), in line with usual Bank practice outside Java, Bali and Lombok.
A market rate of Rp. 2750 per day (average for men and women), has been assumed in Sulawesi
and Kalimantan and Rp. 2500 per day for Sumatra. The Sumatra rate is affected by its proximity
and access to Java.
7.    Investment C . The capital costs of al! works and activities, including the charges for
project administration (and overheads), and physical contingencies were based on 1990 contract
rates adjusted by the SCF and are detailed in Annex 3. Works under each component to be carried
out under the project are assumed to fall equally in each construction year of each scheme unless
there are specific reasons to vary from this assumption. Civil works include additions for
supervision of construcdon (10 per cent), physical contingencies (a weighted average of 10 per
cent) and, where appropeiate, administration (up to 4 per cent). Value added tax (10 per cent) is
levied on all contracted works. In additdon, five schemes, either presently or previously financed
by the Bank have been included under the deferred sub-category RC (Annex 1, Table 2). The
scope and thus costs to complete and develop these schemes (and additional schemes that may be
included), cannot be decided at this time. Thus a cost provision equivalent to 10 per cent has been
added to the annual base costs of all works components to allow for financing such scheres under
the project.
8.    Operation and Maintenance Costs. The costs of preparation for O&M (PROM) are based on
(i) equipment and transport for the provincial irrigation service at the provincial, district and scheme
levels; (ii) preparation of a plan for operation and maintenance which includes trial operational runs,
analysis of how to run the system, O&M documentation and preparation of an O&M manual, and
(iii) some field staff training. The costs for item (i) will vary between provinces depending on their
individual situations, whereas costs for items (ii) and (iii) are more or less standard, and are directly
applicable to each scheme. Costs for item (i) above are assigned to each scheme on a total scheme
area basis, which would tend to overestimate PROM costs as only parts of the total command areas
are to be completed and developed under the project. Th.s is justified since the PROM component
would apply to the overall scheme management and most schemes at present have no formal
arrangements for O&M. The average cost for EOM after scheme completion has been estimated at
about Rp. 28,000 per lia per year (in 1990 prices), based on a survey of schemes supported under
the ISSP (Loan 2880-IND), as detailed in Annex 3, Table 15.



-48-                                     Annex 2
page 3
9.    Other Components. Land clearance and development costs have been estimated from unit
rates provided by DAAD, based on ongoing land clearance and development programs in all
provinces under the project (Annex 6). The (downstream) agricultural development costs have also
been generated on a scheme by scheme basis using current unit rates for the various activities
(Annex 7). The KUD facilities (provision of inputs and a guaranteed market for selected farm
products), village improvements (provision of market facilities and other related community
infrastructure) and forest protection costs have not been included within the economic analysis.
KUD services are to some extent accounted for in the calculadon of farm prices. However, as any
failure to provide such facilides would have serious effects on agricultural production, each
provincial BAPPEDA has been advised of their importance and the need to make provision for them
through normal budgetary channels. Unit costs for settlement, provided by the Ministry of
Transmigration, are estimated at about Rp 6.0 to 7.0 million per settled family depending on
location. Unit costs were estimated by BPN (in Jakarta) based on for land titling and certification
after land development was completed. Additional costs for other BPN activities have been include,
inter alia. as required on an individual scheme basis for: (i) investigation, inventory and cadastral
survey; (ii) preliminary certificate (Hak Tanah); (iii) land certification; and (iv) tax.
10.   Crop Yields. The assessment of incremental benefits is based on estimating the difference
between the agricultural production in the 'future with' and 'future without' project situations. The
'future without' yields are based on information provided by the Department of Agriculture and
reflect present rainfed yields. The 'future with' yields are also estimated on the basis of existing
yields under reliable irrigation service and, where applicable, take into account soil fertility and
other factors. Where existing yields on irrigated land exceed 3.5 tons per hectare, a long term
average (with a 6 to 10 year build-up) to 4.5 - 5.0 tons per hectare are anticipated. Some 4.0 - 4.5
tons per hectare are anticipated where existing yields are low, or not known (little or no irrigation at
present), or where some soils may be infertile, but with no other serious constraints On soils with
known constraints such as high acidity but which can be overcome with additional inputs and
higher levels of management long teim average yields of 3.5 - 4.0 tons per hectare are anticipated.
Soils with known constraints which cannot be overcome are excluded. The justification of higher
yields is the interaction of improved inputs (improved seeds, fertilizers, crop protection) and a
sufficiently reliable water supply to encourage their use. Good drainage, markets, storage,
extension and training have also been taken into account. Incremental benefits on areas already
irrigated (and on which no further capital expenditure is scheduled) have been conservatively
restricted to between zero and 0.5 tons per hectare depending on the local circumstances.
11.   Crp Budgets. To simplify the analysis of a large number of individual schemes and to
reflect the quality of the data base, typical crop budgets (and thus benefit streams) were generated
for all schemes within Sumatra and Sulawesi X pectively. The assumptions used for Sulawesi
were applied to schemes in Kalimantan. Similarly, although experience with irrigation schemes in
Indonesia by and large suggests that increases in cropping intensities to full development are
achieved more rapidly than increases in yields, it is assumed that this is applicable to new rather
than to existing (ongoing) schemes.
12.   Crop budgets for Sulawesi and Sumatra schemes are presented in Attachment 1,
Tables 1 and 2 respectively. Some reductions in returns to rice cultivation have been incorporated
into the budgets because of increases in fertilizer requirements over the yield range of 3.8 to 4.3
tons per hectare, increase in labor requirements and input price increases. The budgets only cover a
representative range of conditions and are occasionally adjusted for individual scheme conditions
(such as soil or water constraints). It is assumed that the farmer objective on each scheme would be
to grow two crops of rice provided there is sufficient water, since rice produces the highest returns
to irrigation and the crop is less affected by acidity in puddled condidons. However the
combination of high fertilizer requirements (on isolated schemes), even for relatively modest yield
levels, and the virtually constant labor requirements per hectare, produces a plateau of gross
margins over the yield range of between 3.0 and 4.0 tons per hectare. This plateau occurs
especially in Sumatra where average long term yield projections have seldom exceeded 4.0 tons per



-49 -                                 Annex 2
Page 4
hectare. This situation, allowed for in the analysis, also illustrates why schemes are relatively
insensitive to shortfalls in yields below 4.0 tons/ha and highly sensitive to increases in yields over
4.0 tons per hectare.
Financial Anaysis
13.   Earm Budgets. Farm incomes in the irrigated areas, where paddy is the dominant crop, often
planted in two seasons and sometimes even the third season, are largely determined by the farmgate
price of rice relative to input costs. Farm budgets were prepared for each of the Outer Islands for
different crop yields (budgets) varying from 1.5 tons/ha to 3.0 tons/ha for rainfed rice and 2.5 tons/ha
to 5.0 tons/ha for HYV rice. The budgets only cover a representative range of conditions and have
been occasionally adjusted for individual scheme conditions. Gross margins and the costs of
production were estimated using 1990 prices.
14.   The payment capacity of irrigation beneficiaries would vary considerably through the project
provinces. To simplify the situation, it has been tested by the preparation of farmn models with
holdings of 1.5 ha, 1.0 ha and 0.5 ha were considered to be representative of conditions on the Outer
Islands for 3 size groups summarized below Farm costs and returns were estimated at current
farmgate prices for these farn size holdings. In the farm models, it is assumed that the minimum
living cost for a farm family would be about Rp 50,000 per month, or some Rp 600,000 per year.
On this assumption, a farm size of about one hectare would produce enough income to provide for the
family's living costs and have sufficient savings to pay additional O&M costs. Farmers with less
than one hectare would only have sufficient income to maintain a minimum standard of living if they
eamed extra income from off-farm work. Thus for small farms, off-farm income would be necessary
to generate sufficient savings to cover an irrigation service fee.
NET FARM INCOMES (Rp '000)
X:m                        ~~~~~~~~~~(1.5 ha)  (I ha )  (0.5 ha)
A.   Living costs and other
obligatory outgoings                   815          748         685
B .   Net farm income (at current
farrngate prices)                     L3           24
Net savings (B-A)                       556         166        -198
C.   Net farm income (at Government
support prices)                       1.622        1.081        571
Net savings (C-A)                      807          333        -114
15.   As can be seen from the above, farmers with less than about one hectare would only acquire
payment capacity by working off-farm to help defray their minimum living costs. Even if farmgate
rice prices of all production would be raised to the Government price support levels, it would still not
enable the farmer with a 0.5 ha holding to meet minimum living costs and taxes and other obligatory
expenses. There would be no surplus of earnings to pay irrigation service fees unless his farm
income is supplemented with off-farm eamings.



- 50 -                                 Annex 2
Economic Analysis.
16.   Backgrund. Economic evaluation of the project has been carried out using both internal
Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Net Present Value (NPV) estimations. The analysis has not
been calculated for individual project components, since all components are interdependent and
necessary to achieve a scheme impact. Experience under previous Bank supported projects (such as
SPI)P, Loan 2375-IND) has shown that unless all activities are undertaken under a coordinated
program, irrigation schemes do not achieve projected benefits. Furthermore, an overall project
ERR has little significance since all 130 schemes are separate, discrete investments. Thus the
analysis has been used primarily to assess whether individual schemes proposed by Government
should be financed. The results for typical schemes on Sumatra, Sulawesi and Kalimantan are
given in Annex 1, Tables 7, 8 and 911. In the case of deferred schemes, the cost estimates and
analyses assume that schemes would be completed as presented in the revised Project (Post
Appraisal) Report (September 1990) and that the implementing agencies would also follow the
recommendations in the status reports and action plans proposed for ex-SPIDP schemes and the
scheme proposals on which ongoing schemes were justified for inclusion under the ISSP (Loan
2880-IND).
17.   Cost Streams. Cost streams include all capital and O&M costs, including physical
contingencies, but excluding price contingencies and transfer payments such as taxes and subsidies
(Annex 3). Cost estimates do not include the substantial sunk costs to date, detailed for each
scheme in Annex 2, Attachment 2. The estimated cost of roudne O&M (EOM) per unit area is given
in Annex 3, Table 16. Benefits from improved coordination of irrigated agricultural development,
technical assistance through the consultant services and other institutional support activities cannot
quantified directly to individual schemes, but would accrue to the project. Hence the costs of these
components have been included in the total economic cost of the project.
18.   Benefit Streams. The assessment of economic benefits is based on estimating the difference
between the agricultural production in the 'future with' and 'future without' project situations. The
production objective for each scheme is to grow two crops of rice (as the preferred crop), provided
there is sufficient water. This assumption can be justified because most schemes are located in
traditional rice growing areas, rice produces the highest returns to irrigation and the crop is less
affected by acidity in puddled conditions.
19.   Economic Rates of Return. The ERRs and NPVs for the project provinces are summarized
in Tables 3 and 4 of this annex for ongoing and deferred schemes respectively. The ERRs for
individual schemes are summarized in Attachment 2, Tables 1 to 5. The analysis shows that the
ERR for all schemes under the project have a weighted average of about 17.5 per cent with the
range of ERRs varying from 7.4 to 40.0 per cent for 'go-ahead' schemes and from 1.2 to 32.4 per
cent for 'deferred' schemes. The ERRs of typical schemes are low given the large sunk costs to
date. For many schemes, the ERRs calculated for this project are lower than when the schemes
were submitted to the Bank under other operations (SPIDP and ISSP) with the investments under
previous Bank financing excluded as sunk costs. It is therefore concluded that for some schemes,
the main implementing agencies have proposed expenditures for many components that cannot be
justified in terms of incremental benefits. All such schemes that fit the project concept and are
potentially viable have been placed in the 'deferred' category and would be subject to careful review
and evaluation.
20.   Tables 3 and 4 of this annex show that, as proposed at appraisal, some 25 'deferred'
schemes and 4 'go-ahead' schemes have ERRs of less than 12 percent. Most of these schemes
1/ The ERRs and NPVs for each scheme included under the project are detailed in Annexes 1 to 13
of the Project (Post Appraisal) Preparation Report, DGWRE, September 1990 and are available in
the Project File.



51i-                                    Annex 2
Page
would probably be economically viable if unjustified expenditures (i.e. expenditures that do not
result in identifiable benefits) would be eliminated. For all deferred schemes with low ERRs,
proposed expenditures would be carefully evaluated during the screening and review process (para
3.03, main report) before schemes are approved for implementadon. If a candidate scheme still an
ERR of less than 12 percent, it would be excluded from the project. Of the four 'go-ahead'
schemes with ERRs less than 12 percent, three have command areas of less 900 ha and their cosis
appear to have included items, particularly agricultural development, that would produce benefits
from outside the scheme command area and have not been included. The analysis of these schemes
would be reviewed to establish the cause of low ERR and appropriate acdon taken before
implementation.
Sensitivity Analysis.
21.   A sensitivity analysis has been undertaken on all schemes to test the effects of variations in
investment costs and direct benefits (variations in rice yields and area to dry season rice) and are
summarized in Tables 3 and 4 of this annex. Delay in implementation was not tested since this is
considered to be a small risk with almost all schemes substantially complete.
22.   Schemes are relatively insensitive to cost overruns since all schemes are on-going and
substantially complete. The analysis shows that a 25 percent cost overrun on all project
components would lower the weighted average ERR to about 14.7 percent. Schemes are more
sensitive to reduced benefits from both lower production, particularly in the dry season, and to a
lesser extent crop prices. A 20 percent reducdon in benefits would lower the weighted average
ERR for all schemes from 17.5 percent to about 9.3 percent. Thus a critical determinant in scheme
viability would be to confirm availability of reliable water supplies through hydrological
measurements and the land capability through soil surveys, where applicable (para 5.13).
23.   The sensitivity of individual schemes varies widely, as would be expected, with the spread
of the project over 13 provinces. Some schemes, such as those in Kalimantan provinces, would
have a relatively low ERR, and thus be sensitive to changes in assumptions, because the schemes
are located in areas with low potential. These schemes have been included under the project
because of the important social and regional benefits.
24.   Switching values have not been calculated for key parameters because of the complexity of
the calculation with the large number of individual schemes included and lack of reliable data.
However, based on some selected cases, it is estimated that: (i) if the projected rice price during the
1990-2000 period were to decline by 20 per cent, the ERR would, on average, fall by about four
percentage points. If rice prices were to drop substantially, market forces would come into play and
many farmers would probably diversify into other more profitable crops. If the recurrent O&M
expenditures on completed schemes were reduced by 50 per cent, with a coriesponding reduction in
economic life, the weighted average project ERR would fall from about 17.5 per cent to less than
12.0 per cent. This demonstrate the importance of sustaining all irrigation schemes on the Outer
Islands once they are completed and fully developed.



- 52 -
Annex 2
Tabie I
INDONESIA
Summary of Farmgate Prices used for coornic Evaluation
(In Constant 1990 Prices)
Item                         Unit    Price,       Notes
:     ~~(Rp) E         i  j:       ;
Farm products
-rice (dry unhusked         kg       224       Self sufficiency assumed
grain)
-soyabeans                  kg       440       Based on import substit'ution
-groundnuts (shelled)       kg       744       Self sufficiency assumed
-maize (grain)              kg       177       Self sufficiency assumed
-coffee (beans)             kg      1,500      Based on export parity price
-rubber (wet slab)          kg       658       Based on export parity price
-copra                      kg       434       Based on export parity price
Farm inputs
Seed
-rice                       kg       280       Based on economic price plus 25%
-soyabeans                  kg       550       Based on economic price plus 25%
-groundnuts                 kg       930       Based on economic price plus 25%
-maize                      kg       221       Based on economic price plus 25%
Fertiliser
-urea                       kg       424       Based on export parity price
-TSP                        kg       519       Based on import parity price
-KCI                        kg       335       Based on import parity price
-ZA                         kg       280       Based on price of urea
Agro-chemicals
-insecticide                 I    13,000       Based on figures supplied by
-rodenticide                kg      4,000      P.T Pertani
Labour outside Java (male and female)
- Sumatera                  day    2,000       Based on financial rate of 2500
- Sulawesi                  day    2,200       Based on financial rate of 2750
Animals                    pair day   5,000     Market price
Note: Self sufficiency assumed: economic price taken as means of farmgate
import and export parity prices



- 53 -                                                                        Annel 2
Table 2
Sheet I
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICCUURE DEVELOPMENT PROIEC[
Calculation of Economnic Prices for Agricultural Products
(In Constant 1990 Prices)
1f0^luPIW   P&TM                                                                          JUKOT PoRCrv
1_  1m   n 40                             Io  les OO
RICE
Tra 8* braitis6. FM   ukok            $AA                      am            840                                228    240
OQwiyadjusitWui4                      io*                      80    8         ie    *              1           I9    804
Ft    h.nlamo                                     *                    36                                  a 0    0      0
CIP P"                                                         207            1                            0      0       0
* I 8     MP 1. 00                    RPAg                    4I   41    46         "Pik                34    us   MO
Poet hIAdWesh. sorge. la.st           8*          *             24     8      13    8*            .        0     17    Is
Tfmuspo n W   llowhiOsaalw                        *             Is     Is     Is                          IS   1    il
TrarnpmllawhaloW                                                t 1o   Is     Is                          10     10     I0
Tfadwmae gfla                                                   la     I      8 I                               I       I8
ex-lmslPA"                                                     460    43    do                           330   no   36
cwri"falo 10 paddy                       S                     316   a"      8       41                  214   I&I    I1
M         cam                                     -             20    8g  .0                20            s0             20
Transport bm                                     - t6                   a      I                 -                I      6
Eb wmkms          prict                                        M       60    874                         6    6e    173
A AmrqetpWoxVs0                        Apg                     841 *  8 10    884
MAIZE
FOs UsO"lPat VMu                                               11      Is    06     Acelelann   n       101    1       1010
OUdOYedj 1g                                                                                                I6    I5     I 6
FugItl h. Wure                                   *             t0     20      0    AdAadv    *           10    10    10
CIF Wdar w_                                                    IAI1    11    I       FM0 Olnds      _           as 102
I 1 * Nt 0.600                         2OAI                    817    212    220    APAg                 72    la    I"
Po e-ialflg.  lsamein                                         a      a      a                  -        8      I      6
Tiunpow n lo                                                    20     20     20                  -       t0     20     20
Tr.dw Magen                                       _              0     0      10                 -        0     0    0
Tranepoetla.IDoa#     .                          -             to0    *0     *0                 -        20     20     20
Acmnomw.hImnstpole                     Rp4                     Its   tl10    an                          114   lit    25
A _wa  lepmao. NbzP48h                                         66    100    177
SOYA BEANS
CIF Rewdan                             Vhonna                  21     262    216
O iydlriscont                                     _3                   13     11
Poteghlt * nM  0                                               40     40     40
CIF Idrnd                             SAlonna                  201    264    240
* l *N b .600                         b                         8U3   Oil1   42
Ponl haax. Uw .. Woaa                            *             2n     23     83
Tfaotoso n                                                         *0        20
Trade  Morgin                                                   is     Is     Is
Troupan lam to wh-oiS.aiaq                                     20     20    t0
Ecam,  ln ga"a pri.e                  mhog                     830    51i    440
OROUNDNUtS
_rahnnis ai CIP bropa                 I0   NO    63                                                      1       m    63
lAm   hidmua  do"" grw lo1 CIF g            mdm   ONes161I-13.076
Cl hdumads UW    grundnM                                      II1    46    476    WIl 180  qoalir    41        439   427
$ * 1 60 IAA                                                   tie   676    66      EIoImi        b             716    710
Poeltiluq,M uvag..laama         _ ,                             de     44     43                          41    3  y 6
Tnwiiawto                                                              to  *  to                          so     80     20
Trdsgon                                           -                    go 1 6                             s 1o   so    s0
T_1rpib-so 1                                                           so     s o                         to0   80      20
It-      b        P110                  A14    871    647                                                M      6 0  41
Acwg kp        xWh                       0g                      4    766    744



I              .54-      -    _______4_-
_ g f | ji XI  f                     e 3 _   _  !N5Annex 2
3W!g!3!2 3       3Wj3!3                Te 2
115           1     !fe11* 1 f
jI~~~~~~
2 2    I 
|  t       I s      s    l ls       s      s 1s s~~~~I 
R~~~   ' f   ,  ,I      !Iijt    II''
_ ~ ~  ~    _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  isr~.          Ii  j .               t . J!   I



- SS -                                                                 Annex 2
INOONEUIA
PROViCUL IRRIaATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
6.nativitly Analysis
00.AHEAD SCHEUS (CATEGORY 1)
Cost Vwiation             Vutiton In Bnelits      Dry omen Rib Ate                EER below
Provhwe l Ssch.       Bas ERR 0Down 10%    Up 25%    Up 50%    Up 10% Down 10% Down 20% Down 26%  Down 60%    MPV uv       12%
%        #         #         %        #         #         %        #         #        (Rp. M)    (not* b/)
RIAU
1. Kalil Samo             33.6     36.1      30.6      26.0     36.4      30.6      27.2     30.4      2e.0   1755.0
2.Danau Kotorajo          16.1      16.2     12.0      11.2      16.7     13.4      11.5      13.9     12.6   201.0
3. PauhPangen             14.1      16.2     11.9      10.2      16.1     11.0       9.4      11.3       7.9   337.0
4.SabertnGu aig           14.6      16.9     12.7      11.0      17.4     11.9       6.5      12.3       9.5   108.0
Weighted Average     10.4     20.6      17.0      14.6     21.7      17.0      14.2      17.0     14.2
WAUUATRA
1. Indrapn                26.3     27.7      13.0      20.0     10.1      23.1      10.6      22.1     17.6   4602.0
2. Sulbi                  18.6      19.0     16.6      13.7      21.7     16.0      11.0      14.0       6.6   1412.0
3.  S.81r                 16.0      16.2     12.7      10.6      17.9     11.6       6.1      10.9      6.8   703.0
4. Satu PahMs             14.0      14.      11.6       9.6      16.3     11.9      10.0      11.4      8.8   236.0
6. lngsl B lung           12.8      13.7     11.0       9.6      16.3      8.8       3.6       9.6      6.3    76.0
6I B. Tasung              16.3      10.6     16.6      13.9      21.1     16.3      11.9      14.6       10    664.0
7. B.Sawsh Pne            18.6      19.7     16.3      14.6      23.0     12.2       3.0      10.1             401.0
Weighled Average     17.6     18.8      16.3      13.3     20.8      14.0       9.6     13.3       6.'
1. AW Nal KWt              9.0     10.0       7.1       6.6      10.6      7.4       6.6      7.0       4.5   *60.0         X
2. Air Kodurang           16.0      17.4     13.3      11.3      17.9     14.1      11.9      13.6     10.6   368.0
3. Air Talo KscN          13.4      14.6     11.0       9.3      16.8      9.4       4.2       8.1        0    126.0
4. Air onglwnig           22.9      24.9     19.1      16.3      2e.7     20.0      16.9      19.1     15.1   534.0
Weighted Average     15.3     16.7      12.6      10.6     17.7      12.7       9.7      11.9      7.6
LAM
1. Way Kulur              28.9     31.7      23.3      19.1     34.3      22.4      13.2     20.2             867.0
2. Way Jorinjing          40.0     42.6      34.7      30.6      43.4     36.6      32.7      35.4     30.4   1546.0
Weighted Avefrge     34.6     37.2      29.0      24.9     38.9      29.5      23.0     27.8      30.4
N. SULAWESI
1. Pilohyanga             24.9     26.2      22.1      19.9      31.7     16.9       6.6      14.4     -4.7   696.0
2. Marioa                 31.2      33.3     27.1      24.1      37.2     24.7      17.4      22.8     12.6   2810.0
3. Kembang  eMla          33.5     35.8      29.2      26.0      36.0     31.0      28.2      30.2     26.6   913.0
4. Buko                   14.8      16.2     12.2      10.3      17.0     12.5      10.0      11.8      8.4   650.0
Weighted Averge      26.1     27.9      22.7      20.1     30.5      21.3      15.6      19.8     10.7
C. SULAWESI
1. Boron                  20.5     21.8      17.8      15.7     23.3      17.4      13.8      17.1     13.4   637.0
2. Banggs                 12.2      13.3      O.e       8.2      15.7      6.1       2.6       7.9      2.1    69.0
4. Parig Kantn a6.01                17.4     13.3      11.3     22.1       6.4                 5.8             174.0
5. Sibayu                 19.0     20.5      16.1      13.9      21.0     16.8      14.5      16.2     13.2   342.0
Welghted Avirago     16.9     18.3      14.3      12.3     20.5      12.7       7.6     11.8       7.2
S. SULAWESI
1. Lakajo                 11.0     12.3       8.7       6.9     34.1                                           20.r         X
2. La, Longrong           17.3      16.8     14.3      12.1      27.3      2.1                 6.1             185.0
3. Camba Jawaya           11.0      12.1      8.8       7.2     23.1                           2.3              17.0        X
4. Siong Keko V            7.4       6.3      5.6       4.3      19.8                                          *39.0        X
Weighted Average     11.7     12.9       9.4       7.6     26.1       2.1                3.7
SE. SULAWEU
1. Woioiu                 16.2      17.4     13.6      11.7     16.7      13.4      10.3      13.9     11.4   226.0
2. Walubaneg              18.0      19.4     15.2      13.2      19.7     16.2      14.2     15.7      13.1   373.0
3. Andoongpa              27.3      29.3     23.5      20.7      31.0     23.4      19.2      22.3     16.7   541.0
4. Wonco III              17.6      18.8     15.1      13.2      19.9     15.1      12.2      14.3     10.5   144.0
S. Kalangana              15.8      17.1     13.3      11.6      17.4     14.2      12.4      14.6     13.8   434.0
Weighted Averae      19.0     20.4      16.1      14.1      21.3     16.5     1:.7       16.2     13.1
Weleled Avwrsp EER        20.1     21.6      17.0      14.7     24.7      15.7      11.7     15.2      11.4
NPV  a/                                                                                                       21909.0
Notes:
a/ Net Peert Value t 10% diacount rate
b/  ERRS are being recutaled to exclude special tins (such as tted arms, stc) and to reduce csl of unrustified civil works.



56 -
iNtONbO.U0                                                    Table 4.
TiE DIC~umPAULI TtXVELOlTilENKCT                                                            h t
Senstivltly Analysis
lWMF SCHEiMES (CATEGORY 1I
Cost Vnriabtbn           Vsrbti n In l*nsWi.    Dry Sao_n Ries Arn  NPV 1/  ERR  below  1inanefng
Provine      Be" ERR Down 10%    Up 25%   Llp W%    Up 10% Down, I0% Down 20% Down 25%  Down  0%              12%       Sour..
(and sheme)       %        %         %        %         %        %         %        %         %      (N). M)
ACEH
1. Trmnggading       14.9      15.9     12.7      11.1     22.6       5 2                3.6
2. Alu Ubay          16.9      16.1     14.4      12.5     24.0       7.5                6.3              764.0
3. PHri             20.9      21.6     16.1      16.2     31.0       6.9                4.9              413.0
Wgih  Averge        17.6      16.6     15.1      13.3     26.2       7.2      0.0       5.0      0.0
MAU
1. Nagedon           14.6      15.6     11.9      10.0     15.9      13.0     11.4      14.0     13.6    341.0
2 Drww               15.4      16.7     12.9      11.0     16.6      13.9     12.3      13.7     11.9    263.0
3. Mwio              14.6      16.2     12.5      10.7     16.3      13.4     11.6      13.3     11.6    104.0
4.. Taff"g           13.5      14.7     11.1       6.3     15.5      11.3      9.0      11.5      9.2    236.0
Wuiph  Avemg        14.6      15.6     12.1      10.3     16.1      12.6     11.1      13.1     11.6
VIT SUMATRA
1. S. Sanri 11       6.6       7.7      4.9       3.5      8.4       5.0      3.0       4.6      2.S   *336.0     X       ex-SPioP
2. Supl Am           23.1      24.t#    20.2      16.0     25.4      20.7     16.0      20.S     17.7    699.0
3 U.Pa*ng            24.7      26.0     21.9      19.7     32.2      16.4      6.2      16.4      6.3    573.0
4. Kayu Siam         23.5      25.4     19.9      17.2     27.0      1969     16.1      19.6     15.3    Iio.0
S. S. Soabn          15.9      17.4     13.0      10.6     16.5      13.2     10.3      12.4      6.6    393.0
6. S. Tirvsau        14.1      15.4     11.5       9.5     21.5       5.5                2.5              377.0
7. LtATabujin        12.6      13.6     10.2       6.4     14.6      10.3      7.7       6.6      6.2    129.0
6. Sungsi Samok      15.5      17.1     12.3      10.1     17.7      13.1     10.7      12.5      9.3    413.0
9. Ar Amo            15.2      16.6     12.5      10.5     17.3      13.0     10.6      12.4      6.2    307.0
10. T. Kemuning      22.6     24.2      19.4      17.0     26.4      16.2      6.6      14.4      3.5    616.0
11. B. Mbnpi         11.0      12.1      6.9       7.3     16.0       5.1     -4.6       3.2               91.0    X      OOI/OIhsra
12. Stfung 11        17.6      16.6     15.2      13.3     20.0      14.1     10.0      13.2      7.9   5306.0
Woigthd Avea        16.0      15.3     14.2      12.1     20.7      12.7      S.1      11.6      6.7
1. Way Tutung Mm     24.9      26.7     21.5      16.9     27.2      22.6     20.0      22.9     20.7   4667.0
2. Way Ketibung      20.3      21.5     17.7      15.7     29.3      10.6     -3.1      20.3     20.3    420.0
3. Way Crup          32.4      34.6     27.7      24.3     40.1      24.6     16.3      22.3     11.2   2356.0
4. Wy Umpu           19.7      21.1     16.6      14.6     23.9      15.2     10.2      17.4     15.0    3356
S. Way Rw.m          22.7      24.3     16.4      17.0     29.0      16.1      6.6      17.0     10.7  10635.0
S.WayP.nhua          15.5      16.7     13.1      11.3     20.1      10.4      4.2      12.9     10.2   1163.0
7. Way Somar0ka      42.0      47.4     34.2      27.8     54.3      30.3     15.9      26.4      6.1   2661.0
S. Way Padwng PAu    45.1      46.1     36.6      33.6     57.0      30.4     10.2      25.4             1224.0
9. Way Nagm Ravtu    24.3      26.0     20.0      1S.4     29.9      16.3     11.4      16.5      6.5    676.0
Weigthed Average    27.5      29.6     23.3      20.2     34.5      10.0     10.4      20.1     12.6
S. SUMATRA
1.Bumi Agunig         9.6      10.9      7.7       6.0     11.3       8.3      6.7       9.0      6.0    t14.0     X       Eh.SPIDP
2. Air Der I         16.0      17.2     13.5      11.6     16.9      127       99       12.6      9.2    751.0
3. Maing Tkinp       17.5      19.2     14.4      12.1     24.1       9.9     -1.6       6.6              546.0
4. Air Oil"           0.4      10.5      7.1       S.5     10.6       6.1      6.6       7.7      6.0   *122.0      X      Ex-SPIDP
S. Ahn Du&           15.9      174      13.1      11.1     19.2      12.4      6.4      11.4      5.6    135.0
6. Mr Oegm           13.0      15.3     11.2       6.2     15.5      12 3     10.6      12.2     10.3   1365.0
7. Air Satan          6.2       0.3      6.0       4.4     10.2       6.0      3.6       6.6      5.3   *234.0     X        EX-ISSP
6. Ak Malus           5.1       6.0      3.3       2.0      7.2       2.7     *0.2       3.9      2.6    -316      X       0OI/Other.
9. Knni (I            6.0       7.0      4.1       2.7      7.6       4.1      1.9       5.1      4.1   *230.0     X      0OI/Others
10. Ke. (11)          4.3       5.2      2 4       1.1      5.6       2.6      0.7       3.4      2.6   -366.0     X       OI/Others
11. Air Tupak        15.1      16.5     12.4      10 4     16.9      13.3     11.3      13.5     11.6    519.0
12. Ah Tdk Brklan    13.7      14.6     11.5       6.6     24.1     *1.6                 7.5     -1.6      35.0
13. Air Dorm 11      20.3     22.0      16.9      14.4     23.0      17.3     14.2      16.1     15.6   1013.0
14. Air Kenie        26.4     30.5      24.4      21.4     32.5     24.1      10.3     22.6      16.7    763.0
Wgthed Averge       15.3      166       12.3     10.1     16.6      11.0      ..5      11.6      6.6
I ML.ko-Muko Kin     22.9      24.6     19.6      17.1     25.4      20.3     17.5      19.6     16.0   6060.0
2. Ak SuaBmp Kanrn   20.9      32.0     25.9      22.6     32,3      27 5     24.6      26.7     23 3    777.0
3. Ur Snm.iDwa        4.4       5.1      2.9       1.7     11.0                                           -77.0    X       Ex-sPIDP
4. Air Mul Kejalo    19.0      20.5     16.0      13.8     21.7      16.1     12.9      15.2     11.0   1256.0
S. Ar Ketepang       12.3      13.4     10.1       6.4     14.9       9.3      5.6       6.4      3.3      63.0
6. Ar Nasal Kanan    13.6      16.0     11.0       9.0     15.4      11.7      9.6      11.1      6.4    134.0
7. Ak Narno          15.4      17.0     12.4      10.2     17.4      13.4     11.2      12.6      6.9    562.0
9. Air B. Ksnong     16.6      20.2     15.6      13.3     22.9      13.9      6.3      12.5      4.5    165.0
9. Air lekma         10.0      11.1      7.9       6.3     11.7       6.2      6.1       7.6      4.9       2.0    X        la-SPIOP
10. Mir Lait         23.1      24.3     20.7      16.7     27.5      16.2     12.5      16.5      6.0   1663.0
Welglhed Averg      16.9      16.3     14.2      12.1     20.0      15.4     12.1      14.5      9.9
IL SUIAWUU
1. >D_no             20.5      22.2     17.2      14.7     24.5      16.1     11.4      14.       6.3    S72.0
2 Tengep             21 S      226      16.0      17.0     26.7      1.S      7.6      13 5      0.6    526.0
3. Puewak            22.7      24.7     16.0      16.3     276       17.S     11.9      16.0      6.2    606.0
4. Stlu Pulatn       21.5      22.6     16.9      16.6     25.7      16.6     11.0      15.3      6 S    415.0
S. Toraut            29.5      32.1     24.6      21.1     34.6      24.0     16.2      22.4     14.6   660.0
. So.
7. Puishntli          66        7.6      4.6       3.3      7.6       SS       42        S.1      34    *516.0      X      Ea-SPIDP
A. Pkoiuman          11.7      12.      964        7.6     159        69                 6.6               470      X      Ev-SPIDP
WoodAverage         191       207       161      136      233       146      107       134       7.0



- 57 -
Annex 2
-UMA                                                                       lTable 4
Pa ALN IMa AD AMCULTu                   OW P_reCT                                                  Sheet 2
SonetIvlty Analysis
0EFED 0fESES ECATEhOOW 10
Coot Verlotlen            Vw tloe4  In lkwelke     Dry lemon NWl  Area NPV o/  ON below   Finanoing
Province     Se III  Down i0%    Up 25%    Up 10%    Up10% On d10% Down 20% Down 26% DwnS 0%                       12%       source
(and cheme)       %         %         %         %         %         %         %        %         %       (F k4
L. $UAWIM
1. Aprwng HlAu        14.1      16.7      11.1      I.0      14.1      14.1      14.1      14.1      14.1      SI.0
2. Pem sagpa          27.6      30.1      23.2      20.0     31.S      23.6      12.0      22.4      16.6   6672.0
S SIb  3V             14.1      16.0      12.2      10.7     17.0       2.0       3.S      11.0       7.4   7047.0
4. MOMo               19.0      20.3      16.1      14.8      2.7      14.8       0.0      13.6       0.4   4442.0
S. KallHw Kaln        12.0      13.2       0.7       7.3     1S00       7.4       1.2       6.6      .4.6    606.0
I. Kale    KWt        11.5      13.1       2.6       7.0     13.S      10.4       S.6      10.1       0.1   2026.0      X       Ex-looP
7. Senroge            14.0      16.1      11.7      0.       13.4       7.3      -0.0       0.6             1626.0
Weed  Avrege         16.1      17.6      13.4      11.4     16.3      12.4       7.1      11.0       6.0
C. SUAAWOS
._sua I               11.2      12.4       0.6       6.0     12.7      10.0       6.0      10.2       7.0    670.0
2 Tom"w               15.5      16.S      12.6      10.0     16.4      12.4       6.6      11.6       0.0    421.0
& Oeuu  WS            20.2      23.1      16        13.3     33.0      1.6       12.6      16.7      10.7   0003.0
4.Puna Kil            22.7      24.5      16.3      16.6     35.4      10.0      1S.$      10.1      16.1   3264.0
S. Larbunu            12.0      13.6      10.2       8.4     14.2      10.3       6.6      10.3       7.7   1657.0
0 Obye                16.6      20.6      16.5      13.3     22.6      14.6       0.7      13.2       0.6    460.0
7.Korengua            16.2      16.7      15.4      13.3     23.6      12.0       6.0      10.0      *4.0    20.0
S.  ionwg              6.3       6.4       0.0       4.4     13.0       1.0                *2.0              *63.0      X       Ez-SPIDP
S. Dalog
10. Torn
ii. Ahdola             00        0.9       4.3      2.0       7.1       4.6       3.0       4.7       3.2   *S1l.0      X      GO1UOlhoro
12. maloam            16.0      16.1      I1.6      0.9      16.6      12.2      10.4      11.0       6.4    121.0
13. Tambarane
14. Owmba,            12.0      13.9      10.6      6.7      20.2       2.4                *2.S             1012.0
Wegd Averge          14.7      16.0      12.0      10.0    1.1       10.7       0.3       0.2       *.0
LL. SULAWUW
1. Sonay               1.2       1.6     -0.2       *1.2      3.6      -2.0      *7.4       0.7       0.1   -162.0      X      Ex-SPIlP
2. Baio               10.3      19.7      16.6      13.4     22.4      13.6       6.4      14.0      10.6    136.0
3. 0anulye            10.6      11.6       0.3       6.6     13.0       S.0       4.6       7.3       3.2      24.0     X       Ex-2PIOP
4. &Mn. Bawah         12.6      14.0      1O.6       6.7     1I.s       0.6       6.6       6.7       0.1    164.0
5. Taobonto           12.5      13.6      10.3       6.7     16.0       6.0                 4.4                32.0
S. Pe"q               11.6      13.0       6.6       6.1     13.6      10.2       8.3       6.7       7.1    674.0      X       I-SPIlop
7. Roroy              11.0      12.1       5.7       7.1     12.0       S.0       0.6       0.6      S6.      171.0     X       Eu-OPIDP
0. Mow                15.0      16.4      12.2      102       17.6     12.4       6.6      11.0       7.7    620.0
0. MOWI 11            11.6      13.1       9.4       Y.G     14.0       0.5       0.6    S.S          5.3    154.0      3      001/Others
Woed Avengo          11.0      12.6       6.4       77       14.6      6.4       5.4       6.5       6.2
W. KALIMATAN
1. SLnge Ledo         11.0      13.1       6.5       7.6     13.1      10.       2.1      10.2       6.     525.0      X       E1-looP
2. Merowi              5.6       6.0       4.0       2.6      6.6       4.6   S .6          4.7       3.4  -2510.0      X       Ex-1SIP
Woed Avegp            6.0      10.0       6.        5 2      10.0      7.7       0.4       7.5       5.9
C. KAIM    AN
1. Tlohen             10.4      11.5       6.3       6.7     12.6       6.0       5.2 3      .7       6.6      46.0     X       Ex-lSOP
2. TOnning            10.1      11.1   S .0          6.4       1.4      6.7       7.3   S    .4       6.4      14.0     X      GOO/Olhers
Weigthed Averao      10.3      11.3       6.2       6.6      7.0       S.4       6.3       2.6       6.7
L. KALMAITAN
1. Balulicn 1         11.7      13.0       6.3      7.0      13.2      10.2       6.6       6.0       7.0    460.0      X       Ex-lSOP
Prewinve        (Weighted Average ERRs)
Achl 17.6                      16.6      15.1      13.3     20.2       7.2       0.0       5.0       0.0
Riau                  14.6      15.0      12.1      10.3     16.1      12.6      11.1      13.1      11.6
W.Sumatra             16.0      16.3      14.2      12.1     20.7      12.7       6.1      11.6       6.7
B. Sumstra            16.6      16.6      12.3     10.1      10.0      11.0       7.S      11.0 *      .6
Bongkulu              16.9      1S.3      14.2     12.1      20.0      16.4      12.1      14.5       6.9
USpugg                27.6      20.6      23.3      20.2     94.5      16.9      10.4      20.1      12.6
N.Suloweel            16.1      20.7      1S.1      13.6     26.3      14.6      10.7      13.4       7.0
C. subwe_             14.7      16.0      12.0      10.0     10.1      10.7       6.3       6.2       6.9
OS Olaw               16.1      17.6      13.4      11.4     16.3      12.4       7.1      11.6       6.0
S.E. Su_weel          11.6      12.6       0.4       7,7     14.5       6.4       5.4       6.6       6.2
W. KailWAn             6.9      10.0       6.6       6.2     10.0       7.7       6.4       7.6       6.6
C.Kollmnren          10.3      11.3        .        0.2       7.0      5.4       6.3       6.6       0.7
B. Kalmantan          11.7      13.0       0.3       7.6     13.2      10.2       6.6       9.6       7.6
WeIgtedo Preljt
Awrv    UR            16.6      1.1       13.6      11.7     20.1      12.6       6.6      12.1       8.3 107623.0
1/ Nt Present Vk  l elO% diecount 



.59                                                               A~~AnnLexi
Economic Prices and Crop Budgets (Sunmatera Provinces)
3ADWFD RICE                                     ____                                                                           OROUNDNUTFS _________
born    ~ ~~~~~~~~sseomoawm"~ k.msem   0.n0                                   .sU
5005           kg             46.0      2.6     100.0      14.0     00.0      14.0      10.0      5.6                         us            km             6000      74.4      00.0      40.
Ufa          kg             10.0      1:.?     10.0       1.7      10.0      11?7    100.0       41.4                          Ur"          06                                 00      41.4
TOP          hg              0.:       0.1      10.0                                    so00 1 0.0  36&0                      TIP            g                                 00      5.
ML           00                                                                         I0.        V a                         KOL           kg                                  00      5.:
PAW    I                                   0.0       .6.       0.5       6.0      0.5       .6.                                        I               1.0     0.0       8.0      510
rAden6sId6     A0 'dsods    kg
t*a            M,dgs          U.       10.0    110.0    04.0    45.0    1610.0        100.0    150.0                         La"us          Usse           000      0.0    00.0    000.01
Cus            days           1.0       00.0      18.         '*0    I"       00o       1.0      00.0                        Ovn y
Oisislssssu         5*                  13.0                1                                                                    " 3.1MI.0u04m  6*                    8.4                0.1
1.0.1 se                               271.5              163                  071  ___T______                                    .W.                   I             200.5               40.
HYV  IUCE                 ______ _____                              ___           _MAIZE                                                                   _____ _____
YMM WA&%Q              a1.                8.00                116                10                                     Yield                              W..*.sA        5.0  SsA
FA%W%w                M~00                 Mn7 7714                                                                                                    16 64
49111                     OusAOy   Asw   Cea6    50010Ou00 AmmaIscu"          0or    OuSfl    400.14
"ume ust   kn1141 AoOntOI  eseOy   AuwmN
C00NO D            (0  PIP             ('0      4k   P)                                                                         000 NpAP)
6usd           00             40.0     I1.3     10.0       5.4      10.0       5.4      30.0       0.4
6u.d          kg             15.0       5.5      25.0       5.0
Wim          be             00.       21    I=.          41,4     00.0      42,4     00.0      48.4                        psiaSue
ML           k1.0                                           .4      0.          .       1.0        64Top                                     kg             2.         0         10       1.
Pakuis         I                                                                                   1.                            KOL           kg            20.0       0.4      *5.0       841
bduua.0s       005                                                                                                              ftodwds        I
Labs.,         Usd           100      20.0        ISO     800.0    100.0    110.0         160     310.0                         A.WIJd         kg
0.00           da              0.0      00.0      15.0     75.0      5.0      710       16.0      70.0                         Lebow,         IdIdy          5        70.0      85.0    10.0
OUSuIindSA        5*                    is.5                210                 1.6                26.?                         OUR            days                                        1.
tow sea                      m~~~~~~~~~ns 1453.1                    46                  in.                           T.1. "a          ~                     in0                 n
03.11             IWO.                23.424.                                             "s RWV                               0                   20.0
HYV RICE                  _ _ _ _             __ _ _ _ _ _ _ ___                                                   _ __. SOYABEANS
YW "ammems;                    3.8                4.0                 4.3                 4.5                 5.0               VIsl                         0,60 I0Il5l        1.0 004
FAnu                          s 00I sM                               0113.              low                 1110               FW40                         264                 440         -
-t                        CUM"Ol    AlsPtO  OUNMIY    "*M..1   OusnOl    ASOwO   QuantIty  ANuaun   Quo"01     Smourift         "eomty kWtGWt                                                MU
_____________________     (0row Np)           (O    O   ...I2 0!R go                  10  *               (-00 Np)                                            A~ P)           (000 AD)
6SW            00              0.0       0.4      10.0       0.4     10.0       6.4      30,0       6.4      10.0       .4A
FPaWOi                                                                                                                          "Wd            kg             41.0      24.5      40.0      22.0
Una          kg            00.0      U3.S    800.        84.0    200.0       54.0    *00,0       04.8    *10.0      .0p1060
TOP           0             75.0      2.1    00.0        5I*      100.0      61.0    00.0       61,0     00 0      01.6      Urn.          kg            25.0      050      752       2 1.0
KCL          kg             20.0       6,4      00.0      6.5      00.0      6.6      00.0      16.0    100.0      33.5      Tap           kg              10      261.0      00      01.5
P5.65.16   I   2.0  10.0  1.0      10.0       2,0     10.0        2.0     10~~ ~~~~~~ ~~~~~.0 20 1.      KCI.         kg                                  20       like
Pladon0deld    k.20                       0        2.                  .                  2,0         0        .                 ojl           I               0.5      0 4        2       16.
Lebow,         Mondays       8.0      2100      00.     332.0    72.0    344.2    717.0    254 a        MA.    2700        Pcd.nkoid.    kg
0CM"           dove           I6.:      71.0      00O      75.0      6.0     75.0       5.0     75.0       Is.*     70.0     Lao".          Monday,         so      1200         75     00.0
dMsSnus.olw       5*                   270:                101                 10.7                31.1                3359    open            days
ITow...                                 esi                633.                 45.0               M.,                1712.7    Mu5*                                      6                 4.
hoes 1000504                 *83~~      ~       ~~~.0  360           31055472       Towoe O"1                                                                                    213.
lgmwmwon                      $2.~671             I2.0



- 59 -                                                                                     Annex 2
Attachnment I
INONESIA                                                                                          Table 2
Economic Prices and Crop Budgets (Sulewasi Provinces)
RAINFED RICE                                                     __ROUNDNUTS
!IW           .                1.                  00                 26                  *0                                    Yel                            0 46WW5W            0161WWA16
____________                10                 '44                               j     et                                     no                            270               6.4
61re                      Wontity      wJ    Qum"y   Am4ount  ouaty   Anmunt  ,n"t   Amount                                     "6"4                        umay     AwAint  QuaynAt         w
rtoo my)           (' no)           rooo                ('00 rt )                                                            CNP roo             (W sto   L
NW64           kg            4.0        I.s      400        14o 0    60a       140.      70.0      I14,6                        gs             k4             60.6      74.4      60.6      40
urn          kg             36 o        .7      300 o      0.7      30        12a7 100.0          4.4U"                                       k                        oo        Id0       4.4
Top          kg             100        6         00        63       101.00     6.*      60 0      "A.                           To            kg                        06         O6      61.6
KOL          kg                        0.                   .                   .        00        67                           401           kg                        0.        a6      I16.
Pe464          I                                  o.0                 0.6       6.6       0.        6.6                         po.e4.         I               1.0      13.0       0.0      0o
6gdsndgid      kG0                                                                0                   0                          a             kg                          0 
LM             Mndays          .0      167 0     1000   0    .0    1400       160.0     1600      3300               L.                         Mondays       60.0     170.    160.6       30.0
O0N            4ay            10.0      60        Is0      s00 I0       :      6o 0      II.0      60.0                            n4y4                                  0.0                 0.0
_.6m.m1.          660                  13.0                16.1                003                 24.6                         6    llbu 6u                            138                 62
T6.e                     .            201.4                60*                46 .7               616r                          ToS                                    0766                4n.7
|     b       .         [ ______ " 4461                    7.47               133.3               1.S                           a. marIn                                6.4                0.7
HYV RICE                                                                                                                         MAIZE
'ylawflan"Ofile)               l.6          1    3.00                _0 3.60                                                                                    1.6 .4             2.0 k6A
ft  onus                      no            1      72                 726                 74
64                        QuotenOly    no     OQuanmy   Amount  Ounnmy   Amunt  Quantiy   Antt                                   _              _            7.t                    4
1000 AP)          (i000 Np)           ('000  p)           ('000 Oop)                       (Rff           QOnlty   A                    000          Aon
Sed            kg            40.0       1 1.     30.0       6.4       0.0       .4       30.0       .4
he             kgla                                                                                                                             kg            061.0      6.       0f.0       6.6
Urn.         kg             00.0      21.2    100.0       42.4    100 0      42 4     100 0      42 4                          fortiw
TOP          kg             300 1a.'            60.0      0.0      60.0       36.0      s0        00.0                           Urn.          kg             0.0      01.2      60.0      012
0C1          kg                        0,0      26.0       6.4      26.0       6.4      2I.0       6.4                          STP           kg              6.0      13.       0.0       130
P    _46664.   I                        O.0                 0.0        0        0.0         2      060                            KCL           kg            3.0        64       is.0        4
_6   d         kg                         0                   a                  O         2 0        6                                         I                        00                  0.0
Laowr                                 30r6  1400  3.0  1J0  320.0    104.0    341.0       16o     36.0                           Pdenklde       k                          0                   0
OrN"           days           10.0     60.0       15.0     76.0      16.0      72.0      1.0       76.0                         L..,            4yr           6O.0    167.0      U.0      167.0
_mosawwus          %                    20.J3_ 24J    N . l 1                                      27.3                          Own            days         n* 01                1        . 0.0
TaOar                                 423.31               14.6                3.3                673.4                          TII's4I r046
(rns.                                  133.7              1 07.4              201.t               210.6                                                                 71.t               107.2
HYV RICE                                                                                                                         SOYABEANS
Ye650Aa3                       3.4                 4.0                4.3                 4.6                 6.0                YIid                          0.60 tnneSt          1. l0nraPha
Plenua                        6                   no                 663 a               1000                110                                                 4                 440'
emi                       QuanStOy an                   An         uanty   Amcont  Qualtly   A        4  O antty Ar Gum"  Amount                           Ownty   bnt  Quanty
('000 (000 00       0000)Np)           (0(')000 Np                             ('000 Np)                                                                 A)   (
Seed           kg             30.0       6.4      30.0       4.4     30,0       6.4      30.0       6.4      20.0       6.4
P.t6w                                                                                                                            S.d             g k           44.0      24.69     40.0      22.0
Ur"          kg            160.0      63        000        4.6     0000       U4       2000       M       060.0      106.0       h_
TOP          kg             76.0      3.6      10.0                1000       61          .        1.      100.0      61.6       Us..          kg             06.0      10.6     76.0      01.6
K0L          kg              6.0       6.4      60 0      1.6       60 0      16.6      *0 0      10 6     100.0      12.6       TSP           kg              so0      O.0       100      61.6
P              I               2.0      0I.0       0.0     26.0       0.0       00        3.0    23.0         0.0      26.0        KCL          kg                        0.0       s0       16.6
uA eld.    kg                  2.0        6        0.0        6       2.0         6       0.0         6       0.0    *           pealf146       I               0 6      10.4                26 0
LASo     _     Mendays       16S.0    363.0      166   S 3          170.0    378.4    177.0    3604         1640      4070       A,             koue  k0                                      00 
O6             ryr            1t          . .0  76.  IS:    7.        160      7J.0       6.0      750       16.0      76.01     Laour           Molrave          0     132.0        76     166.0
_ 2e.6w6u.&  560                         .6                316                 306         *      30                  36.6       Oan      0           46yr0                                  0.0
Tetil 606t                             200.               6076                661.7               6623 7361 a                                       9 lred  660          10.0 1.7
kotn 4wit                             016,1               no6  1               016                3J147               Yt.4 |     TOW __            _ O"                 21329 | 1.             .1
Jrrrr "Ml                             60.1                110.0



Annex 2
-60-                                               Agltchment 2
JNWNESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURI D)EVELOPMEFsl PR0(JLT
Summary of Economic Indicators of Individual Schemes by Provinces
ACBH
_                        .______      _lEO0IC INO4CATOR 
Nho.        ta            PadmitSunk  CAo   sunk Coprt           (a) Co Pt  w t    Coe  TD Coos  EtAt
of Schtme        A#*&                     Pr Ka       (A) tcrw Chea  Totr 'vt    h)
(Ha)__   ,  .      (  Mn)   (t  Mn)   ft  Mn)   (Rp.MA)  . MM)nL   .f) _
a   DEFERRED ffI
I  AIue U.ay                 2,641       ni                    2.061 a        7 0 9   .         .8%
2   Pancrah                 '.000         na                    671 0o       0.67             20.8%
1  Tfienogal"S               1.9GS    I w            .         1.46S 5'      0 n       .       14.9tt,a
_ Tls1       _                                             4.222 31  __31
RIAU
ECONOMIC INDICATORS                               11
No.           Name            Potential   Sunt I cos1 Sunk Costs  New Cosis   Neo Costs                 EIRR
of ScheMe          Are                     per Ha        (a)        per ha       per ha     (b)
(HA)      (Rp. Mn        p.Mn)     (Rp Mn)    (Rp.Mn)_   (Rptn) MA
A.  GO AHEAD SCHEME
I.  Kalti Sanmo                1,014     4,921.00        4.85      470 24         0.46         5.32   33.6%
2.  Donau Kolonalo               231      405.00         1.75       406 97         1 76        3.52   15.1%
3.  Pauh Pangean                 So1     1.064.00        1.83    1,028 99          1,77        3.60   14.1%
4.  Seoerang Gunung              250       759 00        3 04       276 45         1.11        414    14.3%
B. DEFERRED SCHEME
S.  Naged2                       488     1,012.00        2.07    1,178 37         0.39         2 47   14.8%
O.  Dorsian                      300       851.00        2.84       444 69         1.48        4 32   15.4%
7.  Polahan Mantaro              120      638 00         5.32       191 07         1 59        6 91   14 9%
8.  Sai Tanmang                  556     1,041 00         1.87       1,064         2 212       309    13.5%
TOTAL              3.5400  10,091 00                  5,060 52
WESr SUMATERA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS____
No.           Name            Potentil      sunk Costs  Sunk CoSts  Neow Coos  Now Costs  Total Cosis   EIRA
ofScheme          Ari a|                       Ha        (a)       per ha     prha  |b)
______________           (Hi)         (Fp.Mn)    (Rp Mn) |  (R.Mn)    (R.Mn)  |(   Mn) |%)
A.  GO AHEAD SCIE
I1 St anglndrapura             3,330       15,112,31       4.54    3,677.57        1.10       5.64   26.3%
|2.  Satng Sutin                1.48i       5,193.17       3 51  1,966.65          1.33       4.83   18.5%
3.  BanclmrSitngkir             1.G31   1    935.71        0.91    1,6100.14       1 75       2.65   15.0%
4.  BMu Palano                   278          789 28       2.84      751.95        2.70       5.54   14.0%
5.  SungilSetung                 270          371.06        1.37     347.63        1.29       2 66  112.1%1
6.  Bandir Tanfung               484          856 29        1 77     756 54        1.56       3.33   18.3%
7.  Bondr SawihPadang            750        1,241 75       1.66      410.32        0.55       2.20   18.6%
9,.  DEFERRED SCHEME
S.  tmangaSnngklh                423        1,180.19       2.79    2.026.88        4  79      7.s8    6.8%
0.  Sungal Aro                   764          436.83       0.571   2169.68         2.84       341   23.1%
10.  BadrPan(ing                 U41         1,376.43       1.64     473.47        0.56        2.20   247%
1t.  KayuBakilculk               379          821.81        2.17    6518.111       1.37        3.54   23.5%
12. Sitane8awin                  437          295.00        0.66    1118.4S        2.as        3.23   1509%
13.  Satng Tlngkarang           1,581          SiS |I       0.03  1,703.70         1.0         1.0  | 14.1%
14. LubjukTibun                  2S4          214.00        0.84     758253        2.06        3.81   12.%
15.  Sunl Samfek                 458          227.001       0.50    1,610.42       3.52        4.01   15.5%
16.  AIrAmO                     I30           117.00        0.38     66.74         2.89        3.27   15.2%
17,  TtinoemK~unongJiya          06s          154.00!      0,16      647.06        0.66        1.02   22.%
0.  Sltung MI4t                17.071         233.200      0.22 67    1,20.78      14           07e   11.0%
1.  sntntm                    7171       r 22u. 68       70.27    1,60.84S       1.40        9.076  17.0%
Totals                    22,176      683,809 02 |    _       33.389.33             ____
blst: W(). cdk0dng  _l111oo lottori,fo kpholl
ro      _Souw 1om ots.  ae     to
0). iearuIleui Cost O*ly



- 61 -                                              Annex2
TIable 2
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIQATED AGRICULTURE DErELOPMENT PROJECT
Summar of Economic Indicators of Individual Schemes by Provinces
SOUTH SUMATERA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
No.          Name          Potenlial     Sunk Costs  Sunk Costs  New Costs  Now Costs  Total Costs  EIRR
of Schemne       Area                      pw Ha        (a)       per ha      pr ha      (b)
(Ha)        (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (RP.Mn)   (%)
B.  DEFERRED SCHEME
1.  BumI Agun,                590         891.04        1.51    1,511.77       2.56        4.07    9.8%
2.  Air Deras I              1,379       5,968.27       4.33    1,988.50        1.44       5.77   16.0%
3.  Megang Tikip             1,389       3,009.81       2.17    1,375.21       0.99        3.16   17.5%
4.  AIr Gilas                 900        2,613.55       2.90    4,306.88        4.79       7.69    9.4%
5.  Alun Dua                  220         449.24        2.04      282.04        1.28       3.32   15.9%
6.  Air Gegas                1,928      12,424.71       6.44    7,297.05        3.78      10.23   13.9%
7.  Satan                    1,175        na                    3,047.97        2.F9       2.59    8.2%
8.  Air Malus I               580         na                    1,366.74        2.44       2.44    5.1%
9. Kasie
a. Kasie I                351         na                    1,325.60       3.78        3.78    6.0%
b. Kasie II               324         na                    1,658.46       5.12        5.12    4.3%
10.  Air Tupak                769        2,442.29        3.18    1,172.10       1.52        4.70   15.1%
11.  Air Tak Berikan          333          928.65        2.79     190.35        0.57        3.36   13.7%
12.  Air Deras It             942        3,685.17        3.91    1,128.61       1.20       5.11   20.3%
13.  Air Kenie                463        1,132.14       2.45      376.78        0.81       3.26   28.4%
Totals                 11,323      33.544.86 |             27,028.05
BENGKULU
_______ ECONOMIC INDICATORS
No.          Name          Polentlal     Sunk Costs  Sunk Costs  New Costs  New Costs  Total Costs  EIRR
of Scheme        Area                      per Ha       (a)       per ha      per ha     (b)
(Ha)        (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)   (%)
A.  GO AHEAD SCHEME
I Air Nasal Kid             223        1,453.38       6.52      832.07       3.73       10.25    9.0%
2 Air Kedurang              293         877.86        3.00      716.76        2.45       5.44   16.0%
3 Air Talo Kecil            361         609.43        1.69      497.38        1 I'8      3.07   13.4%
4 Air Bengkenang            336         652.40        1.94      737.05        2.19       4.14   22.9%
S. DEFERRED SCHEME
5 Air Muko-muko kirl      4,504       67,480.16      14.96    6,129.09        1.36      16.34   .2.9%
6 Air Susup Kanan           147         856.99        5.83      448.33        3.05       8.86   29.9%
7 Air Semumal Deras         207         541.62        2.62      278.20        1.34       3.96    4.4%
8 Air Musi Kejalo         1,180        6,196.18       5.25    1,966.71        1.68 1     6.93   19.0%
9 Air Ketapang              253         510.16        2.02      449.61        1.78       3.79   12.3%
10 Air Nasal kanan           173         na                      593.86       3.43           -   13.6%
11 Air Nanto                 558        1,338.03       2.40    2,142.75       3.84        6.24   15.4%
12 Air Baes Ketenong         314         117.58        0.37      356.80        1.14       1.51   18.6%
13 Air Seluma              5,539      110,010.13      19.86   16.537.96       2.99       22.85   10.0%
14 Air Lais                2,250       32,838.75      14.51    1,052.05       0.47       14.67   23.1%
Totals                 16.338     223,260.67           _         .32,758631
Note: (a). Including Inflatlon factors, not including
contingencies, swperson & tax
(b). Incremental cost only



-62                                                 Annex 2
Attachment 2
Table 3
INDONEI
PROVIC   IRRIGATED AGRCL1RI    DEEOMETPO
Summar of EcongMic Indicators of Individual Schemes by Provinces
LAMPUNG
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
No.          Name          Potential      Sunk Cosis Sunk Costs  Now Costs  New Costs  Total Coats  EIRR
ol Scheme         Area                      per Ha       (a)       per ha      per ha     (b)
(NO)         Rp Mn)    ;AP Mn)    (Rp Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)          )
A. GO AHEAD SCHEME
1   Way Kulur                  643         na                      703.27        1.09      -       28.9%
2.  Way Jerlnhing              419          na                     707.96        1.69      -       40.0%
B. DEFERRED SCHEME
3.  Way Tulung Mas            3,200         na          -        4,925.68        1.54              24.9%
4.  Way Ketibung              1.550         na          -          635.36        0.41      -       20.3%
5.  Way Curup                 2,220         na          -          693.97        0.31      -       32.4%
6.  Way Umpu                  7,500         na          -         2,022.67       0.27      -       19.7%
7.  Way Rarem                22,000         na          -        6,786.09        0.31      -       22.7%
8.  Way Pengubuan             5,000         na                   2,041.15        0.41      -       15.5%
9.  Way Semangka              2.063         na                    2,417.83       1.17      -       42.9%
10. Way Padang Ratu           1,030         na          -          580.06        0.56      -        45.1%
11. Way Negara Ratu           1.100         na                    M76592         0.70      -        24.3%
jTotals                  46,725       _                      22,279.97 __
NORTH SULAWESI
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
No.          Name           Potentilal    SunkCosts Sunk Costs  Nsw Costs  New Costs  Total Costs  EIRR
of Scheme         Area                     per Ha       (a)        per ha     per ha     lb)
(Ha)        (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)    (Rp.Mn)   (%)
A.    GO AHEAD SCHEMES
1 Pilohayanga             1t045                                  501.18       0.48               24.9%
2 Marisa                   2,490        3,589.97       1.44    1,569.50       0.63        2.07   31.2%
3 Kembang Merta              322       44,990.22     139.72      327.12       1.02      140.74   33.5%
4 8uko                       824         256.43        0.31    1,887.90       2.29        2.60   14.e%
8.    DEFERRED SCHEMES
S Didingga                   641        1,093.36       1.71      866.74       1.35        3.06   20.5%
6 Tongop                     823        2,134.33       2.59      424.36       0.52        3.11   21.5%
7 Pontak                     653        1,363.50       2.09      777.20       1.19        3.28   22.7%
8 Sulu Paslalen              543         984.96        1.81      316.47       0.58        2.40   21.5%
10Torago                    7,800      33,958.56        4.35    8,897.91       1.14       5.49   29.5%
11  PuBohngo4i0                               na        0.00        2.68
1 1Pulahenti         $883 (c)      7711.43      0.87    4,345.73        4.92 I     5.80    6.6%
12 Pinogaluman                313         586.29        1.87      501.25       1.60        3.47   11.7%
Total                21.137.00  _   89,729.05               20,418.05  _
Note: (a). Including Inflatlon factors, not Including           (c). Including proposed 600 ha etension
Contingencies, supervision & lax
(b). Incremental cost only



- 63 -                                                Annex 2
Attachment 2
Tale 4
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULT[JRE DE-VELOPMENT PROJECI7
SuMMary of Economic Indicators of Individual Schemes by Provinces
CENTRAL SUILAWESI
_______ .ECONOMIC INDICATORS
No.         Name           Potential     Sunk Costs Sunk Costs  Now Cosw  Now Costs  Total Costa  EIRR
o Schwne          Ara                      por Ha       (a)       Pw ha       pr ha      (D)
(H4)    ~(RIp Mn)    (Rp S)     (R n)       (FRp.Mn)    (RIp.Mn)     )
A.   GO AHEAD SCHB4ES
I Borons                     697        1,200.19       1.72     592.50        0.65        2.57   20.5%
2 Banga                      359         523.46        1.46     404.74        1.13        2.59   12.2%
3 Patio Kanan                500        2.57602        5.15     322.23        0.64        5.80   16.0%
4 SBayu                      250        1.031.19       4.12      431.07       1.72        5.85   19.0%
S.   DEERRED SCHEMES
5 Bunta Existing           2307         2,145.54       0.93   13,942.02       6.04        6.97   12.2%
6 Ton"po                     699         871.86        1.25     685.05        0.se        2.23   15.5%
7 Sauau U/S                8,190       14,530.98       1.77   14,266.52       1.74        3.52   20.2%
8 Left Puna                2,162        4,648.57               2,210.28       1.02        3.17   22.7%
9 Labniunu                 4,000         na                   15 404.03       3.85              12.6%
11 Olaya                      541        1.659.78       3.07     625.48        1.16        4.22   18.8%
12 Korontua                   401        1.716.78       4.28     371.85        0.93        5.21   18.2%
13 3Oloonge                   377        2,128.99       5.65     582.91        1.55        7.19    8.3%
14 ODlago                   2,557         na                     575.42        0.23
15 Torus                    2.096         na                     490.18        0.23
1 6AWNdol                     500        1,756.24       3.51    4,351.66       8.70       12.22    6.0%
17 Malonas                    710        2,366.58       3.33    1,182.58       1.67        5.00   13.9%
18 Gumbasa                  7,960         na                    5,478.56       0.69              12.8%
=    ots b                 34,3.0         37.150 111 31 33.0113_
SOUMI SULAWESI
ECONOMIC INDICATORS _
No           Name          Potential      Sunk Ctc  Sunk Cea  N   Costs  Nw Costs  Totll Costs  EIRR
l Scheme          At"                       pr Ha        (a)       pe ha       per ha    (b)
(Ha)         (I'l pn  (Rp.Mn)    (Fp.tAn)   _(l.n          (Rp.Mn)    (%)
A.  GO AHEAD SCHBAE
I.  Lak so                   1,256        1,350.36       1.08      416.59       0.33        1.41   11.0%
2.  LeangLarloong-             ON          926.06        1.07      399.21       0.48        1.53   17.3%
3.  CambaJawaya                741         609.54        0.82      294.17       0.40        1.22   11.0%
4.  *langkoks  V               489         521.14        1.11      266.22       0.57        1.68    7.4%
L       E OWERe   CHBJE
5.  Aparang Huu              1,006         570.60        0.57      537.57       0.53        1.10   14.1%
,.  Padang Sapp              6.493       6,660.96        1.30    6,061.37       0.93       2.30   27.8%
7.  Sa"no                   54,106         109,877       2.03     84.848        1.57        3.60   14.1%
a   mao                      6.721           1,783       0.27    7.3W8.0     -  1.10        1.37   19.0%
.  Kala  Kanan              12.392       22,320.00       1.80   19,76&14        1.60        3.40   12.0%
10. Kale aKlrl                4,553         816.00       0.18   15,710.87        3.45       3.63   11.9%
1I.  sargo                    6,292      28.12.45        4.47    9.00.63         1.53       6.00   14.0%
i Totls                       94.,9       175,763.34           1145,324.641
Note: (a). tncludIn   atlon t   ctrsnot Inclding
contIngences. apr_vi    & lax
)" cr n  cost ony



- 64-
AnnZ 2
IDONESIA                                                                    Atwahrmnt 2
PROVINCIAL IRRICATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROECT                                                                        Table 5
Summarv of Economic Indicators of Individual Schemes by Provinces
SOUTH EAST SULAWESI
ECONOMIC INOICATORS
No.          No"            Potsn0ll      Sun t Costs  Sunk COts  Now Costs  Now Costs  Total Costs  EIRR
o Scherne         Area                      per Ha        (a)       per ha      par ha     ()
. ______________      (HA)         (Rp .Mn)    (Ap Mn)    (f Mtn)    (Rgp Mn)    (R Mtn)    (%)
A.  50 AHEAD SCHIE
I.  Wolulu                     351          511t30        1.46      407.30        1.16        2.62   16.2%
2.  Watubanga                  242          345 27       1t43       44810         165         3 26   15.0%
3.  Ancowengg                  360          463.77        127       220.11        0.60        1.?   27.3%
4.  Wonco lfl                  139          408.64        2 95      204.3        147         4r42   17.6%
5.  KtanNt                     435          546.04        I.26      517.98        1l9         2.45   15.8%
S.  DEFERAtED SCHNWE
6.  Sonay                      256          na            0 00      318 21        1.24                1.2%
7.  salto                      251          425.73       170       23617         094         2.64   18.3%
8.  ODnamutys                  238          356.17        1.50      63967         2.69        4.18   10.6%
9.  SmbunefSawsh               568          660.21        1.16      879 90        1 SS        2.71   1269%
10. Teubonto                   200          336.49         1.68     200.50        1.00        28    12.5%
tI.  Poleng                   2.531        2,269.70       0.90    9,a53 70        3.89        4.79   119%
12.  Poray I                  1.393         no            0.00    2,924. 9        2.10               11.0%
I3   Mwlal I                   433          na            0.00      986678        2.26               15.0%
14.  Mowila 11                 461          na            0.00    1,39448         3.02               11t.%
Totas                    76964        6.324.32 1      _      19,23S24
WEST KALIMANTAN
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
No.          Name           Potential      Sunk Costs  Sunk Cost41 New Co st  New Costs  Total Costs   ElM
of Scheme         Area                       per He        (a)       per ha      per ha      (b)
(Ha)         (Rp.Mn)    (RFp Mn)    (Rp.Mn)  I(bmn)    (Rp.Mn)    (%)
S.  DEFERRED SCHEME
I Sanggau Ledo              1,239          na                    4,131.44        3 33      -        119%
2 a. Mrowt (panl 1)         1,351          na          .                         0.00                4.8%
b. Merowl                 2.835         na                    23.083.56        6.15                5.8%
Totals                    4.074                               27t225.00
CENTRAL KALIMANTAN
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
No.          Name           Potetmal       Sunk Costs  Sunk CostS  New Costs  New Coas  Total Costs   ElRR
Of Scheme         Area                       Pot Ha        (4)       per ha      per s       (b)
(IN)          (p.MIn)    (Rp.Mn)    ft MnL    (Ro Mn)    (10Mn) 1           )     |
B.  OEFERDEO SCHEME
I Tchn                        978        5.473.02        5.60    1.935 93        I 96        758  10 4%
2 Trnge                       687         no       _     _       2723.89         3 96               10.1%
__Totals                     10666____                            4.60.62   ___          ___
SOUtI KALIMANTAN
__I_I_T   ECONOMIC NOICATORS
Ns.           NPo PONt"l  r                        cow   SuInk Cot    W  Cot   New Cots  Totl Cost1  ElM
of | Shd8_     1   Aksw                       pIN me        (a)        perha       porhe      4b)
L _I   ___   I__        b)        fI       n)      .   n          Mn       (Ap Mn) IJfl.n __
*abA.fl         e         h  1,417     334.64           2.01    512n.63         3U 2         .62   1177%
TOTAL              1,417                                 S. _   5123.63 1     1_I                   I
t   s) lnduIg  ilteen aws. not nckupo
_o np            . supst tn    & taw
(W, wmiwow  a      sm



- 65 -
Annex 3
IONESIA
Cost Estimates and Implenentation Schedules
(by Components and Schemes)
Table of Contents
Table No.                                                                         P,age No.
1.    "Go-ahead" Schemes   - Irrigation Development  .......................................  66
2.    "Deferred" Schemes   - Irrigation Development  .......................................  67
3.    "Go-ahead" Schemes   - Land Clearance and Development ...........................  69
4.    "Deferred" Schemes   - Land Clearance and Development ...........................  70
5.    "Go-ahead" Schemes   - Agricultural Development  ....................................   72
6.    "Deferred" Schemes    - Agricultural Development  ....................................   73
7.    "Go-ahead" Schemes   - Land Titling and Certification  ................................   75
8.    "Deferred" Schemes   - Land Titling and Certification  ................................   76
9.    "Go-ahead" Schemes   - Environmental Protection  .....................................  78
10.   "Deferred" Schemes    - Environmental Protection  .....................................  79
11.   Annual Estimated Base Costs (Scheme Compledon and
Development Components)    ..81
12.   Annual Costs including Contingencies (Scheme Completion and
Development Components)    ..82
13.   Institutional Support (Strengthening Bappedas) .83
14 Consultant Services    ..84
15.   Estimated Annual Expenditures (by Components and Provinces) ......................  85
16.   Estimated Costs of Routine O&M   ........................................................   86
Generl Notes:
Al    Estimated costs are based on the scheme proposals as submitted in June/July 1990 which
take into account the tindings of the appraisal mission. The scope and estimated costs of all
'deferred' schemes are subject to change after further survey, investigation and design.
The costs would be updated at each Annual Implementation Review, and/or when deferred
schemes are approved by the Bank for implementation.
h/    The nature of the proposed project is such that an implementation schedule in terms for
works/components cannot be usefully identified in summary tables or charts. The detailed
implementation schedule in physical terms for each scheme is available in the Project File.
The rate of implementation in terms of estimated expenditures per year is shown on
Tables 11, 12, 13 and 14 for the various project components.



- 66 -                                                     Annexa
woomeI Table 1
PNOVIMOAL NIu?60 AemOiLu oilLOuhMV PNlJOVN
Coout o mUrnma b?tbe Wolk
CM  mom"    . b,,wb  wooft.
@C.AmIA  gammasI (Otagai I
Provino. I Iah..            PWtll               00SFubl CU U0   Mai syit.           Totllarlom               ft40abIOthor   Total Costs
(ta)         (ha)   Coos (Ip.h"   Can    1    Co   ft.W)   Coa (lRs.M)   CAa (P.p)            (Rp M)
RIAU
1. Kill SOM                       295          1014           t0.0          0.0           0.0          61.0                       1 t590 
2.Danouu KoWtao                      0          231            0.0        143.5          29.0          20.5          37.0         2060
3, Pauh Pul*"                        0           416           0.0        274.0          41.5          16.0          16.1         466 0
4.sbon"" SW"                         O          20             0.0          0.4           0.0          53.0         101.0         1SO4
Toal                                6          3070          16.6         467.6         111.5         211.1          6.6        1110.4
W. SUIMATRA
, Olndopitx                      1100          3300          111.0         07.3         $0111         473.0                      1251 3
2. guilt                          420          1441           00.0        306.0         277.7         200.9         124.0        1436.6
a. B. smeb                         161         1031           66.61o      1130.0        412.4         10,4          78.0         $44.6
4. OSM PftWo                        62          276           31.0          0.0         111.2           0.0         120.0         301.6
S.  _    1go 56                    104          270           16.1          0.0          40.6 *1.6                   26.4        117.7
6 B. Tmg-                         200           464           17.0          72.1        147.1         111.7          31.0         5707
7. B.668lPadrn                    s66           750          1t.0                        30.0          64.2         11t.4         272.6
Tsil                             life          7604         204.6         66T.$        1664.4        1166.4         116.6       4714.5
1. Air tN  Ktrl *                   1           223            0.0        203.2          14.0          31.4         24t.0         530.4
Z AM, KW 4                         116          293            0.0        316.1          15.6          36.6          64.0         430.9
S. Air Tabt KNel                  264           361            0.0        100.0          47.6          39.7          62.4         270 6
4. At llp_im"                       I 1         $36            0.0         66.0           0.0          36.2           0.0         104.2
Tool                              491          1213           6.0         666.6         11.6          146.6         166.2       1346.3
1. Way Kul*                        176          643            0.0        215.0          70.0          65.0           0.0         390,0
2. Way J_am                         6           416            0.0        160.0          70.0         135.0           0.0         395.0
VTool                              44          16l6           6.6         446.6         140.0         306.0           6.6        766.0
I. SULAWil
1. P11ollaymsg                    607          104S            0.0          0.0           0.0         117.1         173.6         290.9
a iell6I                          I 6o0        2460           17.1         250.0        119.1         236.6         210.1         900.3
5. Kaaq Mi                           0          322           11.3         72.4         121.0          27.7           0.0         2324
4. Buka                              0          624            0.0        141.6         160.0          611.1        314.         1007.6
Toal                             2677          4661          26.4        $64.1          47.60         462.6         666.6       2530.2
C StULAWI                                                                                                                           00
I'  ,O                             511         s6?7            0.0          0.0         153.0          11.6        116.4          373.3
t a,gg                            2S0           355            0.0          0O0          43.1          41.7         164.0         2466
3 Parlgl Kom                      400           Soo           11.0          0.0           0.0           7.3         1154.6        2069
4. WA"                             120          250           23.8         66.2          71.0          16.6          47.0         233 6
TVitl                            1101          1606          56.6          60.2         561.1         146.6        662.9        1062.6
S. ALAWSI
1 Lt*o                           1006          1210           11.0         50.0           0.0          66.7          72.2         2069
2. Lafng  a14lg                   61             66           1.0           0.0         16.6           15.6          31.5         235 9
a COWa Jawiya                      741          741           15.0          11.0          0.0          45.0           .4          1634
4. brqKak,aV                      460           460           11.0         64.3           0.0          43,4          453          1660
TVt.l                            3113          $326          60.0         120.5        I1.0           211.*        237.2         774.2
0.L IU4.A 566
1. Wolob                          134           351            0.0         64.2           0.0          20.0          71.2         160.4
2. W*angg                           4*          242            0.0           0.0         24.6          21.0         222 4         276.0
* AMossqge                         112          Sa6            0.0          0.0          32.0          31.2          54.0         102 1
4. ScA. Ill                        66           136           10.0          0.0           4.0          25.1         101.5         146.0
S. Nnrgia                          so           481           t-.0        1U32.            .6           1.6         176.0         403 3
Total                             461          Isa2          26.0         10.6          166.4        115.64        621.0        1006.3
AmA                                  0            0            0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0 0
W.Sumtmra                        3S1           7164          204.0        607 .6       164.4         118.4          6064.        4714 3
Riau                              261          2076           10.0        467.0         131.1         211.1         2 0.         1110 4
sielu*                            401          1215            0.0        601.          111.6         141.6         56.2         13453
S. suma                              0            0            0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           00            00
Lym,                              266          1063            0.0        441.0         140.0         200.0           0.0         761.0
N.suewS"                         2177          4661           26.4        664.5         476.1         42.6          6.111        2130. 2
C. su1s6o1                        l11          Ioe0           36.          60.2         216.1         140.1         112.0        1062.6
0 .XIsAVi                       $IS            1326           60.0        126.3         11.SA         211.0         257.2         7742
6.1. Sb mi                        401           342           26.0        166.6         160.4         16.6,         621.0        1066.6
S. KaSIn                             0            0            0.0           0.0          0.6           0.0           6.0           00
C.KmlllMN                            0            0            0.0           0.0          0.0           0.e           0.0           00
W. K _"NWA6                          0            0            0.0           0.0          0.e           6.6           0.0           0.0
11466        3sl6                                                                                  0 ,
SM  cot                                                     461.1        66ss6.        41111P       3656.1         M3.         1S420.6
GUP*vlma                a 1                                   4.7         516.          101.7           0.5        5046          1542.1
66b6tt6l                                                     S12.        50226.5       $11.0         3004.6        4016.7       14762.6
V_A*  6To (PPN)         b hI                                  61.3        274.6         232.8         307.1         263.6        10354
TVoal                                                       61.6         4107.1         6411.4      8117.4        48817.6      1576.3
taU:
*      I_ck6 uft6 o o "           t
Appam        tam e   asM    a t  qi bat    lafldme
of I   GI    c d0 cost                                           S0vty. lAwit al 1oo14t t         ( Imoi-ing anvommmeW  _miiet)
t6  10% d9  -t  wsIlt foaghIs 7% Of htM  M                          M  PrpEati for CON 



- 67 -
Annex 3
-xFNMA                                              Table 2
PROiC AL IRATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPT PRJECT                               Sheet 1
Coat Estimaes - Irrigation Works
DEFERRED SCHEMES (Category N)
Provincs A, Sjhmo       Functional       CCA          SID Main System   Torliorles     PRUM  Rehab/othcr Total Coats
(ha)       (ha) Cosl (RP4.t) Costs (RP.M) Cotls (Ap U) Costs (Rp M) Costs (RP M)  (Rp M)
AM                                                                                                               00
t TrinnggAding               1729        1909        25 0         00       1400        248.2        52.5      465 7
2. AiuO Ubay                  US         1000        200          0.0         00       15s0          00        1750
3. Pandrsh                   2141        2641        25.0       125.0      200.0       343.1         0.0      693.1
Total                        4701       sil5         70.0      125.0       *40.0       746.3        52.5     1333.8
RtAU
I Nagodan                      10         416        15.0         0.0       o60         33.6       1342       279.0
2. Dorantn *                    0         300        10.0        6S.0      106.0        29.6       131.3       330 9
3 Mantaro                       0         120        10.0         0.0        0.0        12.0       120.0       1420
4. Sal Tang                     0         SS0        10.0       194.0      111.0        51.3        65.7      452.0
Tota                                    1466         45.0      246.6      J1.          126.7      471.2      1203.9
W. SUMATRA
1B. S&not) il                  20         423        600        604.0      169.0       111.7        60.0     12247
2. SurnW Aro                  250         764        66.0       677.0      456.0         6 3         0 0     1289.3
3. B.P4nlang                  713         041         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0         00
4. Kayu Bokiuik               171         379         7.6        53.2        0.0        44.4        30.0       1352
5. B.awan                     155         437        31.5        90.0      1100         49.2       199.9      400.6
6. S. Tirikran               1339        1U16       120.0        96.0      535.6       183.1       291.0     1226.5
7. Luibu Tutn *               107         254        15.0       1S0.0        0.0        54.2       146.2      365.4
. Sunai Samok                  09         416        71.S        73.3       70.0        59.0       310.1      592.0
9. Air Amo *                  125         306        46.0       164.0        0.0        44.0        67.0      361.0
10. T. Komuning               901         955        44.0      200.2         0.0       125.0       165.7      538.9
11. B. kiopi *                657        1051        43.3      420.0        77.6       213.9       161.6      916s.6
12. Shiung 11 of              276        5400
Total                        5006      12061        110.0     2746.6      1420.2       070.0     1450.7      7131.1
L SUMATRA
I.Sumi Agung                   6o         590        21.0       279.3      106.0        91.0       335.0      632.3
2. Air Dorm 1                 727        1379        10.0       348.0       35.0       215.8       325.6       9344
3. Mgitng Tkikp               574         915        32.5        06.0      231.5       134.0       265.0      749.0
4. Air OGils                   S2         500       130.7      1246.0      333.0       111.3       314.0     2135.0
S. Aiun Dua                   120         220         0.0       165.5       12.0        26.2         0.0      195.7
B. Air Gas o!                  20        900       17S.0      2440 6      504.5       242.8         0.0     3363.1
t. Air Satan                  201         067         00        445.7      53763       121.7         0.0     1104.7
6. Air Malu i                 200        6S0         19.        163.       194.0        59.6       192.0      6294
S. Koala I                     s0         351        10.0       426.0       79.6        46.9        30.0      594.7
0. Kcsc 11                     10         324        71.0       453.0       93.0        29.7       120.0      766 7
10. Air Tupak                  o0         700        94 0        0 0       135.4        65.0       429 0      743.4
11 Air Tk Briktan             133         333        15.0        560         0.0        43.4         0.0      1144
12 Air Dora, it               225         942        150          00       117.10        6.4       666.0      567.3
13. Air Ksnio                 161         463         0.0         00         0.0         0.0       114.1      1141
Total                        2640      10444        004.0     6102.1      2270.4      1206.0     2400.7    12384.2
_UOLU
1 Muko-MIuko Khr of          1270        4504         0 0     1525.0       679.0       397.3        0.0      2601.3
2. Air Suwp K(anon             10         350        10.0        27.6       25.6        36.6        12.6      113.0
3. Air Sntm.Dors               30         207         0.0         0.0        0.0        29.6        49.1       76.9
4. Air Muai Kqoiol            140        1130         0.0        83.5      177.1       123.9         6.5      391.2
5. Air Ketopang                36         253         0.0        10.6        0.0        30.7        66.1      135.4
6. Air Nlaal Kanan              0         173        19.0       260.4       60.6        28.4         0.0      38C.4
7. Air Ncnlo                   20         643         0.0       575.6      66.I        54.5       152.3      950.4
O Air S. Kotonog              238         314        190         S5.S        6.0        36.3        59.0      174.8
9. Alr Salume                1050        5139         0.0      6667.7      451.3       413.3         0.0     9452.3
10. Lai*                     1145       2250         10.0        5.5         0.0       203.0        0.0       218.5
Total                        8041      15418         57.0    11166.0      166.0      1303.9      326.1    14504.2
1. Way Tuung Mae                0        3200         0.0         0.0      595.0       1 PO.0                 785.0
2 Way Koilng                 1SS0        16S0         0.0       230.0                  172.0        75.0      477 0
3. Way Curup                 1290        2220         0.0         0.0                  220.0       291.0      521.0
4. Way Umeu                  2661        7500         0.0         0.0      1 75.0      429.0                  604.0
S. Way Room*-               10000       22000         0.0         0.0        00       1256.4                 1256.4
a. Way Psuarn                2655        5000         0.0         0.0      160.0       266.0                  636.0
7. Way Somanga               1367        2093         0.0      1061.0        0.0       100.0                 1101.0
. Way Paot  Rau               750        1030         0.0         0.0      1330         59.0                  192.0
9. Way Nap. Raw               675        1100         0.0         0.0      146.9        63.6                  212.3
Total                       20051      48660          0.0     1111.0      1401.6     2707.0       366.0      5656.7
IL SULAWU
I ODidhga                     410         533                   53.9                   1170        120.0      290.9
2. Torngop                    397         923                   149.1       30.6        32.5                  261.6
3. PonWk                      412         653        500       304.5        452         66.9        27.2      493.6
4 SuluPsaaon                  139         543                   1040        43.4        029                   2103
5. TonrJt                    4173        7900        90          07.2     3163 9       670.0                 3992.3
S. Bongo                        0        4000                                                                   0.0
7. Puhomnti                   269         093       1539       25452       190.0        02.0        65.0     3006.0
POgaumn                      233         313        200        173.3       26.3        46.                   266.3
Totat                       4007       16340        014.2     0000.6      8400.7      1100.3      212.2      3521.7



- 68 -
OMMMA                                    ~~~~~~~Table 2
PROVCOAL IRMRIATED AOiCULTUR  DELMOUWT POCT                                    Sheet 2
Cost EAtrl44  Irthn Warba
"0M1  r1  SCHWa (Cateory 1)
Province , Scheme       FunctionIl         CCA          SD6 Main Sym   Tert l*rtioo       p    ROhab/other Total Costs
(he)        (ha) Coas (Rp.M) Co-  (Rp.M) Ctot (RpbM) Costa (Rpbll) Costs (Rp.M)   (RV. M)
C. SULAWES
I Bunt& I                        0        2307        126 6      6610.6       692.1       16.                     6616
2 Tomps (Error)                314         69          2S 7       347.        300.7        a1.4                    07.1
3 Su U/S    of                3272         100        16 6.      636 30      1527 0       731.0                  ag07.6
4 Puna Kiri                    717        2112                    667.0       164.7       a6.03                  1403.0
5 Lambunu   ad                   0         000        320.0 o     140.0      1600.0       405.6                  56666.
6 Otays                        331         641         11.5                                66.3       346.6        41,4
7 Korontua                     312         401         1.         10                       44.6        23.0       236.0
6 Olonionge                    377          377        I              0                     s.3        56.0       400.1
o DObCto Cy                     n/o       2557                                                                       00
10 Tonr  r/                     n/o       2096                                                                      0.0
11. Andola   (Error)           120         600         36.0      1310,1                   121.0                  146.2
12 Malon*e (Error)             310         710         46.4       666.6       224.6       116.7       125.0      116.S
1S. Taminbamna                 IS           63          7.6       219.0        60.1        60.9                   367.9
14. Gumbaas  of               Soo         7000
Total                        111,1       64616        776.6    23024.1       4676.6      1073.6       660.6    60107.4
S. SULAWES                                                                                                           0.0
1 Aprang Hulu                  765        1008         16.0       220.0                    66.2                   300.2
2 P0adeng Sapp                1676        6463        21.0       1550, 1     1270         346.1                  3197.2
3 SBdarng (padtago A)        33675       64106        444.0      6002.0      6$60,.      2146.0                 13571.0
4. Maloa                      3626        6721         70.0      4165.6                   625.1                  4650.7
S Katana Kaan                   54        4566
6. Kalaana Kui                            1772
7, Sanrro                     4632        6262
Total                        46126       60946        6.6.     10927.7       7266.0      3166.4         6.6    21916.1
&L 6ULAWEU
1. Sonay                       142         256         10.0       132.6       21.0         26.4                   167.0
2 Baio                         176         2s1         10.0        67.0        22.4        16.0                   125.4
3 Danamuls                     1s          236         15.0       366.6        47.6        30.6                   4S5.0
4 Simn BSah                    260         56s         10.0       176.4        77.2        61.1                   316.7
S Taobonto                     176         200         15.0        61.0                    21.5                  17.5
O Poicang                      636        2631         15.0      3435.6       676.0       137.0                  4325.6
7. Roraya                      314        1363         1s.0       970.3        72.0       135.0                  1192.3
6. Mowila I                    164         433         16.0       409.6        40.0        41.6                   S06.2
9. Mowila 11                   212         461         15.0       666.6        60,0        43.4                   605.0
Total                         2150        6331        120.0     6317.o      1025.1        672.6         0.0      6035.7
W. KAUMANTAN
1. Sanrggau Lado                40        1511         43.9      1761.9       3O0.S       106.0                  2214.3
2 Merowi I Cd                    0        1351         656       4753.7       609.6       145.0                  5563.8
2. MUrowi 11 ad                  0        1464         446       330S.3       196.6       104.0                  3650.6
Total                          40        4646        143.6     0620.6       1106.6       667.0         0.0    11426.7
C. KAUMANTAN
I Talohan  c                     0         976                    669.2       100.5       142.0                  1131,7
2. Tnnringg c/                   0         667                    462.0       215.0        61.7                   7ss67
Total                            0        1616          0.0      1S1.2       315.S       226.7         0.0 1o 90.4
L KAUlMANTAN
1 Batulicin I                    0        1417         23.6     1461.4       423.6        256.6         0.0      2183.5
Acoh                          4785        ssso         70.0       12S.0       340.0       746.3        62.5      1333.6
Riau                            10        1466         46.0       240,0       312.0       126.7       471,2      1206.6
W Sumatra                     5003       12551        s10.9      2746.5      1420.2       970.6      14607       7131.1
S Sumatn                      2643       10444        6040       6102 1      2376.4      1206.0      2460.7    12164.2
8angkulu                      3941       1641          57.0    11156.6       1s66.6      13S3.0       366.1    14604.2
LanmVww                      20661       45663          0.0      1311.0      1401.6      2787.6       366.0      6666.7
N.Sulawsol                    6037       16234        3142       33S1.       S4t9.7      1106.0       212.2      6321.7
C Sulawe"                    11121       34623        776.0    22024.1       467S.3      2072.6       653.6    60107.4
S Sulawoei                   45126       60945        666.0    10027.7       7260.0      3163.4         0.0 o    1e11.1
SE. Suisaiwsi                 2503        6331        120.0      6317.9      1025.2       572.6         0.0      60o e.7
W  Kalimantan                    0        1417         23.0      1461.4       423.6       2S66s         0.0      2166.6
C. Kalimanan                     0        1665          0.0      1351.2       31565       223.7         0.0    1166.4
S. Kalimantan                   40        4346        143.9      0620.6     111066        657.0         0,0    11416.7
101066     236666
ae" Coo                                             3314.6    77014,0    15706.3    Is7.            66631 e.0   116090.4
Supervision            a/                             321.6      7701.4      2670.9      1506.7       599.6    12699.0
Subtoal                                              3636.4    64715.4    26360.1    16663.0         6664.5   136666.4
Value added Tu (LION)    hI                           247        66 530.1    1976.6      1166.4       461.6      6776 3
Total                                               6763.6    60646.6    30160.7    17722.4          7066.1   146467.7
WOTES
Include unfusttieid canal lining conmonents
APparart oenors in coat et imatas or require baic relormulalion
As prepaned tho schemes are marginal; require belk rfornmulation baWSe on actual phyical resourom  data
l   10% ol be" cst
bt   10% of contractod wofks (weighted 7% of bags oost pvta supervorrin)
c/   Command area subject to furthewr sury and revoioe



-69-
Im00_                                                          Table 3
povo"IIIIIIT10 -Ar                                                              Iak1L" F"C
Oa t hlmateloo  LaId Cfmm sadll 04v
Pleew & se..                     LCOM            so  L     tw      L        D_   et quip t    Amih4OlH   re4l Cos1
Af  b)       (r 64                       ( " IR. A1   (F W           (FW U)        ( 
LAAU
1 Ka* 0.".                        as7           13.4          37.0         14.1          14.             .          151.7
lODMalflri                                       0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
I PsA Pupa                         3l00         Me           1010.0         $1.3         12.5           0.0         In.0
4. O_-Mq oaq                                     0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Tal                               647          n6.4         177.0         177.0          3.4            1.7         413.11
W.OUNAThA
1. ltiipW6                        1101          10.7         746.7        474.5          04.0           4.6        1417.3
3. 0&NX                                                        0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
& a samd                         1031            0.0         117.0        11.6.          11.0           0.0         411.0
4. m Pub"o            1       e                  0.4         111.0         111.6          0.            0.0         340.0
0ug SA                             43            1.0          30.3         10.7           3.1           0.0          42.0
B. Tw4m  I                        1e1            a.7          01.0        11i.0          10.0           0.0         104.7
7.  *.&SaINtPam                                  0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
YoWli                           01040          110.7       111111.1       W0.?           0.            10.6       33100.61
1. AN Nus Kil *17                                7.0          50.1         10.1           0.4           0.0         116.6
I Air K   _e.                      01            50o          01.4         14.1           4.0          o0           106.7
S. Air Tab Nin                      74           1.8          44.4          0.0           8.7           0.3          04.0
4. Ak  _OauMag                    too           13S          315.4        11.1           14.0           0.0         016.0
TOM                                            37.7         373.0          73.0          H.0            I.$        T"4.7
1. Way KiAw                       to0            7.4           0.0        140.0           0.0           0.0         147.4
3. Way isho 0                                    7.4           0.0        140.0           0.0           0.0         147.4
Tool                                           t14.           0.6         310.0           0.0           0.0         304.5
IL OUL.AWOO
1. Pilmaymo                                      0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
3 WLmA  *                          100           4.5           0.0          45.0          I.            1.5          60.3
3. Ntig Mum                                      0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
4. buko                           00n           17.4           0.0        141.7          11.7           0.7          00.5
TOal                              450          31.0            0.0        lot.?          60.0          13.          2160.7
C- OULAWOS
I. 11a                                           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
2. agge                                          0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
a Pal "M                                         0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
4. "u                                            0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Tool1                               a            0.0          0.5           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
0.l O                                            .LAW .I.                                                       
a *"W=l
1. Lakt*                                         0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
2. Lt  Lam""                                     0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
3. Clus Jlamy.                                   0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
4. MM KIM V                                      0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Total                               0            0.0           a's          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
O.1. SULAW  OI
1. W*"b                           140            0.0          72.          85.0           7.0           3.5         116.8
2. W    _ang                       to            0.0          40.1         34.s           4.0           2.5          60.0
& Andosefg                                       0.0           0.4          12.5          2.5           1.2          24.4
4. Wo  MI                                        0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
S. Kaing     *                                   0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Total                             30s            0.0        132.8          71.0          14.4           7.2        222.7
Aoh                                  0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Riou                              547           30.4         177.0        177.0          27.4           1.7         412.8
W.Iumme                          8846          110.7        1106.1        031.7         164.8          10.6        3306.6
6. eumim                            0            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
0.of*D                              0           27.7          732.3       273.0          50.0           1.0         704.7
L _nIng                             0           14.            0.0 o00.0                  0.0           0.0        3104.1
N.BuIBa"                          406           21.0           0.0        166.7          8.0           12.2         200.7
c. oulaweo                          0            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
* .IIaW.                             0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
6.E. ubbid                         380           0.0         120.3          71.0         14.4           7.2         33M.7
W.  _NM~                             0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
C.KalmamU                           0            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
S. hNaMbWAl                         a            0.0           0.0         0e0            0.0           0.0           0.0
401o 0.0
t06. 05.1                 311.6        1677.7        10s3.0        2350.0          6.7        4103.0
OupevlmlonI                       0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0
Subtotal                      21.6         1077.7        1530.0        360.0          08.7        4108.0
Vol d   Tax (P9W) aI                     14.6         111.4         137.4         17.6           2.4         310.0
Total                      336.6        3000.1        1047.4       230.6           36.1        4407.4
Now: Jollose _nd   t i noum _) km ihetmu   anal Iha4
aW blakfs; bi 10*e d Cotrctd hsin   IgIII  7% el  mGo
080 - Dfuy, *  Iu1 lfid DOmp. LCAD - Lati Cleawas and D      _evpm



- 70.                                                        Annex3
Tabk 4
SOINCML  AT2o MCULIUP OUvEO_T PROMICT                                                 Sheet 1
Cam 6.11me .  L. e_ Clao,. wiW D.ev.pmf
maer scms a (Cdarwip U)
Mse.         LOCD
Ptovlno .  Scheme               LC&O           S0  Led CWwaLand DOovbW              EUquim.     Adinh A OM    Tsuel Cost
Ar  h)        Fpo. M)      (Ro  t         Fp.   MRp.   (Flp kq        t oRp.               M.)
t. Trluirgqding                  Igo           16.6          s1.0         t4.0           64.0          53.3         376.9
2. Alub iy                        as            7.6         31.3          46.0           39.0          44.3         202.0
3 P111111                        276          25.4          124.2         220.$          76.0          67.7         S0a.1
Toa                              541          49.6         348.5          482.6        661.6         '156.         1167.3
MAU
I Magadmi                        476          21.6         30.1           166.4          23.6           1.4         S10,$
2. Oowan *                                      0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
3. Man.,                                        0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
4. Sol Tan*"                     361           16.2         171.0         117.3          16.1           1.1         323.7
Total                            636          37.7         473.1         273.7          42.6            3.6         634.2
W. 4EmTRA
1 & Sgenl It                     173            7.6        125.7          103.6           3.0           0.4         246.7
t. Sw*W Ao (?)                   314            9.6         126.0         126.0          tt.0           0.5         277.1
3 *. B.Poen                                     0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
4  Keu SiidA                     206            0.4         114.3         104.0          10.4           0.6         238.6
S. a 0~                           ot3          12.7         163.2         141.0          14.1           0.7         321.7
6. & TWinp                                      0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
7. LL  Tbmjn-                    147            6.6          65.2          66.2           7.S           0.4         167.7
6. Jqpl Sa,wk                    363           16.6         204.2         164.6          16.6           0.3         506.7
S. Ar Amo *                      3206            .4           3.6         104.0          10.4           0.6         234.1
10. T. Kuawft                     64            3.6         43.0           33.6           4.3           0.2          90.2
II. D. thpi *                    164            6.7         116.4         116.4           S.1           0.5         251.7
12. SPA    11
TOaWl                           1676          64.6        1327.3        13l63.          64.6            4.6       2416.1
L. SIMATRA
1.uml Agung                      100            4.6         60.0          $6.0            6.0           0.0         124.6
2. Air Dwm 1                     32                         211.2         140.6          17.6           3.7         376.3
3. Usgn Tim"                     163            7.2          39.6          55.7           S.0           4.3         115.0
4. Ai OI.                        320          $3.3          426.6         173.4          23.9          16.0         706.0
5 Akon Due                                      0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
6. Ai .Geu                      1650          62.4          354.5         625.2          65.7          41.3        1363.1
7. Air Saan                      324          37.1         434.4         329.6           41.2          3.21         324.4
6. Ai Mak. I                     300            0.0         160.0         120.0          16.0           6.3         323.3
2. Km. 1                         256           12.6         156.6         104'           13.3           6.7         236.6
9. K"e. 11                       s1O           14.7         166.0        1l.U0           15.5           7.8         344.0
10. Ar Tup                        s0           0.0          30.0          20.0            2.5           0.1          52.6
11. Air T  Sek en                              0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
12. Air Dow 11                   146           6.6          67.6          51.1            7.3           4.0         166.6
13. Ai Kenis                     62             0.2         63.2          32.6            4.1                        30.3
Total                          4543         l3.6         2167.1        1740.0         225.1         11.3        4671.0
1. Muko-Mukio KMl                 62          17.4         577.2         432.3          103.0           2.4        1132.9
2. Air Susi Kaonn                127            7.6          52.0         120 2          10.3           0.7         191.4
. Al Smem.,w                     113             .3          52.6          44.7           5.7           0.4         103.5
4. Air Mua K*oIe                 710            0.0         463 6         340.8          36.5           1.6    l     61.l
S. Ar Ketpang                    174            7.8         67.2           63.7           5 7           0.5         107.3
6. Akr NMl Karen                  60            2.7          16.0          16.0           3.2           0.0          30.3
7. r NafMe                       405           16.4         244.3        207.4           20.4           1.2         492 2
6. Ai S.  loean                   76            3.4          24.3         26.7            3.6           0.2          01.4
3. Akr Solum                    1400            0.0        690.5         540.6           73.3           4.3        1526.3
1O. LaI-  (7)                                  0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
TOWa                            4636          63.2        3403.6        1636.2         264.6           11.6       4566.0
1 Way T&wig Mn                  3200          74.0           0.0        2240.0            0.0           0.0        2314.0
2. Way Ks"                                      0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
3. Way Cur                                      0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
4 WayUR"u                       1000          37.0            0.0         700.0           0.0           0.0         737.0
5 Way Rw.m                      4000         148.0            0.0      2300.0             0.0           0.0       2344.0
6 We, Ponpobuen                 1000           37.0           0.0         700.0           0.0           0.0         737.0
7 Way 6mwlu 633                               25.7            0.0        417.3            0.0           0.0         512.3
3. Way PM"  PAW                  360           10.6           0.0         1941.0          0.0           0.0        4to.6
3 Way mapn PAI                   425           16.7           0.0        337.6            0.0           0.0         313.2
TOW                           10661          847.3           6.3        7426.7           e.3           3.3        7766.6
IL VAAW=
1. OlDkn                         103            4.9           0.0          71.2           4.3           2.7          63.7
2 Thgp                                          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
3. Po                                           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
4. "a  PuIlen                                   0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
5. TofaA                        l65           733                        114.7          03.3          44.3        1367.6
6. _unp                                       1000          700.0         500.0         100.0          66.0        14S50
7 Pulahawi                                      00            0.0           0.0           00            0.0           0.0
62 P haigukwnn                    60            3.6          32.0         #2.0            3.6           2.0          67.2
TOt                            2343          1611.6        783.3        1731.3         131.6         17.3         36304.1



-71 -
Amiex 3
OIOOA                                                           Table 4
PU ECI  IIATEO 41OCATURE DEWLOHU PL O            ACT                                   Sheet 2
Cast Estlato * Lad Cloubmw  N  D "btpmon
06mfouur 3c.Mh (Clrgy 3)
MiWl         LCOD
Proewo a Schools               LOAD            SIO Land Cloarno.Lone Covaplfft      EquImen   Admin & O11H   Total Co1s0
Area (ha)      ("P. MO       (ke M)         tkeI M)      (Fkp. M)       (Re. M)       (Re. M1)
C. ULAWM
I Bunta I                                      00            0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           00 
2. Ton"p  (Ere)                                 0.O           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0 0
3. u    WS ...                                  0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
4.Pun Kni -                                     0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
5 LaRbUtu                       3600          165.0       2700.0        1500.0            0.0           0.0        4655.0
6. Obys                                         0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
7.Kwrontua                                     00             0.0           0 0           0.0           0.0           00 
S. O   bano                                     0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           1.0           00
*. Delo                                         0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
10. Te.                                                                                                 0.0           0.0
I1. *Andla   (Etmo)              :66           5.0        140.0         166.5           16.3           0.0         344.7
it. _loq  (IEevo                               0.0            0.0          0.o            0.0           0.0           0.0
I:. Tin,ba,                                    0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
14. Ouuaa
Total                           3l6s         170.0       2349.0        1tSS.S            13.0           0.e        4090.7
. SUL.AW
1. AWaq Hulu                                                                                                          0.0
2. Pod"   slpo                   420           1.6         304.5         160.1           21.4          10.7        446.0
3. Be"  Oadmp A)                                                                                                      0.0
4U. sIk"o                                                                                                             0.0
. Kaba  Kom
0. Kla  Kid
?. sa_e
Total                            430          10.3         304.6        13.1           21.4           10.7        406.6
1. onny -                         40           0.0          23.3           11.5           3.6           1.2         36.9
2. kite                           75            3.6          13.0          1S.0           3.6           1.0          40.0
3. Da *nul                        50            1.S          0.6           12.5           3.5           1.6          26,7
4. Sun. Sah                      256           10.1         149.0          936.          14.4           7.2         275.1
S. Tabto                          32            0.0           6.0           .S            1.1           0.6          II I
*. Poebne*                      1442          50.5          740.3        440.7           72.1         36.1         1377.2
T. Roaya *                      1070           60.2        561.1         300.6           54.0          27.0 o42.1
6. M* Nl I                       146            7.0         123.           632 I13.5                    6,          217.4
0. Mow. 11*                      240            7.0        123.5          03.3           135            602         2174
Total                           M5e0         110.6        1706.0        10014.6        173.2          07.7        6140.6
W. KAULANTAN
1. Sanocau Lado                 S54           10.1         410.4         22233            0.0          10.3         552.1
3. mromwi (R)                   1135          26.4         561.0         603.9            0.0         23.4          919.7
2. M~  (LB)                     1404          66,          600.4         402.3            0.0          37.1        I47S 6
Total                          630          100.6       lll.0         1000.3            6.0          70.0        6038.4
C. KAUMANTAN
1. TttIoh4                       103           0.0           0.0          77.2          M4e5            7.2          96 9
2. TrOnming                      562          25.7            0.0        323.2          22.1           14.1         692 1
Totel                            705          26.7           0.e         400.4          42.6          21.3         401.0
0. KAlMJATAN
1. BatulWin 1                  1210           15.0         736.6         303.3          60.5          00.3        1201.6
Molh                             541          4We          243.5         432.6         201.0          150.9       107'.0
RAU                               6            67 7        479 1         273.7           4.0            35         64 .0
W. Swuatro                      1070          64.6         1227 S        003.5           94.6           4.6       23415.1
S. umatr                        4549         190.5        2537.1        1740.0         225.1          110S.       4071.0
bmngulu                         4030          6J.2        240 0.        1636.2         364.5           11s       4566.0
LanWm                          10001         6474.           0o0        7420.7            0.0           0.0       7763.6
N.sulsmsl                       2040         151.$         762.0        1701.0         '101.6          07.0       3004.1
C. OulwesI                       3362         170.0       3040.9 0        3".            13.3           0.0       400.7
a OUwool                         435           10.6        304.5          136.1          31.4          10.7        405.0
C.E. S_4u4li                    3500          110.0       1706.0         1004.6         176.2          37.7       3140.6
W. KWlmt~ atn                  6306           16           1661.3        I 000. 5         0.0          70.3 e0es.4
C KalWln                         755         2367             0.0         400.4          42.0          21.3        401.0
S. KaNttaMn                    l130            15.0        723.0         306.6           6..                      1021.0
I-  Coat              ~~~~~~1414.3  16170,2       10413.4        1340.0         603.1       63060.0
supervision a I                    0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
Subtotal                     1414.3       11617.2       10413.4        1340.0          603.1       3s0s.
Valed     Tac (PPN) hb                   90.0         1002.5        135U.3          03.          4*.4         2562.7
Total                      1013.5       16341.7      20711.8         1433.7         740.3       40701.1
Meu: 51D  S Orvy. Il_ewigalioa a4 Deign; LCW * Lwnd Cloomne and Dw topmo
a neroWin ba "ol,; Ct 10% of ontrt4 weitdw     (weighted 7% ol ba  oa)



- 72 -
Annex3
wNwOUIA                                                          Table S
PROVINCIAL IRAIOATED AORICULTUM OIVELOP9MNT PROJECT
Cost Enuamas t    oe ultumn l Oavelepmeni
00.AMEAD SCHIMEU (Catery 1)
Province & Scheme                  CCA    Cree Trials Deme Plots tE   Train Stalf     Train PO*   Other Items   Total Costs
(ha)       (ft M)        (RP) M                      (P pM)        (AP M)         (Rp M)
R1iAU
I Kahl Samo                      1014.0           16            2.6           0.4           0.5          61            6 6 7
2UDn4u Koiwalo                    231,0           0.6           1.t           0.4           0 3           03            27
3 Pa.uh Pangean                   551.0           0.6           1.1           0.4           0.1           0.9           3 5
4. Sarang oeJunung                250.0           0.6           0.9           0 .           0.1           0.4           2 7
Tetal                            676.6            S.6           6.6           t.7           1.           6.1           7.6
W. SUMATRA
I. Indrepunr                     300.0            s6            6.4           3.0           1.0         e010          111.9
2. Sulil                         1411.0           16            0.0           0.4           1.0           2.2           6.3
3. S. Smnbr                      1031.0           *.0                         6.0           6.0          34.0          54.0
4. s6  Palano                     278.0           0.w           1.1           0.4           0.S           6.s          11 9
S. Sungel Setung                  270.0           0.6           0.9           0.4           0.S           0.4          11.I
6. *. Tonjing                     464.0           0.6           1.2           0.4           0.6           0.7           3.4
7. .Sewahe1 Pang                  710.0           0.6           1.1           0.4           0.5           0.7          121
Total                           7594.0           16.6          16.6          10.6         1.5          16s6,         a11.s
1. Air N4441 Kirl                223.0            0.6           '.1           0.4           0.S           0.3           2.7
2. Air Keiurang                   293.0           0.6           1.1           0.4           0.3           0.6          11.0
S. Alr Telo Keell                 361.0           0.6           1.1           0.4           0.3           0.            2.9
4. Air 8onghenang                 336.0           0.6           1.1           0.4           0.5           0.5           3.1
Total                                             3.4           4.4           1.6           1.4          10.6          20.8
1. Way Kulur                      643.0           0.6           1.3           0.4           0.5          10.0          12.8
2. Way Jerining                   410.0           0.6           1.1           0.4           0.3           0.2          11.6
Total                                             1.2           3.4           6.6           0.6 1e.2                   24.4
N. WSLAWESI
1. PlIthyenga                    1045.0           1.&           2.5           0.9          OS            1.6           7.0
2. Maria                         2400.0           1.6           6.3           2.6           1.4           3.0          11SA
3. Kembang lIrle                                                                                                        00
4. 4uka                           6240            0.6           2.            0.4           0.5          61.0          64.6
Total                           4359.0            4.2          10.6           0.0           2.2          66.6         86.7
C. SULAWEll
1. Sorone                        697.0            0.6           1.4           0.4           0.3          10,1          12.8
2, bangga                         35.0            0.6          I1l            0,4           0.3           9.5          11.9
3. Parigi Kanan                   500 0           0.6           1.3           0.4           03            0.8           3.4
4. Sbuyu                          250.0           0.6           13            04            03           794           820
Total                           1656.0            2.4           5.1           1.6           1.2          990.         110.1
S. SULAWESI
I Lakijo                         1258.0           1.6           3.0           1.3           0.5           1.0           8.5
2. Leang Longrong                 68 0                          09            0.9           0.5           1.3           3.6
3. Camba Jaway                    741.0                         00            0.0           0.0           1.1           3.4
4.SiangKokoV                      460.0           08            op            0.4           0.1           0.7           3.1
Total                           2327.0            2.4           5.?           S.8           2.0           6.0          18.6
*.E. SULAWESI
I Woblui                          351.0           0.6           1             0.4           0.4           0.5           3.0
2. Watajbngg                      242.0           0.6           1.1           0.4           0.3           0.4           2.6
3. Andowergga                     366.0           0.6           1.1           0.4           0.4           9.5          12 0
4. Wonco 111                      136.0           0.6           0.9           0.4                         0.3           2.2
S. Katanogna                     435.0            0.6           1.1           0.4           0.3           9.7          12.1
Total                           1502.0            0.0           6.6           2.0           1.4          20.4          32.1
SUMMARY
AcOh                                00            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           00
Riau                             2076.0           3.6           5.6           1 7           1.6          63.1          75 6
W.Sumaitra                       7594.0          16.6          13.6          10.0          10.5         160.5         211 .6
S. Sumatra                          0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
S.ngkulu                            0.0           2.4           4.4           1.6           1.4          10            20.6
Lmnt"rq                             0.0           1.2           2.4           0.2           0.8          10.2          24.4
N.Subsw4el                       4359.0           4.2          10.9           3.9           2.2          65.5          U.7
C. SU&w                          10556.0          2.4           1.1           1.6           1.2          99.6         110.1
S .Sulwesi                       3327.0           2.4           5.7           S.1           2.0           *.0          16.6
S.E. Sulhwl                      1532.0           3.0           5.3           2.0           1.4          20.4          32 1
W. Kalmentan                        0.0           0.0           0.0          00 00       00                          00
O.Kallmantan                        0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
S. Katmantun                        0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
20444.0
Sae Cost                         36.0           .2           21.1          211,11       444.3         $79.7
Supervislon b/                     3.6           S.3           2.5           2.1          44.4          s6.0
Subtotal                        36.6         56.6           27.6          23.2         463.7         637.7
V4b d    Tax (PPN) c r                     2.8           4.1           1.0           1.6          34.2          44 6
Total                        42.4          62.6          29.6          24.8         622.0         682.3
aI Dnonaonston plote or srnmtr scitvhy
tv 10% of base ooss. cd  10% of oorttrad works (weighted 7% of bte Cost)
CCA * Cutivable oommsnd Area. FGS . Farmer Groups



-73 -                                                            I ~Anex 3
Table 6
PROtWCIAL IRRIgAI^O 411111CUILTURE 11OLOENT1111111 PO)CT                                 SheetI
Coost laimatos . Agrioulural Do"lopmont
"NOERED" SCHOEME (C.o.y 1)
Province & scheme             Area Crop Trials DOmo Plote Trin SotSn   Train Pr    EqulpmontsooOthsr  Total Coal$
(ha)     (Pp M)     ftp M)       Mp M)      (RpP M)     MF1)        (FpP M)     (Flo M)
I Trlonggeding                1900         I           46          13          10         0.0         00           7
2 Alus Uiby                   1000         1.8         2.5         1. 0.6                 6.0         6.0        I 1
3 Panrsdr                     2641    2     .6         66          7.          1.4         0.0         0.0        16a
Total                        $110          7.2        16.4         6.6         2.6         6.0        6.0        41.3
I*AU
I Napon                        466         0.6        11.3         0.4         0.6         30        s6.7        72.5
2 Doraran                      300         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.3         0.6         0.0         2.9
6 Metoro                       120         06          00          0.4         00          0.2         0.0        2.1
4 Soi Tanfg                    6565        0.6         1.1         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.0         3.4
Total                        1466          2.4         4.4         1.6         1.6         4.6       66.7        60.
W. 111S1ATRA
I& s. oi 11                   423          0.6         1.2         0.4         0.6         0.6        0.0         3.1
2 Swtgo Am                     764         0.6         1.4         0.4         0.5         3.0         6.9       12.6
3 BPa"no                                   0.6         1.2         0.4         0.5         0.6         0.0         3.2
4 Kayu SBakicuk                379         0.6         1.2         0.4        03          0.5         0.0         3.0
S S. an                        437         0.6         1.2         0.4         0.5         6.0         6.4        12.1
6 8. TlVrarn                  1551         1.6         2.9         1.6         1.0         0.0         2.4         9.0
7. Lubuk Tabuan                254         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.3         S.0         6.4       11.6
6. Sungol Somei                466         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.6         3.0        11.4        17.0
0. Air Amno                    306         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.5         S.0        656         12.1
10. T Kamunint                 065         0.6         2.5         0.6         0.6         0.0         1.5        6.0
11, 9. Mtipi                  1051         1.8         2.5         0.9         0.6         3.0         7.6       16.3
12. Sitiung II
Total                        6640          6.0        17.4         1.1         6.4       16.6        40.1       107.3
S SUMTNA
IBumri Agung                   590         0.6         1.3         0.6         0.6         0.0         0.9        4.2
2. Air Doa I                  1370         1.6         3.4         0.6         0.6         0.0         2.1         0.0
3. Mogang Tek4i               1360        36.6         3.3         1.3         0.6         0.0         1.0       45.0
4. Air Gil0                   000         0.6         1.3         0.6        05          0.0         0.9         4.2
S. Akin Due                    220         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.5         0,0         0.3         79
6. Air Ge 11?                             3.6         2.6         0.6         1.4         0.0       102.7       111.4
7. Air Satan                  11?5         1.8         2.9         0.9         1.0         0.0         1.7         63
S. Air Malu  I                 560         0.6         1.3         0.4         0.5         3.0         6.8        12.6
9. K.ir 1                      351         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.5         3.0       686          12.2
9. Karie II                    324         086         1.1         0.5         0.5         0.0         0.5         32
10. Ar Tupak                   700         0.6         1 7         0.9         0.5         0.0         1.1        4.8
11. Air Tak Erikan              33         OS          1.1         0.4         0.3         0.0        0.4         2.8
12. Air Dorms II              942          0.6         1.5         0.4         0.6         0.0       16.6        19 8
13. Air Ksnir                  463         0.6         1.3         0.4         0.5         0.0        0.5         3.3
Total                       10394         61.6        25.2         0      .6               6.0      142.3       243.7
!ENtKULU
1. Muko-Muko Kid              4504         5.4        16.9         7.9         3.8        42.0       *4.0       1720
2. As Sutup Kanan              350         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.5         0.0         0.5        3.1
3Air Sam.Drra                  207         06          1.1         0.4         0.3         0.0         0.3        27
4 Air Muai KoaJai             1180         563         0.0         6.3         5.7         0.0        28 6       47.9
5  Air Katepang                253         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.3         3.0         6.4       11 8
6 AirNasalKanan                173         06          1.1         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.3        20
7 Air Nanto                    558         0.6         1.4         0.4         0.5         3.0        7.0        12.9
6 AirS. Ketoneng               314         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.5         0.0         0.5         3.1
9 Air Soluma                  5539         5.4        19.3         6.6         3.8         0.0        13.6        489
10. Lais                      2250         3.6        16.0         5.7         3.4         0,0        6.7        36.3
Total                       15328         2.31        62.0        30.6        16.6       46.0       16.1        340.7
LMPU4S
1. Way Tulung Mas             3200         3.6         7.2         0.0         1.4         0.0         1.6       13.8
2 Way Kotibung                150                     0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        00
3. Way Curup                  2220                     0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0
4 Way UmWu                    7500         3.6        1.90         1.3         3.4         3.0        13,5       43.7
S Way P rom                 22000          8.4        61.7         4.6        11.0        16.0        36.0      10S 9
6 Way Pongubuan               5000         3.6        126          1.3         2.4         0.0         7.5        274
7. Way Somanpca               2063         1.6         5.0         0.4         1.0         0.0         3.0       11.2
S. Way Padng Ratu             1030         1.6         2.5         0.4         0.5         3.0         7.5        15.7
9 Way Nagara Ratu              100         1.6         2.5         0.4         0.5         6.0         7 5        16 7
Total                       45666         24.6 1       0.4         6.6       20.2        10.0        76.6       240.4
N. 111LAWEM1
i ODiinga                     1046         0.6         1.S         0.4         0.3         3.0        72         12.
2. Tongop                      623         0.6         2.1         0.9         0.6         00          1.2        5.3
3 Pontak                       653         0.6         1.2         0.9         0.6         3.0         6.7       12.9
4. Sulu Pioiaton               543         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        00
S. Torout                     7600         36         191          1.3         3.8         3.0        23.7       54.5
S. loao                                    0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0        00
7. Pulahonti                  863          0.6         2.4         0.4         0.3         3.0       37.3        44.0
B. Pinogaluman                 313         0.6         1.1         0.4         0.3         0.0         0.5        26
Total                       12060          6.6        27.2         4.3         5.7       12 0        76.6       132.4



-74 -                                          ~ ~~~~~~~Anr,ex 3
1111=0111111111A                                  ~~~Table 6
PO 0AL IOATED AGUCULTU    O           DtOPIT POACT                                         Sheet 2
Cost iltkim . t     Agrohultur  Dolopmnt
01oimm1r  C11111 (Category i)
Province & 0bhme              Area Crop Trisk ome  Plots Train Staf"  Troln Pio  Equlpment ledhOther  Total Costs
(he)     (Fl. )       F. M)      (P  M)      (F. M)      (F. M)       (F . M)     (Fi. M)
C. OULAWI
1 Bunta I                     2307          1.6         5.9         1.6         1.4         0.0        64.0        74.9
a Tomp. (Eror)                 6            0.6          0          0           0           0S0 010                 3.4
3 8au9u WS                    6160          3.6        19.5         O.          4.S         6.0        24          59.3
4 Puna Kin                    2`Sa2         1           11          0           1.0         S0         t2          300
5 Lambunu                      000          3.         151          1           2.         1.0         24.0        62.4
6. Oht                         541          0.6         1.3         O.4         0.6         0.0         0.6         3.6
7.Kororwuat                    4             |01       1.1         0.4         0.1         0.0         0.7          3 3
6 Oonjone                      377          0.          12          04          03          0.0         0.6         3.1
9. Obo                                      0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0,0         0.0
10. Torue                                   0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
lt. Andoles  (Error)           S0           0.6         1.1         0.4         0.4         3.0         6.9        124
12. Malor. (ErTof)             710          0.6         1,4         1.3         0.5         0.0         11          4.9
13. Taftarana                  963          0.6         2.5         1.3         0.5         0.0         1.5         6.4
14. Gwmnsa
Totel                        3l676         16.6        6.6.        11.4        12.6        l6.6       126.        2614.1
S. SUfLAWESI
1. Apwang HuAu                t 100         1.t         2.5         0,5         0 4         0.0         t.2 ea9
2. Pang sa4                   6493          3.6        12.1         2.6         2.9         0.0         *.6        31.0
3Sedan     da  A)            54106          0.0        67.2        27.5        27.3         0.0         0.0        151.6
4 Malo                        6721          0.0        12.0         5.7         *1a         0.0         0.0        23.9
5. Kalne Kan
6. Klisaua Kid
7. Swoa
Total                        $6326          6.4       123.6        66.6        66.6         6.6        11.6       213.5
6.L SULAWUE
i Sony                         255          0.          11          0.4         0.3         0.0         0.5         2.9
2 faite                        251           6          1 1         0.4         03          3.0         6.4        116
3. Dsnamui                     236         Oe          1.1         0.4         0.3         0.0         0.4         2.8
4. Sim. Sawh                   566          0.          1.3         04          0.3         3.0         6.:        12.4
5. Taabonto                    200          0.6         1.0         0.4         02          0.0         02          2.4
6. Poleang                    2531          3,6         6.3         0.4         1.0         6.0        75.5        92.6
7. Rorays                     1393         06          1.1         0.4         0.3         0,0         0.6         3.0
6. Moilb  I                    433          0.          1.0         0.4         0.3         0.0        O.          2.8
6. Mowis 1                     461         S0.          1.0         0.4         0.3         0.0         0.5         2.
Total                         6333          6.4        1s.6         6.          6.6        12.6        61.4 143.7
W. KAUMAMrAN
1 SAn uLedo                   1239          0.6         1.4         1.3         0.5         3.0         7.5        14.3
2 Marowi                      1351          3.0         3.4         0.9         1.0        33.0        67.6        109.1
2. Marown                     1464          1.6         3.6         0.0         1.0         6.0         2.2         14.
Total                        4074          6.4         5.6         2.2         2.5        42.0        77.5       138.2
C. KAUTSANT
i Taloh.n                      974          1.o         2.2         0.9         0.5        36.0         1.4       102.
2. Trinuing                    667          0.6         1.4         04          0.5         6.0         4.0        12.9
Total                         1665          2,4         3.6         1.3         1.0        42.0        66.4       1 1.7
6.KALUANTAN
1. Balulicin I                1417         3            3.7         0.4        0.         56.0        62.2       120.1
Ach                              0          7.2        13.4          6          29          60          6.0        43
P iau                         146S          24          4.4         16  1.3                 4.         6.7         66.
W.Sumauu                      6640          960        17.4         6 .         5.4        16.6        46.1       107.3
S. Sumntan                   10654         51.         25.2          6          6           6.0       142.3       243.7
fingkulu                     15326         23.3        62.0        30.5        16.6        46.0       156.1       340.7
LAWOWtg                      45663         24.6        60.4         6.6        20.2        30.0        76.8       240.4
N8ulawbsi                    12060          6.6        27.2         4.3         5.7        12.0        76.6       132.4
C. Suiitee                   22670         15.0        15.0        11.4        12.8        30.0       139.9       264.1
8 Subawi                     66326          5.4       1233.        36.5        36.6         0.0        11.0       213.5
$.E. SuUwe                    6333           4         150          3.          3.3        13.0        61.4       133.7
W. Kanlmantan                 4074          5.4         6.6         2.          2.5        42.0        77 5       136.2
C.Kalimantan                  los5          2.4         3.6         1.3         1.0        42.0        65.4       116.7
S. Kalimantan                 1417          3.0         3.7         0.4         0.        50.0        62.2       120.1
166266
SW Cot                      164.5       435.7       126.6       120.3   302.1          1022.6      2176.0
SuporvisionaI                 16.5        440         12.7        12.0        30.2       102.3       217.6
Subtotal                   161.0       463.7       139.3       132.3       332.3      1125.1      2393.6
Vaob addd Tax (PPN) b/                12.7        33.6         9.7         9.3        23.3        76.6        16/.6
Subtotal                   163.6       *17.6       146.6       141.6       366.6      1203.5      2561.2
NoIse  A/ 10% of ban cosa;  S 10% of oonbaMd wo*s (wogloel 7% of bae cuoa).
FGt  Famer Groups



- 75 -
IIDONOIA                                                              Anex  3
PROVlINKCIAL INNiGATED AORILTUM DEVELOPMINT PtttCT                                            Table 7
Cost ttb1iate. - Land Titing and CeftfatiGtot
"HEADr SCHEMES (Cepgry 
Province & Scheme                           Cadeotral          Laow
Area        Survey Autherletloe   Corfelelflet      tqutment          Other   Total Coet
(ha)       (Rp. M)        (A, pd)      ({M th          UPo M)        (.hI)         t  M
RIAU
1. Ka&tI Sarm                                      0.0 00                     0 0            0.0           0.0 00
2.0arau Kolornjo                    231           16.7           4.0           1.4            6.7           6.7          35.5
3. Pauth Pangotn                    266           43.5          10.5           3.6           17.4          17.4          92 4
4. 841wang Gunung                   250           18.1           4.4           1.0            7.0           7.0          37.5
Total                              766           76.6           18.6           6.0          11.1           31.1         166.4
W. SUMATRA
I. lndrapurn                       3340 t5.4                    42.1           6.3           30.0          23.5         156.3
2. Sullti                          1461           31.4          1s.7           S.7            0.0          31.4          65.2
3. B. SangSir                      1031           25.4          13.0           2.6            0.0          31.4          72.4
4. SWhj P bno                       276           10.4           3.6           0.7            0.0          12.3          27.0
5. Sungel Setung                    270           10.5           3.4           0 7            0.0          12.9          27.5
6. S. Tanring                       464           25.2          10.6           :.e            0.0           1.9          40.6
7. .Saweh Paan                      750           16.3           9.5           1.6            0.0          15.5          45.2
Total                             7624          1176.          100.6          20.6          30.0          126.6         467.1
titmtLU
1. Air Nael KlI                     223            3.9          11.2           3.0            2.1           0.0          20.2
2 Air Keduang                       306            5.4          15.3           3.9            2.9           0.0          27.5
2 Air Talo Kochl                    361            63           11            4.6            3.4           0.0          32.6
4. Air S.ngkenang                   350            6.1          17.6           4.4            3.3           0.0          31.4
Total                             1240           21,7           62.2          16.1          11.7            C.0         111.7
LAMPUNO
1. Way Kulur                        200            7.5           3.1           2.2            0.0           32           16.0
2. Way Jerinjlng                    200            7.5           3.1           2.2            0.0           3.2           16.0
Total                              400           1t.0            6.2           4.4           0.0            6.4          *2.0
N. SULAWESI
1. Plohaycnge                      1045           -14.3         23.0           6.3            7.3           4.5          05.4
2. Maria                           1090          103.5          43.6          11.9           13.9           6.7         161.6
3 Komatng Yana                      322           16.7           7.1           1.0            2.3           1.4          29.4
4. SuAo                             677           35.2          14.9           4.1            4.7           2.9           1.6
Total                             4034          209.7          66.9           24.2         23.2            *7.6         368.4
C. SULAWESI
1. Bomt                             tO97          36 2          15.3           4.0           4.9            3.0          63.4
2. Bengga                           359           16 7           70            2.1            2.5           1.4          32.6
3. Parigi Kanan                     500           26t0          11.0           3.0            3.5           2.0          45.5
4. Sbuyu                            250           13 0           55            1.5            1.6           1.0          22 6
1606          93.9           39.7          10.6           12.7           7.4         164.3
Total
S. SULAWESI
I LLkejo                           1256          65.3           27.6           7.5           6.0            53          111.7
2. Lang Longrong                    a68           451           19.1           5.2            4 0           3.7          77.1
3. Camra leways                     741           36.5          16 -           4.4            3.5           3.1          65.8
4 Slang Kato V                      460           2?9           10.1           2.8            2.2           2.0          41.0
Total                             3327          52.8           73.1           19.9          16.7           14.1         296.6
se. SULAWESI
1 Wobti                             351           16 3           7.7           2.1            4.2           1.6          33.9
2 WatUbangga                                       0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0          0C0            0.0
3 Andowngga                         368           10.0           6.1           2.2            4.4           1.7          35.4
4 Wonco III                         1@9            72            3.1           0.6            1.7           0.6           13.4
5. Katangran                                       00            0.0           0 0            0.0           0 0           0.0
Total                              86P           44.6           19.9           6.1          10.3            3.9          *2.7
SUMMARY
Acoh                                  0            0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0
W. Sumatra                         7624          176 6         100 0          20.6           30.0         128.0         457 2
Riau                                769           78.3          16.9           6.0           31.1          31.1         165 4
ongkitulu                          1240           21.7          62.2          16.1           11.7           0.0         111.7
S. Sumattr                            0            0.0           0.0           00             0.0           (.0           0.0
Lomniung                            400           150            62            4.4            0.0           6.4          32.0
N Sulaweo                          4034          200.7          66.6          24.2           26 2          17.5         366.4
C. SutaweOt                        1604           93.9          39.7          10.6           12.7           7.4         164.3
S. Sulewl                          3327          172.6          731           10.0           15.7          14.1         2956
SE. SUlaweo                         656           445           164            51            10.3           3.0          t27
S. Kalmantan                          0            0.0           00            0.0            00            0.0           0.0
C. Kalimantan                         0            00            0.0           0.C            00            00            00
W  Karmantatn                         0            0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0           00
20066
as" Cost                        612.5         406.7          107.1         130.7         200.3         1677.3
Suporeion a                         0.0           00            0o             0.0           00            00
S_btohel                       812.5          406.7         107.1         139.7          209.3        1677.3
Vals added Tax (PPN) bI                    56.9          266            7.5           6.8           14.7         117.4
Total                       660 4          437.3         114.6         149.5          224 0        1704.7
Nota ,      Inokiuhs. b/ 10% of cntrcted woa (w"ghtd 7% df bar Cot)



- 76-
Annex 3
DiDESiA                                                         Table 8
PROVICLAL IRRiCATED AGRCULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                                     Sheet 1
Cost Estimoteo  Land Titling S Ceriftoation
"DEFERREr SCHEbiES (Categery N)
Province A Scheme            Areaoadaotral Survoyand Aulhofizarn   Co-iRfcation  Equipment   Other home   Total Costs
ACEH                         (ha)        (Rp. M)        (RP M)        (Rp M)        (Rp. M)        (Bp M)        (Rp M)
1. Tri.nggading             1909           993            420           II S          100             81          1709
2. Aiu Ubay                  1000          52 0           22 0           e.0          100 4o                        94 5
3. Pandrah                  2641          137 3           so6           15.8           0 0           10 5         221 5
Totel                       8550          25C.6         122.1           33.3          20.0          23.2          457.2
RIAU
INagadng                     46             00             0.0           0.0 00                      00            0.0
2 Doranan                     300            00            00            0.0            00            00            0.0
3. Mantaro                    120            0.0           0.0           0.0           00             00            00
4. Se Tambang                556             00            00            0.0            00            00            00r
Total                       14U4            0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0
W. SUMATRA
IS. Sangki 11                423            0.0            00            0.0           00             00            0.0
2 Sungar Aro                  754            0.0           0.0           0.0            00            00            0.0
3 8Panang                                    00            0.0           0.0           00             00            00
4. Kayu Bakicuik              379            0.0           0.0           0.0            0 0           0 0           0.0
S.B. B8awn                    437            00            00            0.0            0.0           0.0           00
6. B. Tingkaran              1551            0.0           0 0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0
7 Lubuk Tbuan                 254            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           00
*. SungoiSainek               456            0.0           00            00             0.0           0.0           00
9 Air Amo                     30             0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0 00                     0.0
t0. T. Kemuring             9g5             00             0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0
i1. B Mimpi                 1051            0.0            0.0           0.0           00             0.0           0.0
12. Sitiung tl
.tat                       $840            0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0
a SUMATRA
IBumi Agung                 590           15.3          109            6.5           0 0            2.7          35.4
2. Ar Dora I                 1379          35.9           25.4          15.2           0 0            52           52.7
3 Meogang Tingtip           1389           36 1           25.7          15.3           0.0            6.3          83.4
4. Air Gila                  900           23.4           16.6           5.0           C.0            4.1          54.0
S. Alun Dua                  220             5.7           4.1           2.4           00             1.0          13.2
*. Air Gaogs                 192S          69.6           4C.5          295.           00            12.1         160.7
7. Air Satan                1175           35.1           26.3          16.1            00            0.0          77 5
S. AO Malur     I            So5            130            9 7           Go            0.0            00           28.7
9 Kciel                       351           ce.6           72            4.4           00             00           21.2
9. Kasie 11                   324           11.2           8.4           5.1            00            00           24.7
10. ir Tupak                 700           15.2           130            7.7           0.0            31           42.0
11  ,TkBerklwn                33            57             62            36            00             1S           200
it. Air Dnoe 11              942           24 5           17.4          10.4           0 0            4 2          s5 s
13. Air Knis                 463           12 0            5.6           5 1           0.0            2.1          27 5
Total                      10C54          315.3         220.0          137.2           0.0          43.3          727.5
BENW0LU
i Muko-Muko Kin             7483          132.7          226 3          37.2          72.0           22.4         490 6
2. Air Saup Knan              350           6 1           17 6           0 7           3 4            1 2          29 0
3. Air SermDnas              207            36            10.4           1 0           20             16           1e6
4 Air Muu  Kojalo            1180          20 7           59.3           5.9          11.2            9 7         1065 
5. Air Ketapang              253           4*4            12 7           1.1           2.4            1.7          22 3
6. Air Nasal Kanan            173            3.0           8.7           0 9            1 7           1 4          15.7
7. Air Nanto                 55'            11.3          32.5           2.0           6.t           4*6           57.3
8. Air B Ketenng              314           5.5           1558           1.6           3.0            2.5          28 4
9 Air Seluma                5539          134.7          275.2          27.6          73 0           45 6         559 1
10. Lais                    6733          117.6          29i.5          11.5          63.6           15.6         503 0
Total                      22790          43*9.         950.0           90.2         238.4         1090.        1830.5
Annes 2
1 Way Tuiung Mas            3200          118.6           49.6          30.0          31.8           23.4         253.4
2. Way Ketibung             1550            0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           0.0
3 Wa. Curup                 2220            0.0            0.0           0.0           0.0            0.0           00
4 Way Upu                   7500           37.1           15.5           9.4          14.5           10.4          56t 9
S Way Rarem -              22000          148 2           62 0          35.8          45.0           24,5         315 5
6 Way Penpbuan              5000           37.1           15.5           0.4          14.5           10.4          56.9
7. Way Swengka              2063           25.6           10.8           6.7           5.0            7.0          55 1
 Way Padang Rtu             1030           103            4.3           2.5           00             4.1          21.2
C Way Ngam nRatu             1100           15.5           5.5           3.7           00             45           30.6
Total                      45663          092.7         164.3           97.6         110.5          *4.3          549.6
N. SULAWEW
1. Didinwa                  1045           33.3           14.1           3.5           4.5            2.5          5. 5
2. Tongap                    823           28.0           11.5           3.2           2.0            2.3          47.3
3 Pontak                     653           34.0           14.4           3.9           46             28           59.7
4 Sulu Paslaten               543          12.1            51            1.4            16            IA           21.3
S. Toraut                   7500          4056           171.           46.5          546            10.9         659.5
Oongo                                                   240.0         240.0                          0.0         450.0
7 Pulahenti                   883          147             6.2           1.7           0.0            1.2          23.8
8 Pinogaluman                 313           16.3          16.3           1.9           0 0            1 7          36.2
Total                      12060          544.0         476.5          202.7          67.5           12.e        141S.3



- 77 -
Annex 3
RMX*KU                                                       Table 8
PHOICAL ItOATED AOiCULTUM AlLO_    POJT                                            Sheet 2
Cost Estimates - Land Titling & Conrtibttein
'EFERPRED' SCHEOt (Cagery U)
Provineo G Scheme           Area adatral Surey anrd Authorizafn  Certification  Equipment   aher items   Total Costs
(ha)       (Rp M)        (RP i)        (P M)        (RP b')       (Rp M)        (RP M)
C. SULAWESi
1B unta I                  2307          1196.          S0.O         13.6          16.2          902          20.9
2 Tompa (Eror)              6             36.4          15.4           4.2          4.6           2.7          63.6
3. Sau  U/S                610           425           Iao.2         4.            57.3          32.6         745 3
4.Puna Kmi                 2162          112.4          47.6          13.0         15.1           9.4         197.5
S Lambunu                  6000          312.u         132.0         36.0          42.0          26.1         546 1
6 Olays                     541           2S.1          11.0           32            3.8          2.2          49.2
7.Korontua                  401           20.9           6.6           2.4          2.8           1.7          36 6
a OCon"ne                   377           136            6.3           2.3           2.6         1i'           34.3
9. Detgo                                   0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
10. Tomu                                   OU            0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
11. Antdolea  (Error)       500           26.0          11.0           3.0          0.0           2.0          42.0
12 Malont  (Error)          710           36.0          15.6           4.3          0.0           2.6          56.6
13. Tambaana                983           51.1          21.6           5.9          0.0           3.6          62.5
14. Gumbrt
Total                     22676         116e.2        566.2         187.3         144.7          34.8        6066.6
S. 8ULAWEi
1 .Aparang Huiu            1006           52.4          22.2           6.0          4.6           4.3          69.7
2. Padaring Sepa           6463          337.6         142.6          39.0         29.7          26.0         575 1
3. Sadang (pad     A)     54106         261.55        11i60.3       324.6         247.5         226.6        4804.7
4 Maio"                     721          314.9         133.1         36.3           0.0          24.2         50.55
S. Kabanra Kanan
6. Kaleana Kiri
7-an
Total                     66326       $616.4         1488.4         435.6         262.6         261.6        5676.6
--L SULAWEU
I Son,y                     256            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
2 Baito                     251            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
3 Danamulya                 236            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
4. Sim. Bawah               56s           26 5          12 5           3.4          6 .           2.5          54 6
5 Tachonto                  200           10.4           4.4           1.2          2.4           0.9          19.3
6. Poleang                 2531           $5.6          36.3           6.6         19.6           7.6         15.5
7. Roraya                  1393           29.6          12.5           3.4          6.6           2.4          54.7
a Mowila I                  433            7.4          3S2            0.9          1.7           0.7          136
93 Mowila il                461            7.5           3.2           0.          1.$           0.7          14.1
Totel                     $666           170.3          72.1        1.7           66.6          14.6         316.3
W. KALUMANTAN
I Sanggu Ledo              1239           52.1         22.0           6.0          22.0           5.1         107.2
2 Merowi                   1351           70.3          29.7           6.0         52.0           6.0         160
2 Merowi                   1464           77.2          32.7           6.3          0.0           5.3         124.7
Total                     4074          1n6.6          64.4         22.e          74.0          1e.0         366.6
C. KAUMA4TA4
i Tatiohn                   976           500           21 5          5.6           0.0           3 9          82 2
2 Tnnsing                  6*7            35.7          15.1           41           0.0           2.8          57 7
Total                      166            66.6         66.6          10.6           6.6           6.7         136.9
6. KAlMANTAN
1 Batulicin i              1417          73.7          13.2           6.6          66.6           7.6         154.3
Ac.h                      s5O            266.6         122 1          33.3         20.0          23.2         407.2
Riau                       1464            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           e.e
W. Sumatra                 5640            0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0           6.6
S Sumatnr                 10654          316.3         226 0         137.2          0.0          43.3         727.6
Benorwlu                  22730          436.S         653.0         30.         23U.4         1C0.3        1666.6
La mppA                   45563          362.7         164.3         67.5         110.6          64.3         646.6
N sijbws                  12060          S44.0         479.5        302.7          67.           22.6        1416.6
C. Suiwei                 22670         1166.2         503.2         137.2        144.7          94.3        2066.6
S Sulawie                 68326         3516.4        1488.4        405.6         262.0         283.3       $6676.
S E. Sukwi                 6333          170.3          72.1          19.7         36.3          14.6         116.2
W  KaMmantn                 1417          73.7          13.2          '1.6         66.0           7.          164.6
C Kailmaroan               1665s           6.6          36.6          10.0          0.0           6.7         166.6
S, Kalimantan              4074          166.6          84.4         22.6          74.0          19.0         656.6
204666
Bae  Cowt                     7221.2        4146.6       1166.3        1046.6         7e.$        14e76.7
Supervision          a          722.1         414.6         12S.0         104.3          70.9        1437.3
Subtotal                     7641.6        4666.4       1366.8        1146.6         776.6       Iola1.$
Vale added Tax (PPN)         b          5564.0        31t.2          07.0         60.3          54.6        1107.2
T*tal                     6406.4        4676.6        1463.4       1327.6         884.4       16236.7
n     aeso / 10% of bass co Wa,    10% of coaed wos (ei   7% of bas os).



- 78 -
MM.s                                                            Annex 3
PtVIOA  mtRMMTDO tMCULTU   DIV AtUL EtfT Pt CT                                         Table 9
Coat Eilm4tose   Envlvonmael Pro"tlon
t4WEAr SCNEMgS (Colgry 1)
potot      Stur,on   S.Il irebon   foret Bordr            Total
ProvimoA Scheme                 LC&D Arne     Inentofy       of Lotflu        Control       Survey         Costs
RItAU
1. Ka  Samo                           207          3*0              1s SO1                     O's          5*2
2Danau Koalor                                                                                   0.0          0 0
* PmJhPan""                           250           25             1I             01           05             4
4. SrangrqOunung                                    0.0             00            0.0          0.0           00 
Total                                547            s.a             2.7           0.3          1.1           g.e
W. SUMAATRA
1. lndronun                         1is"           10.0             O'S           O.0          3.O          *3.2
2. Suti *                                           0.0             0.0           0.0           0.0           0.0
& B. SolI t                          1031          10.8             5.2           0.          2.1          16.0
4. Sam P.1.0 bno                                    1.0             0.l           0.1           0.4          3.3
S. Sta Sw                              42           0.4             0.2           0.0          0.1           0.7
6. S Tanjung                          1t1           1.0             1.0           0.1           0.4           3.3
7. SOawath Paecn                                    0.0             0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0
Total                               2UO            UO.             1627           1.7          6.7          O6.C
1 Air Naal KIt                        107           1.7             0.6           01           0.3           2.0
2. Ar Kduang                           S1           0 S             0.4           0.0           0.2          1.4
3. Ai Talo KIl                         74           0.7             0.4           0.0          0.             1.3
4. Air4beniong                        20            3.0             115           01           0.6           5.2
Ttl                                  610            6.S             2.           0.            1.2          10.6
Lw.
1 Way Kutur                          200            2.0             1.0          0.1           0.4           3.1
2. Way Jrhtlnq                        200           2.0             1.0           0.1          0.4          53.
TStl                                 400            4.0             2.0          0.2           O.0           7.0
N. SULAWESI
1. Pttohauyw
2. Mwrt                               100           1.0             0.1          0.1           0.2            1.8
S. Kafntng M*o                                      0.0             0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
4. btuo                               so60          3.0             1.t           0.2         O.            6.a
Total                                485            4.0            0.4           0.2           1.0           5.6
C. SULAWISI
1. Barone                                           0.0             0.0          00            0.0           0.0
2. twgg                                             00              0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
3. Prg Kanon                                        0.0             0.0 0e0                    00            0.0
4. Sbuyu                                            0.0             0 0           0.0          0.0           0.0
Total                                   0           0.0             0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
S. SULAWESI                                         0.0             0.0           0.0          0 0           0.0
1. Ltako                                            0.0             00           00            0.0           0.0
2. Leong Lonong                                     0.0            C0             0.0          0.0           0.0
3. Cot Jawaya                                       0.0             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
4. BUM KoV                                          0.0             00            00           0.0           0.0
Total                                   0           0.0             0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
6.1. SULAWESI
1. Walol                              140           1.4             0.7          0.1           0.3           2.5
2. WaI*atg                             04           1.0             0.1           0.0          0.2           1.7
S. Andowu_gg                                        0.0             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
4. Wonto III                                        0.0             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.
S Kuao                                              0.0             0.0           0.0          00            0.0
Total                                222            2.4            1i2           0.1           0.           4.2
Aof                                                 O.C             0.0           0.0           0.0          0.0
Rlau                                  47           6.5             2.7           0.3          1.1 .6
W. Sufntoar                          3346          33.             16.7           1.7          67           06.6
S. sums"                                0           0.0             0.0          0.0           0.0           0.0
Donglit.-                             616           6.2             3.1           0.5          1.2          10.0
LWgwtg                                400           4.0             2.0           0.2          0.6           7.0
N. Suliweal                           466           4.0             2.4           0.2          1.0           * 5
C. sulwol                               0           0.0             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
a Sutowalw                              0           0.0             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
a E. S&                               2 23          1.4             1.2           0.1          0.1           4.2
W Kabrnua                               O           0G.             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
C Kalmnutn                              0           0.0             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.0
S. Kobmtona                             0           0.0             0.0           0.0          0.0           0.5
Ba" coo                         66.4            20.6           3.0         11.0          56.6
Supervlsoln          a4           5.6                           0.3           1.1           7.0
Subtotal                       6.              20.2           6.1         12.4         163.7
Vale d  Tax (PPN)                                                      0.2           0.0           0.e
TONl                         $2.0           00.3           0.*          18.0         106.6
Feorn May oM     LC D mm by tV.10000 pW   I        t          Lo       :. LC  O    by P. VJ OO po  la.
S4ll EroI  Cotrl -,wy cos:. LCOD ova by Rp2. am par 1tawu  Fotam Bum   S y boas. LCSD  m by p. NO pet he
W 10%  dltr *WIbdb; W 10% of owUotd Wot



- 79 -
Annex 3
IIONEIA                                           Table 10
PROVINCIAL IRHIGATED ACRiCULTURE DEVELOPMENT PRO.ECT                       Sheet 1
Cost Eatimetes   Envlrenmental Protection
"DEfERRED' SCHEMES (CN.gory N)
Forest   Supervision    Seil Erosion   Forest Border        Total
Province 1 Scheme             LC&D Area      Inventory    of Logging        Control         Survey         Costs
(ha)                       .          .    t
ACEH
I Tnenggad,ng                       180             I 8           09             0 1           0 4            3 2
2 Aki Ubay                           as             0.0           0 4            00            0 2            t 5
3 Pandrah                           275             2             1 4            01            0 6            4 8
Total                               541            5.4            2.7           0.5            1.1            9.5
RiAU
1 Nagefng                           478             4 5           2 4            0 2           1 0            8 4
2 Doranan                                           00            00             0.0            00            00
3. Mantaro                                          0.0            00            0.0 00                      0 
4 Si Tainbang                       361             3 6           1.5            0.2           0 7            6.3
Total                               929            5.4            4.2            0.4           1.7           14.7
W. SMATRA
1S. Sargki 11                       173             1.7           0.9            0.1            0.3           30
2. Sungi Aro (?)                    214             2.1           1.1            01            0 4            3 7
3. B.Paniang                                        00            0.0 0o0 0o0                                 00 
4. Kayu Bakcuik                     206             2.1           1.0            0.1           0 4            3 6
5.B. Eawan                          282             2 5           14             0.1            0.6           4 9
6S. T,ngaeran                                       0.0           0 0            0 0           0.0            0 0
7. Lutu Tauan                       147             1.5           0?7            0.1           0 3            2.6
5. Sungei Samsk                     359             3.7           1.5            0.2            0.7           6 5
9. AirAmo *                         208             2.1            10            01            0.4             36
10.T Komunmg                         84             0.5           04             00            0.2            1 5
11 S. Uimpr                         194             I's           1.0            0.            0.4            3.4
12 Sitiung 11
Total                              1879           186             0.4            0.8           5.5           32.0
L SUMATRA
I1Bumi Agung                        100             1.0           0 5            01            0.2            1.9
2 Air Dorn 1                        352             35           1              02            0.7            62
3 Moo" Tinrkp                       159             1.6          0o              0.1           0.3            2 5
4 Air Oibn                          320             32            15             02            06             s6
sAlun Du00                                                        0.)            00            0              00
S. Air GOg                         1650            16.5           5.3            0.5            3.3          25.9
7 Air Satan                         524             a 2           41             0 4            1.6          14 4
* Ar Maluvi                         300             30            15             0.2            0*            53
9Kaeiel                             256             26            13             0.1           0S             4S
9 KasI 11                           310             31            1 6            02            0 6            54
10 AirTupak                          s0            05             03             0.0           0I             09
1 1 Air Tak Oenkan                                 00             00             0 0           0 0            00
12 Aif Dras 11                      146             1 5           07             01            03             26
13 Ar Kenm                           62            08             04             00            02             1 4
Total                              4549           45.5           22.7            2.2           5.1           795.
-wtU
i Muko-Muko Kin                     962            9              4 4 *          0 5           1 9           6e 
2 Air Susup Kanan                   127             1 3           0 6            01            0.3            2 2
3 Air SomDaras                      113             1             06             01            02             20
4 Air Mtai Kpalo                    710             7 1           3 6            0 4            14           12 4
S  Air Kotepng                      174             1 7           0 9Cl                        03             30
8 Ar Naal Kanan                      60             06            0.3            0 0           01             I1
7 Air Nanto                         405             41            2 0            0 2           0 a            7.1
8 Air E. Itnong                      75             0.8           0 4            0 0           0.2            1.3
9 Air Soluma                       1400            140            70             07            28            245
10 La-   (7)                                       00             00             00            00             00
Total                              4050           40.5           28.2           2.0 e.1                      70.5
LAY- Ci
I Way Tuiung Mas                   3200           32 0           15.0           1             6 4           S 0
2 Way Ketbung                                       00            00             00            00             00
3 WayCurup                                          0.0           00             00            0.0            00
4 WayUmpu                          1000            100            5.0            0.5            20           175
5 Way Raram                        4000            400           200             20            5 0           70 0
6. Way P.ngiuban                   1000            10.0           5.0            0.5            20           17 5
7 Waytemara                         go6             7.0           3.5            03            1.4           12 2
* Way PM"  FRatu                    250             2.5           1.4            01            06             4 *
9 WayN ngaaslu                      425             43            2.1            02            09             74
Total                             10501          106.0           13.0            5.3          21.2         11.11
NL SULAWES
1 Didingg                           105             1.1           0 5            01            0 2            1 9
2. Torng                                            0.0           0 0            0 0           00             0.0
3 Poredk                                            00 00 00   00                                          00 
4 Sulu Pastatin                                     0 0           0.0            0 0           0 0            0 0
S Toraul                           1852            155            93             09            37            324
6aImp                                               00            00             00            00             00
7 Pukhnti                                          0 0            0 0            0 0           0 0            00
9Pmogakwnan                          s0             08            0 4            00            0 2            1 4
Total                              2040           20.4           10.2            1.0           4.1           85.7



- 80 -
Annex 3
WxDCNEBA                                          Table 10
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOENT POECT                            Sheet 2
Cost Estimates   Envlrenmentol Protection
DEFERRED' SCHEtxES (Categry N)
Forest   Supervision    Soll Erosion   Forest Border         Total
Province & Scheme             LC&D Ares       Inventory     of Logging        Control         Surnvy         Costs
(ha)                                    (  MP
C. SULAWESI
I Bunt& I                                           00             00             00             00             00
2 Torps (Error)                                      00 00       00                            0 0            0 0
3 Sausu U1S                                         0.0            0 0            0 0            0.0            0 0
4Puna Kiri                                          00             00             00             00             00
S L5fmbunu                          3500            35 0          175            I              7 0           61 3
6 Olays                                              00            00             0.0            00             00
7 Korontua                                           00            00             0.0            00             0 
S  4lonpnge                                          0.0            0.0 00                      00             00 
9 Deiago                                             00            00             00             00             00
10. Torux                                           0.0            0.0            0.0            00             00
11. Anrdoea   (Error)                333            3.3            1 7            0.2            0.7           5.
12 Malon4x (Error)                                  0.0            0.0            00             00             0.0
13. Ta*ratna                                        0.0            0.0            0 0            00            00 
14. Gtmbsa
Total                               3833           36.3           19.2            1.9            7.7          67.1
S. SLAWESI                                          0 0            0 0            0 0            0 0            0.0
I Apang Hulu                                        0 0            0.0            0.0            0.0            0 0
2 PxdangS Sa&                        428             4.3           2 t            0.2           0o9             7 5
3Sadang (package A)                                 0 0            0 0            0 0            0 0            0 0
4 Maloso                                             0.0           00             00             00             00
5. Kairan Kanan
5 Kateana Kiri
7. Sanrogo
Totel                                426            4.3            2.1            0.2            0.9            7.5
LE. SULAWESI
1 Sonay                               46            0 5            0 2            0 0            0 1            0.5
2 Sato                                75             0S            04             00             0.2            1 3
3 Donamulya                           50            0 5            0 3            0 0            01             0 9
4 Sim BEwah                          255            2 9            1.4            0.1            06             5.0
S. Tobonto                            22            0 2            0 1            0 0            0 0            0 4
6. Poleang                          1442            t4.4            7.2            07            2.9           252
7 Roray                             1079            10a            64             0S             22            169
a bowiba I                           249            25             1 2            0 I            0 5            4 4
9 Mowil 11                           249             2 S           1 2            0 1            0.5            44
Total                              3500            35.0           17.             1.6            7.0          61.3
W. KALlUANTAN
I Sanggu Ledo                        664            6 8            3 4            0 3            1 4           12 0
2 Meb,wi (RB)                       1125            11 3           5 6            0 6            2 3           19 7
2 Maro*s (LB)                       154S            14 !           74             07             30            26t0
Totel                              3203           $2.0           16.5            1.             6.6           57$.6
C. KAUMANTAN
I Tlhon                              193            1 9            1 0            0 1            04             34
2 Trinsing                           562            S a            2 6            0 3            1 1            9 0
Total                                765            7.6            2.6            0.4            1.5           13.2
S. KALUMANTAN
1 BSulucin I                        1210           12.1            6.1            0.6            2.4          21.2
Aceh                                 541             5.4           2.7            03              1            9.6
Riau                                 539            5 4            42             04             1 7           14.7
W  Sumatra                          1079            16.6           9 4            0 9            3 5          32.9
S Sumatra                           454            45 5           22 7            2.3            9 1           790.
Sengkulu                            4030           40 3           20 2            2 0            II1           70.5
Lampung                            10601          106 0           53 0            S.3           21.2         169.5
N Sulawesi                          2040           20 4           10 2            1 0            41           35.7
C Sulewait                          3833           3 3            192             1.0            7 7          *7.1
S. Sulawesi                          42t            4.3            21             0 2            00*            7.5
SE Sulawesi                         3500           35 0           175             15             70           61.I
W  Kalimnratan                      3293            12.1           6.1            0 6            2.4           *7.6
C. Kakmantan                         755             7 6           39             0 4            1 5           12.2
S Kalimantan                        1210            12 1           01             0 6            2.4          21.2
eoe Cost                         664.2          177.1           17.7           70.e          656.2
Supervision             /           S54           177             1.5            71           S56
Subtotal                       3696.           104.6           19.5           77.9         721.2
Val addsd Tax (PPNO            b             0 0            0              0 0            0 0           0 0
Total                        6690.          194.6           19.5           77.9         721.6
Notde    LC&D . Land Clbasnes and Development (see Annex 3, Tebl 4)
aV  10% ol bike costs  bi 10%   bss cowet



-81-                                           Annex 3
Table I 1
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED BASE COSTS a/ b/ e/
(Schem  Completion and Development Components)
Fiacal Year
Item       1391       1362       1993        1994       1995        1996       Total
(Rp. M)
IrrIpation Works
SID                              692.9      2117.7     1130.6        98.1        0.0        0.0      4039.2
Main Civil Works                   0.0    11362.3    21740.8    27618.1    26499.2    12273.5    99494.0
Tortaries                          0.0      3516.7     8011.9    10117.6      7127.5     2837.5    31611.3
PROM (works)                       0.0      2730.0     4099.6      4307.4     3337.5      1867.1    16341.8
Subtotal                         692.9    19726.7    34983.0    42141.4    36964.2    16978.1   151486.3
Prom (Equipment)                   0.0      1048.3     1019.9       477.5      302.5      117.8      2966.0
Subtotal     692.9    20775.0    36002.9    42619.0    37266.7    17095.9   154452.3
Lond Claraneo nd Devlop't
SID A miac                       156.8      1070.4     1002.3      331.0        27.0        0.0      2587.4
Land dearnce                       0.0      3934.8     6751.5     6871.2      4747.7     1012.1    23317.3
Lond Development                   0.0      1974.2     5645.4     5411.0      4364.8     1405.6    18801.0
Subtotal                         156.8      6979.4    13399.2    12613.2      9139.5     2417.7    44705.7
LCAD Equipment                     0.0       816.4      684.9       221.1       27.6        0.0      1750.0
Subtotal     156.8      7795.6    14084.1    12834.3      9167.1     2417.7    46455.6
Agtorultural Devolopment
Works                              0.0       741.6     1021.7       656.4      277.8         1.5     2699.0
LT&C Equipment                     0.0       255.9       76.5         0.0        0.0        0.0       332.3
Subtotal       0.0       997.5     1098.1      656.4       277.8        1.5      3031.3
Land Titling and Certillealton
Works                             11.0      3124.6     4278.9     3680.1      3454.0     1811.0    16359.5
LT&C Equipment                     0.0       702.9      434.0       15e.0        9.2        0.0      1302.1
Subtotal      11.0      3827.5     4712.8     3836.0      3463.2     1811.0    17661.6
Environmental  Protetion           5.5       319.6      317.6       176.6       11.1        0.0       830.5
Settloment                         0.0      1106.5     2530.0      2970.0     2915.2     1950.3    11472.0
Bs Costs        866.1    34821.8    58745.7    63092.2    53101.1    23276.4   233903.3
Breakdown by Catogorloe
SID      849.6     3188.1      2132.8      429.1        27.0        0.0      6626.6
Works        16.5    26962.1    50846.1    58182.1    49541.8    21206.8   206755.3
Other agri-component      0.0       741.6     1021.7      656.4       277.8        1.5      2699.0
Transmigration       0.0     1189.0      2729.1     3135.0     2997.8      1984.5    11472.0
Equipment        0.0     2823.5      2215.2      854.8      339.4       117.8     6350.4
Total      866.1    34821.8    58745.7    63092.2    53101.1    23276.4   233903.3
Project Admin A SuprvisIon     86.6      3482.2     5874.6     6309.2      5310.1     2327.6    23390.3
Subtotal      952.8    38304.0    64620.3    69401.4    58411.2    25604.1   257293.7
Value added Tax (PPN)    66.7      2681.3     4523.4     4856.1      4088.8     1792.3    18010.6
Total     1019.4    40385.3   63143.7    7425S.5    62500.0    27396.4   275304.2
aV The breadown of base eetmaewd costs of ech component are detailed In Annex 3, Table I to 10.
bl The estimated be" coats reflect the rt ot Implementation of project components by yer.
ct Base cost of 'gohead and 'deftrred' cheme plus an additional 10% of each item by yeer bo cover provislonal
costs of schmse under category IIC and any addibonol scemsr.



EDONESIA
PROVINCAL MR10ATED AGROCULTtSE OEVELOPNENT PROJECT
ESTIMATED COSTS (wilk cofllngon-be) af
(Scheme CoIpbteNo and Developmoii Cofipo-usS)
soota   m. Cowoft b  pIlylI Cmihige'kg) ho                                     EdiodM TOW Ceeta Qlu1bd-1  Pale Chlihcgmeel) of
(by Chea yaw)                                                                        (by ISm  yew)
Item       1S6t       1992        5963       1SS4       te9s        I1114      Toftl            teal        062        1 .02      1304       tIeS11       1ose       Totll
MID                              762.2      2S2.S      124315       107.9        0.0         0.0     4443.1            78S.0     2507.1      1452.4      133.7         0.0        0.0      4002 1
MM ClOW Woke                        0-0    124001.6    23014.0    20360.0   230111.1    13500.8   100443.4               0.0    12614.7    2730064    3667.8    3oao1.1    17056.1   132520.5
Tortaflo.                           0.0     36640.4    68130      11120.6     7640.2      3121.2    34772.4              0.0     4202.0    10203.6    137816.5    102042       4326.0    420063
PACOM (weds)                        0.0     3003.0     4500.6      4736.1     3671.3      205310    17976.0              0.0     3300.3      5207.4     54870.5     4820.4     2340.6    221 14.3
subtotal                         762.2    21060.4    36401.3    46355.6    40660.6    146475.0   164034.6              706.0    23754.0    44403.3    94401.7    S2075-7    2512e.?   202952 1
Prom Wqu*0086                      0.0      1153.1     1121.0       525.3      332.0       121.6     3202.6              0.0     1241.3      1256.3      615.1       406.7      165.1      311470
Subtota      762.2    22852.5    36603.2    461080.0    40003.       1405.5   1690867.0            768.0    249005.4    45462.61   57010.7    32402.3    2529&.3   200230 7
Laud alI Mou DhVI1
610 a WM                        172.4      1177.5     1102.0       364.1       20.6         0.0     28440.2           176.5     1207.6     1267.6       451.1        36.0        0.0      5253 1
LaOW dawumes                       0.01    4328.3      7426.6      7558.3     12225       1113.3    215646.0             0.0     470.6      8674.3      0364.7      60517.1    1543.1    31206.0
Laud DeWbymAu                      0.0      2171.6     6210.0      5652.1     4001.3      15461.1    200611.1            0.0     2300.1      7253.2     7374.7      6304.1     2142.0    25468.0
subtota                          172.4      7677.3    14730.1    13074.5    10053.4      2505.5    40176.2             170.5     54004    17215.3    17190.5    13200.1        36560    59930.6
1.014 ER, ISu                      0.0       806.1      753.3       243.2       30.4         0.0     1525.0              0.0      0664.0      045.6      264.6        37.1        0 0      2134 3
subftota     172.4      6575.4    15$402. 5    14117.7    10083.0    2656.5    51101.2             176.5     0427.2    1806.0    17475.3    13227.2        3680.0    62063 1
AgswuSural Oleapm                                                                                                                                                                                          00
Waft                                0.0      815.$     112.6        722.0      305.5         1.7     20684.0             0.0      609.0     1312-7       604.06      401.2        2.3      3500 7
LT6C fta~omms                      0.0       261.4       64.1         0.0        0.0         0.0      365.5              0.0      303.0        64.4        0.0         0.0        0.0       367,4
SUuuttl        0.0      1007.2     1207.0       722.0      305.5        1.7      3324.4              0.0     1202.0     1,407.1      654.6       401.2        2 3      3007 1
Loil WArs old bOtlIelns
W16,                     ~~~~~~~~~~~12.1  3437.0  4700.8  40U.-1     3706.4      1062.1    17065.5             12.51    3767.6      5407.5     5615.5      4068.6     2761.1    2200209
LTOC 6quuOnU                       0.0       773.2      477.3       S71.6       10.2         0.0     1432.3              0.0      652.3       535.3      200.0        12.4        0.0      1361,3
OubtUit       12.1      4210.2     5184 1      4210.0     36106.6    1002.1    16427.6              12.5     4019.5     6033.3      5216.5      50301.0    2761.1    236444
Sudfoesoull  Pr6otla               6.1       311.5      346.6       104.2       12.2        0.0       613.0             6.3       387.4      406.3       240.6        16.0        0.0      1050.0
SoskmtUus                          0.0      1217.1     2733.0      3267.0     3206.7     2145.3    12010.2               0.0     1341.3      3250.5     4047.8      4210.5     2073.4    1542335
~m  cowS        052.3    3830.0    0462.3    60401.4    504i1.2    25604.1   257253..'               66.1    41e73.1    74322.8    64061.4    751346.3    34716.7   312730 4
8so      1634.6     3506.0     2340.1       472.0       20.6        0.0      7260.3           067.3      366.7      2740.2       584.61       311.0       0 0     81105.3
WOdi         16.i    29016583    556130.7    G400.3    544910.0    23327.5   227430.0             18.01   32524.7    6476.2    76263.4    70241.5    31575.6   277400 4
ClIme og.l-comp4eeu       0.0      1515.6     1123.8       722.0      305.5        1.7      2006.0             0.0       800.0     1312.7       664.6      401.2         2 3      3500 7
Tnnanlmgraloa        0.0      1307.0     3002.0     3440.5      3207.6     2153.0    12616.2              0.0      1341.3     3250.9      4047.6     4210.5      2073 4    15023 5
E9apmot          0.0     3105.6      2436.7      040.0       373.3      120.6     668.5               0.0     3343.4      2735.2      1100.8      454.2       165 1     7600 7
Total      052.81    36304.0    64620.3    60401.4    54411.2    25004.1   257203.7             006.1    41073.1    74822.6    64061.4    75340.3    34716 7    312730 4
Peai Adtas A SupoubdM          05.3     3630.4      6462.0    06140.1      5841 1     2540.4    25720.4             96.6      4107.3     7462.3      6460.1     7514.6      3471.7    31273 6
Subtotal     16"48.    42124.4    7106a.3    78341.6    64262.1   30104.11  36302.6               1664.7    46176.4    62366.6    03360.0    326412.1    30165.4   344012.2
Vakie ade Tom (P9di         73.4     2040.4      4075.8     5343.0      4407 7     1071.5    19411.0             75.0     3231.0      5761.4     6536.0      5801.8     2073.2    2400009
Total     1121.4    46663.5    76666.1    61666.4    63766.6    3036.0   628234.7              1166.6    40,402.3    60666.4    00017.2   1146484.0    40001.6   36601331
WllgIM*d PM10 Conslvdgency                                                                                        1.035       1.006      1.155       1.223       1.29       1 356       1 225
at Sal Am=. 3. TOW 11 toe assaultd born codal (Includg 10% alwarom kwe addit-.el schtrom).
bi Inchdng 10% pltyded Gonbgenclel.
of InctdIng pAlc Oca1ntInIncef (00hlIml1d by IWNlItda horn)-
di EstMutend wil0% of cofilcldd ins.



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Institutional Support
Item                Unit         No.  Unit Cost                   Fisal Year                  Total Costs
(Rp.M)                                                   (Rp. M)
1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
A   Fwciuties & Office Space  Lump Sum (pa)             20          20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0          100.0
B   Equipnnt
-Cars                       No.           1       30         30.0                                           30.0
- Computer                  No.           1       12          12.0                                          12.0
- Communication Equipt   Lump Sum                 10          10.0                                          10.0
- Office Equip't          Lump Sum                10          10.0                                          10.0
- Misc                   Iump  Sum                5           5.0                                            5.0
C   Trainig                  Lump Sum (p.a.)    3       55          55.0    55.0    55.0                          165.0
(Oversea Cors) aj
D   Admin and Ovaelacds      Lump Sum (pa.)              5           5.0      5.0      5.0      5.0     5.0        25.0
BaseCost                  (per province)                       147.0    75.0    75.0      20.0    20.0       332.0
Total Cosb                All Provinces   13 no.              1911.0   975.0   975.0    260.0   260.0       4316.0
Value added Tax    (PPN)                               6.7      0.0      0.0     0.0      0.0         6.7
Subtotal                         1917.7   975.0   975.0   260.0   260.0        4322.7
Price Contingency                     171.3    141.7   199.9    69.7      85.8      6683
Total bl                        2089.0  1116.7  1174.9   329.7   345.8         4991.0
a/ One staff from each of BAPPEDA, PRIS and PRAS.
b/ Including taxes and duties



INDONESU
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Consultant Sevkes a/
Unit         No.  Unit Cost                   Staff fmUs                                               Cost                     TOWa Cos
Item                                     (Rp.M)                   (per fisl yew)                                       (par fial yew)                   (Rp. M)
1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996             1991     1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
A   Fwe  Staff bl
-Ten Leader (rigE6g)    Staff Mcmni              32.6               12    12    12    12       8                   391.2   391.2   391.2   391.2   260.3         1325.6
-Agralnist               Staff M^onh             32.6               12    12    12    12       8                   391.2   391.2   391.2   391.2   260.8         1825.6
-Agpecononsit            Staff Menb              32.6               12    12    12    12       8                   391.2   391.2   391.2   391.2   260.8         1825.6
-Specialist (shute   n)  Staff Manil              36                10     9      8     8      8                   360.0   324.0   288.0   288.0   288.0         1548.0
Subtobds                                              46    45    44    44    32
B   LAr,CaMMiatStff bf         Scaff Mmnd               7.2              124   124   124   124   124                     892.8   892.8A   892.8    392       892.      4464.0
C ~4111110=120
Trnimp ien C/                                    25                                                                25.      25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0         125.0
C-myut                   Lu  Sm                  20                                                                20.0                                           20.0
-CamiicAet  Eippt         Lumy S_n                IS                                                                15.0                                           15.0         00
-Office Eqipt             L pSwn                   10                                                               10.0                                           10D0
-Misc                     LAMP Sum                 5                                                                 5.0      5.0     5.0      5D       5.0        25.
D   Offke ad Fa-Hlt  V            MdV           60       6                12    12    12    12    12                      72.0    72.0    72.0    72          72.0      360.0
E Adaila ad Ombeada
A     _mi lstrionm .      Mmih          60       15                                                                 0      1D0D0   1800D   180.0   I18O         900a0
-Offic StponStaff/          Mif          60       12                                                               144.0   144.0   144.    144.0    144.0         721.0
-PH&ing 6                  MI            60        2                                                                24.0    24.0     24.0    24.0    24.0         120.0
-Duty Vis hb               Mit           60        6                                                                72.0    720      72.0    72.0    72.0         360D
F   MNs                         LSpesm          60       5                                                                60.0    60.A    60.       60.0    60.0        3W00
DM CAt                                                                                 36534   29724   29364   29364   2545.2    14414.
Value addedTaz      (PPff)                                                                                 3053    297.2   293.6   293.6   254.5         1444.4
Subtdal                                                                                335.7   320A    323L.   3236.   279.7    5I52
Price Contingency                                                                          322.4   516.6   720.3    936.7   996.7        3492.8
Tetd Cast                                                                              361L2   375.2   395.3   416.    37964         1933
Si Conwlttant eice bi FY 1901 related to stat-up servcs fom apprlel (June 1960) lo My 1991 Ihasncd under PPF (US$0.75 M or Rp 138. l).
bi hIduding par diem au ndrncdenta expee.
c' Vehicle hr use In Jata (or car hoe).
di Rntal of about 250 m2 in Jakarta; office spe out of Jaka  provided by the provindal govenments.
of AdminIstrelon costs Intudd communicatlon. postg, equpment hire. office materials and consumabes. tc.
V  Omce manager and about 70 stff months/annum of suppt sftff for office in Jakria and three provincal sub.offles,
e1 Reports. discushin ppm  an  other documentalon. 
h/ Each yer. about 200 visIts hr Jakarta bd staff and 150 vils to/from Jakartna for consultants In provicies. Site wisits (by ronot arranged by consua w_L



-85 -
Table 1S
IDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE D2EVELOPMENT PROJECr
Fiancin Plan
FIsca Year a/
GOl IBRD Todai
Item                               1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996  1997
(1US$ M)
A  Survey, lnvestgadon and Desin GOI    0.0   0.1   0.1   0.0                         0.2          0.2
IBRD    0.7   1.9   1.5   0.2                                 4.3   4.3
B  Works                      GOI      0.6   4.2  10.9  11 5   10.    9.2            47.2          47.2
IBRD    0.8   7.2  13.2  13.6  13.0  11.6                    59.4  59.4
C  Land Cleaance and Developmcnt GOl   0.0   1.0   1.3   1.2   1.2   1.0              5.7           5.7
IBRD    0.0   3.7   6.0   5.9   5.8   3.5                    24.9  24.9
D  Agricultural Development   001
IBRD    0.0   0.5   0.7   0.5   0.2                           1.9   1.9
E  Land Titling and Certification   001  0.0   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2   0.2            1.0           1.0
IBRD    0.0   2.1   2.5   2.3   2.3   2.0                    11.2  11.2
F  Settierr ent               001      0.0   0.1   0.4   0.5   0.4   0.3              1.7           1.7
IBRD    0.0   0.6   1.6   1.7   1.7   1.3                     6.9   6.9
G  Enviomnmental Protection   GOI
IBRD    0.0   0.1   0.2   0.2   0.1                           0.6   0.6
H  Institutional Support      GOI
IBRD           0.7   0.7   0.7   0.3   0.3                    27    27
I  Consultant Services        GOI
IBRD    0.0   2.1   2.0       .    2.0   2.0                 10.1  10.1
J  Equipment                  GOI                    0.1                              0.1          0.1
IBRD    0.0   0.6   0.6   0.3   0.1   0.0                     1.6   1.6
K  Vehicles                   001      0.0   1.2   1.0   0.4   0.2   0.0              2.7          2.7
IBRD
M  Land Acquisition           GOI      0.0   0.2   0.3   0.4   0.4   03               1.6           1.6
IBRD
N  Project Admin & Supervision   GO0   0.1   2.3   4.1   4.7   4.2   1.5             16.9         16.9
IBRD
0  TaxesandDuties             GOI      0.3   1.9   3.2   3.6   3.2   1.1             13.3         13.3
IBRD
P  PPP Refinancing            001                                                     0.0
IBRD    1.3                                                   1.3   1.3
ToWal                      GOI    1.0  10.0  20.6  22.1  20.4  13.6               90.4
IBRD    2.3  19.6  29.0  27.4  25.5  2C.7                   125.0  215.4
IBRD Diburtsements b/         13   12 4   23.7  25.0  23.1  25S8   13.7           125.0
a/ Expenditures in fiscal year 1990/91 laste to advance action and stat-up ativities
Asnuming that the loan would become effective at the beginning of July 1991.
b/ Reflects a lag of about six months between expenditure and disburwment.
c/ Rounded to one decimal pbace



- 86 -                                    Annex 3
Table 16
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Costs of Routine O&M
Item                                     Total Cost            Unit Co.
A.  Ajm*nintrateon Costs                              (Rp M)               (RpilaM
a) Provincial (500,000 ha)                         315.0               630
b) District (Wilayah/KPKD)
(100,000 ha)                                    90.0                900
c) Administration and operation
Cabang Dinas and Ranting
Dinas (25,000 ha)                              211.8              8,472
Subtotal    616.8            10,002
B.  Maintenance Costs (per Cabang Dinas = 25,000 ha)
a) Routine and periodic maintenance
(force account)                                174.3              6,970
b) Periodic maintenance (mainly by
contracts)                                    255.5              10,220
Subtotal                          429.8              17,190
C. Other Costs
a) Survey and design for O&M
p.xr Province                                   40.0                 80
b) P ovision for emergency
rerairs (flood damage, etc.)                   300.0                600
c) Hydrology per Province                          50.0                 100
Subtotal                          390.0                 780
Total O&M Costs (A+B+C)          1,436.5             27,972
I1. Unit O&M costs per hectare are based on actual costs for a Cabang Dinas for
routine O&M activities with district and provincial administration costs added.
2.   Operation costs are all included under administration costs, since they consist primarily of staff (salaries and
allowances), facilities and transportation and limited training.
3.   Sourc: O&M Budget Planning and Allocation of Funds Working Group on Irrigation O&M, December 1989.



- 87 -                          Annex 4
*                      ~~~~~~~~Page I
IWNDONSIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED2 AGRICULTURE DEVELOPNMENTfPROJECr
Poject Coordination
Present Situat
1.     Lack of coordination in irrigated agricultural development between the Ministries and
agencies at national and provincial levels has been a serious shortcoming, particularly with respect
to irrigation development on the Outer Islands. One of the main objectives of the proposed project
is to put in place procedures and a process to improve coordinadon and management of (and thus
accountability for) project implementation. An important start has been made during project
preparation at national and provincial levels with BAPPENAS and the provincial BAPPEDA
undertaking project coordination.
2.      One Ministry or agency cannot deliver the benefits from either its own work program or
irrigated agricultural development without interacting and coordinating with the other agencies
involved. Thus the development impact of the proposed project would depend on effective
cooperation and coordination between the Ministries of Public Works, Agriculture and
Transmigration (where applicable), the National Land Agency (BPN) and the respective provincial
agencies. Until recently, each of these agencies have been primarily concerned with its own
activity, with limited focus in the overall performance of an irrigation scheme. Since there is little
accountability for performance, work programs of each agency have continued on separate parallel
tracks. Each organization tends to set its own work program, follow its own budget provision and
set priorities and functions as if it was a self-contained entity. In most cases, once an agency has
secured its budget provision for a year, the overriding aim is to fully utilize the allocated funds in
the fiscal year irrespective of the progress in parallel, inter-related activities. When program
changes are necessary, individual agencies are generally unwilling (or unable for budgetary
reasons) to modify their own programs. This makes voluntary and informal arrangements for
coordination of irrigated agricultural development difficult to implement. Finally, there has been a
focus on expenditure, rather than an interest in whether the expenditures result in a measurable
impact. It is essential that the coordination problems be addressed if irrigated agriculture is to
deliver predicted benefits in a timely manner.
3.      Thus, the challenge with respect to inter-agency coordination and cooperation in irrigated
agricultural development relates, inte , to the following main issues: (i) the quality of the
planning and design with special attention to project and diagnostic analysis; (ii) the timely
completion of ongoing schemes; (iii) timely provision of local funding and coordination of
budgetary provisions; (iv) data collecdon, monitoring and evaluadon and reporting; and (v) reliance
on technical assistance and training. A basic issue is the lack of coordinated and reliable data to
enable management to monitor project pcrformance. Thus, the Government at national and
provincial levels has difficulty in defining the status of implementation of a scheme, particula:ly
when the scheme is small and isolated (as on the Outer Islands). The institutional support, assisted
by project consultant services through the projec. coordination working groups, and the
comprehensive scope of the proposed project would help address all of these issues.
4.    National Level Coordination. Experience on other Bank supported projects and preparation
of the proposed project has shown that the coordination required cannot be made the responsibility
of one of the technical Ministries or agencies. To resolve this practical issue at national level,
BAPPENAS would undertake coordinatica. A project national coordinadon working group
consisting of representatives of the project Ministries/agencies, chaired by BAPPENAS with a
Coordinating Secretary, and assisted by consultant services undertook project preparation.



- 88 -                       Annex 4
Page 2
5.    The main coordinating function at national level has been to provide technical assistance and
guidance, and generally review and coordinate provincial programs to ensure uniformity of
planning and design standards, criteria and cost estimates. In addition, it has started to address
some major policy (general and technical) issues that require special attention. These issues are
generally inter-agency in nature and have been deferred or not addressed because there is no
effective forum to discuss and formulate an inter-agency acdon plan that takes into accounts the
needs (and constraints) of each agency involved. Another important function has been to undertake
overall scheme supervision and scheme/project analysis and some diagnostic analysis. Most
provinces have little or no previous experience in these tasks which are essential if schemes are to
be implemented on schedule, unjustified expenditure programs are to be contained and priority is to
be given to achieving benefits from investments as quickly as possible.
6     Provincial Level Coordination. The BAPPEDA of each project province have coordinated
project preparation through provincial coordinating working groups chaired by BAPPEDA and
comprised of representatives from the provincial technical agencies involved in the project (public
works, agriculture, BPN, transmigration and in some provinces, forestry). The provincial
coordination process has started to work and there is a growing realization in most provinces of
present shortcomings and the substantial additional costs and loss of benefits through piecemeal
irrigated agricultural development. The main tasks for provincial coordination have been to review
candidate schemes, prepare coordinated work proposals and programs for selected schemes, and
identify provincial policy issues associated with scheme completion. An important step forward
under the j   t preparation has been that the provinces have taken increased responsibility for
planning, es aiuation and analysis of their own work programs.
7.    District level Coordination. Overseeing of project implementation is under the district
Bappedas through the Irrigation Committee, which is represented by Cabang Dinas irrigation,
Kabupaten agricultural service and other related services, and headed by the local Bupati. rhe
Bupati, as chairman of this committee, obtains technical guidance from the project implementation
units (i.e. PRIS, PRAS, transmigration and BPN), and the district services of the concerned
agencies. Under the guidance of the district level Irrigation Committee, a project implementation
unit has been established in each of the pilot areas for irrigation service fees (to be continued and
expanded under the proposed ISSP 2) operating at provincial/scheme level. These arrangements
work if schemes are properly prepared and funding is adequate.
Project Coordination
8.    Project success would depend on BAPPENAS and each provincial BAPPEDA respective!y,
maintaining effective project coo.-dination working units at national and provincial levels. Thus the
coordination arrangements used during project preparation (paras 4, 5 and 6 above) would be
maintained and strengthened during project implementation. A project objective for each province
would be to develop and strengthen the capability to undertake technical analysis and cost/benefit
evaluations for schemes, in particular, the deferred schemes included under the project. The
procedures and process for coordination of project implementation would be based on those used
during project preparation. These arrangements would be tested, standardized and strengthened as
described in Attachment 2 of Annex 5. To ensure that project coordination works and can be
monitored, each province under the project would prepare coordinated work programs and cost
estimates each year. The annual work programs would be reviewed early enough to enable such
programs to be changed if they are incomplete or uncoordinated. Thus, by the end of September
each year, coordinated budget proposals for the agreed provincial work programs should be
prepared. If issues related to the work programs cannot be resolved by Government within the time
frame of the budgetary process, the Bank may take appropriate action under the conditions of
disbursement.



- 89-                            An;
PAgc 3
9.      Consultant Services. To assist in implementation and supervision, project consultant
services, consisting of a joint venture of foreign and local consultants, would be provided at the
national level, responsible to BAPPENAS and administered by DGWRD. The consultant's main
tasks would be to assist in the: (i) supervision of coordinated project implementation for both
irrigation and agricultural activities; (ii) review and analysis of schemes; and (iii) verification and
certification process to confirm that schemes are complete and ready to be handed over for O&M.
The consultants team would include thre intemational consultants (specialized in general iirigation
development, irrigated agriculture and agro-economics) together with national consultant staff to
assist and monitor the provinicial programs. Draft terms of reference are given in Attachment 1 to
this Annex. Selection of consultants with extensive experience of irrigated agricultural development
in all of the project provinces is critical to project success.
10.   Institutional Support. The process of coordinating project activities at provincial levels has
already identified areas where institutional support is required. The project would provide support
to each province through financing facilities, services, vehicles and equipment, and limited project
specific training for BAPPEDA staff so that the PPCWG can function effectively. The objective
would be to strengthen the capability in each province as described in para 6 of this annex. A
tentative list of items to be financed and estimated costs are detailed in Annex 3, Table 13. The
NPCWG would monitor the institudonal performance of each province and take appropriate action
if additional support in required. An additional support would be reviewed by the Bank during the
annual implementation review. In respect to training, the project would support overseas training in
project and diagnostic analysis for two BAPPETA officials from each province. General training
and technical institutional strengthening are covered under many other projects supported by the
Bank and other donors and thus would not be duplicated under this project.
Coordination and Maiiagement Issues
11.    The following sections of the annex outline some important issues related to coordination
and the general management of irrigated agricultural development that should be given special
attention through project implementation .
12.    Farmer Participation. Irrigation schemes would benefit from an active and strong
beneficiary involvement in the planning, implementation and the O&M of completed schemes. In
this respect, water user associations (WUAs) should be set up on all schemes under the preparation
for O&M (PROM) component and the WUAs invited to participate in the verification process when
a scheme is to be formally certified as complete (Annex 5). Special attention would be given with
respect to schemes which would be candidates for handing over to farmer management.
13.    Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E) of both project
implementation and performance has been generally poor on previous Bank supported projects. It
has often not been possible to define with certainty the physical status of schemes evei. when a
scheme is designated as complete. Thus information management should be given special attention
under the project, since each project agencies responsible for monitoring and evaluating the physical
and financial progress of their own programs. An important task would be to ccllect relevant
project data on implementation and performance of individual components and schemes and then
process and collate this data at provincial and central level to enable efficient project management.
There would be considerable advantages in standardizing the formats of the project reporting and
M&E so that each province collects and presents informration in the same way. Table 1 of this
annex shows a suitable format that could be useful for the efficient management of a typical scheme.
If such a form was kept up to date, it would provide implementing agencies at scheme, provincial
and national levels current status of the project. Project reporting and M&E would be processed
through the respective coordination working groups.



90-                             Annex 4
Page 4
14.    project Supervision. A major shortcomning during project preparation and urder previous
Bank supported operations has been the limited capability of Ministries/agencies involved in
irrigated agricultural development to supervise their activities. The Bank cannot undertake an
effective supervision role of these activities with Ats limited resources available (Annex 10), unless
Govemment and the agencies involved keep up-to-date, reliable and comprehensive records.
Considerable progress has been made through the setting up of national and provincial working
groups under project preparation in identifying processes and procedures to collect and collate
infornation. However, project preparation has depended heavily on support of consultants to
advise on technical issues, analyze provincial preparation proposals for consistency and viability
and to collate the various informnadon from the provinces. The consultant services during project
implementation will be considerably reduced from the preparation level. In this respect, Table 1 to
this annex gives a tentative check list of main activities that should be supervised on a regular basis,
and for wlich full documentation should be kept.
15.    Funding and Budget Arrangements. Coordination of funding and procedures for
channeling funds for development of irrigated agriculture clearly need to be considerably
strengthened. While funds are allocated by individual agency, inter-agency coordination will
continue to be difficult to achieve. Since the budgetary procedure cannon. be changed for a si)ecific
Bank financed project, the project procedure to review and agree annual work programs and budget
provisions (para 5.1 1, main text) would be used to address the shortcomings inherent in existing
budget procedures. Each year, each provincial BAPPEDA would prepare a coordinated work
program and budget proposal for each scheme in the Province through the provincial coordination
process. The NPCWG (assisted by Cie consultants) would collate the provincial proposals and
prepare the coordinated project proposal for BAPPENAS review and processing. The BAPPENAS
review of the project and provincial proposals would ensure that the work programs are coordinated
and funded.
16.    Project Accounting and Auditing. An important requirement under the project is the
preparation of accounts and audits satisfactory to the Bank. This task is made complex by the
number of components and spread of the project over 13 provinces. It is important that the process
is efficiently managed since each executing agency would have to prepare and process separate
financial accounts. These accounts would have to be collated and audited at national level,
following standard GOI procedures. In addition, the accounts would have to be prepared in such a
way to enable project activities to be separately identified. A provision is made for consultants to
advise on the procedures to process accounts and audits and, in particular, recommend how to
simplify the accounting process to satisfy the time frame set by the Bank for submission of financial
accounts and audits.
17.    Scheme Reference Numbers. To assist in the management (particularly accounting and
disbursement) of the project, all schemes have been given a reference number which identifies the
status of the scheme and the provincial location as shown on Tables 1 and 2, Annex 1. Each
scheme has a 7-digit reference number. The first digit is '1' for go-ahead schemes and '2' for
deferred schemes. When a scheme moves fron 'deferred' to 'go-ahead' the first digit would
change from '2' to 'l'. The next four digits define the province (i.e 'SSUM' for South Sumatra
with the other provinces defined as shown in Table 1, Annex 1). The last two digits identify the
specific scheme by a number (Oi, etc.). Sample reference numbers for a typical go-ahead and
deferred scheme are as follows: (i) for 'goahead' S , the Kaiti Samo scheme in Riau
Province would be L for go-ahead; 'RIAU' for Riau Province; and a number aQL to define the
scheme (i.e the scheme reference number is IRAIUO01); and (ii) for 'deferred' Schemes, the Alun
Dua scheme in South Sumatra would be Z for deferred; M1j for South Sumatra Province;
and a number E to define the scheme (i.e the reference number is 2SSUM05).



-91-                                                 Annx 4
Table 1
Sheet I
INDOESIA
PRONVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DLVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procedures, Tmetable and Check LUst of Activities
____________________________ ___  I(Typicil Scheme)           _
ACTIVITY                                 RESPONSIBILITY                 DATES
_ _________________________________       Agency       Individual    Planned       Actual
A. Basic Data Colleclion              _
1  Hydrological Data Collection Started  PRIS
2  Buic Topographic Mapping Completed   PRIS             _
3  Soils Mapping Completed               DAAD            _
4  Land Use Mapping Completed            DAAD                                       _
B. Planning & -cheme Initiation
5  Adequacy of Water Supply Confirmed    PRIS                                   _        _
6  1Simple Scheme Document Prepared and   |
D Distributed to Affected Communities  BAPPEDA        _             ______=
7  Public Discussion Meeting Held        Bupati
8  Formation of WUA's Complete           PRIS
and Training Begun
_9  Costing and Economic Analysis Complete BAPPEDA
10  Co-ordinated Work Program Prepared    BAPPEDA      _
and Budget Requests Forwarded to Jakarta
C. Central Review and Approvals       __       _
11  Scheme Reviewed and judged to be      NPCWG           _                         _
well planned, with all components
__ justified and economically viable      _                                          _
12  Scheme Reviewed and Approved          DGWRD                              _
by all involved Line Agencies         DGFCA/DAAD
BPN
_                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~Forestry  
Transmigration
13  Scheme agreed for inclusion in PIADP  BAPPENAS
_   at appraisal or GOI/iBRD Annual Review
14  Scheme approved and budgets           BAPPENAS
allocated to all involved agencies__
D. Provincial Confirmation
of Budget Adequacy   _ 
IS  ana all agency allocations co-ordinated    BAPPEDA



-92 -                                                 Annex 4
Tale I
Sheet 2
IINDONE5IA                                  _____I
PRONVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
=              _               ~~~~~~~ ~~~I _    I            i             i1
Procedures, Timetable and Check List of Activities
(Typical Scheme)_                      _
ACTIVITY                                  RFSPONSIBILITY                 DATES
Agency           Individual     Planned       Actual
E. Infrastructure Development                    _                       _
16  Diversion Structure Complete          DGWRD            __       __  _            __
17  Main Canal Complete (--km)            DGWRD
18  Secondary Canals Complete (---kkm)    DGWRD
;9  Tertiary Dev. Complete (---ha)        DGWRD
F. Clearing and Land Levelling
20  Forest Econ./Env. Assessment Complete   MOF/DGWRD_
21  Clearing Complete ( ..- ha)            DAAD
22  Detailed Topo Mapping Complete         BPN
23  Land Ownership Mapping Complete        BPN
24  Detailed Designs Complete              DAAD
25  Levelling Contracts Awarded (---ha)    DAAD
26  Land Levelling Contracts Compicte     DAAD
G. Verification and Certification
that Scheme Is Complete
27  O&M Manual Prepared - including       PRIS
System "As-built" drawings                                                       _. _
28  O&M Staff Housing & Transport Ready   PRIS                                         _
29  O&M Staff Hired and Trained           PRIS
30  System Tested - Defects Identified    PRIS
31  Remedial Works Completed              PRIS
32  WUA Training Completed                PRIS
33  Public Comissioning Ceremonies Performe I
land Completion Certificates Signed    BAPPEDA
34  Confiumation of Scheme Completion     PNCWG/
Forwarded to IBRD                     BAPENAS



- 93 -                          Annex 4
Attachymnt I
Page I
IND20NESI
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTRE DEVELQPMEN717 PROJEC
Teryns of Reference - Project Consultant Services
1.     A major challenge identified during project preparation has been the need to strengthen the
capability of Ministries/agencies involved in irrigated agricultural development to coordinate and
supervise their activities. Thus, the BAPPENAS coordination arrangements, set up for preparation
consisting of representatives of the mninistries/agencies and chaired by BAPPENAS, would be
maintained through project implementation. These would support the provincial BAPPEDA
coordination arrangements and would be assisted by consulting services comprising a composite
team of foreign and local consultants, retained and administered through DGWRD.
Duties of the Consultants
2.      The mnain objective of the consulting services would be to assist the project authorities so
that the project is implemented in accordance with the technical, economic and environmental
standards, procedures and criteria agreed by the Bank and Government, detailed in Attachments 2
and 3, Annex 5. A check list of main project acdvities to be supervised on a regular basis, and for
which full documentation would be kept, is sumrarized in Table 1, Annex 4. The consultants
would fulfill the project objective by assisting in: (i) providing technical assistance and guidance to
provincial Government/agencies; (ii) generally reviewing and coordinating provincial programs to
ensure uniformity of planning and design standards, criteria and cost estimates; and (iii) advise on
the general management of the project, including accounting and audits procedures. With respect to
item (iii), an important issue for project management is the spread of the project over 13 provinces
and the large number of schemes and agencies involved.
3.     The consultants would thus assist in the following main tasks: (i) formulating
recommendations with respect to any policy (general and technical) issues that may arise; (ii)
implementation of all project activities; (iii) routine reporting, monitoring and evaluation procedures;
(iv) review the preparation and analysis of deferred and any additional schemes; (v) the setting up
and introduction of the verification and cerification process to confirm that schemes are ready for
turn over to routine O&M; and (vi) identify and fonrmulate recommendations of any generic technical
issues that should be addressed by Government. With respect to item (vi), the consultants would
continue with the work started under the project preparation and presented in a series of Discussion
Papers listed in Annex I1l. An important function would also be to advise and train Government
staff in project and diagnostic analysis to ensure priority is given to achieving benefits from
investments as quickly as possible and limit work programs to justified expenditures.
4.    Deferred and Additional Schemes. Th%; consultants would give special attention to assisting
Government in the preparation and processing of 'deferred' schemes so that the y ran be put up to
the Bank for implementation clearance. All schemes included under the project whiTh have been
supported under either the SPIDP (Loan 2375 - IND) or under the ISSP (Loan 2880 - IND) have
explicit planning and design criteria, satisfactory to the Bank and agreed by Government, which
were used to screen and select the schemes for inclusion under the respective Loans. Thus, with
respect to 'deferred' schernes, the consultants would assist the responsible implementing agencies
to ensure that scheme proposals, inter alia: (i) take into account the planning and design standards
and criteria agreed when the schemes were originally approved for financing by the Bank; (ii)
comply with specific criteria agreed under the proposed project; and (iii) take into account the



- 94 -                            Anne 4
Att,acwh,ment I
page 2
recommendations related to technicatl and economic viability in the project preparation documents,
the status reports and the action plans prepared for schemes financed under the SP!DP 1/ and
ISSP 2/. These planning and design standards and criteria would also be applied to 'deferred'
schemes included under the project that have not been previously fin.anced under either the SPIDP
or ISSP (and to any additional schemes that may be proposed by Government for inclusion under
the project). Within the scope of the tasks described above, the consultants would give special
attention to the following activities Y:
(a)  S                                    The consultants would advise and assist in the
introduction and application of procedures for evaluating and screening deferred (and/or
additional) schemes and for the implementation of the project at national and provincial
level. The procedures are outlined in Attachment 2 of Annex 5.
(b)  Planning and Design. The consultants would advise on the collection and evaluation of
physical resource data, including hydrology, climate, topography, soils and land
capability and land ownership such that it is sufficient (in terms of quality and quantity)
for scheme planning and design.. They would assist in the review of the scheme design
to confrmn the schemes conform to the design objectives and criteria given in Attachment
3, Annex 5. They would assist in the scheme analysis (and any diagnostic analysis, as
required) to ensure that schemes are technically and economically viable and would thus
able to achieve the predicted agricultural impact in terms of cropping area and crop
intensities and yields. In addition, the consultants would advise on irrigation operational
principles and O&M plans for project schemnes, and assist in the formulation of practical
procedures to initiate scheme operation through the PROM activity and after a scheme is
handed over for routine O&M.
(c)  Verification and Certification of Scheme Completion. An important step in irrigation
development is the transfer of a scheme from the implementation phase to the O&M stage.
The objective would be to undertake equivalent to a technical audit to test that a scheme is
complete and can function as designed in accordance with procedures and criteria,
satisfactory to the Bank, before handing over project schemes to O&M authorities. To
achieve this objective, the consultants would assist in the formuiation and introduction of
detailed procedures to: (i) formally test and verify the satisfactory functioning of the
completed irrigation system; and (ii) confirm that the command area is fully developed
and to certify that schemes are complete and ready to be turned over for routine O&M.
5.      Repordng and Monitoring ad Evaluation. The consultants would assist in the setting up
and introduction of procedures for regular reporting, monitoring and evaluation of the activities for
all project agencies at provincial level, and collating this information at national level so that the
11    Status Reports and Action Plans for the Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project
(SPIDP), GOI, DGWRD (assisted by Sir M. MacDonald & Partners in association with
PT Indah Karya, Consulting Engineers), March 1989 (Main Volume and 24 Amnex Reports).
21    Review Reports, ISSP Preparatory Designs, and Review of 22 On-going Projects, GOI,
DGWRD (assisted by Sir M. MacDonald & Partners in association with PT Indah Karya,
Consulting Engineers), 1987/1988 (Volume I and 14 Annex Reports).
3l    The invitation document for the consultant services should include reference to the
procedures, processes, standards and criteria to be used under the project.



95-                              Annex 4
Attcnet I
Pae3
project can be efficiently and effectively managed. With respect to project implementation, special
attention would be given to monitoring and evaluating physical and financial progress by
component, province and the overall project. An important task would be to assist in the
preparation of documentation for the annual implementation review. Processes would be
formulated and put in place to monitor social-economic impact of the project including, inter alia,
crop production, farm incomes, effectiveness of agricultural support services and water
management practices to standards required for general supervision of irrigated agricultural
development. T'he consultants would also assist in setting up or strengthening of M&E of technical
performance of irrigation schemes, including the percentage of the water demand that was met,
fluctuations in water use efficiencies and farmers' contributions (in cash or labor) to tertiary systems
management
6.      An important requirement under the project is the preparation of accounts and audits
satisfactory to the Bank given the number of components and spread of the project over 13
provinces. Each executing agency would have to prepare and process separate financial accounts
which would have to be collated and audited at national level, following standard GOI procedures.
The consultants would advise on the best procedure to process accounts and audits and recommend
accordingly whether it is possible to simplify the accounting process, since project accounts had to
be identified separately from other agency activities at provincial level. In this respect,an issue
would be the time frame set by the Bank for submission of financial accounts and audits. This
activity would be completed in the first year of the consultant services using short-term specialists.
Expertise Required.
7.      A composite team of internadonal and nadonal consultants would be assigned to carry out
the services described above over a period of five years, starting on or about August 15, 1991. The
team would be split into two sections: consultant staff based in Jakarta who would travel to the
provinces and coordinate activities and consultant staff who would be based in selected provinces
and assist the provincial governments. It is provisionally estimateci that a total of 835 staff months
of professional inputs are required of which about 620 staff months could be provided by national
consultants (excluding 78 staff months consultant services in the fiscal year 90/91 up to loan
effectiveness). In addition, the consultants may propose adequate sub-professional staff to assist in
carrying out the services (Table 14, Annex 3). Selection of consultants with extensive experience
of irrigated agricultural development in project provinces on the Outer Islands is critical to project
success. Thus, the main determinant in selecting the consultant services would be the proven
experience of the consultants in project related activities in Indonesia described below.
8.      The Consultant Firm. An essential prerequisite of the consultant services would be that
both the international and national firms have, inter alia: (i) extensive experience in water resources
development on the Outer Islands of Indonesia, preferably on schemes similar to those under the
project; (ii) extensive experience of Indonesian institutions involved in irrigated agricultural
development; (iii) previous experience in coordination and supervision of planning, design,
implementation and O&M of small and medium scale irrigation schemes in Indonesia; and (iv) staff
able to offer guidance and advice to Government at national and provincial levels in all aspects of
management, policy and the procedures, standards and criteria agreed under the project. The
consultant firms would be expected to have, or have continuous and timely access to staff with
experience within Indonesia in all activities included under the project who may be specialists on
short-term visits as requested. In addition to technical experdse and experience, the consultant
services would produce evidence to demonstrate their ability to prepare status reports, planning and
implementation documentation suitable for Indonesian projects in the irrigation subsector supported
by the Bank (as required under the proposed project). In this respect, the consultants would



-96-                           Annex 4
Attachment 1
Page 4
demonstrate their ability to produce documentation that constantly emphasizes: (i) the objectives of
a project; (ii) the status of project implementation; (iii) preparation of practical plans of actions and
cost estimates; (iv) evaluation of physical resources data, resource mapping, planning and design,
technical parameters and budgetary proposals.
9.      The consultants would show evidence that,within the consultant firms, there are sufficient
experienced staff (such as a candidate and alternate for each post) so that staff could substitute for or
rotate with their nomninee for each position to ensure continuity in quality or experience. The
consultants would provide the following professional staff through the period of the consultancy:
(a)  Team Leader/h ritation Engineer. A specialist, with about 15 years experience, in
coordinating and implementing water resources development projects, with strong
background in management and planning of irrigation projects. The specialist would
have lead a consultancy team in Indonesia and had extensive experience of Indonesia,
preferably on schemes similar to those under the projects on the Outer Islands. He
would also have extensive experience of Indonesian institutions involved in irrigated
agricultural development and would have experience in operating at the highest levels of
government. The preferred specialty would be irrigation development.
(b) Senior Agriculturalist (Irrigation Agronomist) A specialist with about 8 years experience
of irrigated agricultural development with experience of Indonesia, preferably on
irrigated rice. He would be able to offer guidance and advice on land clearance and
development and agricultural development activities to be implemented under the project
(described in Annexes 6 and 8). The main task would be to assist in the evaluation of
the agricultural viability of schemes and formulation of agricultural development plans
for schemes cleared for implementation.
(c) Senior Agro-economist. A specialist with about 8 years experience of formulating and
evaluating projects/schemes for irrigated agricultural development. Preference would be
given to specialist with knowledge of the institutions and agencies involved in project
implementation.
(d) Short-term Specialists. The international consultant firms would provide through the
project period, as required, 36 staff months for short-term specialists (with at least 12
years experience) in the fields of, inter alia, soil science, water management, institutional
development, I :-d development, agricultural develop, and environmental protection.
The visit of specialists would be subject to prior approval by client and subject to agreed
TORs.
(e)  National Consultant Staff. The national consultants would consist of two specialists
based in Jakarta to work with the internadonal team including a co-Team leader and an
agro-economist with substantial Indonesian experience equivalent to that of the Team
Leader end the international agro-economist. Both specialists would have extensive
experience in all aspects of irrigated agricultural development included under the project
and of all agenJies involved. The team would also include 3 sub-teams, each with an
experienced irrigation/water resources development engineer and an agriculturalist (or
irrigation agronomist) with units based in Sumatra, Sulawesi and Kalimantan with
similar experience in their specialities to the tea:m in Jakarta. The national specialists
located in Jakarta would have at least 12 years relevant experience in their specialities,
with at least 3 years experience on irrigated agricultural development on small and
medium schemes on Outer Island provinces under the project. The national consultants



-97 -                              Annex 4
Attachrnent I
Page 
to be placed outside Java would have at least 12 years relevant experience in their
specialty. Short-term specialists may include disciplines described in para 8(c) above
and staff able to advise on general project management issues including accounting and
auditing.
10.     General Provisions. The consultant would provide for positioning and per diem costs of
all staff and for an office in Jakarta with support staff (including an office manager and some 72
months per year of supporting staff). The consultant would also provide administration and
overheads, including duty visits to the provinces, printing, postage, communications, equipment
rental, office materials and general consumables (see Table 14, Annex 3). The client would provide
office space and facilities in three provincial offices sited in Sulewasi, Surnatra and Kalimantan. the
client would cover the costs of duty visits from the principal offices to scheme locations. The
consultants would provide for duty visits to Jakarta. The client would provide for a car in Jakarta
(or an equivalent per diem transportation allowance) and such office equipment, including
computers that the consultancy reasonably require to undertake their duties.
11.    Retention of Consultant Services. The consultant would be in place on or before August
15, 1991 and would be procured under the 'Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants'. The terms
of reference and other documentation would include sufficient information on the project objectives
and scope, procedures and criteria to prepare a responsive bid. T he evaluation procedures should
give appropriate weight to the consultants relevance experience in Indionesia, the number of staff
with relevant experience (to enable staff rotation), and the experience of nominated staff in the
consultant proposal



- 98 -                          Annex S
Page I
INDONESIA
PROVINCLAL IRRIIATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PIADP)
Irrigated Agxiculture Development
1.     The essential PLADP concept would be to focus specifically on completing schemes to
achieve full benefits from irrigation through full agricultural development. Within this concept, the
project would only support on-going irrigation schemes where at least the diversion structure and
main canal distribution system are complete. The project would not support new sc..emes, schemes
which require major rehabilitation or modernization, or schemes which are complete and identified as
ready for hand over to efficient operation and maintenance (EOM). The main project objectives related
to irrigation development would be to: (i) complete irrigation schemes and achieve full potential
benefits from irrigated agricultural development; and (ii) benefit the largest number of farmers with the
mninimum expenditures. This annex describes in more detail, the status of project preparation, lessons
learnt during preparation, the process and procedures to screen, select and categorize project schemes
and the criteria used in the screening process.
Status of Project Preparation
2.     The main preparation task was to review and evaluate the provincial proposals to eliminate
schemes that did not fit the project concept (para 1), or were basically flawed, and to elimina.e
unnecessary expenditure items from included schemes. Some 170 schemes in 13 provinces were
reviewed and about 48 schemes excluded at appraisal (Table 1). These schemes either: (i) did not fit
the project concept; (ii) were essentially complete, but included in the hope of continuing expenditures;
or (iii) were unacceptable because of basic technical difficulties or unjustified expenditures. Some 35
of the remaining 130 included schemes (some 10 percent of estimated project costs) were judged
ready for immediate implementation (the 'go-ahead' category). The remaining 95 schemes were
included, but deferred pending further technical and economic evaluation (para 19).
3.     A basic shortcoming through the project preparation process has been lack of reliable
information on project status, even though all schemes had been under implementation for many
years. The following paragraphs summarize why many schemes have been deferred, related to three
financing sources: (i) schemes supported under SPIDP (Loan 2375-IND) which closed in 1988; (ii)
on-going schemes under ISSP (Loan 2880-IND) expected to close in March 1991; and (iii) schemes
financed from Government or sources other than the Bank.
4.      Ex-SPIDP Schemes. Technical status repr were prepared for all schemes financed under
SPIDP, primarily because in the year before SPIDP Loan closure, project status could not be defined
with certainty. As a result of this study, physical resources and technical constraints were identified
and recommendations made on existing scheme status and what actions should be taken. The findings
are summarized in Attachment 1 to this annex. SPIDP schemes were defered when the status reports
(and action plans) concluded that basic data sources, such as soils and land use maps, have not been
adequately prepared or evaluated in relation to design commnand area or layout of the irrigation system
(major parts of which have been completed for several years). Because of inadequate planning, for
many schemes, there is no supportable match between areas physically commanded by the irrigation
system and water availability or land areas of suitable for agricultural development (land capability).
In addition, the concurrence of farmers generally has not been obtained where tree crops have been
scheduled for clearance and the land developed for rice cultivation. For all schemes, construction
generally has been started before a complete socio-economic and environmental impact evaluation has
been made. In some cases, the designated scheme command areas may encroach on reserve forest
lands.
5.      For some deferred ex-SPIDP schemes, there are action plans that provide sufficient soil and
land use data to relate physical resource availability to command areas proposed for irrigation service.
However, for these schemes, the recommendations in the action plans (prepared by the consultants)



- 99 -                            Annex 5
Page 2
generally have not been followed. For many schemes, expensive work programs have been included
in scheme proposals under the project with little justification in terms of incremental benefits. A
condition of reinstatement of deferred ex-SPIDP schemes would be to confirm and prepare revised
proposals that would implement the specific recommendations in the SPIDP status reports and action
plans. In particular, prior to review of the status of any deferred scheme, the responsible agencies
would collect additional data and undertake any additional studies required, prepare revised design
modifications and update cost estimates, and support the revised scheme proposal with a financial and
economic analysis.
6.       Ex-ISSP Schem . The present status of most schemes on-going under ISSP cannot be
defined with certainty. Consequently all ex-ISSP schemes included under the project have been put in
the 'deferred' category. In this respect, Planiiing reports were prepared as a condition of inclusion for
all schemes under ISSP. Planning reports were also prepared for some schemes for consideration
under ISSP, though not finally accepted for inclusion under ISSP. For most schemes, there is some
presentation of availablc hydrological data ard an attempt to show a water balance, but in general,
insufficient information on soils and land use. Thus, to reinstate ex-ISSP schemes, it would be
necessary to undertake the basic data mapping (soils and land use) where applicable, and to
demonstrate a relationship between areas physically commanded by the irrigation system and soils
suitable for development. Recently collected hydrologic data should be used to calculate water
availability and confirm the empirical forrnulae used in planning and design of most schemes.
7.       'Other' Schgme. No recent status or planning reports have been made available for any
existing schemes financed by Government from sources other than the Bank. Generally, the original
planning and design of proposed schemes appears to be of poor quality. However some schemes
with large sunk costs app-  to warrant completion and full development. For 'deferred' schemes not
previously financed by the bsank, where planning cr feasibility studies are said to have been
undertaken, these studies would need to be updated to permit evaluation as described above for the ex-
SPIDP and ex-ISSP schemes (paras 4 to 6). Where no such previous studies have been undertaken,
the 'deferred' schemes would need complete irrigation planning exercises, including preparation of all
maps, collection and analysis of hydrologic data, involvement of beneficiaries, preparation of work
programs, detailed estimates of costs and economic analysis before the schemes can be being
considered for upgrading to 'go-ahead' status under the project.
Lessons Learnt during Preparation
8.      General. Most candidate schemes proposed for the project are technically simple and
straightforward. Most have had a substantial consultancy input during the original planning and
design phase and the implementation phase to date. This consultancy input has varied greatly in
quality, but an important lesson learnt is that often the findings and recommendations of the
consultants are ignored to avoid any delay to construction or because they exclude expensive works
programs. The consultants' reports are used to secure financing and then often ignored. The result
has been technical shortcomings (in terms of irrigation performance) tnd delayed impact from irrigated
agricultural development on the Outer Islands. The main project lessons learnt are: (i) commitment to
schemes without collecting or evaluating physical resource data; (ii) entering the implementation phase
before proper planning and design; (iii) lack of attention to operating principles in the design phase;
(iv) construction of schemes in a piecemeal manner with uncoordinated financing; and (v) treatment of
irrigated agricultural development as a civil works activity with no coordination with other agencies
involved. The following sections describe some of these issues.
9.       Inadequate Data Collection. The present DGWRD/PRIS practice, as evidenced by findings
of the technical audit on 84 SPIDP schemes and other schemes proposed for PIADP, has been to enter
the planning and design and construction stages with inadequate collection physical resource data
(water availability and soil suitability). Hydrological and climatic data collection in all project
provinces is given low priority and is subject to unpredictable budget allocations. In the original
planning documentation for most PIADP schemes, the consultants have qualified their
recommendations by stating that the data base was inadequate, and then generally resort to using



- 100-                          Annex 5
Page 3
empirical fonnulae to design the schemes. The assumptions in the empirical formulae are not tlsen
confirmed by subsequent collection of data, eveii though this could easily be done by permanent field
staff at the scheme site. For all schemes under the project, it would simply mean routine reading of a
staff gauge installed (and calib.'ated) on the river diversion structure and inscallation and reading a rain
gauge located at the weir site, Specific examples of this problem are the floc a control and drainage
proposals for the Sadang and Maloso schemes in South Sulawesi 1/. With respect to completed
schemes, river flow data is essential to allocate water supplies and thus to undertake efficient O&M.
As a result of inadequate data base, many substantially co.mplete schemes proposed for the project
have had to be deferred, pending confirmation of reliable water resources (and suitable soils). It is
recommende that a condition for presentation of deferred projects for clearance by the Bank is that
sufficient hydrological data be collected and analyzed to provide a reliable basis for estimates of water
availability.
10.      ata Proessg. A shortcoming in all provinces is lack of reliable data on individual
scheme status. It is therefore recommended that the Geographical Information Systems (LI= which
are being established in each province, be used as the fourndation for monitoring and evaluation of
PIADP schemes. All relevant data would be assembled and collated onto the base maps, using the
computer equipment recently installed in most BAPPEDA. The tertiary block would become the basic
planning unit. Physical information (soils and land use) and economic parameters (costs and returns)
would be assembled by tertiary block, and entered in the GIS for analysis and presentation. This
inforrnation would then be used to formulate realistic action plans. For this purpose, simple and
standardized formats should be adopted to elicit inter-agency coordination. Introduction of GIS based
planning would be supported by other project activities particularly: (i) developmnent of diagnostic
analytical capabilities in national/provincial agencies; and (ii) appropriate training for selected
BAPPEDA staff.
11.    Data Transfer and Communications. The project schemes are located in remote and isolated
areas throughout the Outer Islands. In addition, there is an increasing need for the central Ministries
to improve ,;ommunication links if the necessary progress is to be made under the Government
decentralization policy. At present, communications both from schemes to provinrial headquarters
and between the provinces and central Ministries and agencies is poor and slow. Communications
depends on inefficient telephone connecnions and postage deliveries. With the introduction of
computers for much of the project processing and management activides, more attention should be
given to modern communications technology on a trail basis. Once the technology has been test-I
under field condidons and is proven to be satisfactory, it can then be introduced on a wider scalt.
12.    To address the communication issue, it is recommended that DGWRD test Very Small
Aperture Terminal (VSAT) communication technology which uses standard satellite links. The VSAT
equipment is now practical because standard satellite technology has made important strides in
operational efficiency in Indonesia in the last 2-3 years. A part of the Indonesia Regional Network
(IRN) is provided by the Palapa satellite, which also supports a number of international commercial
and private entity "communications links" such as off-shore oil and gas drilling. Depending on the
geographical location relative to the domestic satellite "footprints", the antennas are small in size and
electronic packages are micro-miniatured and power requirement have been substantially reduced.
Assuming that the IRN process is put in place, scheduled by the end of year 1990, the VSAT could be
used for simultaneous voice/data transmission without involving the local telephone network. The
project could thus provide for reliable links between DGWRD headquarters in Jakarta and scheme
1/    A detailed flood control and drainage report was prepared by consultants (Halcrows &
Partners) in 1980. This report acknowledged that there was insufficient reliable data for the
study which was completed on empirical assumptions. Since that date, no data has been
regularly collected to evaluate these assumptions, although measuring stations have been
installed under previous Bank supported operations. Thus the proposed flood control and
drainage works to the Rappang river under Sadang scheme (at an estimated base cost of about
(US$ 23.0 million) and have been excluded from the project.



- 101 -                          Annex
Page 4
sites. Thrme schemes implemented as "special projects" directly bv,' DOI-II within DGWRD would be
selected in coasultation with the Bank after further evaluation of 'v 'AT technology. The objective
would be to demonstrate effective communication links to meet the needs for isolated schemes on the
Outer Islands. The performance of the VSAT equipment would be monitored and evaluated by
DGWRD assisting by the consultants from the project consultant services.
13.     Planning and Design. The quality of planning and design for small and medium irrigation
schemes on the Outer Islands needs to be substantially improved. Few schemes are examined for
basic feasibility, primarily because of inadequate data and also to avoid delay in moving to the
construction stage. The main shortcoming is the lack of project and diagnostic analysis of design
quality because of nominal monitoring and evaluation of project performance. Thus consultants use
(and are repeatedly paid for) the same standard desigas which imply opeational principles that cannot
be successfully demonstrated and often appear not to be appropriate for small, isolated schemes on the
Outer islands. Many proposed schemes have flood control and/or drainage components which
generally are not supported by measured data and which at present cannot be evaluated in terns of
impact. In all such schemes, the proposed flood and drainage programs need to be physically and
technically justified on an adequate data base. An example of this issue is the expensive flood control
and drainage programs proposed for the Sadang and Maloso schemes in South Sulawesi. Because of
the uncertainty, these programs were eliminated from the project at appraisal. In this respect, it is
essential to calculate incremental benefits from the proposed flood control and drainage works to
provide specific economic justification for components that are expensive to implement and sustain.
14.    Scheme Comledtion. Most provincial proposals included schemes that have be-en previously
financed under either SPIDP (Loan 2375-ND) or the on-going ISSP (Loan 2880-IND). In many
cases, the estimated costs to completion of these schemes under thz project has been substantially
greater than the proposals (generally prepared by consultants) put forward when the schemes were
approved for Bank financing. Major expenditure items (canal lining) have been added, often without
technical justification, in anticipation of additional financing, whilst essential works are deferred (such
as completion of tertiaries). As a consequence, most schemes are lett incomplete for an extended
period of time aid deteriorate before the scheme (or in some cases, even part of a scheme) is
functiona'. Priority is given to expenditure (major work programs) and not essential works necessary
to achieve potential benefits as so .a as possible. The implementing agencies (DGWRD/PRIS) appear
to take completion of a scheme to be a moving target which is then allowed to slip if there is any
chance of further financing of civil works. A condition of project implementation would be that: (i)
all works required to fully complete and develop each scheme under the project would be defined and
agreed whcn the scheme is approved for implementation by the Bank; and (ii) before any additional
development to a scheme or any expansion to the scheme command area is undertaken, the scheme
would be completed as defined under project (para 5.15).
15.     Scheme Opeiron. Little attention has been given to operation of schemes. On the
information available to the Bank, there is no scheme on the Outer Islands that is at present effectively
functioning as designed. There is virtually no monitoring and evaluation of irrigation performance
(including Bank financed projects). During the preparation of the project, PRIS officials in the proj,ct
provinces (or DGWRD staff) were not able to explain how small and medium schemes are, or should
be, effectively operated The shortcoming can be partly explained in that few schemes are ever fully
completed and made , function as designed before they start to deteriorate. The problem is not just
lack of reliable or predictable funding, but what often appears to be basic flaws in the scheme planning
and design (para 13). This situation presents a technical risk to the project, but resolving the problem
(i.e. making schemes functional) is a basic project objective. In this respect, the Government and the
Bank are addressing the O&M related issues, including institutionalizing processes on a subsector
basis to ensure that: (i) plans for O&M are in place, (ii) operational procedures are exemplified; and
(iii) scheme, are verified and certified that they operate as designed. The project activides for PROM
would include preparing the plans of operations (and maintenance), developing operating procedures
as appropriate to local or scheme conditions, and reflecdng these procedures in the system designs.



- 102 -                         Annex S
16.     Clearly, until schemes are fully completed, efficient scheme operation is impossiele and the
full potential benefits from EOM cannot be achieved. At present, under O&M programs on the Outer
Islands, the main focus is on maintenance since this resulted in civil work programs. The preferred
use of O&M funding and resources appear to be: (i) sustaining the establishment; and (ii) maintenance
contracts - often canal lining - whicl. is undertaken on the unproven belief that lining mduces the need
for maintenance. The projoct specifically addresses these shortcomings.
17.   Verification and Certification of Scheme ComPl   An important step in inigation
development is the transfer of a scheme from the implemnentadon to the routine O&M stage. At
present, the transfer process and procedure is unsatisfactory and often incomplete schemes are
prematurely handed over for O&M. To address this problem, when a scheme is consideied complete,
there would be a formal test to verify the satisfactory funcdoning of the completed irrigation system
and confm that the command area is fully developed. 'te test would be undeaken by experienced
staff fror. DGWRD/MOA together with representatives from BAPPEDA, PRIS, PRAS, other
prvincial agencies involved in scheme implementadon, and the farmers to be smrved through the
WUAs. The project consultants would assist in this process as required. The verification process
would consist of a technical audit to confurm complktion of all civiT works and land clearance and
development as agreed when the scheme was approved for implementation rnd also completion of the
preparation for O&M (PROM) activities. The scheme would then be testeed to confirm that it can
function as designed through the full opcrational range of discharges and deliver the design irrigation
service to match the agricultural objectlve. The operating principles and plan would thus be
confirmed as efficient and pracdcal. If the scheme cannot function as designed, remedial works
would be undertaken and the scheme re-tested after such works are completed. Once the various
representatives involved in the verification process agree that a schemne is ready to transfer from the
construction phase to routine O&M, a Certificate of Corletion would be issued and schemes
formally handed ever for O&M. Under the proposed project, the Govemment would cause
WGWRD/PRIS to certify and verify that such schemes are complete and can function as designed
before handing over prolject schemes to O&M authorities (para 5.16).
18.    Monitoring and Evaluation. Monitoring and evaluation (M&E,) has been poor on all
previous Bank supported projects and it is often not possible to define with certainty the physical
status of schemes during implementation or those designated as complete. Each project agencies
should systematically monitor and evaluate physical and financial progress of their own programs.
Implementation performance on individual components should be collated at provincial and central
level through the respective coordination working groups. To confirm that investments in irrigation
works are justified, socio-economic impacts, crop incomes and margins, crop production and support
services and water management practices must be routirnely monitored by DGWRD, based on methods
and criteria previously agreed with the Bank. In particular, water management practices must be
monitored and evaluated to confirm design criteria such as water use efficiencies and also to confirm
that field staff understand (and are foilowing) rou ine O&M procedures, such as opcra"or. Of gates,
water measurement and maintenance of canal systems. There is also an urgent need to evaluate the
technical performance of irrigadion schemes, such as the percentage of the water demand that was met,
fluctuations in water use efficiencies and farmers' contributions (in cav3h or labor) to tertiary systems
management. Under the project, all project agencies should monitor and evaluate their project
activities and performance according to standards and detail satisfactory to the Bank. Without
effective M&E, diagnostic analysis of project performance is not possible.
Scheme Selection and Screening Process and Criteria
19.    Under project preparation, a screening and selection process has been used to id.entify
schemes, or parts of schemes, that would provide the best returns on investment und also to evaluate
the potential risks. The process consists of a sequential procedure to ensure that each step of the
selection and scr,.ening process is undertaken in a logical order. Standard criteria have been set for
each determinant to evaluate the technical and economical viability of a candidate scheme. The
determinants, essential to establish the technical viability of any irrigation scheme include, inter alia,
location and designated command area, soils and water availability, topography, land use, present and



- 103 -
Page 6
future crop pattems, land ownership and settlement. Also taken into consideration is the present
status of the scheme in terms of quality of original planning and design, sunk investment costs and
any other socio-economic factors that would affect the project risk. Thus a screening and selection
process has been used to decide what schemes proposed by the provinces should be included under
PLADP and then to decide the category status of the included schemes. 'GQahead' schemes are those
that have sufficient planning and enough data to confirmn (with acceptable risk) that they would
produce worthwhile retums on further proposed investments. 'Defenred schemes have sufficient
potential to be included, but insufficient data or inadequate planning to mnake imrediate
implementation an acceptable risk. Table 2 summarizes .he status and main determinants used in the
categorization process.
20.    The deferred schemes have been further subdivided into sub-categories [I A, II B and II C
(see main Table 2). The 43 schemes placed in the Category II B would need special attention since, as
presented, they have serious problems that related to their physical, technical and economic viability.
For example, some 25 schemes under sub-category II B, as proposed at appraisal, have ERRs of less
than 12 percent These schemes would need special review to explain this lack of economic viability
since all of the schemes are supposed to be substantially complete. Five deferred schemes (Sitiung II
in West Sumatra, Kaleana Kanan, Kaleana Kiri and Sanrego in South Sulawesi and Gumbasa in
Central Sulawesi), have been designated sub-category II C. They have been placed in category II C
because they include unrealistic expansion areas, unjustified costs and/or insufficient information to
justify the proposed work programs. AU have all been previously financed by the Bank and are
included under the project because they could be reformulated (to reinstate the design proposed when
the schemes were approved by the Bank) and are likely to be viable. To cover the financing of these
schemes (if they can be reinstated) and any additional schemes that may be proposed by Govemment
that satisfy the project objectives, some 10 percent of total base costs of all schemes have been added
to total project costs. It is esdimated that an additional 45,000 ha would be developed under additional
and sub-category II C schemes.
21.    Scheme Selecticn and Screening Procedures. The project schemes would be screened,
selected and commissioned in accoriance to a process and procedures satisfactory to the Bank
(para 3.21). Appendix I summarizes the process and procedures that would be followed through the
implementation and commissioning phases for a selected scheme. The sequential steps from pre-
screening through implementation to scheme completion are shown schematically in Figure 1 of the
appendix and are as follows:
Sheet 1    Screening - to confirm fit with the project concept and objectives.
Sheet 2    Scheme Analysis - test physical and technical viability.
Sheet 3    Involvement of Beneficiaries and Approval by Provincial Government.
Sheet 4    Review by Central Working Group and Approval by BAPPENAS.
Sheet 5    Implementadon.
Sheet 6    Verification and Certificadon of Scheme Completion.
These schematic flow charts define in a simple manner the complex technical planning and
coordination required to effectively and efficiently process an irrigation scheme from initial selection
through to certification of completion. An essential post construction activity would be to monitor and
evaluate the performance of a scheme to confirn that it continues to function as designed and to record
any lessons learnt.
22.    Planning and Design Criteria. The Bank would review the reinstatement of deferred
schemes to confirm that a scheme is physically, technically and economically viable. In this respect,
the objective would be to implement the project schemes in accordance to technical, financial,
administrative, agricultural and environmental practices, standards and criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, and to an implementation schedule to be agreed annually with the Bank. Appendix 2
summarizes the criteria and conditions that would be followed through the screening and subsequent
implementation and commissioning phases for a selected scheme.



- 104 -
INDONESIA                                          Annex 5
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                              Table 1
Excluded Schunu a/
Propoed           Pevioous Flaadag
Schene                                        ProvInc.            Ares             Cods                 Source
(Ha.)         (Rp M)
A            No nt with PLADP Concept
I  KruengTuan                                      ACEH                 2200           4310
2  Waib Sejuk                                      ACEH                  934            1692
3  Waih Telis                                      ACEN                  343            416
4  Keamba                                          ACEH                  500             5S8
5  Kutu CAne                                       ACEH                 5278          15662              E&-SPIDP
6  Air Dulu                                  S. SUMATRA                  823           2099
7  Pungur Utre                                 LAMPUNG                 30848            6004
S  Raman Utrs                                  LAMPUNO                  6304            1105
9  Bxaang Har                                  LAMPUNG                  7680            1938
10 Lomaya                                   N. SULAWESI                 3143             747
11 Aye.  olangat                            N. SULAWESI                 2280           10541               EX ISSP
12 Bnu 11                                   C. SULAWESI                 3000           17616
13 Txopa                                    C. SULAWESI                 2000           59614
14 Lamsai Kom                                S. SULAWESI                5022           17249
15 Bortoenaal                               S. SULAWESI                 5204           17660
16 GobongRwalei                          C. KALIMANTAN                   710            3486
17 Selala Tongan                         C. KALIMANTAN                   439            2216
IS Naa Damnu                            W. KALIMANTAN                    700            5521
19 Karngan                              W. KALIMANTAN                   1500           15022
Subtotal                                79413          IS3486
3        Complete (Hand over to ISSP 2)
I  Way Relay                                S. SUMATRA                  1175            408
2  Air Ngai                                  BENGKULU                    614            628               &a-SPIDP
3  BatuSumu                                 S, SUMATRA                   451           1670
4  Air Merng                                S. SUMATRA                   579            782
5  BolaSnoB-D0ngo (Other)                   N. SULAWESI                 495S           5S5S                EX ISSP
6  Kilo                                     C. SULAWESI                  349            418                EX ISSP
7  Tmmbaraa                                 C. SULAWESI                  983            1223               EX ISSP
8  Suwu D/S                                 C. SULAWESI                  837            752                EX-ISSP
9  Pamakulu                                 S. SULAWESI                 4554           1280                EX-ISSP
Subtotal                                1450           1'319
C         Complete Hnardover to WUA
I  Padang  anting                          W. SUMATRA                   780             7S0
2  Manguih Malak                           W. SUMATRA                    29S            301
Subtotal                                 1078            15SI
D                      Water Shortage
I  Air Nipis                                 BENGKULU                  2946            1551               Ex-SPIDP
2  A.Nokan Senali                            BENGKULU                    746           1150               Ex-SPIDP
3  Air Beliti                                BENOKULU                    861            456               Ex-SPIDP
4  Air Mundo                                  BENGKULU                   272            253               Ex-SPIDP
5  AirGila                                  S. SUMATRA                   900           3163
6  Lasla Tabulo                             N. SULAWEtSI                1363           2488               Ex-SPMP
Subtotal                                 7088            9761
E                    Multiple Problerns
I  Sitiung l                               W.SUMATRA                   7071            5011  X             ExlISSP
2  Air Lais                                  BENGKULU                   6733           6750                Ex-ISSP
4  Pinogahinan                              N. SULAWESI                  517            768  X            Ex.SPIDP
5  Gumbass                                  C. SULAWESI                 7900           6031  X             Ex ISSP
6  Malonsm                                  C. SULAWESI                 1513           2665               Ex-SPMP
7  Andolea                                  C. SULAWE I                  500           3825  X            Ex-SPDP
Subtotal                                24294           25056
E            UnjufLiflable Expenditures
I  Tindaki                                  C. SULAWESI                  915            979                Ex-ISSP
2  Maoti                                    C. SULAWESI                 1735           1710
3  Kalas Konm                               S. SULAWESI                12392          22233  X             Ex.ISSP
4  Kalam  Kmri                              S. SULAWESI                 4553          236hC    X           Ex-ISSP
S  Saego                                    S. SULAWESI                 9457          32980  X             Ex.ISSP
Subtotal                                29052           311515
SUMMARY
No.                                                                                                    Percuntap of TotW
19 No at witb PlADP concept                                            79413          183416                 57.6
9  Complete. Hand over to ISSP 2                                       14500          13019                  4.1
2  Compilte. handover to WUA                                            1078           15S1                  0.5
6  W      tersboet                                                      7088           9761                  3.1
7  Multiple problem                                                    24294          25050                  7.9
5  Unjostfiable expenditures                                           29052          81515                  25.6
48                               Total                                155425          314412      a/         98.8
X Schemes included under 'deterred' category (11 C) on submission of revised proposal.
ISSP 2 is the proposed folow.up project to the on-going ISSP (Loan 2880-ND).
a/ The estimated costs of the schernes excluded at appraisal is abot.    176.0 million equivalent.



- 105.
Annex 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Scheme Screening by Categodes
Category      Descriptlon             Prescription                          Actlon Taken
I      "GO AHEAD"                 Complete as                           Areed and setordcd:
- fits project concept     prosented                             -scope and costs
- no apparent problems                                           Start in year I
"GO-AHEAD'                 Proceed. following                    Agreed and ncorded:
minor problems             minor re-formulation                  - Items eliminated
or dosing of ISSP                    - reduced scope
- reqt for data collection*
costs and phasing
StWt in Year I
I A     "DEFERRED"
-Serious problems          a) Major reformulation reqd.          Ageed and recorded:
(soil/water)               -substantial chan'-O  in scope        - items eliminated
-or insufficient           (usually eliminate major work         - approx. scope, costs
information                items and reduce proposed area)       Specify additional data and
-Other financing           b) Proceed with:                      studies required *
(OECF, ADB)                - surveys and mapving                 Start following approval
-large areas of            - marginal economic analysis          of Action Plan in course of
forests/tee crops           re-plannning, analysis                Fir Annual Review
11B     "DEFFRRED"
-as presented, unsound scheme -collect data and evaluate to      Discussed and recorded
- major natural, technical,    justify further consideration     reasons for elimination,
economiC or social constraints                                 or specify additional
Started without cftical data                                     information* prcrequisite
- PIADP fit doubtful       -confirm fit with PIADP concept       to further consideration.
(Status Report & Action Plan)
tt C    "DEFERRED"
' sufficient data to evaluate   prepare action plan and revise   included with Provisional for
at appraisal               cost estimates                        financing undizr the project
]I1     "EXCLUDED"
-major civil works not     Not appropriate for inclusion         Discussed and recorded
substantially complete   in PIADP                               ressons for exclusion
-new schemes/modemization                                        returned to Province to
-major rehabilitation                                            re-consider PPR proposals;
or deferred maintenance
-unjustified expenditures
-other financing
-no fit with PIADP concept
-critical water shonage
-apparently ready for EOM     Candidate for ISSP 2               transfer to ISSP or exclude
Note:    DGWRD to initiate hydrological data collection immediately on all schemes.



- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -a-- -- -- -- -- - -- a-- -- -- -- -- -- - -- T - -- -- -
,I!                                                                                                     I             I
MOUIUv v i I I 5                               O  AUM                M  * 6  iUUhUM6   iI
jO~~  IIJ                                          ; -            HX *3IiliI 
-- ;;              ,            ---.--- ---                   - ----- -----             --
[glIllilf   {I UIfIIUi!N Uli!,IhiUI!EUf  11L
1g1!SWl3fiSlE.l  L;..z.;a  il;i igXuuiu                                                            i  I I
C 0                                  nis . aie.                              j      i                      L
i3os3i 3YlU                                 e 4 I co I 3  I I.001.a31               '  '    fiI I a     I I
3.o.e.  s3s Z.iiisi.es3 *                      4;       iS iiiN    Ci  aisitle,.W iii  111011
soi  Yl0.    i e3   ii...          a        3 ;    -   -.s  .;i .i       ii   8..i  @               l  fx   w| I             
----- ---- ---- ----- ---- ---- ---- ---------     ----__        D  
|  oon  a nn o s n * n e     *           ton  os1s O      33 I          oo I I I3I I I a I I I I I I   I. 
33I I00 a I1I              110 I 3                I                          a.e  IsssI'0111   I  I II ,I       I
ainifilailliol                        I   islib             5                 s    i
-    -       -    - -    -       -     - -     -       -       -         - - -         - - -U  - - -         - . I       I I I         I II  
- - -     - -   - -    - -    - -   - -    - -    - -   - -       -   9- - -- - -  -   -    --           -   -
- -    -   -    -   - -    -   -    -   - -    -   -    -   - -    -   -   ------- - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- i- -- - 
| ~ ~       ~        ~      ~       if ro a l 3,ni   |a|         || '      ''3>'''      n ,,,,, ,  I    I  I | I  ||f
- -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -
| T 3  ,,-n-            - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - - -  - - - -  - - - - -  - - - --'-',-  - -  - - - -  - --'- '    ' |    | |    ,  |     | 
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                            ____m .91
|                   3          @|@n                           **t*           no          331''''|{|   



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -       
I I                             I                            I  a     I    I    I
-     -  -   -   - -   -  -   - -   -   -   -    --    -   -  -   - -     -   -
44      -
a                I  I I                   I                       I       I
I    *t iiM  i    0I @S6Y 3hMNl                       *A4MIiEl     lt       I       
Glllittil    Oliilif in ool lalE U "I 1                                 | I  
I| e    I        I I  iI      I   I i I   I  IIII  ILi.    II I I I I
1 iI 1 1 1      *IIiui,,,,,              sI     I I I     III,5      I I
___________________________________~~~~ ___                                  - 
- - - - - - -~ ~~~~- - - - - - - - - -  -   -  -   - -   -   -  -   -
B   ?l  a   n * | h   ,                    | } u.a  un  I
-----------------------
443. a I I                                                                                   L
3E 3.1           3        31 * s      ** nd11  @nnnnn            i ||t
,,,,,,           44441            44        4111          11        11I
---------------------------------------                                       - _
33.3             3..4.s.4.4g                444434301-
-----------------------------------I
r~~~~~>    > D      q'''e |    1v                 



- 108 -
Annex
----------------___                   -_  --_   ---------_                          AttachrieL    I
I            I                                                       I                      Sheet 3
I    t }      1-I^^ ..               ^^          -""""""             I
II |       II }]11z               i' ifi        iiol         @ gu I
I        1000    goalie               algmmiim             I
! ~   ~    . .           ..   .....Qe  .' '  ''z'QR' 
1 Ig I                   Iloilo _    _     _      _       _I
E~~~~~2                                   IIZ}I*|Q    ||*     ,,,,,
.  . I  .    . .  . .  I
|$ 1ffi""--^- t;lil!  5X"~~~~~~~~~~~~--------
o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                 -                    
rz~ ~~             ~ -;  - -I - -      -   -   -   -   -   -   -      -   -   -   -   -
g ~     ~       - --           ---------------------------liEall1|
I ] 1ffic '114 I  1!
I  -   --       --   -  -       --    -         ---     --    --
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



-109 -                           Annex 
Attahment 2
Page I
INDONESIA
PROVINCLkL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Procedures for Scheme Selection. Screening and Implementatioi
1.    This attachment summarizes the sequential steps in the process used to screen and select
schemes for inclusion in the project at appraisal and would be followed through the project
implementation. The screening process would be used for evaluating deferred and additional
schemes before they are submitted to the Bank for approval prior to implementation. The steps
related to implementation and the commissioning phases would apply to all schemes included under
the project. The sequential steps through a selected scheme cycle are shown in the six sheets under
the Schematic Flow Chart (attached as Figure 1).
The Screening and Selection Process - (Sheet 1)
2.    The screening and selection process is to determine whether a candidate scheme would
satisfy the pject objective, namely of fully completing and developing the command area of
irrigation schemes to obtain full potential benefits from irrigated agriculture. The proposed project
would be limited to completing on-going small and medium scale irrigation schemes, where at least
the weir and the main canal distribution system are substantially complete. Thus, new schemes or
schemes that require replacement and/or major reconstruction, rehabilitation or modernization would
be excluded.
Scheme Evaluation and Analysis - (Sheet 2)
3.    Status of Preparation Check. The schemes which satisfy the screening and selection process
would be evaluated to establish whether they are ready and sufficiently prepared for agreed activities
to proceed to implementation. The conditions and criteria to be used in scheme preparation are
summarized in Attachment 3 to this Annex. The initial process would be to check that sufficient
physical and other resource data is available (such as mapping and hydrologic data collection, etc.)
both in terms of quantity and quality. The analysis would then proceed by sequentially to assess the
physical, technical and economic viability (Sheet 2). The first steps would be to confirm that a
scheme is physically feasible by checking topography, environmental status, water availability and
coher physical resources (such as soil suitability and the general topography) essential for a scheme
to deliver potential agricultural benefits at acceptable costs. Schemes which have passed through
these steps would then be subjected to technical analysis to confirm that all needed activities have
been fully specified. At this stage, proposed works which cannot be proved to contribute to potential
benefits are excluded (in particular, expensive items such as canal lining are evaluated to confirm that
they are justified). For schemes with flood control and/or major drainage problems, the flood
control and drainage components would be evaluated separately, where applicable, following the
same sequential steps as for general scheme analysis.
4.    Deferred Schemes. Schemes included under the proposed project that cannot be processed
for lack of data would remain deferred and specific reasons for the deferment would be identified.
Schemes that remain deferred would be provisionally phased into the provincial work program with
tentative cost estimates and phasing. These deferred schemes would be revisited and reviewed by
each Bank supervision mission, and the work programs and costs adjusted at each Bank-GOI
Annual Implementation Review. The national and provincial coordination working groups would
then incorporate any reinstated schemes into the respective provincial programs, or when applicable,
delete the schemes from the project.. Adherence to the agreed annual work programs would be the



- 110 -                         Annex S
Attachrnent 2
responsibility of the provincial government, with the program coordinated by the BAPPEDA in each
province.
5.    Costing. Phasing and Economic Analysis. The last stage of the Scheme Analysis would be
to estimate costs and check economic viability. Quantity and costs of all components would be
calculated ising current unit rates (for similar work contracts) and potendal benefits would be
estimated from the best local crop producdon data available. Sunk and social costs would be
excluded and a rate of return of at least 12.0 percent would be achieved, since all schemes are
supposed to be "substantially complete". If a satisfactory ERR is not achieved, the scheme would be
excluded, or deferred until the proposed works, costs and potential benefits can be further examined
to establish the reason for the low ERR.
Involvement of the Beneficiaries & Provincial Approval - {Shet 3)
6.    When scheme has passed the process described above and thus can be realistically defined by
the responsible agencies, the social viability would be tested by confirming that the potential
beneficiaries want the scheme. If the affected community does not want all or part of a scheme, it
would be either excluded from the project, or the scheme command area would be adjusted to serve
only areas with community approval. Reformulated schemes would then be re-evaluated (as
required) through the scheme evaluation and analysis shown on Sheet 2.
Review by Proiect National Coordination Working Group - (Sheet 4)
7 .    The next step would be to prepare (or periodically update) a work program for each province
specifying the agreed activities and proposed phasing of schemes cleared for implementation and
those still deferred. A coordinated provincial work program with estimated annual costs would be
prepared for submission and budget approval to the center. A final review of the provincial
programs (by components) would then be undertaken by the agencies involved at the national level to
check for inter-provincial consistency. The provincial programs and individual schemes (including
cost estimates) would be reviewed and formally approved at the national level and then subject to
budgetary approval by BAPPENAS.
Implementation and Commissioning. - (Sheets S and-6
8.    The various steps in the implementation and commissioning process need to be carefully
coordinated to ensure that any changes or delays are reflected in the revision to the work programs of
all agencies. An essential last step in scheme implementation would be to verify and certify that a
scheme is fully complete and function as planned and designed, before it is handed over for routine
O&M. The verification and certification process is summarized in para 17 of Annex 5 and detailed in
a Discussion Paper produced by the project preparation consultants1/.
Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E)
9.    The M&E procedures would be designed so that key steps in the process described above can
be clearly identifiable and monitored. Each scheme would have to be processed and cleared through
all phases, and in particular, the f nal verification and certification of completion, before the scheme
is designated as complete under the project.
1J    Discussion Paper on Verification and Certification Procedures to Confirm Completion
Status, DWRGD (prepared by Sir M. MacDonald and Partners Asia and PT Indah Karya,
Consultants), September 1989.



-~~~~~~~~~ne 5l 
Sheet 1
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Screening. Coordination and Implenientation Procedures
Schematic Flow Chart
Screening and Selection
SUstems aub tentieit.      No         REJECT
Yes
aJor rohboblillanor
moenztion reqluired ?   VolREEC
COMP_ete this scheme?      No      1REJECT
yE s
PROCEED TO SCNEME olNnEVSIS



* 112-                                               AnnexS
Figure I
Sheet 2
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Screening. Coordination and Implementation Procedures
Schematic Flow Chart
Physical and Technical Preparation
V'
re to ?~~~~~~~~~~~~rate ed
a
Vo
pre lenddobableorioco meld. ,esreegt
reOre mel fetl defined             itiot sit
etreaaflee, eroelde I.          N               Welof etimp
eernlitsde ?                             ed a ef tt
Ye,
tic eaciese rimae Psamet.                            forY
I a -_
at to
_II
PIMPtt To tolttNO, tttltlIC trzeVSlsI
Hpagthtnls t Wmtt aal tFt htttt tilttHit1  z
*Ctt{Mt tAt9br



- I113 -                                                Annex 5
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Screening,. Coordinafign and Implenientation Prmeure
Schematic Flow Chart
Involvement of Benericaries
and Provincail Approval
| ISTRIIUTE SIMPLE AESCRIPTION Of PROPOSES  1
SCHEME TO ALL AFFECTED COMMUNITIES
OISCUSS IN OPEN COMMUNITV MEETINGS
following posting of notices In public pieces and
sdu.rtising ass radio end In local newspapors
Do treecrponr
confirm desire to cut down              n
trees 7
yes
P    SUMMRRIZG IND INCORPORCTE   FOR
RERtTNIONS OF PRON OSED WO TER USERS AR LEDUCE SAR TRAININ TE
I ND OTSHERS FRFECTEON   Y SCW EME                      SCPRGMM
ANDFOWRDaIT FUnDI E    Qtim UeT T ERPN
Vos
yes~~~~~~~
PRESENT SCHEME 0EI16N IN FlNIL DOCUMENT FOR                        ,       _
PROUINCIRL ONO NATIONAL COUERNMENT APPROURL.         ....ITTINN
INCLUO:E SCHEME IN PROUINCIIIL WOIIH PROGRAM   *nITTRNN
AND [@RWRRo WITH FUNDING REQUEST TO *MPPENRS



-11 4-
Annex 5
Figure I
Sheet 4
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVFL-OPMENT PROJECT
Screening. Coordination and Implementation Procedurel
Schematic Flow Chart
Review by Cent.al Agencies
and Approval by BAPPENAS
SCNE#ME DOCUMENT NICEIUED eY
D"PPENAS
_~~~~~~ UP. P. 1... N   I
0.s working group confirUN-tmPI:IC
_thet pannning b well             No         FoR MalUi W  lA
rdelnatad?
was
I
DISTRIBUTE SCHEME OOCUMENT O LINE
DEPRATMENTS/I6ENCIES
Line agancia, confirm            _         No
pme prousi  as                  Me
Ce ae  t *prelcel       -Ne_            onR/Sol NEUIU
Ves
SCHEME aPPIMES 10ER IMPLEMENTATION
RNO INCLUDES IN NEIT VERR S 8UD6ET
PROPOSAL IV DRPPENlS



Annex5
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~iLr 11
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECr'
Screening. Coordination and Implementation Procedures
Schematc Flow Chart
Implewnentation
SCIIbeI ap,a.wtm fec lhtIMt1l61t                       SI|   TO CUNiEit FOR
INCLUSION IN N,II , 1rn1
SUNS?t APPAUIOLA IV SIPNA                                  U06(T
od We [   tlUle-PRlTCteNdTUCTIOM Of
alnd Uoarsg  sequired 7          No-                    TETlIRIES AND OTNII AGRIGIE C lUlt
yet
(AtCUTE CLEAIN6 CONTRACTS
ond owiners
yet            ecuroto taope mePC
BP ltb tltUV "FtO M:P     |
COMIPLETSESIGN16                                                   I
oPfLPRE CSNTRqCt DOCUM(IINTS
INITIATE PROM NCTIIIITIlI
IN|Ct TE LT  LLt N CONTM CTIS



- 116-                                    Anne
Figrel
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Screenina. Coordination and Iniplenmentation E=oedures
Schematic Plow Chart
Verirication and Certification
of Scheme Completion
LAND DEUELOPMENT RND TERTIARIES COMPLETE                         A CTINUEPR
''    1              1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CIUTE
PREPRRE                  ARRANGE GPM
'PS-BUILT"MAPS OF              HOUSING RND
SYSTEM LRYOUT                 TRRNSPORT
PREPARE                      RSSIGN
ODM MANUAL                   OlM STRFF
I                           I
PERFORM TRIRLS & TEST SYSTEM OPERIATION RND
UNDERTRKE OM STAFF TRRINING (as required)
PREPARE CHECK-LIST OF SYSTEM DEFECTS
EHECUTE REMEDIRL WORKS
EHECUTE TESTS OF PERFORMRNCE                              TERMINATE
(RLL PRRTIES INUOLUED TO RGREE                               PROM
THRT SCHEME IS COMPLETE )



-117-                                Anxml5
INDONESIA
PROVINCIA', IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Criteria for Scheme Selection and Screening
1.     Of the 130 schemes included under the project, some 99 schemes have been supported
under either the SPIDP (Loan 2375 - IND) or under the ISSP (Loan 2880 - IND). Both these Bank
operations have explicit planning and design criteria, satisfactory to the Bank and agreed by
Government, which were used to screen and select the schemes for inclusion under the respective
Loan operations. A general criteria under the proposed project for schemes financed under previous
Bank operations would be for all works, to take into account the planning and design standards and
criteria agreed when these schemes were originally approved for financing by the Bank and, in
particular, the recommendations related to technical and economic viability in the project preparation
documents, in status reports and action plans prepared for schemes financed under the SPIIP I/ and
ISSP 2/. These planning and design standards and criteria would also be applied to those schemes
included under the project that have not been previously financed under either SPIDP or ISSP.
2.     Except for SID and land titling and certification, prior to submitting a scheme to the Bank
for approval for implementation under the project, Government would confirm that the agencies
involved have approved the design, scope, estimated costs and coordinated implemnentation program
of the porposed scheme.
3 .    Without limitation to the provisions in para I and 2 above and unless agreed by the Bank,
the following conditions and criteria, inter alia, would be met before a deferred scheme included
under the project (or an additional scheme that Government may propose for h iclusion under the
project), other than 'go-ahead' schemes, is submitted to Bank the approval for i;. plernentation under
the project.
A Project Scope and Irrigation Works.
(a)   Sufficient physical resource data, including hydrology, clinmate, ;opography, soils
and land capability and use would b-, collected and evaluated to, ..onfirm that the
proposed scheme is technically viab.e and would be able to ach' ~. the predicted
agricultural impact in terms of croppirg area and crop intensitie. z .d yields;
(b)   presentation of hydrologic and climatic records sufficient to evaluut. any empirical
assumption used in the scheme planning design and confirmation 4na this data is
being collected and evlauated for the scheme on a continuous basis,;
(c)   that the proposed scheme has sufficient water resources to provide, on an 80 per
cent dependable basis, the annual design irrigation requirements for ihe designated
command area;
Status Reports and Action Plans for the Second Provinc;al Irrigation Development Project
(SPIDP), GOI, DGWRD (assisted by Sir M. MacDonald & Partners in association with PT
Indah Karya, Consulting Engineers), March 1989 (M.ain Volume and 24 Annex Reports).
2/    Review Reports, ISSP Preparatory Designs, and Review of 22 On-going Projects, GOI,
DGWRD (assisted by Sir M. MacDonald & Partners in associzaion with PT Indah Karya,
Consulting Engineers), 1987/1988 (Volume I and 14 Annex Reports).



- 1 18 -                            Annex S
Attachffent 3
(d)   on those schemes where land needs clearing, or steep slopes need levelling, a
phased works program that coordinate the land clearance and development works
with related irrigadon works programs; in particular, the construction of tertiary
canals would be phased to follow land clearance and development;
(e)   confirmadon of agricultural potential for the scheme command area, based on actual
experimental data on schemes with soil problems (acid podsols and deep peats);
(f)   present land title and land use, based on survey data, sufficient to confirm the socio-
economic viability of the proposed scheme;
(g)   confirmation that land owners/farmers through the designated command area want
the proposed scheme and are prepared to form Water User Associations (W1JA);
(h)   the operational principles and plan for the proposed scheme, together with an action
program related to initiate scheme operation to be implemented under the scope and
schedule of the PROM component;
(i)   the scheme is economically viable and has an ERR of at least 12%, excluding sunk
costs; and
(j)   agreement by Government to implement and complete the proposed scheme as
agreed before any additional development in scheme designated command area or
that utilizes the water resources assumed to be available to the proposed scheme.
B              andCumnand IDelopment
(a)   Implement land clearance and development programs only in parts of scheme
command areas: (i) with suitable soils; (ii) with assured water supplies in the dry
season; (iii) where costs of LC&D works are justified on economic grounds;
(iv) when LC&D is wanted by the farmers; and (v) obtain prior approval of the
provincial forestry services before clearing any land with standing forest.
C Settleient
(a)   Plan and design settlement under the project based on: (i) a detailed review of the
socio-economics of settlement is undertaken; (ii) the scheme technical and economic
viability has been confirmed; and (iii) areas designated for settlement have suitable
soils and reliable irrigation supplies.
D Envinm tal Protection.
(a)   Evaluate and make the necessary provisions to protect both upstream and
downstream users that would be negatively effected by the scheme development;
(b)   exclude designated Protection Forest or Production Forest from the scheme
command area and reclassify and gazette the scheme catchment area as Protection
Forest land unless otherwise agreed by the Bank; and
(d)   survey and prepare soil erosion control works within the scheme command and
catchment areas, as required.



- 119 -                              Anngx6
Page 1
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DE-VELOPMENT PROJECr
Land Clearance and Development
Background
1.    General. The Directorate of Agricultural Area Development (DAAD) in the Directorate
General of Food Crop Agriculture (DGFCA) in the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is charged with
supporting smallholders in land clearing and land development (LC&D) for the cultivation of food
crops. This support comprises technical advice and some financial assistance towards land clearing
and land levelling. DAAD is solely a LC&D contract administering agency and it is providing
training and extension to smallholders regarding land clearing, land development and sawah
formation. All land development is done by contract.
2.    Each province retains its own contractors to do the work (KEPPRES 29 and 30, 1984).
Contractors are prequalified in classes, as shown below:
c1as                                                Contract Pric (Rp M)
C3           Call bids from 3 contractors             0 - 20
C2           Call bids from 3 contractors             20- 50
Ci           Limited tender-minimum 3 contractors    50 - 100
B2           Limited tender-minimum 3 contractors    100 - 200
B 1          Limited tender-minimum 3 contractors    200 - 500
A           General tender: mainly Java               > 500
3.    LC&D used to be based on a credit scheme. However, to become eligible for credit from
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), smallholders had to have title to their land. Since only a very small
proportion of farmers possess titles to the land, DAAD's development program was seriously
delayed. In September 1989, GOI decided to provide financial support to smallholders on a grant
basis to accelerate land development. Funding is provided through the Government (APBN)
budget and a large program from supported OECF funds. Under the proposed PIADP, adequate
funding would be provided in participating irrigation schemes to finalize land clearing and LC&D
operations in the command area of PIADP schemes.
4.    There has been insufficient progress under Government funding LC&D programs to fully
assess the impact. However, most on-going LC&D programs are reported to be underfunded. As
a result, the land is not fully cleared or developed, placing a future burden on the farmers An
Integrated Command Area Development Project (ICADP), funded by ADB, is under
implementation in Lampung and Bengkulu provinces. One objective is to ascertain technical
parameters to adequate land development at reasonable cost. The lessons learned are:
(i) land clearing and land level of the ecologically fragile red-yellow prodzolics should
preferably be done manually;
(ii) contractors should employ participating smallholders/beneficiaries; and
(iii) training of and extension smallholders is essential with respect to adequate development
methods, the role and importance of the topsoil, the choice of cropping pattems etc.
5.    DAAD Staffing. The DAAD is organized in four sections of which land development is
one. DAAD is represented at the provincial and the district levels. DAAD staffing in the six project
provinces is as follows:



- 120 -                                   Page 2
Number of
Provine       Technical         Admin.    Technical      Admin  DAAD Units
Riau             13                2           0            0          0
W. Sumatra        6 (land dev.)    2          18            2          2
Aceh              4                3          32            16         8
Lampung           3                1          90           20          5
S. E. Sulawesi    6                ?          32            8          2
S. Sulawesi      18                1          33            2          2
6.    Provincial DAAD staff are not geared in number and in quality to adequately administer the
immense LC&D programs in the provinces. DAAD relies on consultants (survey, investigation,
design, and supervision) and contractors to implement the program. In some provinces with
modest land development programs, DAAD considers it would be able to deliver good quality
development. In others provinces, DAAD realizes that it will not be able to cope with present
staffing resources.
Description of LC&D Works
7.    The LC&D activity consists of: (i) survey, investigation and design (SID) to prepare
contracts; (ii) clearing the land (cutding trees and destumping); and (iii) developing the cleared land
into sawah (fields suitable for rice cultivation). The technical details are described below and the
basis for establishing LC&D costs given in Section C of this annex.
8.    Land Clearing. The land clearance operadons comprise the following activities. First an
inventory of existing vegetation is made since the costs for clearing are mainly determined by the
size and density of the vegetation. Land clearance is classified as follows:
(i)  Heavy forest (HF)         -  over 600 trees per ha with a diameter of
over 30 cm at breast height;
(ii)  Light forest (LF)        -  thick cover of small trees and bushes;
(iii) Secondary bush (SB)      -  thin cover of small trees and bushes; and
(iv) Grass (GA)                -  few trees and bushes.
Land clearance of heavy forest includes: (i) selection and marking of valuable trees for timber, (ii)
underbrushing; (iii) cutting and felling; (iv) stacking and windrowing; (v) burning; (vi) destumping
and reburning; and (vii) construction of ditches and planting of cover crops to prevent erosion.After
land clearing is completed, more accurate topographic maps can be prepared which serve as the base
for tertiary layout and land development designs.
9.    Land develpment. The land development (LD) operations include the following activities.
Land is levelled to produce a flat area suitable for bunded irrigation, preferably in plots of about
0.25 ha. Land levelling requirements are dictated by slopes:
Slopes              Developmeat
(i)      0 - 1.5%      -     little or none needed;
(ii)      1.5 - 3%     -     levelling needed; and
over 3%      -     substantial levelling needed.
During the LD operation, final destumping is undertaken, if needed. Following completion of LD
work in-field irrigation development is completed (tertiary irrigation/drainage canals; construction of
bunds/dikes along the contour, bund preparation for sawah formation).



- 121 -                                  Annex6
page 3
10.   To minimize the quantity of earthworks to be moved, (and thus costs) during land levelling
the following steps are taken:
Stage I   Divide the future terrace in three parts; scrape topsoil from the upper and parts to
the middle of the proposed terrace.
Stage  2   Move the cut of the top part of the terrace to the bottom part (fill) of the above
lying terrace.
Swagm 3   Construct dike or bund.
Stage 4   Replace topsoil back over disturbed subsoil.
The process is illustrated in Figure 1. The quantity of soil to be moved by slope class is given in
Table 1. Under APBN and OECF funded programs, land appears to be levelled by scraping soil
(topsoil and subsoil) from the top of the terrace to the bottom part of the same terrace. This can
result in topsoil being covered by subsoil and serious long term reduction in land fertility.
11.   Contracting. DAAD contracts out LC&D operations. So far, DAAD has combined both
land clearance and development operations in one contract, often with disastrous results since
adequate topographic mapping is impossible for heavily vegetated areas. Contractors tend to
concentrate on land clearing and underestimate iarid development requirements. Contracts are often
left incomplete or abandoned when the land clearance operation is finished. Under many contracts,
destumping is not adequately completed. DAAD is aware of the need of separating land clearance
from land development, but fears that contractors would not be interested in bidding for these
separate operations. Most would concentrate on land clearing only.
12.   Backgroun  Only scant data are available on LC&D costs in most provinces, mainly
because Government funded programs have only recently started. The unit costs for LC&D
activities used to estimate the project costs have been based on data collected by DAAD from recent
contract bids, in particular, unit costs in Bengkulu and South and Southeast Sulewasi, detailed
below.
13.   Bengkulu. Land development contract for land clearing and levelling are all undertaken
manually with no destumping. Only terrace bunds are provided ,. ith no compaction. The cover is
reported as: 72%, bush/grass; 14% light forest and 14% heavy forest. Land slopes are in the range
5-10%.
Unit cost for land clearing:           Rp 000/ha
Heavy forest                         640
Light forest                         310.9
bush/grass                           146.3
upland cropping                        0 0
Unit cost for land levelling             270.8
The weighted average for the combined land clearing and land levelling contract price is Rp 527,500
per ha.
14.   South East Sulawesi. The OECF land clearing and land development prograrn for about
4,200 ha has been funded by just over Rp 2 billion averaging about Rp 480,000/ha. DAAD expects
that an unsatisfactory job will result and estimates that the unit price should have been about Rp



- 122 -                              Annex
800,000/ha to achieve satisfactory results.
15.   South Sulawesi. The OECF land clearing and land development program of about 6,000 ha
has been funded by about Rp 1.90 billion averaging about Rp 320,000/ha. DAAD expects that an
unsatisfactory job will be done and it estimates that at least double the amount would be required to
achieve satisfactory results.
16.   Impact of Underfunded Land Clearing Programs. DAAD has estimated the negative impact
of underfunding LC&D programs under the OECF programs, compared with adequately funded
land clearing and development programs as follows:
Fully funded                    Underfunded LCkfD
Xaff  LC&D         Souheast Sulawesi           South Sula
----------------------Tons/ha----------------------------------------
Range   AB Range                AY .ange    A
1       2.5-3   2.75          1.5-2     1.75                2       2
2        3-4    3.5            2-3      2.5                 3       3
3       4-4.5   4.25          3.5-4     3.75              3.5-4   3.75
4         5       5            4.5      4.5                4.5    4.5
5         5       5             5        5                  5       5
If these assumptions are correct, yield differences over a four year period would easily
cover the difference between adequately funded and underfunded land development. However,
there is no reliable production data to support these estimates and DAAD does have an interest to
increase its expenditure programs.
17.   ProRosed Unit Costs. Based on work carried out under the ADB financed ICADP in
I ampung and Bengkulu provinces, DAAD has generated unit cost prices LC&D by type of
vegetation and slope class. DAAD states that these unit costs would only part-support benefiting
smallholders. Certain items such as destumping, dike/bund construction and compacting, and
sawah preparation would have to be done by the smallholders themselves. Unit cost prices to
obtain satisfactory results would be as follows:
Land clearing                                R'000ha
-  Upland crops                               0
-  Grass/alang                              172
-  Secondary bush/blukar                    345
-  Light forest                             600
-  Heavy forest                             900
Slope Class
LadDevelopment                  0- 5%        5 -8 %       8 - 15%
-  Survey, Investigation,
and Design                  45           45           45
-  Tools to farmers            50           50            50
-  Land levelling             250          325           600
-  Supervision sawah
fornation                   25           <            25
2Q           445          m



- 123 -                              Annx 6
Page 5
18.   The provincial scheme proposals have generally overstated vegetation and slope classes.
For the purpose of estimating project LC&D costs the following corrections have been applied:
Land Cleang                                L and Lng
EB                       SR                     EP                  SAR
Heavy forest             Light forest (LF)
Light forest             Secondary bush (SB)      8-15%               5-8%
Secondary bush           Grass/alang2 (GA)         5-8%               0-5%
Grass/alang2             Upland crops (UC)         0-5%               0-5%
Upland crops             Uplands
The application of the corrected work description to all schemes included under PIADP is given in
Tables 2 and 3.
19.   Project Cost Estimates. Cost estimates for the "Go Ahead" and the "Deferred" schemes are
given in Tables 2 and 3, respectively. Existing tree crop stands in command areas have been
excluded, pending economic justification and agreement format by participating smallholders. All
areas proposed to be cleared falling in a slope class over 8% have been excluded since technical
parameters to guarantee satisfactory LC&D are not known, and since costs involved are expected to
be prohibitive, the activity would not be economically viable.
Conclusions
20.   DAAD at the provincial and district levels does not have the required manpower in number
and in technical quality, and funding to deliver adequate land development, over the short to
medium term. DAAD only administers contracts of consultants and land clearing/land levelling
contractors. Consequently, field supervisio.a is minimal and unsatisfactory performance is a
substantial risk.
21.   Underfunding of LC&D operations as under the OECF program may result in unsatisfactory
land development, resulting in lower than expected yields over the first four years. DAAD is letting
contracts for land clearing and land development combined. However, these two activities should
be separated in two discrete contracts. Land clearing should be followed by topographic mapping
as a basis for planning tertiary design and land development, which includes amongst others land
levelling.
22.   It is recommended that to minimize the risk of unsatisfactory LC&D, the final contract
payment (say 20-25% of the contract price) should not be transferred to the contractor until after
participating smallholders have agreed that the works have been completed to a satisfactory (to be
formally confirmed during the verification and certification procedures of individual schemes,
described in Annex 5.



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECi
land Levelling Specifications
--------------Dimensions ----------------  ----------------------------E arthworks Ouantity---------------------
Volume
Height of    Width of     Width of        Volume          Dike/Bund       Volume Sub Soil
Slope  ~Bund/Dike     Terpce      Scjring         Tosoil             Fill        Fill        -ii1
Min    Max Min      Max   Mm         Max   Min       Max Mn   Max Mm    Max
%        m             m           m             m3/ha           m3/ha         m3/ha      m3/ha
< 1       0.2       20    50   3.7        5.9  2,360     3,733   55       138   76    82  131   220
1- 2      0.4       20    40   6.1       1. 2  5,617    6,138   69       138  351   367  436   489
2 - 3     0.5       17    25   5.8        8.3  6,670     6,831   110      165  466   494  604   628
3 - 5     0.6       12    20   4.6       7.3  7,307      7,693   138     220  577   616  753   806
5 - 8     0.8       10    16   4.2       6.4  8,051      8,363   172     275  795   851 1,023 1,070
8- 10     1.0       10   12.5  4.3       5.3  8,540      8,673   220     295  1,028 1,063 1,233 1,303
1/ It is assumed that the topsoil has an average depth of 20 cm.
2/ Source - ICADP Lampung; May 1990



- 12S.
fi~u
PROVINCIAL IRR              AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land DeveoICPment Procedure
SUNo pL.... P9OPO.ED TERRACE..
a                                   BNDrsrJNN
TOp  i" *novl tO m.ddhj of t&f
LrA_136 2
Cut And fill of sub oi
STAGE 3
Bund O"tuctns  tand roplc"nt of lop WIl
SeWah %MaUokn oom*w
S DO'W400a



- 126 -                               Annex 2
INDONERSIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Titling and Certification
1.    General. The agency, previously known as Agraria in the Ministry of Home Affairs, was
reorganized recently into the National Land Agency or Badan Pertanahan Nasional (BPN) reporting
directly to the President of the Republic of Indonesia. This reorganization was needed due to
Agraria's unsatisfactory performance in its land titling/certification operations in the rural sector, for
instance in the Bank financed transmigration program and the tree crop subsector (NES, SRDP, and
SCDP).
2.    BPN - is a revenue generating agency and is supposed to support itself from fees charged to
its clients (as was Agraria). Typical BPN activities include land registration, cadastral survey, land
titling and the issuing of land certificates. Land consolidation also forms part of BPN's mandate.
Until recently, farmers and smallholders wishing to expand or intensify their farning operations
required credit for land clearing and land development. To be eligible for credit from the rural
banking system, (mainly Bank Rakyat Indonesia), farmers needed title to their land.
3.    In addition, GOI considers that by issuing individual land titles, farmers would obtain
security and farmers would be more inclined and wi;lling to follow advice of the extension service
and to apply appropriate husbandry practices. Individual land titles will be issued to local farmers
and transmigrants, except in those provinces where land is held in clan ownership; the clan will be
issued a title.
4.    BPN Program. Under the proposed PIADP, BPN, for the first time would become an actiye
participant in a program of the irrigated agricultural development. This should enable the more rapid
development of the small and medium scale irrigation schemes under the proposed project and thus
enable benefits to participating farmers from irrigated agriculture to be achieved in a more timely
manner. The BPN would undertake the survey and field work as soon as the land is sufficiently
cleared to enable the the process to be undertaken effectively. The land certificates would generally
be issued once the cleared land has been developed into irrigated sawah. Thus of the project
participating agencies, BPN would generally be the last in line to complete its duties. Since BPN
would obtain specific support under the project, it would no longer depend on funding by or through
other participating agencies such as DGWRD and DAAD.
5.    BPN Staffing. BPN is a well-established agency and that it is adequately represented -
technically as well as administratively - at the provincial and district levels. Land titling and the
issuance of land certificates is a function of BPN at the district level. However, BPN would provide
assistance at the provincial level, if so needed.
6.    Staffing levels at provincial and district levels in 5 sample provinces are summarized below:
Number of    Provincial Level            District Level
Province         Districts    Technical    Admin.    Technical     Admin,
-----------------------Number of Staff-------------------
Riau                ?          149         54          ----------339----------
Aceh                8          160         70          260           140
Lampung             ?          130         170
S.E. Sulawesi       4           43          15          56            20
South Sulawesi     23          250         50           30            10



- 127 -                                Annex 7
BPN budgets for the complete land titling/certification process about 0.5 ha per staff member per
day. Thus, a scheme commanding 500 ha would be processed by about 10 staff and take some three
months to complete the certification process.
7.    Co. The provincial preparation of the proposed project showed a confusing array of BPN
activities in the 13 provinces, as well as widely varying unit costs for these activities between
provinces (as well as between schemes in a province). For example, land titling and certificaticn
costs varied from about some Rp 60,000 per ha in Sumatra to Rp 300,000 per ha in Kalimantan.
8.    BPN Cost Estimates for Land Certification. BPN would only perform its functions after
sawah formation has been completed, and then undertake only relatively simple titling and
certification activides. These tasks would be similar to all schemes under PIADP, and agreement
has been reached with BPN on activities to be performed and the unit cost for these activities to be
applied uniformly to all project schemes/provinces. Agreed land titling/certification unit costs, are
presented below:
Unit Cost
Item                   (RD OOO/ha)
Cadastral survey                52
Land authorization              22
Land certification               6
Total (per unit area)           80
In the event that BPN would become involved in land reform and land consolidation, or resolution of
land disputes, additional costs would be incurred. Under PIADP, it is assumed that BPN would
carry out its duties in a relatively problem free environment. Using these unit rates, land certification
cost estimates have been in Annex 2, Tables 5 and 6 for the "Go Ahead" and the "Deferred"
schemes, respectively.
9.    Vehicles and Equipment. A standard provision for each province on the number and types of
vehicles and equipment required for BPN to perform efficiently its duties in an efficient and timely
manner would be as follows:
Total   Unit    Total
Item                                                        Units   Costs    Cost
Vehicles:        Province   District   Provinces  Districts  No.    Rp M       RpaM
---------------------------------- No -----------------------------
4WD (Provincial)    1                    13                    13       30       390
Motorcycle (District)         2                     45        90         3       22Q
660
Eauipment:
T-2 Theodolite                                                 20       25       500
T-0 Theodolite                                                 30       12       26
860
Total    1.520
This provision has been included under the project presentation with the equipment designated to
individual schemes reflecting the specific scheme need and location.
10.   Administration and Overheds. BPN would monitor the land certification progrm under
PIADP closely, since for the first time BPN would take an active part in GOI's development
program. Thus, costs, including travel, advice and guidance to BPN staff in the provincial and
district offices, office equipment and supplies have been included (estimated at 5% of land
certification costs, or averaging about Rp 4,000 per ha).



- 128 -                           Annex 8
IND)ONESIA
PROVINCIAL iRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (PIADP)
Agricultural Aspects
1.    Background. Irrigated crop production on the proposed schemes is almost exclusively for
rice. Palawija (annual food crops other than rice) crops would only be grown when there is
insufficient water for the dry season rice crop and where soil conditions necessitate growing
rotational crops for soil reclamation/amelioration purposes. Otherwise there would be both wet
and dry season rice crops. Climatic conditions in all thirteen provinces are suitable for double
cropping rice and/or palawija crops when timely and appropriate cultural practices are followed.
There is a distinct need for careful water management to allow timely land preparation for seedbeds
and main production fields, as well as timely drainage for harvesting evenly maturing (for
improved grain quality) crops. Drying of paddy is required after harvest (when grain moisture
reaches 18-22 percent ) to afford safe storage at a grain moisture content below 14 percent.
2.    There are substantial differences in soil, climate, farming population, water availability,
agricultural support services (extension, credit, input supplies, post harvest facilities) between
schemes within the 13 project provinces and it is impossible to generalize on crop production
practices and methodologies. It is therefore proposed that a fairly detailed Agricultural
Development Plan (ADP) is prepared for each of the schemes to be financed under the project.
ADP's would be prepared under the overall supervision of the Project Provincial Coordination
Working Groups (PPCWG ) in each of the 13 BAPPEDA's and would be used for seasonal
monitoring of progress with scheme implementation. Actual data collection, analyses of
constraints and proposed solutions, required support services, credit, inputs, farmer organization
strengthening, etc., would be done by the Provincial Agricultural Service (PRAS) with substantial
input from its programming division, Subject Matter Specialists (PPS) and heads of the relevant
REC(s) in coordination with KUD and/or other credit and input (fertilizers, agro-chemical)
suppliers. Some survey work is required to establish a reliable profile of the farming community.
On many of the existing schemes, where either irrigation improvements or further land clearing and
leveling is to be done, there exists no data on the farm size distribution and the crop production
arrangements (owner-operators, tenants, share cropping, etc). On schemes which are or have been
developed for transmigrants the situation is simple; most have one hectare of land for irrigated rice.
On older transmigration schemes there are already complications due to land acquisitions,
sharecropping arrangements, etc. It is extremely important to establish if share croppers and
tenants (thus without land title) can obtain crop production credit at reasonable interest rates. If this
is not the case, or when there are shortfalls in inputs such as fertilizers and pesticides, potential
crop yields cannot be achieved and which thus restricts the production and income potential of
producers. A sample ADP is provided as Attachment 1 and should be prepared before incremental
scheme development commences (Condition of Approval for Scheme Financing). ADP's would
be seasonally updated and from a careful analysis of production results, revised production targets
and alternative crop production efforts can be proposed and produced.
3.    To achieve a fairly uniform preparation of ADP's and to ensure that appropriate measures
are being taken for the delivery of services and inputs an experienced (with rice growing in
particular) Agriculturalist/irrigation agronomist consultant would be appointed (Attachment 1,
Annex 4), for the duration of the project. The selected candidate would travel extensively to
irrigation schemes in the 13 project provinces. He would guide, assist and train (in the course of
his routine duties) on the land and agricultural development activities and work mainly through the
Directorate General for Food Crops Agriculture (DGFCA) and the respective PRAS. He would,
inter alia, assist with:
(i)   approving the liaison between PRIS and PRAS so that timing of completion of
irrigation facilities, land clearing and sawah development can be synchronized;



- 129 -                            Annex 8
,Page 2
(ii)   the timely preparation of Agricultural Development Plans (Table I) for each scheme
to be implemented;
(iii)   arranging for the preparation and timely execution of a program of research and
verification trials (mostly variety and fertilizer interaction) on schemes where soil
fertility problems are expected (such as acid podsols, sandy loams, peat or muck,
and severely disturbed soils) by research institutions, and provincial subject matter
specialists;
(iv)   ensuring that arrangements are made for an adequate and timely provision of crop
p,oduction credit and inputs such as improved seed, fertilizers, pesticides,
rodenticides, etc.;
(v)    ensuring the provision of adequate PPL's for scheme farmers, so that fanner
groups, in particular indigenous land owners, will be visited on a regular
fortnightly basis and that appropriate demonstration plots are established in a timely
manner each season;
(vi)   arranging the collection of yield estimates for each crop season (by both crop
cutting and farmner interviews);
(vii)  ensuring that Integrated Pest Management (IPM) technologies can be followed and
that appropriate pest threshold levels and control measures are established;
(viii)  prepare crop production guidelines for rice and the most popular rotational palawija
crops which can se-rve as a handy pocket size techno-guide for PPL's and contact
farmers if deemed necessary following review of available documentation for this
purpose; and
(ix)   prepare seasonal reports on the above acdvities and on overall scheme achievements
with distinct recommendations for improvements where needed.
4.    Soils and ToDographv. Most scheme soils are suitable for rice production when individual
fields can be shaped and leveled to retain fairly even water depth. There are, however, large
variadons in soil fertility and several schemes have distinct problem soils. Peat soils, except the
very shallow peat/muck soils, should be avoided due to soil shrinkage, drainage and
fertility/toxicity problems. Acid podsolic soils require a long period of amelioration and are
generally not desirable for rice development due to farmer disappointment in yields obtained from
using high levels of labor and inputs during initial years of crop producdon. Under dry-land
conditions, plants in these acid podsolics show symptoms of Al-toxicity, while under wet sawah
conditions rice plants present typical Fe-toxicity symptoms such as stunted growth, poor tillering
and severe infestation with Pericularia (blast) and Helminthosrorium diseases. To develop these
soils for irrigated rice a 3-5 year reclamation/ amelioration period is required. This consists of crop
rotation, incorporation of lime and organic matter in the top soil, and a careful water management
program. Wet season rice crops should be followed by dry-season legumes, such as cowpeas
(apparently best), mungbeans and groundnuts. To leach toxic iron ions out of the soil, intermittent
drainage (1 week) and irrigation (2 weeks) is recommended for at least the first two years after
sawah formation. To be effxtive, all surface water must be removed which thus requires
additional investments in tertiary drainage. Even drainage of puddles in low lying field areas is
necessary to obtain a plant stand. This intermittent drainage - irrigation regime is claimed to
increase yields by 40 percent, albeit from a low yield level. Lime should be applied at rate of 1-2
ton/ha, while potash leveis should be doubled (e.g., from 75 to 150 Kg/ha KCI if package B
fertilizer is used). Care should be taken with lime applicadon since a pH above 7 can be counter
productive. Doubling the potash rate in a fertilizer package may be useful, but the N-rate of 150
Kg/ha urea is excessive during the soil reclamation phase and this issue should be further



- 130 -                            Annex 8
Page 3
investigated and resolved. Peat soils show the same iron-toxicity symptoms on rice and similar
management recommendations - interTitted drainage of rice in the wet season, followed by a dry-
season legume crop apply.
5.    The introducdon of organic matter into the podsolic soil is greatly beneficial and all
available rice straw and stubble, as well as other crop residues, manure and compost, should be
used. Direct-seeding of rice is not recommended during early soil recl-madon years due to the
likely occurrence of severe seedling-toxicity. Seedbeds should thus be established on the least
toxic soil of the farm and careful water management is required with a possible fungicidal treatment
for seedling blight. The low-land rice varieties Batang Ombil and Kapuas have shown
considerable tolerance to iron toxicity and are therefore recommended for these soils. Reasonable
yield assumptions are: year 1 - from 0.2-0.5 ton/ha; year 2 - from 0.8-1.2 ton/ha; year 3 - from
2.0-2.5 ton/ha; and in year 4 - from 3.5-4.0 ton/ha with a possible increase to 4.5 to 5.0 ton/ha
later on. In the first 2-3 years only one rice crop and one legume crop are to be used. Using
results from the work of the Agricultural Research Institutes, demonstration plots should be
established as soon as possible in irrigation schemes where these soils occur. The soil and water
management regime must be clearly demonstrated to the farming community over a sustained
period of time. In general, acid podsolic soils, which are also frequently on undulating terrain,
should not be considered ior irrigation development and they should by preference be used for tree
crops.
6.    Most lowland alluvial soils and many of the hilly land soils of volcanic origin are highly
suitable for rice when infiltration rates are not excessive. Only normal nutritional amendments are
required to achieve satisfactory yields. Extreme care must be taken with land leveling and terracing
to ensure that the ferdle topsoil remains in place or is replaced after removal. Prevention of erosion
on hilly lands is essential by terracing, contour bund construction or by establishing vegetadve
contour bands (with Vetiveria zizanioides) in waste areas along and between rice fields. When the
introduction of direct seeding in considered, much emphasis must be given to land leveling and in-
field and tertiary drainage. Complete surface drainage must be achieved within 24-48 hours and
adequate water must be available for providing a quick irrigat.on during a dry period after direct
seeding into water or on mud. If sown in water, it must be completely drained off the field within
48 hours.
Farming Community
7.    Many of the irrigadon schemes in the more remote provincial districts have an indigenous
population, supplemented by transmigrants, while other schemes are only settled by locals or
transmigrants. Since Balinese, Javanese and Sundanese are mostly familiar with irrigated rice
production it is generally easier to achieve sadsfactory levels of production provided the soils are
suitable and adequate water is made available. Many indigenous farmers have a low standard of
education, a communication problem (local d: lects) with most extension workers and are difficult
to motivate for adoption of modern rice growi-j technologies. Additionally, many locals have
large farms which they are unable to cultivate fully and they are often reluctant to lease land or
arrange sharecropping in fear of losing land ownership riglhts. Many indigenous larger land
owners often find that it is easier to earn adequate income from even poorly maintained tree crops
(coffee, rubber, pepper, etc.) and some high value crops such as ginger (Bengkulu province) then
from rice which requires high labor and purchased inputs. Extension workers must therefore be
well trained to deal with this situation. Where possible small demoastration plots would be
established and large landowners should be persuaded to engage share farmers or to lease land,
preferably to experienced rice farmers. Double cropping of rice should always be aimed at to
achieve adequate productivity and incomes.
8.    Existing productive tree crop areas should not be converted to rice fields when satisfactory
yields are sustainable and owners desire to retain them. There are also, however, many
landowners who wish to reduce risk and want to develop part of their holding into rice fields
(sawah). Even this practice should he avoided since irrigation development costs per unit area



- 131 -                                  Annex 8
page 4
increase while rice crops become more vulnerable to pests and diseases. The decision to make
further investments should thus be based on a detailed economic evaluation based on realistic costs
and benefits. In Sulawesi there are many schemes with significant areas of coconuts, often owned
by absentee landlords. Where it is unlikely that these holdings will be intensively cropped, sawah
developmnent should not be encouraged. Rice can be grown successfully between rows of
coconuts on suitable soils (not too permeable) but coconuit yields decline and waterlogged palms
will eventually die.
9.    Transmigrants with familiarity of rice production make ideal settlers in newly developed
irrigation areas. However, also these settlers require substantial guidance from extension workers
and usually need crop production credit to purchase the necessary inputs. It is therefore essential
that extension workers (PPL's) adhere to their fortnightly schedule of visits to farmer groups
(kelompok), being well supervised by PPUP's and technicallv supported by PPS, and establish
adequate demonstration plots with appropriate varieties inputs, and cultural/water management
practices. Availability of credit and inputs through the V llage cooperatives is essential, but this
appears often not possible due to allotment constraints by central authorities or due to non-credit
worthiness as a result of delayed, or non-payment, of debts. During the preparation of ADP's the
services required by the farming community would be thoroughly reviewed and BAPPEDA's
would be asked to assist with making improvements where shortfalls have been identified.
Agicultureserzch
10.   The main crops on irrigation schemes supported under the project are rice and palawija
(non-rice food crops such as corn, sorghum, soybean, peanut, mungbean, cowpea, cassava and
sweet notato). Research for these crops is carried out through the Central Research Institute for
Food Crops (CRIFC) which is one of the major research institutions in the Agency for Agricultural
Research and Development (AARD) within the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). CRIFC directs
and coordinates the planning, implementation and evaluation of research which is conducted at six
(6) research institutes, 15 research stations and 45 experiment farms. Project provinces in Sumatra
are served by the Sukarami Research Institute for Food Crops (SARIF), in Kalimantan by the
Banjarbaru Research Institute for Food Crops (BARIF); and in Sulawesi by the Maros Research
Institute for Food Crops (MORIF). All regional institutes receive technical and administrative
support from (CRL-C) at its Bogor headquarters. Based on the support of agricultural
development goals for Indonesia CRIFC established research programs in the following areas:
rice, palawija, problem soils, water management, post harvest technologies, agricultural
engineering/farm mechanizadon, farming systems, seed production and technologies, socio-
economics and environmental impacts, biotechnology and germplasm. Each research program has
a research coordinator, directly responsible to the Director of CRIFC, and each coordinator works
closely with the director and staff of the research institute. More fundamental research is now
carried out at the Bogor Research Institute for Food Crops (BRIFC). Many of its programs are in
support of regional research activities.
11.   SARIF, located near Sukarami near West Sumatra has the national mandate in food crops
research on drylands with a wet climate and on high elevation wetland rice. Of a total of 411 staff
some 193 are directly engaged in research programs (6 PhD, 34 MS, 34 IR/DRS and 5 BS). One
research station is located at Sitiung (W. Sumatra) where problems of acid podsolic soils are
analyzed and which are highly relevant to several proposed irrigation schemes under this project,
when further expanded for irrigated rice research. There are another 6 experimental farms
(4 in West Sumatra, one in Aceh and one in Lampung provinces. It is proposed that SARIF staff
will evaluate long term suitability for crop production and make crop production recommendations
for all irrigation schemes proposed for Sumatra provinces which have problem soils (acid podsols,
peat, muck, etc.). BARIF near Banjarbaru - South Kalimantan is mainly geared towards research
on food crops under t;da; swamp and swampy conditions. Most research aims to develop
technologies for rice growing on peat soil, soils with high salinity and acidity, aluminum toxicity,
poor drainage, etc. There are 253 staff of which 183 are directly involved in research programs
(2 PhD, 14 MS, 34 IR/DPS and 3 BS). There are two research stations (Handil Manaray and



- 132 -                            Annex 8
Page
Barabui) and nine experiment farms (5 - South Kalimantan, and one each in Central and East
Kalimantan, and South Sumatra). MORIF in Maros, South Sulawesi, is responsible for food
crops research on dryland areas with a dry climate (<2000 mm rain per year) and is the national
center for research on rice tungro virus. Of 429 staff, some 257 are directly engaged in research (9
PhD, 30 MS, 56 IR/DRS and 7 BS). There are 5 research stations and 10 experimental farms
strategically located throughout Sulawesi, the Maluka's and East Nusa Tengara.
12.   CRIFC maintains strong international relationships with IRRI in the Philippines (with
several key staff seconded to the Sukamandi and Bogor Institutes) and other CGIAR institutions.
The World Bank, FAO, USAID, CIDA, ACIAR, and Japanese and Dutch Governments have
assisted greatly in the development of CRIFC through financial and technical support since the
early 1970s.
13.   Under the project the Director of CRIFC in Bogor would initially dispatch a multi-
disciplinary team of scientists to the provinces of Riau, West Sumatra, Bengkulu, South Sumatra
and Lampung to review with the respective PPCWG in each province, the need for specific
agricultural research on problem soils on schemes which are to be completed under the project.
There are already a range of general recommendations available for ameliorating the acid podsolic
and shallow peat soils and these recommendations need to be verified on several schemes with
problem soils under the project. Schemes with known problem soils in Sumatra would be
evaluated during the second half of 1990, to establish an experimental program and to make
arrangements for actual trial execution over several seasons. The CRIFC agreed that the proposed
trial program could be accommodated within the established work programs if adequate funds
could be made available. If wa dnerefucie agreed that funds for the survey work by CRIFC
personnel in 1990 would be made available from Project Preparation Funds available to DGWRD.
It is estimated that trial programs are initially required in four provinces. Each site would require
three years of experiments, and due to the difficulty of the problems expected, about 5
complimentary trials on each site are needed during each season. Funding for some 240
experiments costing about Rp 1.0 million (US$ 555) each would then be made available from the
project. Total research costs are estimated at Rp 240 million or US$ 135,000 to be made available
to CRIFC on the basis of approved seasonal work programs, and detailed seasonal reports of
achievements. Resulting crop production recommendations would be made available to the various
PRAS for use and demonstration by provincial subject matter specialists (PPS) and extension
agents (PPL) on schemes. Where necessary, additional trials would be carried out within
Kalimantan and Sulawesi schemes, on advice of the Coordinating Agriculturist and following
review with the Director of CRIFC.
Agricultural Extension
14.   In early 1984 the Agency for Agricultural Education, Training, and Extension (AAETE)
was given overall responsibility for coordinating agricultural extension services at the national level
and for formulating extension policies and methodologies. Each of the four Directorates General
(Food Crops, Estate Crops, Animal Husbandry, and Fisheries) have a Directorate of Extension,
responsible for exerting technical and operational control over extension staff and in formulating
extcnsion programs to support the specific commodity production programs. The administration
of agricultural extension personnel for all subsectors, and for synchronizing the provision of
inputs, credit, marketing and cooperative development is the responsibility of the BIMAS Directing
Board Secretariat. BIMAS is not only responsible for personnel administration and salaries, etc.,
but also for the overall administration of the Rural Extension Centers (REC) constructed under the
Bank-financed extension projects (Loans 1267-IND, Credit 996-IND and Loan 2748-IND).
15.   At each of the REC's there are now a REC Head and 4 agricultural extension programmers
(supervisors or PPUP) usually one for each of the Directorates General (DINAS). All REC Heads
are responsible to the Bupati (District Administrator) through the BIMAS District Executive Unit
for carrying out the agreed extension programs. Technical support is provided by Subject Matter
Specialists (PPS) based at provincial or district level. PPS's are also mostly responsible for



- 133 -                            Annex 8
Page6
technical training of PPUP's and PPL's.
16.   Staff DeplovMent and Facilities. In the 13 project provinces staff deployment and
operadonal and training facilities available are presented in the table below:
Province           PPL & PPUP 1/         PPS         REC 2/         ISTC
Aceh                    494               48          56              1
Riau                  1,222               64          40              1
West Sumatra          1,304               96          69              1
South Sumatra         2,255               84          74              1
Bengkulu                735               52          29
Lampung               1,397               70          62              1
WestKaliniantan       1,158               69          52              1
South Kalimantan      1,341               79          25              1
Central Kalimantan      861               65          47
North Sulawesi        1,048               78          43              2
Central Sulawesi        740               64          31
South East Sulawesi     991               55          33
South Sulawesi        2,215              147          98              1
A/ PPUP's are selected from the best PPL's and function as extension supervisors and as the
REC Head.
2/ Expected when completed uinder NAEP (Loan 2748-IND) by 1991.
Irrigaj.on development would be completed on some 120 schemes over a 5-year period for a total
area of about 200,000 ha irrigable land. At a ratio of one PPL to 450 farm families and an average
irrigated farm size of 1.0 ha the number additional PPL's required is about 150 (in 1990 some 306
PPL's were already assigned to schemes). No incremental PPUP's or PPS's are needed since
these are already provided at RECs and in provinces respectively (some vacancies will be
filled when staff becomes available). In isolated areas, where no rental housing is available about
100 PPL's would be provided with a house which would also serve as his/her office and farmer
contact place. Where distances are excessive, about 150 PPL's would be provided with a
100 cc motorcycle or scooter. For supervision and technical support of PPL's in scheme areas,
each of the 13 PRAS's in project provinces would be provided with a 4-wheel drive vehicle (also
for use by the Coordinating Agriculturist and for delivering inputs for trials and demonstration
plots).
17.   Extension Methodology. Since 1985 the Training and Visit (T&V) extension methodology
was gradually introduced throughout all provinces, initially for food crop production only. Each
PPL was to establish 16 farmer groups based on field neighborhoods (in contrast to village
groups) which are visited one morning or afternoon per fortnight. During these field visits the
PPL meets with the selected contact farmers and as many progressive and ordinary farmers as
possible. Demonstration plots or farms were to be established were new technologies should be
introduced to increase productivity. Under the latest NAEP (Loan 2748-IND reformulated in
1988) it was agreed to appoint 1 PPL for 400 farm families in Outer Islands (thus all project
provinces), and that PPL's would be trained and work as multi-disciplinary agents, supported and
supervised by PPUP's in the various disciplines and PPS's in provinces and in some districts at
RECs. Budgeting constraints, however, make only a ratio of 1 PPL to 450 farmers possible. All
PPL's, assigned to 16 farmer groups each, would now deal with all aspects of crop, animal and
fishery production at the farm/enterprise unit.
18.   The basic T&V system appears to work satisfactorily in the mostly homogeneous food crop
(mainly rice) areas. PPL's are generally adequately trained and familiar with standard production
methodologies for rice and palawija crops. However, there remain too few demonstration plots,
and in schemes with problem soils PPL's are as yet not adequately familiar with soil amelioration



- 134 -                             Annex 8
Page 7
and crop rotation techniques which lead to satisfactory sustainable yields. Low salaries and low
staff morale mitigate against high work ethics and discipline. Many PPL's do not adhere to the set
schedule of visits to fanner groups. Therefore PPL's should be given incentives to allow them to
work full-time and efficiently. It may be possible to piovide them with some village land, which
they should develop as demonstration farms. Additionally, PPUP's must provide closer
supervision and greater support to the PPL's in their field work.
19.   To ensure that appropriate and cost effective crop production methodologies are generated
and then disseminated to the farming community, a research program to be executed on schemes
with problem soils, and by personnel of Research Institutes, would be introduced and funded
under the project (para. 13). Results from multi-seasonal trials would then be reviewed for
technical and economic viability and presented as a package of recommendations (variety, method,
and time of establishment, fertilizer levels and times of application, crop husbandry and water-
management practices, and possibly crop rotations) for demonstration by PPL's on 0.1 ha plots (2
per PPL) on farms within schemes or on a whole farm area of about 1.0 ha (1 per PPL). Costs for
inputs on demonstration plots and farms would be financed under the project. Demonstration plots
and farms would become focal points during fortnightly visits of PPL's to the area. A field-day
would be arranged close to crop maturity to demonstrate the benefits of the applied technologies, in
comparison with adjacent farmer managed crops, to the local farming community in the hope that
they would adopt the profitable technologies.
20.   Village Cooperatives or Koperasi Unit Desa (KUD) were in April 1989 proclaimed as the
sole distributors of inputs and are to play a key role in bolstering the village economy in the future.
The present situation is, however, far from satisfactory since most lack the capital basis to provide
inputs and loans (Kredit Usaha Tani (KUT) or Candak Kulak) for purchasing crop production
inputs and small implements and equipment. Many KUD's have defect hullers or rice mills and
there is often a significant debt repayment problem. Additionally, in the more isolated areas
KUD's are located too far from production areas for ease of acquiring critical inputs (e.g.,
insecticides and rodenticides) in a timely manner. It is therefore recommended that the
cooperatives in or near the irrigation schemes under the project are strengthened both managerially
and financially, and with possibly a depot system for outlying areas. The BAPPEDA working
groups in each province, with the assistance of the consultant agriculturist and the representative of
the Department of Cooperatives and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) would review the present status
of KUD's in project schemes and propose changes in operating procedures and financing during
the first project year. A report on the operation of KUD's and its associated credit system with
recommendations for improvements would be forwarded by each of Lie project provinces to the
national level, with copy to the Bank, for review and remedial actions by December 31, 1991. It
should be assured that adequate crop production credit and inputs are made available to eligible
farmers and that adequate and timely arrangements for acquiring inputs and/or services are made
for tenants and share farmers. If insufficient fertilizers and agro-chemicals are used production
targets could not be to achieved for economic sustainability of a number of schemes.
21.   Credit and Inp . BIMAS continues to make available crop production credit packages for
irrigated rice and also for a range of palawija crops. For the 1990 crop season, there are 4 INSUS
packages (A,B,C and D) available (Table 2) ranging in cost from RP 167,500 to RP 312,750 ha
for individual farmers. Package A provides for 250 Kg/ha fertilizer (150 Kg urea and 100 Kg/ha
TSP), while Packages C and D provide for 575 Kg/ha (250 Kg urea, 12 Kg triple super
phosphate, 100 Kg ammonium sulphate and 100 Kg/ha potassium chloride). For groups of
farmers with a contiguous area of at least 50 ha, group credit is available for the Supra Insus
Package, at rates equivalent to Package D. The economic justification for using these high fertilizer
rates must be clearly established through comparative trials before these can be recommended on
schemes. However, there are seasonal upper limits of crop production credit available to each of
the KUD's and there are many, apparently eligible, farmers (without a history of bad debts) whom
cannot avail of these inputs at subsidized prices through the credit program. In various areas there
are also sharecroppers or tenants without collateral whom are also unable to obtain credit. The
provision of groun credit facilities, with repayments in kind, should be explored under the project



- 135-                            Aex8
Page 8
for this category of producers. Credit eligibility can be recommended by the kepala desa (village
head) or by the leader of the kelompok tani (farmer group established for extension activities).
Interest rates charged by KUD's in 1990 amount to 16 percent over an 8 month period of which
the KUD repays 9 percent to BRI and retains a 7 percent mark-up for administering the loans.
Wealthier farmers purchase inputs for cash and there are usually various informal credit sources in
the community charging even higher interest rates, but which are not necessarily excessive for the
services and convenience provided.
22.   Seed Production. Rice, as a self-pollinating crop, can fairly easily maintain adequate purity
if farmers are advised to rogue their fields and to separately harvest, dry and store the seed
intended for planting the next season. Most varieties have little or no dormancy and can be planted
within a few weeks of harvesting and drying. The main reason for purchasing certified seed is to
either retain purity or to change variety. The latter reason has been very important in Indonesia due
to break-down in resistance to diseases, in particular vector-borne diseases such as tungro
(transmitted by brown plant hoppers) and also fungal diseases. Within the range of input packages
available for rice and also for palawija crops (Tables 2 and 3) a quantity of certified seed of a
recommended crop variety is included. There are adequate seed farms for foundation and certified
seed production in most areas. Under the project about 5 new seed farms in isolated provinces
would be established if, following detailed review by PRAS's in conjunction with the
Coordinating Agriculturists, these are deemed necessary. For all other schemes, contract growing
arrangements would be adopted to produce extension seed. Rice varieties on these contract farms
would be inspected for purity and freedom of harmful weeds by seed inspectors (BPSB) stationed
in districts. Rice seed certific ion costs in 1990 are RP 1500/ha and there is a RP 2/Kg fee for
laboratory tests. Certified set. is sold at a premium and this should be established at a level that
makes seed growing attractive to efficient farners, while still retaining its attractiveness to farmners
to replace their seed when needed for purity, or change of variety reasons. The seeds farms to be
established under the project should become self-supporting. Seed prices in 1990 are: stock seed
Rp 700/Kg, extension seed Rp 500/Kg, farmer seed (not certified) Rp 400/Kg and commercial
paddy Rp 275/Kg. There is usually inadequate seed or planting material available for palawija
crops. Where these crops become important on irrigation schemes supported under the project,
special arrangements for the production of high quality seed should be made through local efforts,
initiated by PRAS with the assistance of the Coordinating Agriculturist.
23.   Integrted Pest Management (IPM). It is more and more realized that relying entirely on
chemicals for control of insects in crops results in the evolution of pesticide-resistant insects, while
these new pest bio-types speed the breakdown of plant resistance. 'ndonesia, with IRRI technical
assistance and supported under USAID funding, has initiated a significant effort in training staff,
farmer leaders and farmers in the use of appropriate cultural practices and biological control
methods. In each provincial BIMAS office there are now IPM specialists, and pest observers
based in districts or at REC's (PPHamat) for training extension staff and for establishing/verifying
insect threshold levels, above which spraying with Govemment-approved pesticides should be
initiated (Indonesia banned in 1986 the use of 57 insecticides). Under the IPM concept,
management techniques are promoted to attract helpful insects, spiders, and pathogens. Under the
project all PPL's and at minimum also contact farmers would receive training in the recognition of
insect pests, diseases and vermin, the appropriate threshold levels for the stage of crop
development, above which control is necessary, and the appropriate approved chemical treatments.
24.   Post Harvest Operations. Losses during crop transport, threshing, winnowing, drying and
storage are generally high. Extension workers and fanners would be trained in adopting
appropriate methodologies for loss avoidance, in particular during threshing and storage (mostly
vernin and insects).
25.   Staff and Farmer Training. Staff training would be provided for all newly appointed and
existing PPL's working in irrigation schemes under the project. New appointees, mostly directly
from secondary high schools, require both induction/communication and skill training, apart from
the usual fortnightly training/discussion sessions in REC's. Both induction/communication and



- 136-                             Annex 8
Pagre 9
skill and water management trainings would be conducted at AETE's In-Service Training Centers
(ISTC) which are located in most provinces (except in Central and South-East Sulawesi, but for
which adequate capacity is available in North and South Sulawesi provinces). The
induction/communication training courses would be for 30 days, while skill and water management
training sessions would be for 14 days. Contact Farmers and Water User Association (WUA or
P3A) officials would be trained in all aspects of land clearing, land leveling and sawah
development in classes of 30 at REC's, while Water Masters (Ulu Ulu) and WUA officials would
also be trained in the O&M  of systems and water management on sawah fields. All courses would
be of one week duration. Contact farmers would also be trained at RECs for 3 days in crop
husbandry techniques, input requirements, integrated pest management (IPM), water management,
and post harvest operations.
Other Items 
26.   Estimated Cot. Table 4 of this annex summarizes agricultural requirements and the
estimated base costs at the time of appraisal. Since not all of these items would be provided under
the project in all provinces, the estimated costs of agricultural development by province to be
included under the project would be reduced as summarized in Annex 3.
27.   Rice Yields. Yield statistics are seasonally (twice a year) obtained from crop cuttings.
Extension agents receive every season instructions from Pusat Statistics in Jakarta, through
PRAS's, which farmer fields have been selected on a random basis from within each 500 ha crop
area. After crop establishment, the PPL is required to place a permanent marker in the field where
the crop cutting will be made at harvest time. An area of 2.5 x 2.5 meters is then harvested,
threshed, sun dried and weighed. Plot yields in grams are communicated through PRAS to Pusat
Statistics where results are summarized by sub-district and expressed in quintals per ha (after using
an unknown correction factor). Since the multiplication factor for yields per ha is 1,600, highly
inflated yields are usually reported at RECs, in districts and provinces. However, the corrected
Pusat Statistics data appear realistic. Crop budgets were prepared for each scheme using adjusted
yield data. Present rainfed rice (unhulled or paddy gabah) yields range from about 1.5 to 2.5 t/ha,
while irrigated rice yields range from about 2.5 to 4.5 t/ha depending mostly on natural soil fertility
and input usage. Estimated future yields under the project for fully irrigated areas range from
about 3.5 t/ha (for podsols and peat soils and insufficient use of ameliorants and crop/water
management technologies) to some 5.0 t/ha. Many of the more experienced and financially strong
farmers on good soils should, however, obtain yields of about 6.0 to 6.5 t/ha. Averages are
substantially lower, mostly due to poorer farmers not using the required levels of inputs.
28.   RiLks. Scheme viability may become constrained due to continuing investments for
irrigation/agricultural development on basically unsound schemes (due to soil constraints or the
continued presence of tree crops and/or large landholdings) and because of large prior investments or
commitments made before/during initial construction. The BAPPEDA and line agencies at present
do not have sufficient leverage to achieve the required development targets to satisfactory standards,
and in a timely manner, but not to facilitate the necessary credit and agricultural inputs to achieve
high levels of production. Such inputs include the quality control of sawah development with top
soil retained, soil amelioration where necessary, and arranging group and individual credit for
adequate and timely supplies of fertilizers and other agro-chemicals. At present, extension personnel
are not being adequately supervised and rewarded to establish demonstration plots in a timely manner
to sound technical standards, and to visit farmer groups fortnightly with technically sound and
profitable crop production informnation.



- 137 -
Annx 8
Table I
rovincial IIrrietd Aoriculture Oavlrit Pro act
Ariculture DevOelrt intPl
Provinie    n        .; Sch_; , Taret Are:  ..    h; Average farWesiz e..   he
Target dots of full aah   developnt:    .        199..
1991-2            1992-1            1W2-2            19931 19-2                          1994-1
t t    aetust    tar       L       t     t  actLsu  Jtal   taret ectual   tAr W
mait*   fiepad    (he)
pO pluted           (he)
formrs-mmnr pepr.(no)
fuumre-tonnita    (no)
hklo_a             (no)
PtA                 (no)
P NUNN"             (MD)
am eare            (no)
liUc  IN I _ n ares  (no)
Men- I ntes I f Icat Ion(he)
ieis               (ha)
num   A             hol)
Irv    I           Cho
IamA I             (ha)
mesa C        ~~(ha)
bumo I              ( the)> 
1Sure Ibmw          (ha)
PAternotive Cream
un-wntauification(he)
Dwuification    Cha)
rmat letwirmnts
Ur_s               (ton)
rsp          ~~~(ton)
.KmL                (tan)
ZA                (tan)
phicide          (kg/ t )
hewbicide         (kg/t)
grwth stimuletor   (1)
!1.u Yield 
Crop cutting     (q/ho)
Farme  interview (q/ha)
FOrmer interview (q/ha)
KUI            (*in Mp)
Mt Unit D"   (min tpp)
Fre-rsite distribution:  ....   54.  ha;o.      ..6-1.0 he; .         1.1-2.0 ha; .      ..2.0 he
nrcy   ....     ounrr operator;..            share forrers; .         ton nts
PPL s roepenuible for Tertiary Are. .I(x) .     r . .    .       with.             ke  pok tani
for Tertiary Ar. .(Y). -   r ..        ..     with.             kaolpok tani
OuxBtratiw, Plots:  oevry sessmn with Intenafiication packets A,0C,D, wid Spro Inue as appropriate by each of the PPL s
Verification Trils:  on  per sch_  per seew  for first 3 yews by rosorch grasp or PS, e.g. selction of 3 N rates
2P,% ratos 2 KCL ratn, 2 or 3 ieristiee; w/wo Lim *nd growth stifulator (triol dasigr to be
discusd wid  greed with Oi_otrician at Poearch Center or University).



- 138-
Annex 
INDONSTA                                   Table 2
Provicial Irr   edAre1uaDvloommnt Project (PIADP)
Credit Ingut Packaff.  for Irrifated Riee (ha) for 1990/91
Package A       Package B        Package C        Package D
INPUT             km   R.P '000    kg   RP '000    kg   RP '000    km   RP'000
Ure&                             150   27.25      250   46.25      250   46.25       250   46.25
TSP (triple super phosphate)   100   21.00        100   21.00      125   26.25       250   46.25
ZA (sulphate of aonia)                                             100   18.50      100   18.50
KCI (potassium chloride)                           75   15.75      100   21.00      100   21.00
Seed                                   11.25            11.25             11.25            11.25
Insecticide/Fungicide/
Rodenticide                         50.00            50.00       -    50.00        -    50.00
Aerbicide                              25.00            25.00             25.00            25.00
Growth Stimulant                  -                                                        32.00
Spraying Cost                           2.50              2.50             2.50             2.50
Land preparation and weeding           20.00            20.00             20.00       -    20.00
Post harvest operations                10.00       -    10.00       -    10.00             10.00
Fish frv                                           ,       ,        ,    50.00             50.00
TOTAL COST                        -   167.50            201.75           280.75           312.75
TOTAL FERTILIZER                 250              425              575               575
Note:  A Supra Inus Package is only available to a group of farmers with a
contiguous minimum are of 50 ha and is identical in composition and cost to
Packet D.
1990 Prices
Urea - RP 185/hg
TSP  -RP 210/hg
KC1  -RP 210/hg
ZA   - RP 185/hg
seed - RP 375/hg (at 30 hg/ha)
Annex 8
Table 3
1990-ITnut Packages for Palaviia Crogs in kg/ha
Cron                  Urea                  TSP                  YCL                   SA
maize                  120                   60                   60                   60
soybean                 30                   60                   30
groundnut              100                  100
mung bean               50                   50
cassava                 20                   60                   45
garlic                 IS0                  150                  200                  400
onion                  150                  150                  150                  200
capsicum               250                  150                  170



- 139-
&fnc&j 
IablA
INDONESIA
Provicial Irrizated Atriculture Develooment Proiect (PIADP)
Atriculcural Components and Costs
Unit Cost Total Cost
Unit      No    RP'OOO        RP M1
Staff
PPL-150 increomental for 3 year                          man-yeat    450        1,660           747
Facilities and Eaui2ment
Houses for PPL's in isolated areas                            unit    100         600           600
Seed Farm                                                     unit       5    60,000            300
Motorcycles/scooters for PPL/PPUP's                           unit    150       3,000           450
Vehicles   4-wheel drive   one per province                   unit      13    30,000            390
Equipment for field staff and offices                                   LS                      500
Agricultural kesearch
By CRIFC in provinces with 5 experimental units per
site for 3 years during both wet and dry season            trial    240       1,000          240
Verification Trials and Demonstration Plots
Verification Trials of 32 plots each
a) one per scheme below 1,000 ha                            unit      80        600           48
b) three per scheme above 1,000 ha by PPS and PPL           unit    120         600            72
emonstration Plots (1 per PPL for 3 seasons)                 1 ha  1,500         300          450
Demonstration Plots (2 per PPL for 6 seasons)               0.1 ha  6,000          30           180
Farmer and Staff Training
O&K of systems and sawahs:
2 officials per WUA P3A at REC's in
groups of 30 for 7 days                             participant  2,500           501)         125
Land clearing and sawah formation:
8 Contact farmers per PPL (450) at REC's
in groups of 30 for 7 days                          participant  3,600           50          180
Skill training of Contact Farmers:
16 Contact Farmers per PPL at REC's in
groups of 30 for 3 days                             participant  7,200           25          100
Induction training for PPL's at REC's;
class of 30 participants for 3 days                 participant      150        400            60
Refresher training (skills) for PPL's at REC's;
class of 30 participants for 4 weeks                participant  2x450          220           198
Seed Certification
250 ha per season for 6 seasons                                 ha  1,200          25            30
IntegrAted Pest Management (IPM)
Mobility for monitoring pest Incidence by PPH's                         LS                       50
Production Techno-guide (by Agr. Coordinator)                           LS                       50
t) daily wages RP 2,500; food RP 2,500/day; transport and miscellaneous participants and
trainers RP 2,000/day



- 140 -                            Annex 9
Page I
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTUR DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Environmental As,octs
I.     Intoduction. This annex summarizes the findings and recommendations of the appraisal
environmental review of the above mentioned Project. The full report is available in the Project File.
The project as a whole has been assessed as having low environmental impact potential. The main
finding is that the Bank's classification of the project as a Type B project is valid and justifiable. The
project poses minimal environmental risks.
2.    The schemes originally proposed for inclusion under the project were categorized as 'go-ahead'
and 'deferred' and a substantial number of schemes deleted from the project for various reasons
(Annex 5). All schemes have been environmentally screened using Government Department of Public
Works environmental screening guidelines (described below). The principal criterion under these
guidelines is taken as the change in irrigable area which would occur if the proposed development was
to proceed.
A. Environmental Assessment Procedures
3.    The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has made legal provision for environmental impact
assessment, management and monitoring of relevant private and public sector developments through
the AMDAL process. This process is targeted primarily at the identification of potential environmental
effects of projects and the formulation of environmental monitoring and management plans to
ameliorate these potentlal ffects. For the assessment of existing (as opposed to planned) projects, the
regulations make provision for two types of AMDAL report: (i) a PEL (Preliminary Environmental
Evaluation Report or Penyajian Evaluasi Lingkungan); and (ii) an SEL (Environmental Evaluation
Study of Studi Evaluasi Linkungan), which is a more detailed assessment report which is the
equivalent of an AMDAL report for proposed projects.
4.    The Ministerial Decrees which provide guidelines for preparation of PELs and SELs to evaluate
oresent impact of an existing project and identify actions which might be taken to mitigate that impact.
Although not explicitly stated, the most obvious application of these procedures is for periodic review
of environmentall significant projects, in much the same way as technical audits are carried out.
Further, there is no prescribed automatic trigger which implements these studies. The PEL/SEL
approach is not entirely consistent with the Bank's interest which is to evaluate potential impact of
future works which could be financed under a proposed loan programme. The PEL/SEL procedure
assesses effects of events to the present time, while the Bank's interest is in identifying the effect of
planned future activities. In addition, whether a PEL or SEL would be required on an irrigation
scheme is greatly influenced by the Ia1 area of the scheme. The environmental significance of project
is thus a function primarily of the change in irrigable area attributable to the development programmne
and not the total command area of a scheme/project..
5.    Potential environmental effects of an ongoing irrigation scheme would be a function of the way
in which the total scheme may change existing environmental effects. Under present EA procedures,
the total command area of scheme is not been subject to any forn of environmental screening as a
whole by the Government for a variety of reasons. Firstly, there is no procedural requirement to
undertake such a review. Secondly, the AMDAL administration system does not readily apply to
projects like PLADP which require inter-agency coordination. At present, the line agencies involved
function separately at both national and provincial levels, each having their separate budgets. For a
total scheme EA review to take place, at present, each line agency would have to undertake separate



- 141 -                                 Annex 9
Page 2
AMDAL assessments of their particular components of the programme. This does not happen and is
clearly an untenable situation. Thirdly, where a new environmental assessment system is being started
from nothing on a country-wide basis, the highest priority is given to new projects with substantial
environmental impact potential. The proposed project does not fit into this category.
6.    Review of "Go-ahead" Schemes. The 'go-ahead' schemes are listed in Table I in descending
order of change in irrigable area attributable to project development. None of the schemes involves an
increase in functional area greater than 2000 ha. and following Government guidelines, no detailed
EIA would be recommended. Only two schemes, Indrapura and Suliti in West Sumatra, involve
changes in irrigable area of 1600 and 1400 ha. respectively and might be regarded as marginal cases.
All other schemes involve changes in irrigable area of less than 900 ha. Table 1 also specifies which
schemes require clearing of medium or heavy forest, the areas involved and whether nature reserves,
protection forest or production forest might be affected. Only four schemes require forest clearing,
may be located wholly or partly within protection forest and man require some clearing of that forest.
These schemes are Air Eenkenang, Air Nasal Kiri and Air Kedurang (Bengkulu); and Andowengga
(South East Sulawesi) with some 437 ha. of clearing required. The areas involved are not significant
in themselves, but important principles of land management are involved which may become more
apparent under the project when the deferred schemes are also considered.
7 .   In addition, 16 go-ahead schemes require land clearing with about 3000 ha. presently classified
as conversion forest. The need for these schemes is to ensure that these forests are subject of
commercial assessment by the MOF prior to clearing and that measures are taken to recover and sell all
merchantable timber prior to (or during) clearing operations so that the economic benefits of the
proposed schemes are maximized.
8. Review of "Deferred" Schemes. Some 85 of the 'deferred' schemnes are listed in Table 2 in
descending order of marginal increase in irrigable area. The table shows the originally proposed
command areas and modifications (agreed at appraisal) which have reduced the aggregate functional
area by about 20 percent. Some 13 schemes involve an increase in irrigable area of greater than 2000
ha.and, consistent with the Government guidelines (para 4), require specific EIA consideration (as
detailed in the full EA report). Only two of these scheres (Sadang and Maloso) require special
attention (as detailed in Attachment 1 of the full project environment report). Of the remaining deferred
schemes, some 40 involve some potential conflict with forest management or conservation land uses.
The areas involved include: (i) 9500 ha. of clearing of convertible forest for which no apparent
provision has been made for recovery of merchantable timber, (ii) 2000 ha. of clearing (potentially)
within protection forest; (iii) 1500 ha. of clearing potendally within production forest; and (iv) 3500
ha. of forest clearing where the status could not be determined. Thus potential clearing for these
schemes is estimated at about 16000 ha. or 80% of total clearing or all deferred schemes.
9.    The schemes with large command areas are relatively unimportant in terms of these issues.
This highlights the potential cumulative effects of numerous small developments which separately may
have little negative impact, but collectively may be significant. This issue reinforces the need for an
integrated land use planning approach for these types of development in preference to the present EIA
approach for separate schemes.
10.  Overall Environmental Chamcterizadon. There are few schemes which individually have
significant environmental impact potential. A recurring issue relates to the implications of some
schemes for management of the national forest estate, but this can be dealt with through existing
administrative mechanisms. Provision should be made to cover costs incurred by the MOF in
undertaking forest inventories and providing guidance to the Provincial (and National) Coordinating
Working Groups on how to deal with any identified EIA issues.



- 142 -                               Annex 9
page 3
11.   Small-scale irrigation schemes generally have limited environmental impact potential
individually. However, the real problem can be their potential cumulative and induced effect. This
issue cannot be adequately evaluated through a conventional EIA process. Specific environmental
problems raised by small scale irrigation schemes are generally simple and can be dealt with effectively
by specifying and implementing simple mnanagement guidelines. Some simple generic safeguards
could be adopted. For example, no scheme should be approved for funding unless it satisfies
DGWRD's guidelines for establishing an irrigation scheme. Land clearing for irrigation development
should not take place unless the necessary formal clearances are given by MIOF. All construction
contracts should include a soil erosion control specification approved by MOF staff. Extension
programmes should ensure that farmers are adequately informed about safe management procedures
for agricultural chemicals. Finally, the Government should continue its present pesticide and herbicide
control policies and closely monitor the use of agricultural chemicals within irrigation scheme
commnand areas.
12.   A preventative approach based on simple management guidelines is likely to be much more
effective at controlling environmental impacts than the use of expensive consultants to produce
extensive EIA reports. However, comprehensive ETA analyses would be useful for schemes with
special EA problems or in sectorial and regional level studies. Results of such studies can be
converted into practical actions through modification of management guidelines and procedures and
promotion of relevant institutional level responses. Thus the recommended study on the Sadang
Scheme would sponsor such a broader scale environmental analysis to deal with a specific local issue
(downstream fish farming) and in addition lead to useful generic management guidelines.
B. General Environmental Issues
13.   The main generic environmental issues in the irrigation subsector relate to land use management
issues and environmental control. This section describes these issues as they relate to the project and
to provides some recommendations which should be taken into account in the planning and
development of future irrigation subsector developments.
14.   Land Use Management. Indonesia, like virtually every other country, faces a growing and
major problem in equitably distributing its national land resources between the four main competing
land uses - agriculture, forestry and forest based industries, urban/industrial and conservation. In this
respect, the Outer Islands are under substantially less land use pressure than Java, but pressure is
growing and is likely to increase substantially in the future. One shortcoming at present is that the
country does not have an effective land use management control system with a range of disparate
approaches being formulated within various ministries. Government should take appropriate action
since as land use pressures increase, the need for effective land use management is bound to increase.
In this respect, inter-departmental cooperation being encouraged. Under the project, the national and
provincial working groups should include specialists from the MOF. These specialists could then
provide advice on potential forest management and conservation conflicts and on soil erosion control.
15.  Eos Conseryation  d Magmna Isiiue. Direct forest conservation conflicts with land
development where land scheduled for clearing or development lies within forested land gazetted, or
when recommended to be gazetted for conservation purposes by the Directorate of Forest Protection
and Conservation (PHPA) within the Ministry of Forestry. For the project assessment, a forest was
assumed to be a conservation forest if designated as such on relevant land use and land system maps of
Indonesia (the "RePPProT" maps, see 1/ as either an actual or planned reserve. The three categories of
such land defined in the RePPProT study are:
I/    Land Resources Department/Bina Program (1988) "Review of Phase 1 Results, Sulawesi"
from: Physical Planning PnraoM     fx Tranimigmtiga fMSftI. Land Resources



- 143 -                                 Annex 9
Page 4
(i)  land which has been officialy gazetted as reserves either for conservation (national
parks, nature reserves, game reserves, recreation reserves, hunting reserves) or for
watershed protection;
(ii)  land which had been aged interally by the PHPA and MOF to gazette the land and,
at the time of preparation of the RePPProT maps, was awaiting official ratification; and
(iii) land which was oposed for reserve status but was still under consideration within
PHPA and may or may not have gone forward for eventual ratification.
However, there appears to be numerous uncertainties regarding the boundaries of these reserves and
the provinces, uncertainties as to their location and what they actually signify. The only arbiter on the
issue can be MOF which has the final responsibility in this area. Thus the project supports an
environmertal protection component (para 3.14, Main Report), to be implemented through Tthe
Directorate of Reforestation and Land Rehalibilitation (DGRLR).
16.   The potential for indirec foe conservation conflicts arises where marginally economic
schemes, particularly those in remote areas, are located near forest reserves. Several provincial
foresters reported the spill-over effects of remote schemes (and other remote area population
development programmes) - i.e. where farmers cannot support their families from an irrigation scheme
and turn to the adjacent forests for supplementary income, either through timber poaching or slash and
burn agriculture. Clearly, controlling such incursions is virtually impossible where supervisory
manpower is limited and access is difficult. One possible solution would be only to develop economic
and agricultural viable schemes only where farmers want to farm and can meet their family needs from
within the scheme command area. A supplementary control would be to maintain a suitable buffer
zone of production forest between the schieme and nearest forest reserve.
18.   With regard to foe  management, the project review raises two issues: (i) potential for direct
conflicts between irrigation development and management of production forests; and (ii) wider need to
optimize recovery of commercial forest resources when approved forest clearing is to occur (para 19).
Potential for production forest management conflicts arises where schemes or parts of schemes
requiring land clearance may fall within areas which are designated by MOF as limited or normal
production forests. The only permissible land use within these areas is selective logging under the
direction of MOF which would preclude clearance of these forests to create irrigable land. However, it
is possible to vary production forest boundaries based on land swops. This may offer a potential
solution to this form of potential conflict, but would a substantial amount of time since it is a
complicated process. It would be easier to avoid the problem in the first plare by resolving the issue at
the project feasibility stage.
19.   Resource Cost Recovery. The issue arises where, it is proposed to clear "convertible" forest
as part of an irrigation scheme (i.e. forest which has been classified as being suitable for clearance for
non-forest uses). There is a commonly held view that because a forest was classified as convertible, it
contained no commercial timber. In many cases, this is not the case. It appears that many convertible
forests are only so classified because they had been identified as having potential for irrigation or other
development when the land classification boundaries (the so-called "consensus boundaries") were
drawn up in the early 1980s. However, several convertible forests within project scheme commands
appear to contain substantial quantities of merchantable timber. For instance, provincial forestry
officers estimated that conversion forest yields in several schemes in three Sumatra provinces ranged
from 10 to 70 cubic meters per hectare. Depending on species involved, recovery costs and markets,
Department, ODNRI, Overseas Development Administration, London, U.K.; and, Direktorat Bina
Program, DG Penyiapan Pemukian, Depn. Transmigrasi, Jakarta, Indonesia.



-144-                                   Annex 2
,Page S
the gross value of this timber could far outweigh land clearing and development costs. It appeared that
no attempt is being made to recover this merchantable timber prior to or during clearing. This
represents a triple loss to Indonesia since irrigation development costs are inflated, MOF loses royalty
payments; and pressure increases on resources in gazetted production forests. I'his is an not a
desirable situation and greater involvement of MOF would alleviate the problem.
20.   Soil Erogion. Soil erosion is not normally a problem with irrigated agriculture, since it is a
conservative land use practice. However, associated civil works can often cause localized problems
particularly on schemes where soils were marginal. For example, some schemes have major erosion
of weir abutments and widespread gully and sheet erosion associated with the major civil works (main
and secondary canals and borrow pits). The erosion products frequently end up in the canals,
reducing their capacity and increasing maintenance costs. Most erosion problems on project schemes
would have been avoided if suitable erosion control procedures been included in the design and
implemented in construction and clearing contracts.
21.   Catchnent ManagemenL Where a significant investment is to be made in an irrigation
development, all reasonable steps should be taken to protect the basic resource base, i.e. to maintain
the quality and qu:antity of catchment yields. The most effective way to do this is to dedicate the direct
catchment of the scheme, wherever possible, as protection forest (Hutan Lindung) or an equally
conservative use. This may not always be possible due to existing upstream land use pattems. In this
respect, the Governor of Bengkulu Province is expected to issue a decree to this effect for all
provincial irrigation schemes. Other Provinces could usefully follow this lead.
22.   Downstream Effects. Potential downstream effects for run-of-river schemes include periodic
loss of minimum flows for downstream consumers (either human or plants/animals) and chemical
pollution. The potential for chemical pollution due to herbicides/pesticides or fertilizers in tail waters is
the more critical. In this respect, most project schemes are believed to pose little or no threat. The
Sadang and Maloso schemes however illustrate the potentially important nature of this type of problem
under certain circumstances. In both schemes, there is a close and dependant relationship between two
different water uses. The suture financial viability of the downstreamn fish farmers depend on the
quality of their water supply. A different, but equally significant situation could arise where the
proportion of catchment dedicated to irrigation is high and the recipient is a completely or
comiparatively closed hydrological system. It is understood that this 4ituation applies with the Bolango
Bionga Irrigation System in North Sulawesi. The recipient is Limt o Lake, which drains into the
Bone River. These and similar situations can be avoided if due camr is taken in system planning.
However, this requires the active participation of relevant environmental specialists during scheme
formulation rather than later, when the task- is to prepare an AMDAL report on an already designed
(and partly implement,l) project.
23.   On the more general question of levels of pesticide and herbicide residues in the environment as
they relate to irrigation projects, the only practical approach at present is avoidance. Government
should approve "environmentally safe" chemicals (comparatively low toxicity, short environmental
residence times and lack of persistent degradation products) and extension workers should encourage
farners to use only prescribed application rates. Attachmnent 5 of the full EA report (project file)
provides a review of the toxicological properties of these chemicals. All of but one were from the
carbamate family of chemicals which are widely considered as being environmentally safe. The
exception was an insectistatic - an anti-moulting or growth inhibiting agent which is also
environmentally benign. Monitoring of residues is not practical at present due to a lack of laboratories
in Indonesia who can do repeatable determinations of trace contaminations and sample collection
difficulties.
24.   Environmental Institutional Capabilities. Substantial progress had been made in managing the
AMDAL process to date. Technical teams have been formed in the main ministries, AMDAL



-145 -                                Annex9
Page 6
Comrnissions are in place, sorne staff at least have attended AMDAL A and/or B courses and, in
several cases, people with post graduate qualifications in environmental studies are involved.
However, where project management and administration needs to be inter-agency, the AMDAL
process is not effective because it is almost entirely an intra-departmental process. In addition, an EIA
approach may not be effective in dealing with the types of problems raised by small scale irrigation
sector developments. An "environmental planning" approach would produce greater dividends for
small to medium scale irrigation schemes. Technical specialists involved in scheme formulation should
ensure that major land use conflicts of the type highlighted in this Annex are avoided, and during
project preparation ensure that potential environmental problems su,. as soil erosion are anticipated.
25.    The immediate need under the project is for participadon of a forestry officer or officers on
the national and provincial coordinating working groups from DGRLR and the Provincial Forestry
Services respectively. The responsibilities would be to locate boundaries of reserved land or
production forest in the vicinitv of proposed and schemes and identify whether schemes intrude into
these areas. The forestry officer would assist in redesign of schemes to avoid such intrusions or
advise whether the MOF would countenance them. In addition, he would organize changing of
boundaries as may be required and agreed upon by the Department including idendfication of possible
land swops, resurvey of boundaries and all associated administrative procedures since gazetted forests
can only be de-gazetted by authority of the MOF. Where any forest is to be cleared, the forester would
organize timber inventories and prepare contract documentation covering the harvesting and sale of this
timber and payment of relevant royalties to MOF. Finally, he would review soil reports on the project,
identify potential for erosion problems and, as required, to ensure that adequate soil erosion control
provisions are included in contract documents and applied in the field.



- 146-
Annex 9
Table 1
INDONESIA
Forest Status and Recommended Environmental Action
("Go-ahead" schemes)
RECOMMENDE RECOMMENDED   FOREST           PPAI
PROJECT NAME              SCHEME    ADDITIONAL   CLEARANCE    HSIM   HPTI
NAME       PRONCE   AREJIL)    IRRKIAILE  REOUIREMENT          IU    HWPI
__AND(ha_    Ip Jno         (1)    (2)
INDRAPURA         WSUM            3330         1619                  No    N.A.
SULUTI            WSUM            1481         1481    No dearing    No    N.A.
SUKO               NSUL            824         824           241     No      No
WAY KULUR          LAMP            649         741    No clearing    No    N.A.
KAITI SAMO         RIAU           1014          729           10     No      No
PAUN PANGEAN       RIAU            S81          S81          281     No      No
MARISA             NSUL            520          520         641      No      No
BANDAR SANGKIR    WSUM            1031          446          446     No      No
WAY JERINGING      LAMP            419         381    No clearng     No    N.A.
KATANGANA         SESUL            435          377    No clearing   No    N.A.
BORONE             CSUL            697          366          154     No      No
PILOHAYANGA        NSUIL          1045          358    No clearing   No    N.A.
AIR SENKENANG      BENG            350          335          141    Y"?
SIBMYU             CSUL            250          250          130     No      No
SEBERANG GUNUNG   RIAU             250          250          144     No      No
DANAU KOTO RAJO   RIAU            231           231           57     No      No
WOLULU            SESUL'           351          217          140     No      No
ANDOWENGGA        SESUL            366          214          49 Pouible PoSilW
WATUBANGGA        SESUL            242          193           98     No      No
A. NASAL KIRI      3ENG            223          167          167 Pesible     No
LAKEJO             SSUL           1256          160    No clearing   No    N.A.
S. SAWAH PADANG   WSUM             750          152    No clearing   No    N.A.
A. KEDURANG        BENG            306         1S0           81 Posable      No
WONCO III         SESUL            139          139          123     NO      No
BANDAR TANJUNG    WSUM             484          128          191     No      No
BANGGA             CSUL            359          109          109     No      No
PARIGI KANAN       CSUL            S00          100          100     No      No
A. TALO KECIL      BENG            361           '7           74     No      No
LEANG LONGRONS   SSUL              8B8           52    No clering    No    N.A.
CAMBA JAWAYA       SSUL            741            0    No clearing   No    N.A.
KEMBANG MERTA      NSUL            322            0    No clearing   No    N.A.
SIANG KEKE         SSUL            460            0    No clearing   No    N.A.
TOTAL                      20635        11367         3577         ___
PPA and HSA are nature reserves and HL is protection forest and
HPT and HPB are production forests.
2.    All schemes with possible armas under PPA/HSA/HL would be subject to special review by
MOF before implementation of land clearance in the areas with possible conflict.



- 147 -
Annex 9
Table I1
Sheet I
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forest Status and Recommended Environmental Action
("Defered" schemes)
PROPOSED. RECOMMENDED RECOMMENDED             FOREST         PPA/
PROJECT                 SCHEME  DDITE0F         SCHDAE        ADOinONAL       CLEARANCE        HSAJ   HPT/
NAME       PROVINCE AREA(h) IFRIBLE           AREA(ha.)      IRRIGABLE    RECUIRSIENT         HU    HPB/
__________    _____  ______                _____L h_-        LA h          (prcpocd ha.)      (1)    (2,
SADANG              SSUL       54106      20231           23000           20231      Nocleartng      No    N.A.
VAY RARBE          LAMP        22000     10000            22000          10000      No clearing     No    N.A.
WAY UMPU            LAMP        7500       5439            7500            5439      No clarlng      No    N.A.
KUTA CANE           ACEH        5288       5288            5288            5288            395       No      No
SAUSU U/S          CSUL         8190       4918            8190            4918              0       No    N.A.
PADANG SAPPA        SSUL        6493       4617            6065            4199            214       No      No
LAMBUNU            CSUL         6000       6000            4000            4000      No clearing      ?    N.A.
TORAUT              NSUL        7800       3622            7800            3622      No clearing     No    N.A.
W. TULUNG MAS      LAMP         3200       3200            3200            3200      No clarlng      No    N.A.
AIR SELUMA         BENG         7697       3108            7697            3106           3108       No      No
MEROVI             WKAL         2835       2835            2835            2835           2365        7       7
MALOSO              SSUL        6721       2795            6721            2795      No clearing Adjacent    N.A.
WAY PENGUBUAN    LAMP           5000       2442            5000            2442      No clearing     No    N.A.
BUNTA I            CSUL         2307       2307            2307            2307             776      No      No
AIR GEGAS          SSUM         2678       2658            1900            1900      No clearlng     No    N.A.
POLEANG            SESUL        2544       1696            2531            1696           1442       No      No
WAY KETIBUNG        LAMP         1550      1550            1550            1550      No clearing     No    N.A.
SANGGAU LEDO       WKAL         1511       1471            1511            1471            921       No      No
LEFT PUNA          CSUL         2162       1445            2162            1445           1445       No      No
BATULCIN            SKAL        1417       1417            1417            1417           2880        ?       7
RORAYA             SESUL        1393       1079            1393            1079            1079      No      No
A. MUSI KEJALO     BENG         1180       1040            1180            1040             710      No      No
WAY SEMANOKA        LAMP        2063        936            2063             996      No clearing Adjacent    N.A.
TALOHEN             CKAL         978        978             978             978      No clearing      ?    N.A.
WAY CURUP           LAMP        2220        930            2220             930      No claeing Adjacent    N.A.
AIR GILAS          SSUM          900        848             900             848            320       No      No
AIR DERAS II       SSUM          942        717             942             717      No clearing     No    N.A.
TRINSING            CKAL         687        687             687             687             562       7       7
AIR SATAN          SSUM         1175        975             867             667            667       No      No
1.      PPA and HSA are natture reserves and HL is protection forest and
HPT and HPB are production forests.
2.      All schemes with possible areas under PPA/HSA/HL would be subject to special review by
MOF before implementation of land clearance in the areas with possible'conflict.



- 148-
Annex 9
Table I1
Shee 
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVE-LOPMENT PROJECTs
Forest Status and Recommended Environmental Action
("Deferred" shemes)
P"OP09E PROPOSED -   RECOMMENDED RECO ENDED            FOREST         PPA     -
PRQJEC.T               SC4SAE  00r11A          SCHeME       ADOITIONAL    CLEARANCE         HSA/   HPTI
NAME       PROVINCE AREA(ha  IRRKG8LE        AREAOh.)      IRMIOABLE    REOUIRMIENT         HU    HPe/
LAND(ha) .LANDhk_    Lr(poha                      hW        (1)    (2)
AIR DERAS I        SSUM         1379       652            1379            652            352 Po4sble      No
AIR TUPAK          SSUM         1228      1168             700            640      No clearlng    No    N.A.
A. NANTO           BENG         646       626             646             626            408      No Possible
KASIE              SSUM         675        585             675            585            576      No Possible
SEI TAMBANG        RIAU         825       825             556            556             182      No      No
BUMI AGUNG         SSUM         590       530             590             530      No clering     No    N.A.
SUNGAIARO         WSUM          764       514             764            514       No cl"ring     No    N.A.
ALUE UBAY          ACEH         2641       500            2641            500            276      No      No
NAGEDANG           RIAU         780        770            488             478      No clarlng     No    N.A.
SULU PASLATEN      NSUL         543        444             543            444            304      No      No
TONGOP             NSUL          823       426             823            426            285      No      No
W. NEGARA RATU    LAMP          1100       425            1100            425      No clearing    No    N.A.
BATANG SANKI II    WSUM         423       403             423             403            173      No      No
TOMPE              CSUL          699       385             699            385            299      No      No
SUNGAI SAMEK      WSUM          458        369             458            369              7      No      No
AIR MALUS          SSUM         560        360             560            360            300      No Possible
MUKO-MUKO KIRI    BENG          7583      6313             350            350      No clearing    No      No
MEGANG TKIP        SSUM         1389       815             915            340      No clering     No    N.A.
A. SUSUP KANAN     BENG          350       340             350            340            141     Yes      No
DORANAN            RIAU         661       661              300            300             34      No      No
SIMBUNE BAWAH    SESUL           568       288             568            288            288     Yes      No
BATANG BAWAN      WSUM          437       282             437             282            202      No      No
B. PANJANG        WSUM          841       282             841             282      No clearing Posalble    N.A.
W. PADANG RATU    LAMP          1030       280            1030            280      No clearing Possible   N.A.
BATU PALANO       WSUM           348      256              348            256            256 Possible     No
MOWILA II          SESUL        461        249            461             249            249      No      No
MOWILA I          SESUL         433        249             433            249            249      No      No
BATANG TINGKARA   WSUM          1581      242             1581            242      No clehir9g Possible    N.A.
PONTAK             NSUL         653       241              653           241       No clearing    No    N.A.
A. KETAPANG        SENG          253       215             253            215             50      No PouIble
OLAYA              CSUL          541       210            541             210            210      No      No
AIR AMO            WSUM          306       208             308            208            208 Possibl       ?
KAYU BAKICIUK      WSUM          379       208 .           379            208            173      No Posible
1.      PPA and HSA are nature reserves and HL is protection forest and
HPT and HPB are production forests.
2.      All schemes with possible areas under PPA/HSA/HL would be subject to special review by
MOF before implementation of land clearance in the areas with possible conflict.



- 149-
Annex 9
Table 1
Sheet 3
IDNESIA
Forest Status and Recommended Environmental Action
("Deferred" schemes
PPAPOSM FFKXI- RIEO:MMENOIE                     FOSTW         PPA/
PPOMI                  SCHTM   COMONW          SCHEME        AOOONAL        CLEACANCE       HA    HPT
NAME       PROV       AREA(hI) IRIIGABLE     AEA(h.)    IMKaGADLE    REOII4  ENT            HU    HPU
_  _       _                   _       _       _  ~~~~~~~AO  LNMO .(roo    h.            (1)    (2
AIR KENIE          SSUM         403        202             403            202             20 Posble Possibe
SATANG MPl        WSUM          101        194            1061            194            194 Possible     No
TRENGADDING        ACEM         1909       160            1909            180      No cletng      No    N.A.
A. SBWUMlAI DERAS  BENG          207       177             207            177             03     Yes      No
A. NASAL KANAN     SENG          173       173             173            173      No chlang Adjacen      No
LUBIUK TASUAN      WSUM          254       147             254            147            132       ?       ?
SUNGAI BEUNG      WSUM          328        144             328            144            100 Poible       No
POLAHAN MANTAR   RIAU           326        326             120            120     No clearing?    No      No
SONAY             SESUL         256        114             256            114             46 Possible     No
DANAMULYA         SESUL          238       110            238             110             S0      No      No
OIOINGGA           NSUL         641        108             533            108            105      No      No
ALUN UA            SSUM          220       100             220            100      No cimino     Ys    NA.
KOPONTUA           CSUL          401        89             401             89             89      No      No
PANDRAMH           ACEH         10t0       85             1000            85              85 Posiblo      No
TALANG KEMUNING  WSUM            985        84             985             84             77     Ye       No
A.AES KETENONG   BENG            314        76             314             76              5     Yu       No
ArITO             SESUL         251         75            251              75             75 Posiblo      No
TAOBONTO           SESUL         200        22             200             22             22 Possible Possile
APARANG HULU       SSUL         1008       243             765              0            243      No      No
OLONJONGE          CSUL          377        0              377              0      No clearing      ?    N.A.
DEULAGO            CSUL         2557        0             2557              0      No clering     No    N.A.
TORUE              CSUL         2096         0            2096              0      No claring     No    N.A.
B0NGO              NSUL         4800        0             4800             0       No claring     No    N.A.
TOTAL                   220S42    11829            1761956       106438           233l8
1.      PPA and HSA are nature reserves and HL is protection forest and
HPT and HPB are production forests.
2.      All schemes with possible areas under PPA/HSA/HL would be subject to special review by
MOF before implementation of land clearance in the areas with possible conflict



-150-
Annex I
INDONESIA
PROVINCL4L IRRIGATED AGRICULTUJRE DEVELOPME-NT PROJEC
Project Suoervision Requirements
1.    Pject Supcnrsion. The Bank staff resources to supervise the project would be greater than
supervision resources (say 10 staff weeks per year) for a typical specific investment operation. The
supervision arrangements for the proposed project would be complex for both Government and the
Bank because of the geographical spread, the number of schemes and components, and the range of
challenges being addressed and the need to provide project implementation and performance data
essential to the supervision process. In this respect, an important function of the consultant services
described in Annex 4 would be to guide and assist Govemment in project supervision and to
strengthen the capability of the individual agencies involved to monitor and evaluate project
implementation. However even with the consultant's input, the project could require above average
Bank supervision resources and that it may be more effective to supervise the proposed project through
RSI, (Jakarta Resident Mission) The recommended supervision requirements are summarized below.
2.    Suirmision Arrangcnie. The recommended arrangement (after the first supervision
mission) would be for the Bank to supervise the project through the resident mission staff with two
missions each year. The main mission would be May/June each year and constitute the annual
implementation review. During this mission, appropriate action would be taken to review and aniend
the annual work program for the following fiscal year (to match the budgetary process). The second
inisinn would take p'lace about in November/December each year. An important task would be to
review the budgetary request based on the work program agreed during the previous mission.
Between the two supervision missions, the day-to-day supervision would be undertaken by RSI staff
based in Jakarta. The first supervision mission (Juine/July 1991) would require extra staff resources to
cover the start-up of the project and because all deferred schemes will have to be reviewed. Thus the
first supervision mission should, scheduling permitted, include headquarters staff who have been
involved in the project preparation and preferably who took part in the appraisal mission.
3.    ProposedSupervision Resources Required.
Activity                 Staffing                       Staff Weeks
Ei    Faolloing
X~NL  Inn
(a)  Annual Implementadon Review    Team Leader (Irrigation Eng.)   5  4
(May/June each year)         Agriculturalist             5         4
Other (National Consultant)  5       4
(b)  Second Supervision Mission   Team Leader (Irrigadon Eng.)   5     4
(Nov/Dec each year)          Other (National Consultant)  4        4
(c)  General Supervision Activities    Task Manager (based in Jakarta) 5  4
Total Staff Requirement (per year)                   29       24



- 151 -
Annex II
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File
A. Background Reports
1.    Status Reports and Action Plans for the Second Provincial Irrigated Development
Project (SPIDP); DGWRD assisted by Sir M MacDonald & Partners and PT Indah Kaya,
Consultants; March 1989; (Executive Summary, Main Report and 24 Supporting Volumes).
2.    Irrigation Subsector Project (ISSP), Preparatory Designs; DGWRD assisted by Sir M
MacDonald & Partners and PT Indah Kaya, Consultants; April 1988; (10 Volumes).
3.    Irrigation Subsector Project (ISSP), Preparatory Designs - Review of 22 on-going
Projects; DGWRD assisted by Sir M MacDonald & Partners and PT Indah Kaya, Consultants;
April 1988; (10 Volumes).
B Project Preparation Documentation
4.    DGWRD discussion Papers on:
-   Inter-agency Cooperation and Coordination
-   Transitional (Preparation) for O&M
-   Control and Measurement in Remote Locations
-   Verification & Certification Procedures to Confirm Completion Status
-   Agricultural Development
-   Farmer Discipline
-   Land Development
Prepared by Sir M MacDonald & Partners and PT Indah Kaya, Consultants; March 1989.
5.    Project Preparation for the PIADP; DGWRD (assisted by Sir M MacDonald & Partners and PT
indah Kaya, Consultants; March 1990; (Executive Sumrnary, Main Volume and 13 Provincial
Annexes.
6.    Post Appraisal Report (Project Preparation for the PIADP); DGWRD (assisted by Sir M
MacDonald & Partners and PT Indah Kaya, Consultants); June 1990; (Summary Reports and 13
Annexes).
C Bank Documents related to Project
7.    SAR; Second Provincial Irrigation Development Project; Report No. 4839-IND; Dec 1983.
8.    PCR; SPIDP; Report No. 8336, January 1990.
9.    Irrigation Subsector Project (ISSP); Report No. 6313-IND, October 1987.
10.   PPAR, Indonesia, Irrigation Project X, XIV and XV (Loans 1578, 1822 and Credit 995-IND);
June 1989.



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overall Project Organizatlon.
1o    t                                          ,nitr o                                                  _1    mstry                  ||
PUbilcus RomeA~~~~~~~~~~Fair nance_                                                For-Ilry      _      _A4gculikse -LrAoc
Provindel Level ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~       ~~                  uea             - --- --I -o      -
BAPPS~~P NSS1Z I                                              OO -P
pro.iinciea Irrigation  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~gnukl
on           Provlnc al            Provincal Agnculural                                                            WA
bTlion        D~e~veloprrlent Comtmmee                                                       An
Com_vrnee                                                                                                     i
Distorial 01iDlrect                                                      ral                                                           AGn
rigelon  erigat,on                              Developmfen Committee                              -T
E   ow           ~~~~~Comrmnte estc
~ ~~F--~~~~~~~~11                          r    ~~~ocmaa: Camat-                                                                               - 
Sub- swict     Sub-OiR -Ba*  ,lyt ndneaPepls  a,  f ndnei
Legennl:                                                                      DAAD - OsrectoraneaArea Agnoutturag Developmoert
-   -   -   -    Co~~~~tation                                           OCA  - irctrat FodCros  qtwb aiEs1nso
S    ice     V.lna li U      o
Lrnrnines  a                                 14                                                  Exionfo. -  h     M   e  Seeta Ba|a_
BUUDXUD                                                                                (P~~~~~~~U~aen(ati lpt-eBpalg  ~um
BR     arnd Laya ndonm-eftkaoplsBakof.do
L |nd                                                                               DAAD - D|rectorate  G enerelof Caerf oreah r
-   alo -rth -    Corndo  ImtCAE - Dirncutoraal                                                 Food Cropsna  Igwta Einr
Lirmn)     of    BUDur KUDoit                                    BUDU  - Vill"w  Unt Co p                                         I   I
SRIA -  Banl b ngan ka n  Sno-wpf S    rLold Bnehane
Lopnel                                                            D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0RAAD- Dirr ctorat A erea culn ors wo                       *k^U7,f
and Lana Rehlabiotior..



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organizational Arrangements for Irrigation Development
Director General|
of Water Resource |Legernd:
Development                                                                   Lieoaco
*                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Line of Accountabaiity
PROJECT GUIDANCE UNIT -----                                                                                                Coordination. Guidance
HEAD:                                        rectorate                                                   Note
Director, DPP                                 of naProvided by District Irrigation Service
from 0 & M Section Staff
MEMBERS:                                                                             *t
DGWRD Staff                                                                                                Provided by Subdistrict Irrigation Service
DGWRD Staff as                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~Head of Provincial    from 0 & M Staff
appropriate                                                                 Inigation Service
(PRIS)     |              DPP - Directorate of Planning and
Programming
|Project Manager|
(PRIS)l
Developnent                          & Maintenance  Design                                       r
(PRIS)                                (PRIS)      l(PRIS)
| Staff    ll                            Staff    ll                           Sff      l
|Residc nt Eng.   I                        I                               I Hed Spca |   -read of District 
(Pengawas                             MaintenanceJ                             _                Inigaion
tUtarna)   |                        fiienO   M                                                 Service
I~~~  ----- --1- -- -- ---
| Site Engineer |  g   ~ ~    Dsig Staffa---                                             Head of    l
Pengawas                            Maintenance/                                             Igabon Servicep
EKPiW4a7944



INDONESIA
PROVINCIAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Overall Orgarzatlon and Management for Land Development
MOT              MPW                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~inistry of  M  instyofdnlstiy of
AW EAgculture                                Ho" Attairs                             Forests
NATIONAL
LEVEL    I3
G ofD-  -  ---  ---   (Nation                                                    B LNnd            LnAec
DFCAE~ ~~~~~~                                              DFCAE  Direoeo  odCo
_atnAg I                                                                                  ency
Governor ot 
I   L          L         _       I ProvineI
PROVINCIAL                     Kanwil of       K i           Provincial         IProvincia                                                              nc5~Wdo
LEVEL                       TransmSt Orrigaion                                                              b Agrict Dural I-i
gratIon                       SerAces                                                                                               Devbpren
KASUPE-TAN
LEVEL                                                                                                                                           oieb
offices                                                             Office t(Team Pelahsapa)
Notes,
_________                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BPN'  National Land Agency
DFCAE   Directorate of Food Crop
KECAMATAN A              Scheme                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AgricuAure Estenson
DESA LEVEL                                                    StOfcefor Land                                                                    DA          ietrt  fAe
Development                           Agriculture Development
I   DGWRD   Director General Water
Resources Development
DGCFA    Director General Food
Legend:                                                                                                  |                   Crop Agriculture
Line of AuorL                                               Farers Goups                       DGRLR   Directorate General of
-  -    Technical & Supervision Assistance                                                                         Reforestation and
Kanwi - Provincial Represertative
of Tecnical Ministry      E A



INDONESIA
PROVINCAL IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Organizational Arrangements for Land and Agricultural Development
| Directorate General |                                               | Agenct tor Aesearch
Food Crops                                                                   . ^   and Deveeeomnnt
Agri ulture                         Ex.s.
D oPROJECT (MOA) AGRICULTUREI                      Intt 
Area tvlorent               COORDINATION UNIT         _
HEAD:n
Director, Agnicuftural Area 
Development
MEMBetgrultra Extension                         Ce_ ntral Researcht
Sudelr=.toratel                                   Institute for
Chief. Land Development                   _       Agniculture
Subdirectorate
Chief. Seed Production
Subdrwectorate
CRIA
PROJECT PRAS) AGRICULTURE
Production           Planning and          DExtens                                CO     INATION UNIT
Subservice            StPsrogacegSberieHA
Heac, Agncultural Areaxt.so
.         .                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Development Subservice
|          I                                       M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LEMiBERS:
Heads of Subservies for:
_  Seed                 ~~~~~~~Head, District                              ()Arcfta  xeso
_   Farms               ~~~~~Agrncuturl(   gnutrl xeso
Service                                       (2) Planring & Programming
I____________________                      (3) Production Deveopment
Producbon       Agnadtral  ||Planning S &                                                                        P
Dect=o            StCbPent ||Prorrmn                  Section 
UPP:  Land Development Implementalon Urit
PPL:   Field Extension Worker
I Heac, Rtural I
| Extension 
I  Cernter     I
Legend:
I-   Tedwlci Assistance
Une of Accountabilty
CRIA:  Crntral Research Institule for Agriculturo   p
EKjN48794D



- 156 -                                                    Chan 5
INDONESIA
PROVINCIAI, IRRIGATElD AGRICULTURE DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Phasing of Activities for Irrigation and Land Development
IRRIGATION                                       A         EDtFCA               LAND TITLES
DOWRDDGO                                                                         (BPN)
D(RISR)                                           (DAAD)(BN
Slgnig of ConI r|
D=n
La    a
Swrveys6 & Design                                Siping~ ot Conttact
t 2    Scah         zh wBetnch Mu1 s           &D4
Checkof
SURVEYS                         Terty Blocks                                       .1E  
-  -  -  -              LAnd Us
-  -  -                             ~~~~~~~~~~Plant
Toary Block Layout                                                              a a   Pl
_  _  _  _  _  _  _ *                             for CatidarW
Lan Ownershr Pranb
mssnblig of.
~~~~ ~~~~~ + ~~~~~~Farmers Gr oups
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~''' _ _P
Design of Main                       Tertiary &
System &                         Ouartanary     Interacios
Special Struclures                 Canal Design    ......
DESIGN                                                                                Lan  nt
|  FinaD Designesigns
Bill of Q.uantity
FtnDIns  nteractions      lnd
& Plans
s t          ~~~Maln Syst rnm
Consbucdon of            Operatlona                                Ln a   nil
Main System .. .  ..a.l ..ot.                                                )
Lanct leveinig
CONSTRUCTION                                     & Forma
Watltr for     I     .
Legend                                                  Fhal-Leveling _              &
-          ~ Une of Authority                                          =Wah"F
Una of Toenical Assistance
-  --    Lines of Coordhnetlon
EKNW4791OC



-  HAILAND
Bando Aceh
.  -'   -                                            '                       >               ~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~PHILIPPINES   /
-  -  r                    ht~~~~~~~ALAYSIA_                                                                 BRUZIUA                               I 
N."                        - tF^/-R    ' 46   l~PUR   / '\/                                                                   '  
WALAYSIA B-';  W\L z-L                                                                      j ' ,L MALAYSIA   L'
Bcrndar nijong     {l30ro0 gongk.'         \ \                                                                     /                    )              Pulahenti
au /olrCoNG. A\ 1                                                                                                                                  OPOREsdingga\. J   ;.   - r
Son  'rSang  rPeko - J
A!                                                                                                                                                       9,tungg   v  n  $   t(A   t fl.N Sl  Sarnor.nda r   $   ~   - Ef;ooolum
Hondor       ag lu 'A                                                                                                                                     so ng
q lSptng SuR0 .  A      eouna                                    t  \                        AN             Samor.andor  o
Ai gINKatenon                     j               '~.
Muko     o Kio                       Ar            PIANGKA
s ~~~~~Ai, ol s    nJV SeoroooJwa %pbng,*i                                                                       0ion
Air Se  i  A AAAcr ~~~~~~~~~~~*        R ~~~                        Pelongkaroya                                                             a-
Air Sensgkeong BtLWoliu //                                                                                                                                        Sl
Air Nanto Keir'  Bn  nJaaSeeang,bonrang I
Air No to  n            ]ova Sea                                                C~~~~~~~~~~~~~AoragH  1P~a       ~           t
Air Nasol Konon                       LpAirS  an  ,vc                                                                &aong        A              -      .   -
Air Nosal Ki  (          j
~,B..du        Tf, -\d.
/                    eco~~            ~          ~~~ng 
INDONESIA                                                                             \  MA'                                                                                      _
PROVINCE IRRIGATED AGRICULTURE                                                   Yogyakaro                                                          v ;.
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(PIADP)                                                               AAA                                                        A-
(EX - SPIDP SCHEMES) (e'-                                                                                  asa;
A     Go-Ahead Irrigation Schemes                                                                                                   -
Deferred Irrigation Schemes                                                                                                                         K.ponq
(3     Province Capitols                                                               ND IAN OCEAN
*      National Capitals
______ Province Boundaries
Internaoional Boundaries
MILES 0        ITO      200       t00       400      500
Note: Second Provincial Irrigaied Develpoment Projeci,              -                                                  ;                                                                                    W
>                   Loan 2375-IND. Closed in 1988                                   KIEOM[ET    o         200         4006
c01000
>                            KILOMETE-S            2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  am ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~i
7n                                                                   i                                                                   c



^ THAILAND lr-z 
'odo Aceh,1                              /
a-       A oPndJrh                                                                                                                   -                                           PHILIPPINES  
'.  ,  Lt Wa,             MALAYSIA       -                                                                          R                             .
J'   .   *JLU NP(IR                                 / 5                       D\                  v -L R
--x49;>, -;0 i/- cx   >           0                                                         MALNiYSIA      )        
B .r      s FeI-   ubuk T           I94    * N CAPORE          Song      g        ou tou- r                           * Ls                  \st,,s                              , .;ewd
       _{lWnn7j)~~~~~PeonoS                                                   |           Merowvi                     )                                ,    ?    N        __# _O(U 
ol~            ~                        Urno                                                                                              rL.           Z :I                  r
r~~ A<t5rnoon %                                                                                         Flore
iNDOESz  bWung ,                                     Pafio-                                                         o 
PROVINCE IRRIG~~~~~~~~~~ATE GIUTR    z  e   
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT(PI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AtP Mgys_> -^  _ ' 
t  Ddeneo Inigrfion Schemestex -155P)                                                                                      \~~~~~~~~Tlohe
*  aher Go-Ahod  .gobon Schemes                                                                                     SUfiA  X    ?             KuporS               . -gkoray
  Ollwr Deferred IrrigobonSchemes                              IND/AN OcEAN                                                     d        . .~~~~~~~~Ma   o
w  PronnrSe Copiuls                                                                           ~                                                                                  T; rfr Sr-o
i9  Notionol ~ ~  ~ ~ ~ .                        Ropild
-- ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r Pronnr BoursoSea
Inbrnohonol80urwdones MIU0     s            rupor r  _ 8f,e,..........<,  .. i
e ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,c Q  I__ 



