Report No. PID10065
Project Name                     Pakistan-Banking Sector Restructuring and (@).
Privatization Project
Region                           South Asia Regional Office
Sector                           Financial Sector Development
Project ID                       PKPE55292
Borrower(s)                      GOP
Implementing Agency
Address MOF, SBP, PC
Ministry of Finance
PAK Secretariat, Islamabad
Contact Person: Dr. Waqar Masood,
Additional Secretary Finance
Tel: 92-51-9206367
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                May 7, 2001
Projected Appraisal Date         May 28, 2001
Projected Board Date             September 27, 2001
1. Country and Sector Background
The problems of Pakistan's banking sector were rooted in a failure of
governance and lack of financial discipline owing to undue political
interference in the financial intermediation process, especially in the
NCBs and DFIs. The NCBs and DFIs were the major sources of bad loans,
accounting for 90 percent of the bad loans in the entire system, and were
the the main loss-makers. Loan recovery by the NCBs and DFIs was stymied
for fear of politically motivated retribution and by a dysfunctional legal
and judicial system.Pakistan's 1997 banking reforms were aimed to
strengthen the sources of governance and financial discipline for the
banking sector, namely bank regulators, markets, the courts and bank
owners, by enhancing the authority and the ability of the central bank to
supervise banks and enforce regulations, promoting market integration and
competition, improving the legal and judicial processes for enforcing
financial contracts, and initiating corporate governance reforms in the
NCBs and DFIs. Corporate governance was improved by appointing
professionals to the management and boards of the NCBs and DFIs, and
insulating the process of appointing and removing management from
political interference through an amendment in the law. Improvement in
corporate governance was to be sustained through a well-structured
privatization whereby the NCBs and DFIs would be sold to reputable
strategic investors who possess the integrity, capital, banking expertise,
management and technology to run these institutions prudently and
efficiently.   However, due to weak market conditions, the country's
deteriorating foreign investment climate, and lack of sustained efforts,
on the one hand, and the distressed conditions of these banks with high
cost structures and depleted balance sheets, on the other hand, attempts
to sell these institutions have so far failed.Compared with the situation
at the end of 1996, the banking sector had improved by most benchmarks by
the end of 1999. Cash recovery in the three-year period totaled Rs 70



billion, or a third of the stock of loan defaults. The NCBs stemmed
operating losses by reducing staff by 30t and closing 500 loss-making
branches. The new banking court system processed 22,000 out of 52,000
loan default cases at an unprecedented rate. The level of non-performing
loans started to stabilize due to better quality new loans and intensified
loan recovery and work-out of problem loans. These measures helped the
banking system achieve improvements in capital adequacy, asset quality,
efficiency and profitability. These improvements were found despite the
fact that disclosure standards in 1998, 1999 and 2000 are much more
stringent than those of 1996, improved disclosure being part and parcel of
the reform program itself. However, as the banking crisis eased and
financial institutions began to heal, the reform process slowed down, and
in several respects, stalled. In mid-1999, interference in the banking
system through new centrally-mandated credit programs increased. Loan
recovery slowed down, except for the dramatic gains as a result of the
accountability campaign that was started in October 1999 by the military
government.   The military Government continues to believe that the best
way to insulate the financial intermediation function from political
interference is to privatize all NCBs, and reduce the number of DFIs,
privatize them, if possible, or close and liquidate them. The plan is to
privatize HBL and UBL within the tenure of the current government and to
take major steps towards preparing NBP for privatization. DFIs are to be
reduced from the present 10 and institutions catering to small industry,
housing finance and small agriculture will be retained. The current
government has supplemented the loan recovery efforts through the
establishment of a government agency, the Corporate and Industrial
Restructuring Corporation (CIRC), which is in the process of assuming from
the NCBs and DFIs all private sector non-performing loans over Rs. 10
million that already have court orders for execution. With special legal
powers, the CIRC is expected to be more successful in liquidating and
disposing of assets than the banks. (Similar powers will be given to the
banks through a further amendment of the law to institutionalize this
reform.) Since the CIRC will not replace the loans they take over from
the banks and DFIs with government bonds until these institutions are
privatized or after 3 years, whichever is sooner, this process will not
result in a premature recapitalization. Substantial capital increases were
provided to HBL and UBL by the central bank to strengthen their balance
sheets. The difficulties the banks now face stem largely from loan and
operational losses prior to 1997. Although the 1997 restructuring
substantially improved the business efficiency of the NCBs by cutting
staff and branches, their cost to income ratios need to be further
reduced. Market soundings have indicated that quality acquirers would be
reluctant to take on the substantial commitment of management time, as
well as the political and social risks of executing the substantial
further restructuring necessary to bring the operating structure of the
NCBs closer to international norms. Moreover, the significant cost of
these restructurings, is beyond the capacity of any domestic financial
institution. It is, therefore, now the government's plan to restructure
the NCBs further to improve their prospects for sale. While the
restructuring process is implemented, efforts to find buyers will continue
in parallel. The ultimate sale process will allow for risk sharing
mechanisms between the prospective buyer and the government along the
lines of those used for the sale of distressed financial institutions in
other countries. Together with an improving foreign investment climate,
an expected economic turn-around, a more determined sales effort and
- 2 -



assistance by top-notch financial advisors, this approach to bank
privatization is expected to yield the outcomes that so far have been
elusive. While the final outcome of bank privatization is not assured but
only facilitated by the planned restructuring, the gains of restructuring
will be preserved in the resulting substantial downsizing of the
state-owned banks and the expected expansion of private banks through the
liberalization of bank branching policy. The resulting market structure
would be healthier and more efficient, and the scope for corruption
greatly reduced. The cost of restructuring is also justified by the
project's internal cash flow of savings, with a payback period of four
years (Annex 4).
2. Objectives
The objective of the project is to help Pakistan pursue banking reforms
started in 1997, with assistance under the Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
(BSAL). The project would focus on further restructuring of the
Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs) to improve their prospects for sale
to qualified strategic investors, completing the privatization of the
partially privatized banks, and liquidating the largest development
finance insititution. It also aims to sustain and deepen the reforms
undertaken under BSAL.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
BSAL was critical in the successful implementation of difficult reform
measures needed to arrest the deterioration of the banking system. By
bringing in professional management into the NCBs, enhancing the central
bank's autonomy and authority, promoting greater market integration and
strengthening the banking court system, BSAL provided some safeguard
against a continuation of political interference in the banking sector.
Privatization was supposed to sustain the reform, but efforts to privatize
the NCBs have not yet succeeded for a variety of reasons. Feedback from
prospective buyers and other market players indicate that these banks are
still out of line in terms of their staffing and branch networks in
relation to their asset size. The proposed further restructuring of the
NCBs is seen as a necessary condition to their privatization to reputable
investors, and achieving permanent corporate governance reform in
Pakistan's banking system. The government believes that the Bank, which
helped lay the basis for the current banking reform program, is best
placed to help bring it to fruition, and has asked for Bank assistance.
4. Description
IDA Financing. The major cost of restructuring will come from the
voluntary separation payments for the reduction in the head count of NCB
staff. The staff of NDFC (800) would also be given separation payments as
required by law. IDA funds would finance these costs.Government
Financing. There will be some real-estate related costs, mainly
settlement of long term lease agreements, due to branch closures.
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Total Project Cost 450
6. Implementation
The restructuring measures will be coordinated by the State Bank of
Pakistan and the Ministry of Finance. The three NCBs will be responsible
- 3-



for the design and implemention of their respective restructuring plans.
The Privatization Commission (PC) will be responsible for implementing the
required steps for bringing the three banks to the point of sale and for
identifying bona fide strategic investors in parallel with the
restructuring exercise. The PC will be assisted by leading financial
advisors in implementing individual sale transactions. The PC will
coordinate the selection process with the State Bank of Pakistan, the bank
regulator and supervisor, to ensure that the process would result in the
selection of qualified buyers who have the required integrity, capital,
banking expertise, technology, and management. The State Bank will be
responsible for clearing potential buyers and their proposed management
teams in accordance with established selection criteria and banking
regulations. The State Bank and the Corporate and Industrial
Restructuring Corporation will be responsible for liquidating NDFC in an
orderly manner. The Ministry of Finance and State Bank will be the
implementing agencies for the restructuring and other policy reforms
supported by the proposed project.
7. Sustainability
The most critical factor for sustainability is that the banks are acquired
by quality investors who can provide the required corporate governance.
Other key factors are improvements in bank regulation and supervision, a
process which is continuing in the State Bank of Pakistan; a more
competitive market structure, partly to be promoted by the liberalization
of bank branching, and an effective banking court system, partly to be
strengthened by allowing out-of-court foreclosure of collaterals and the
parallel efforts of the Corporate and Industrial Restructuring
Corporation.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
1. Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project - This financial
intermediation operation providing a credit line to private financial
institutions and for private investments was used as an instrument to
require the government and the central bank to implement policy reforms.
The only leverage available was a threat of suspension. The financial
incentive (to the private sector) and the conditions (for the public
sector) were incongruent. Moreover, since the credit line was not
attractive, and the funds did not disburse, the threat of suspension was
moot. The proposed operation, like BSAL, directly links the financial
incentive to the conditionality. (In the end, FSDIP was drastically
restructured as a technical assistance project, assisting the central bank
in strengthening its regulatory and supervisory role, and the
privatization commission in executing bank privatization.) 2. The
financial restructuring of bad banks should not be undertaken unless there
is a definite change of governance, otherwise good money would be thrown
after bad. Under the proposed project, while the government will give a
commitment to potential buyers that the financial restructuring of the
NCBs and DFIs would be undertaken, actual financial restructuring would be
implemented only at the point of sale, after a qualified buyer has been
selected.3. Privatization has many objectives (some conflicting), such as
revenue generation, reduced economic activity by the state, private sector
development, greater efficiency. In view of the root causes of the
banking distress in Pakistan, the primordial objective, under which other
objectives would subsume, is to achieve improved corporate governance by
selling the NCBs and DFIs to the most qualified private investors.4. To
- 4 -



attract quality acquirers it is necessary to undertake cost restructuring
and provide risk-sharing mechanisms to reduce the political, social and
financial risks associated with such transactions, but leaving balance
sheet restructuring to the point of sale, and business restructuring to
the new owners.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)      N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues         None
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
Joseph Del Mar Pernia
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone:   (202) 473-2026
Fax:   (202) 522-1145
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
This PID was processed by the InfoShop during the week ending May 18, 2001.
- 5 -



