Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 22509-PAK
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 239.5 MILLION
(US$300 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
BANKING SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
October 1, 2001
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 2001)
Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupees (Rs)
Rs 1.00 = US$0.0154
US$1.00 = Rs 65.00
FISCAL YEAR
July I -- June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABL          Allied Banking Limited
ADB          Asian Development Bank
BSAL         Banking Sector Adjustnent Loan
CAS          Country Assistance Strategy
CIRC         Corporate and Industrial Restructuring Corporation
DFI          Development Finance Institution
FA           Financial Advisor
FCD          Foreign Currency Deposit
FSDIP        Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project
GOP          Goverrnent of Pakistan
HBL          Habib Bank Limited
MCB          Muslim Commercial Bank
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NBP          National Bank of Pakistan
NCB          Nationalized Commercial Bank
NDFC         National Development Finance Corporation
NSS          National Savings Schemes
PC           Privatization Commission
SBP          State Bank of Pakistan
UBL          United Bank Limnited
Vice President:   Mieko Nishimizu
Country Manager/Director:   John W. Wall
Sector Manager/Director:   Marilou Jane D. Uy
Team and Task Leader:  Joseph Del Mar Pernia



PAKISTAN
BANKING SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page
1. Project development objective                                                       2
2. Key performance indicators                                                           2
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project      2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                                           3
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                   5
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components                                                                   6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                        8
3. Benefits and target population                                                       8
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                        9
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                            9
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and other development agencies          10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design                                 10
4. Indications of borrower conmuitment and ownership                                   11
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                                         11
E. Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic                                                                            12
2. Financial                                                                           12
3. Technical                                                                           12
4. Institutional                                                                       13
5. Environmental                                                                       13
6. Social                                                                              13
7. Safeguard Policies                                                                  14
F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability                                                                      15



2. Critical risks                                                                     15
3. Possible controversial aspects                                                     16
G. Main Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition                                                           16
2. Other                                                                              16
H. Readiness for Implementation                                                          18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                                         18
Annexes
Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                                         19
Annex 2: Detailed Project Description                                                   21
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                                        24
Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary, or Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary          25
Annex 5: Financial Summary for Revenue-Earning Project Entities, or Financial Summary   33
Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements                                      34
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                                    40
Annex 8: Documents in the Project File                                                  41
Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits                                                 42
Annex 10: Country at a Glance                                                           45
MAP(S)



PAKISTAN
Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
Project Appraisal Document
South Asia Regional Office
Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
Date: October 1, 2001                             Team Leader: Joseph Del Mar Pemia
Country Manager/Director: John W. Wall            Sector Manager/Director: Marilou Jane D. Uy
Project ID: P055292                               Sector(s): FS - Financial Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Specific Investmnent Loan (SIL)  Theme(s):
Poverty Targeted Intervention: N
Program Financing Data
[ 1 Loan    [X] Credit    [ Grant       [ ] Guarantee     1 Other:
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m): $300.00
Proposed Terms (IDA): Standard Credit
Grace period (years): 10                          Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5%                              Service charge: 0.75%
Financing Plan (US$m):    Source                             Local         Foreign         Total
BORROWER                                                      240.00           0.00        240.00
IDA                                                           300.00           0.00        300.00
Total:                                                        540.00           0.00        540.00
Borrower: GOP
Responsible agency: MOF, SBP, PC
Ministry of Finance
Address: PAK Secretariat, Islamabad
Contact Person: Dr. Waqar Masood, Additional Secretary Finance
Tel: 92-51-9206367            Fax:             Email:
Other Agency(ies):
State Bank of Pakistan
Address: Central Directorate, I.T. Chundrigar Road, Karachi
Contact Person: R.A. Chughtai, Deputy Governor
Tel: 92-21-9212455            Fax:             Email:
Privatization Commission
Address: 5-A, Constitution Avenue, Islamabad
Contact Person: Ahmed Waqar, Additional Secretary
Tel: 92-51-9203881            Fax:             Email:
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$m):
FY         2002       2003        2004
Annual  150.00      100.00      50.00
Cumulative   150.00     250.00     300.00
Project implementation period: 3 years
Expected effectiveness date: 12/01/2001  Expected closing date:  12/31/2004
OCSP*DFl F. M- -rCh2000



A. Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The objective of the project is to help Pakistan continue implementation of its banking reform program
started in 1997 and supported by the Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (BSAL), aimed at achieving a
competitive private banking system that operates under a strong regulatory framework, is supported by an
effective banking court system, and intermediates resources independently of vested interests and in
response to price signals. The project would focus on further restructuring of the Nationalized Commercial
Banks (NCB) to improve their prospects for sale to qualified strategic investors, and completing the
privatization of the partially privatized banks. It would promote the expansion of the healthy part of the
system by liberalizing bank branching, while contracting the sickly part, including the amalgamation of the
largest development finance institution (DFI) into one of the NCBs. It would deepen the banking market by
reducing the taxation on financial intermediation and the cost of loan recovery by facilitating foreclosure on
loan collaterals.
2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
3  Reduction of the cost/income ratio of the NCBs to 0.65
*   Rationalization of the branch network of the NCBs by reducing the number of branches by 40
percent
*   Staff rationalization in the NCBs by reducing the headcount by 50 percent
3   Amalgamation of National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC) into National Bank of
Pakistan (NBP)
*   Bona fide attempt at fully divesting the government's remaining shareholding in Muslim
Commercial Bank (MCB) at market prices
v   Sale of the governments 49% shareholding in Allied Bank Limited (ABL) to a qualified strategic
investor
3   Substantial progress in the sale of United Bank Limited (UBL)
3   Substantial progress in preparing Habib Bank Limited (HBL) for sale
*   Initial progress in preparing National Bank of Pakistan for sale
o   Liberalization of bank branching policy
o   Revision of the tax policy for the banking sector and initial reduction in the level of taxation
*   Amendment to the Loan Recovery Act of 1997 to facilitate foreclosure on loan collaterals
*   Reform of the National Savings Schemes (NSS)
*   Reform of the Foreign Currency Deposit Scheme
B. Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex I)
Document number: 22219            Date of latest CAS discussion: 06/12/01
The over-arching objective of the Pakistan program is to reduce poverty through investing in people,
raising productivity, and promoting sustainable economic growth. This is to be attained by achieving
macroeconomic stability, improving resource allocation, enhancing human development, nurturing a
competitive environment for private investment and promoting better governance.
Recent cross-country empirical research by the Bank has shown that sound and efficient financial
intermediation leads to higher growth, by as much as an increment of 2 percent annually. A healthier and
more efficient banking system would contribute greatly to the achievement of poverty reduction in Pakistan
- 2 -



by improving the country's prospects for growth, enhancing its capacity to deal with volatility, mitigating
the risk of financial crises, and improving the poor's access to financial services.
By improving corporate governance in the NCBs, completing the privatization of partially privatized
banks, and amalgamating the largest insolvent and illiquid development finance institution into one of the
NCBs, which together account for two-thirds of the banking system, the proposed project would help to
achieve macroeconomic stability through reduced quasi-fiscal deficits created by past bad lending and
loss-making by these institutions; improve credit allocation as lending decisions become more market
driven; and increase the private sector's access to credit as these institutions are professionalized.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
In late 1996, Pakistan's banking system was on the verge of a crisis. Non-performing loans had reached
alarming proportions. Liquidity problems had begun to emerge as disintermediation spread and banking
losses mounted. Most cases of loan defaults remained unresolved in an ineffective court system. These
were manifestations of deep-seated problems, rooted in a failure of govemance and lack of financial
discipline. Political interference had vitiated the financial intermediation function of the banking system
and borrowers expected not to repay loans they took, especially from the NCBs and DFIs. The NCBs and
DFIs were major sources of bad loans, accounting for 90 percent of the bad loans in the entire system, and
were the main loss-makers. Overstaffing and over-branching and undue interference by labor unions in
bank personnel and operations resulted in large operating losses. Poor disclosure standards abetted
corruption by window-dressing the true picture of banks. The authorities realized that, while these
deep-rooted problems would take time to resolve, immediate measures were needed to arrest the
deterioration and prevent a banking crisis, especially in face of a difficult external position. In early 1997,
the central bank and the Ministry of Finance designed and started to implement what they called a
"home-grown" banking reform program.
Pakistan's 1997 banking reforms aimed to strengthen the sources of govemance and financial discipline for
the banking sector, namely bank regulators, markets, the courts and bank owners, by enhancing the
authority and the ability of the central bank to supervise banks and enforce regulations, promoting market
discipline, improving the legal and judicial processes for enforcing financial contracts, and initiating
corporate govemance reforms in the NCBs and DFIs. Under the program, the banking authorities
implemented major short-term measures that were designed to arrest the flow of bad loans, curtail
loss-making, and conserve the assets of the NCBs and the DFIs. Prudential regulations and financial
disclosure standards were to brought to intemational levels to increase transparency. Market distortions
were reduced to increase the efficiency of financial intermediation. Legal and judicial processes were
strengthened to enable a more effective enforcement of financial contracts. Corporate governance was
improved by appointing professionals to the management and boards of the NCBs and DFIs, and insulating
the process of appointing and removing management from political interference through an amendment in
the law. Improvement in corporate govemance was to be sustained through a well-structured privatization
whereby the NCBs and DFIs would be sold to reputable strategic investors who possess the integrity,
capital, banking expertise, management and technology to run these institutions prudently and efficiently.
These reform measures were not only critically needed to stop the hemorrhage. They were also needed to
lay the basis for the implementation of a medium-term program that would deal with the stock of bad loans,
install good governance through a comprehensive privatization program, strengthen banking supervision,
and build the capacity of the legal and judicial system for loan recovery.
In February 2000, at the request of the central bank, a Bank mission reviewed the results of the reform
program (Financial Sector Update, May 2000). Compared with the situation at the end of 1996, the
- 3 -



banking sector had improved by most benchmarks by the end of 1999. Cash recovery in the three-year
period totaled Rs 70 billion, or a third of the stock of loan defaults. The NCBs stemmed operating losses
by reducing staff by 30% and closing 500 loss-making branches. The new banking court system processed
22,000 out of 52,000 loan default cases at an unprecedented rate. The level of non-performing loans
started to stabilize due to better quality new loans and intensified loan recovery and work-out of problem
loans. These measures helped the banking system achieve improvements in capital adequacy, asset quality,
efficiency and profitability. These improvements were found despite the fact that disclosure standards in
1998 and 1999 were much more stringent than those of 1996, improved disclosure being part and parcel of
the reform program itself.
However, the reform program was not completed. As the crisis eased and financial institutions began to
heal, the reform process substantially slowed down and, in several respects, stalled. In mid- 1999,
interference in the banking system through new centrally-mandated credit programs increased. Loan
recovery slowed down, except for the dramatic gains as a result of the accountability campaign that was
started in October 1999 by the military government. Loan collateral foreclosure and bankruptcy
procedures were not further strengthened as planned. Market reforms to reduce segmentation were not
pursued completely. Most importantly, bank privatization did not materialized as planned due, on the one
hand, to weak market conditions, the country's deteriorating foreign investment climate and lack of
sustained efforts, and, on the other, the distressed conditions of the banks with high cost structures and
depleted balance sheets.
In September 2000, a Bank mission was requested by the Finance Minister to help revive implementation
of the 1997 reform program, focusing on bank privatization as the next critical set of steps in the process.
Two parallel timelines for bank restructuring and privatization were constructed, proposing further cost
restructuring to improve the banks' prospects for sale while working on the sale transactions themselves.
The current government believes that the best way to insulate the financial intermediation function from
political interference is to privatize all NCBs, and reduce the number of DFIs, privatize them, if possible,
or close them. The plan is to privatize HBL and UBL within the tenure of the current government and to
take major steps towards preparing NBP for privatization. DFIs are to be reduced to three (catering to
small industry, housing finance and small agriculture) with the biggest one, NDFC, to be amalgamated into
National Bank.
To improve loan recovery and facilitate bank privatization, the government also established an asset
management agency, the Corporate and Industrial Restructuring Corporation (CIRC), which will help
restructure the balance sheets of the NCBs and DFIs by assuming from them all private sector
non-performing loans over Rs. 10 million, starting with those that already have court orders for execution.
With special legal powers, the CIRC is expected to be more successful in liquidating and disposing of
assets than the banks. (Similar powers will be given to the banks through a further amendment of the law
to institutionalize this reform.) Since the CIRC will not replace the loans they take over from the banks and
DFIs with government bonds until these institutions are privatized or after three years, whichever is sooner,
this process will not result in a premature recapitalization.
Although substantial capital increases were earlier provided to HBL and UBL by the central bank in
response to demands by foreign regulators in countries where these banks continue to operate branches, the
capital position of these two banks remains weak. The 1997 restructuring substantially improved the
business efficiency of the NCBs by cutting staff and branches but their cost to income ratios remain
untenable. Market soundings have indicated that quality acquirers would be reluctant to take on the
substantial commitment of management time, as well as the political and social risks of executing the
substantial further restructuring necessary to bring the operating structure of the NCBs closer to
-4 -



international norms. Moreover, the significant cost of these restructurings, especially when added to the
cost of balance sheet restructuring, is beyond the capacity of any domestic financial institution. This partly
explains why attempts to find buyers for HBL and UBL have to date not come to fruition. It is, therefore,
now the government's plan to restructure the NCBs further to improve their prospects for sale. While the
restructuring process is implemented, efforts to find buyers will continue in parallel. The sale process will
allow for risk sharing mechanisms between the prospective buyer and the government along the lines of
those used for the sale of distressed financial institutions in other countries. Together with an improving
foreign investment climate, an expected economic turn-around, a more determined sales effort and
assistance by top-notch financial advisors, this approach to bank privatization is expected to yield the
outcomes that so far have been elusive.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
Although the proposed project focuses on the bank restructuring and privatization, it is accompanied by
other policy reforms that facilitate bank restructuring and privatization and substantially extend the 1997
reform program. The key policy reforms needed are:
1. Liberalization of bank branching policy - Past central bank policy required the NCBs to establish two
branches in unbanked areas for every branch established in a banked area. No NCB was allowed to close a
branch in an unbanked area without central bank approval. Although closing of branches in banked areas
was liberal, NCBs preferred to sit on their banked area branch licenses instead of surrendering them as they
became a source of econornic rent in the policy environment. Private and foreign banks were also required
to apply for a license for each branch opening, including ATMs. Foreign banks were usually allowed only
4 branches. These policies have been partly responsible for the domination by the NCBs in branching and
the virtual oligopoly in low-cost deposit mobilization, even after private banks were allowed to open more
than 10 years ago.
In general, the policy reform allows banks to open or close branches on the basis of commercial reasons.
In "banked" areas, the closing of bank branches is already liberal. With regard to branch opening, the
amended policy requires a bank to present to the central bank an annual branch expansion plan for
approval. Actual branch openings in accordance with the approved annual plan would require only a
notification to the central bank on an ex-post basis. In "unbanked" areas, the recommendations of the
inter-bank committee which proposed a sharing of the "tax" of maintaining bank branches among the five
largest banks appear to be an acceptable interim solution until more efficient alternative institutional
arrangements for providing financial services to the rural areas are found. At privatization, closing of bank
branches in unbanked areas would be agreed with the new owners as part of the sales negotiation. The
expected outcome of this reform would be a reduction of the branch network of the NCBs, which in itself
would facilitate their privatization, and an increase in the network of private and foreign banks, leading to a
more competitive market structure even before privatization.
2. Revision of tax policy and administration to reduce the taxation of the financial sector in line with the
rest of the economy - At 58% of net profits, the corporate income tax rate is higher for financial institutions
than for non-financial companies, which are taxed at 35%. Until recently, the tax authorities did not allow
banks to deduct their loan loss provisions from income for tax purposes. Now, the government has allowed
the deduction of future loan loss provisions, although losses accrued as a result of previous provisions are
not deductible. Financial institutions are also subject to a 30% withholding tax on income from
government securities which take a few years to refund, a 2% turnover tax, and a 5% interest-free cash
reserve requirement. All these explicit and implicit taxes raise the effective tax rate of a bank to between
75% and 80%.
-5 -



The reform consists of an initial reduction in the income tax rate from 58% to 50%, on a path toward the
ultimate target of 35%. Loan loss provisions that are certified by the central bank are now tax deductible.
Interest in suspense will not be taxable. The withholding tax would be reduced. And, banks will be
allowed to estimate the advance turnover tax and pay on that basis provided that if the estimate is less than
80% of the actual tax liability a penalty would be imposed. These reforms will facilitate privatization,
attract needed capital to the sector and encourage banks to expand lending activities to the middle market.
3. Ordinance amending the Loan Recovery Act of 1997 to facilitate the foreclosure of loan collaterals -
The legal and judicial reforms implemented in the past three years have facilitated financial contract dispute
resolution but only up to the handing down of court judgments. Implementation of court judgments is still
ineffective partly due to remaining weaknesses in the law and, especially, with its implementation. The law
would be further strengthened by enabling financial institutions to foreclose on collateral without the
intervention of the courts. Implementation of this law could be facilitated by providing financial
institutions with the required resources of the state to implement out-of-court foreclosure. At the same
time, implementation of court judgments would also be facilitated by providing the courts with adequate
resources to effect loan recovery through the courts.
4. Reform of the National Savings Schemes - The National Savings Schemes (NSS) had caused
large-scale financial disintermediation by paying very high returns that were tax-exempt, and had grown to
half the size of the banking system in five years. Reform of these schemes aims to integrate them with the
financial market by reducing the rates, removing the tax advantage and benchmarking their rates to
comparable government securities. The government has agreed to these reforns and has started
implementing them. So far, it has disallowed institutional investors from investing in the schemes, reduced
the rate, removed the tax advantage, and issued long-dated government bonds which will serve as
benchmarks for NSS rates in future.
5. Discontinuance of the new Foreign Currency Deposit (FCD) scheme to avoid a repeat of the 1998
foreign currency deposit crisis - In an attempt to raise BOP financing, banks were required to surrender to
the central bank foreign currency deposits that they raised but could not invest domestically in matched
assets. This new scheme quickly generated over US$550 million in FCDs putting the central bank at risk,
similar to the risk it bore under the previous foreign currency deposit scheme. It was agreed that banks
should raise only the foreign currency deposits that they can prudently lend or invest locally and
internationally, and not be encouraged to bring them in to place with the central bank for purposes of BOP
financing. In April 2001, the central bank removed the restriction that banks must place with it the foreign
currency deposits that they cannot invest locally, resulting in the withdrawal of all FCDs deposited with the
central bank.
C. Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost
breakdown):
To achieve its objectives, the project would consist of the following components:
a) Restructuring Components
*   Branch rationalization of the NCBs
*   Staff rationalization of the NCBs
* Amalgamation of NDFC into National Bank
- 6 -



b)    Privatization Components
*  Bona fide attempt at fully divesting the government's remaining shareholding in Muslim
Commercial Bank at market prices
*   Sale of the government's 49% share ownership in Allied Bank to a qualified strategic investor
*   Substantial progress in the sale of United Bank
*   Substantial progress in preparing Habib Bank for sale
*  Initial progress in preparing National Bank for sale
C)    Policy Components
*  Liberalization of bank branching policy
*  Revision of the tax policy for the banking sector and initial reduction in the level of taxation
*   Amendment to the Loan Recovery Act of 1997 to facilitate the foreclosure of loan collaterals
*  Reform of the National Savings Schemes
*  Reform of the Foreign Currency Deposit Scheme
IDA Financing. The major cost of the project will come from the restructuring components. These are the
cost of the voluntary separation payments for the 50% reduction in the headcount of NCB staff (25,600 out
of 50,300). The staff of NDFC (800) would also be given separation payments as required by law. IDA
funds would help to finance these costs.
Government Financing. There will be some real-estate related costs, mainly settlement of long term lease
agreements, due to branch closures. The other major cost item would be the cost of amalgamating NDFC
into National Bank. This will entail a fiscal cost as NDFC deposits are moved to National Bank. In view
of the condition of NDFC's loan and investment portfolio, National Bank can only be partially compensated
by good NDFC assets. The shortfall would be covered by a combination of cash, and short and long-term
government securities that match the duration of the deposit liabilities. It is expected that the retail
depositors of NDFC would be fully covered while institutional depositors might be required to share in the
losses brought to light by NDFC's amalgamation. The cost of this component emanates from the
recognition of quasi fiscal costs embedded in NDFC. The return on this investment would come from the
avoidance of future losses which would otherwise continue to be incurred if NDFC were not amalgamated
into National Bank.
Indicative            Bank-       % of
Component                   Sector        Costs      % of    financing    Bank-
(US$M)   Total      (US$M)  financing
NCB and NDFC Staff Rationalization                    437.00      80.9    300.00      100.0
NCB Branch Closures                                     3.00       0.6       0.00       0.0
NDFC Amalgamation                                     100.00      18.5       0.00       0.0
Total Project Costs                  540.00     100.0    300.00      100.0
Front-end fee                     0.00       0.0       0.00       0.0
Total Financing Required                   540.00      100.0    300.00      100.0
-7 -



2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* Cost restructuring of the NCBs to achieve a cost/income ratio of 0.65
* Branch rationalization of the NCBs
* Staff rationalization of the NCBs
* Amalgamation of National Development Finance Corporation into National Bank
* Bona fide attempt at fully divesting the government's remaining shareholding in Muslim
Commercial Bank at market prices
* Sale of the government's 49% shareholding in Allied Bank Limited to a qualified strategic investor
* Substantial progress in privatizing United Bank and in preparing Habib Bank for sale
* Initial progress in preparing National Bank for sale
* Liberalization of the bank branching policy to improve the health of the NCBs, encourage the
expansion of private and foreign banks and promote a more competitive market structure
*   Reform of the tax policy and regime for the banking sector to remove the discrimination against the
sector vis-a-vis the rest of the economy
* Further reform of the loan collateral foreclosure procedures to facilitate loan recovery
* Integration of the National Savings Schemes with the financial market
*   Discontinuance of the Foreign Currency Deposit scheme of the central bank
3. Benefits and target population:
The vision is for a sound banking sector providing efficient financial intermediation for the economy. The
benefits of such a banking system would redound directly to savers through safer deposits and higher
retums and to bonafide private sector borrowers through improved credit access, as the banks are
privatized and the default culture is eliminated.
The restructuring of the NCBs will facilitate their privatization but will not be assured by it. Still, the
gains from restructuring will be preserved in the resulting restructuring of the banking market through the
substantial downsizing of the state-owned banks, the amalgamation of NDFC, and the expected expansion
of private banks through the liberalization of bank branching policy. The resulting market structure would
be healthier and more efficient, and the scope for corruption greatly reduced.
With regard to the NCBs themselves, the staff and branch rationalization program would bring down their
cost/income ratios from the current 0.92 for HBL, 0.74 for UBL and 0.71 for NBP to 0.68, 0.69 and 0.60,
respectively, after Phase 1, and further down to 0.65, 0.65 and 0.55 after Phase II, bring them closer to the
intemational benchmark of 0.50 (Annex 4B). The reduction in the branch network and cost structure
would enable them to afford the technology needed to upgrade their current low-value operations, improve
the quality of financial services, and move along the productivity curve of intemational banks which
typically spend 60% on technology and 40% on staff. The reduction in branches would also lead to
organizational transformation, with fewer layers, reduced head office bureaucracy, stronger controls and
improved intemal communications.
Finally, the cost of restructuring is justified by the project's internal cash flow of savings, with a payback
period of 3.5 years (Annex 4A).
-8 -



4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The restructuring measures will be coordinated by the State Bank of Pakistan and the Ministry of Finance.
The three NCBs will be responsible for the design and implementation of their respective restructuring
plans. The Privatization Commission (PC) will be responsible for implementing the required steps for
bringing the three banks to the point of sale and for identifying bona fide strategic investors in parallel with
the restructuring exercise. The PC will be assisted by leading financial advisors in implementing individual
sale transactions. The PC will coordinate the selection process with the State Bank of Pakistan, the bank
regulator and supervisor, to ensure that the process would result in the selection of qualified buyers who
have the required integrity, capital, banking expertise, technology, and management. The State Bank will
be responsible for clearing potential buyers and their proposed management teams in accordance with
established selection criteria and banking regulations. The PC would also be responsible in divesting the
remaining government shares in Muslim Commercial Bank. The PC and/or the State Bank will be
responsible for re-privatizing Allied Bank Limited in a manner that would resolve its governance problem.
The State Bank will be responsible for amalgamating NDFC into National Bank in an orderly manner. The
Ministry of Finance and State Bank will be the implementing agencies for the restructuring and other policy
reforms supported by the proposed project.
D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
There were two design options. The first option was to do a single-tranche adjustment operation similar to
the Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (BSAL). Bank financial assistance would be provided only upon
completion of the restructuring program, the implementation of other policy measures, and the
amalgamation of NDFC. The other option was to do an investment project where Bank financial assistance
would be provided to reimburse the cost of the program while it is being implemented. The first option was
discarded principally because the proposed project, especially the closure of branches, is expected to take
about 2 to 3 years to implement. An adjustment loan approach would have required that bridge financing
be provided by the State Bank of Pakistan to cover the cost of the program until Bank funding is disbursed.
Such bridge-financing was not envisioned in the current monetary program agreed with the IMF, and was
considered to be difficult to accommodate, considering its size. An investment project would preclude the
need for bridge financing, as Bank funding would be provided through Statement of Expenditures
procedures. It would also allow for closer monitoring of the restructuring program while it is being
implemented, as well as the privatization steps being implemented by the Privatization Commission through
standard Bank supervision.
-9-



2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
.                           [    Latest Supervision
Sector Issue                      Project                 (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Bank-financed                                                   Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Overall banking sector distress; weak   Banking Sector Adjustment   HS            HS
banking regulation and supervision;    Loan (closed 03/31/98)
financial market segmentation;
ineffective banking court system
Weak bank supervision department in  Financial Sector Deepening and  S             S
the central bank and lack of      Intermediation Project (closing
privatization expertise in the    12/31/01)
Privatization Commission
Other development agencies
Underdeveloped capital markets; weak  ADB - Capital Markets
regulatory framework for capital  Development Program Loan
markets; poor performance of
state-owned mutual funds;
Overall banking sector distress; weak   OECF - Cofinancing of BSAL
banking regulation and supervision;
financial market segmnentation;
ineffective banking court system
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
1. Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project - This financial intermediation operation
providing a credit line to private financial institutions and for private investments was used as an
instrument to require the government and the central bank to implement policy reforms. The only leverage
available was a threat of suspension. The financial incentive (to the private sector) and the conditions (for
the public sector) were incongruent. Moreover, since the credit line was not attractive, and the funds did
not disburse, the threat of suspension was moot. The proposed operation, like BSAL, directly links the
financial incentive to the conditionality. (In the end, FSDIP was drastically restructured as a technical
assistance project, assisting the central bank in strengthening its regulatory and supervisory role, and the
privatization cominission in executing bank privatization.)
2. The financial restructuring of bad banks should not be undertaken unless there is a definite change of
governance, otherwise good money would be thrown after bad. Under the proposed project, while the
government will give a commitment to potential buyers that the financial restructuring of the NCBs and
DFIs would be undertaken, actual financial restructuring would be implemented only at the point of sale,
after a qualified buyer has been selected.
- 10 -



3. Privatization has many objectives (some conflicting), such as revenue generation, reduced economic
activity by the state, private sector development, greater efficiency. In view of the root causes of the
banking distress in Pakistan, the primordial objective, under which other objectives would subsume, is to
achieve improved corporate governance by selling the NCBs and DFIs to the most qualified private
investors.
4. Selling distressed banks is more akin to transferring liabilities than selling assets. To attract quality
acquirers it is necessary to undertake cost restructuring and provide risk-sharing mechanisms to reduce the
political, social and financial risks associated with such transactions, but leaving balance sheet
restructuring to the point of sale, and business restructuring to the new owners.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
Before the arrival of the preparation mission, the Ministry of Finance, the State Bank of Pakistan and the
three NCBs had met and agreed on the objectives, general approach, and extent of the proposed
restructuring program. During the mission, the NCBs presented the details of their plans and indicated a
timetable for implementation. After the mission, the plans, as discussed with the mission, were presented to
the Cabinet for approval. Subsequently, a meeting chaired by the Chief Executive and attended by the
Ninisters of Finance, Privatization, Labor, and the Interior (to facilitate a smooth implementation of staff
downsizing and branch closures) and the Governor of the central bank endorsed the plan for
implementation. The Chief Executive instructed the Ministers to proceed with both the restructuring
program and the policy changes agreed with the Bank admonishing them that he wanted the NCBs
privatized before the end of the current government to preempt the possible return of the looting of banks
by vested interests in a political government.
The appraisal mission found that project implementation had already begun. All three NCBs had finalized
their branch closure plans in Phase I numbering 855 branches, with HBL and UBL already implementing
their plans. UBL had already started and was halfway done with its staff rationalization scheme. HBL
announced its scheme during the appraisal mission. The reform of the National Saving Scheme and the
Foreign Currency Deposit Scheme as well as liberalization of bank branching have already been carried
out.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
BSAL was critical in the successful implementation of difficult reform measures needed to arrest the
deterioration of the banking system. By bringing in professional management into the NCBs, enhancing the
central bank's autonomy and authority, promoting greater market integration and strengthening the banking
court system, BSAL provided some safeguard against a continuation of political interference in the banking
sector. Privatization was supposed to sustain the reform, but efforts to privatize the NCBs have not yet
succeeded for the reasons cited above. Feedback from prospective buyers and other market players
indicate that these banks are still out of line in terms of their staffing and branch networks in relation to
their asset size. The proposed further restructuring of the NCBs is seen as a necessary condition to their
privatization to reputable investors, and achieving permanent corporate governance reform in Pakistan's
banking system. The government believes that the Bank, which helped lay the basis for the current banking
reform program, is best placed to help bring it to fruition, and has asked for Bank assistance.
- 1 1 -



E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Alnex 8)
1. Economic (see Annex 4):
* Cost benefit    NPV=US$ million; ERR = % (see Annex 4)
O Cost effectiveness
O Other (specify)
Ideally, the cost of the staff and branch rationalization program of the NCBs should be considered a
recognition of sunk cost and be expensed in the same year that they are incurred. However, the NCBs
cannot afford this approach which would further de-capitalize them. As a second best approach, the
program is being justified as an investment project that is expected to produce a stream of cost savings. As
such, the economic justification of the investment is highly sensitive to: (a) the economic life of the
investment, i.e., how many years of cost savings are counted, and (b) the "residual value" of the investment,
which conceptually would be the price premium that the private investors would pay for the banks as a
result of their having been restructured prior to privatization. (See Annex 4A)
2. Financial (see Annex 4 and Annex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR= % (see Annex 4)
Based on both the experience of the 1997 restructuring and projections for the proposed restructuring
program, the payback period for an investment project of this kind is about 3.5 years. This seems to be a
long time when compared with the ideal, i.e. a recognition of sunk cost and, therefore, an expense rather
than an investment, and in relation to the bank privatization timeline of 18 months, but is acceptable as a
payback period for an investment project. (See Annex 4A)
When completed, the staff and branch rationalization program of the NCBs would bring down their
cost/income ratios from the current 0.92 for HBL, 0.74 for UJBL and 0.71 for NBP to 0.68, 0.69 and 0.60,
respectively, after Phase I and further down to 0.65, 0.65 and 0.55 after Phase II, bringing them closer to
the international benchmark of 0.50 (Annex 4B).
Fiscal Impact:
The severance package consists of the payment of benefits already earned by staff (2/3) and an additional
cash payment as an incentive to leave (1/3). Thus, much of the severance costs are sunk but unfunded or
quasi fiscal costs embedded in the NCBs, amounting to about US$200 million. Only the cash payment
amounting to about US$140 million is new fiscal cost. With regard to NDFC, all costs are sunk. There is
a shortfall or a negative networth amounting to about US$370 million, of which US$ 100 million is
unfunded. The balance of US$270 million is funded by liabilities to the government and the central bank
which would have to be wriitten-off. All told the fiscal impact would be US$340 million from the
severance payments (of which US$140 million is new) and US$370 million for the amalgamation of
NDFC, or a total of US$7 10 million or about 1.2% of GDP.
3. Technical:
To maximize the benefit of the staff rationalization program, the program should be mandatory and should
target separating the less productive staff. The Pakistanis have determined that a mandatory program
would not be feasible in view of the expected legal challenges to such a program. However, some targeting
can be achieved even in a voluntary program. This is done by outsourcing all non-core staff (e.g., guards,
drivers, etc), and complementing the voluntary scheme with leave with pay but without benefits especially
for executive staff. These and other targeted approaches will be tried.
- 12 -



4. Institutional:
The institutional arrangements for project design and implementation have already been set-up, as
described above. There is strong management and institutional capacity to implement. The proposed
project is, therefore, expected to be implemented quickly, with the staff rationalization program in one year,
and the branch rationalization plan in 2 to 3 years. The privatization timeline, however, would take longer
in view of its dependence on market response.
4.1 Executing agencies:
None. Division of labor has been agreed among the Ministry of Finance, the State Bank of Pakistan, the
Privatization Commission and the NCBs.
4.2 Project management:
None. The management teams in the NCBs were professionalized in 1997 and are capable of implementing
the proposed restructuring program.
4.3 Procurement issues:
None
4.4 Financial management issues:
None. Since the 1997 reform, the accounting and auditing standards of the banking sector have been
upgraded to intemational norms.
The financial management systems of the implementing agencies are adequate to properly account for and
report on the project expenditures. The key project financial management-related risk is that the
disbursements of funds for the project relate to actual severance payments made in accordance with
approved policies. Mitigating measures taken on this risk are extensive, and concem the flow of funds, the
procedures for verifying severance payments, the quality of intemal audit, and the financial reporting and
extemal auditing arrangements. These measures are described in Annex 6.
5. Environmental:                  Environmental Category: C (Not Required)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessment and EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.
None
5.2 What are the main features of the EMP and are they adequate?
Not Applicable
5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status of EA:
Date of receipt of final draft:
Not Applicable
5.4 How have stakeholders been consulted at the stage of (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report on the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe mechanisms
of consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
Not Applicable
5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact of the project on the
environment? Do the indicators reflect the objectives and results of the EMP?
Not Applicable
6. Social:
- 13-



6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.
Since it is a voluntary separation scheme, the severance package to be provided is relatively generous,
minimizing untoward hardship for those who leave the banks' employment. All accrued pension, leave and
medical benefits will be paid out. The cash incentive will equal to I month total pay (or 3 months basic
pay) per year of service. Since the staff and branch rationalization program is being carried out
nationwide, no ethnic group or specific geographic location have been targeted and would be seriously
affected by the project.
6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating in the project?
As in the 1997 program, staff representatives, officer associations, and, to the extent possible, the labor
unions have been consulted to ensure a smooth implementation of the program.
6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?
Consultations with staff representatives, officer associations, and labor unions of the banks.
6.4 What institutional arrangements have been provided to ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?
The human resource departments of the banks are responsible for program implementation.
6.5 How will the project monitor performance in terns of social development outcomes?
The human resource departments of the banks will establish a monitoring system that will track the
fortunes of staff that leave the banks to assess the social impact of this large-scale reduction in staff and
branches, and gain valuable lessons from this experience.
7. Safeguard Policies:
7.1 Do any of the following safeguard policies apply to the project?
Policy                                     Applicability
Environmental Assessment (OP 4.01, BP 4.01, GP 4.01)             0 Yes 0 No
Natural habitats (OP 4.04, BP 4.04, GP 4.04)                     0 Yes 0 No
Forestry (OP 4.36, GP 4.36)                                      0 Yes 0 No
Pest Management (OP 4.09)                                        0 Yes * No
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03)                                    0 Yes 0 No
Indigenous Peoples (OD 4.20)                                     0 Yes 0 No
Involuntary Resettlement (OD 4.30)                               0 Yes 0 No
Safety of Dams (OP 4.37, BP 4.37)                                0 Yes 0 No
Projects in International Waters (OP 7.50, BP 7.50, GP 7.50)     0 Yes 0 No
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP 7.60, BP 7.60, GP 7.60)           0 Yes 0 No
7.2 Describe provisions made by the project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
Not Applicable
- 14 -



F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The most critical factor for sustainability is that the banks are acquired by quality investors who can
provide the required corporate governance. Other key factors are improvements in bank regulation and
supervision, a process which is continuing in the State Bank of Pakistan; a more competitive market
structure, partly to be promoted by the liberalization of bank branching, an effective banking court system,
partly to be strengthened by allowing out-of-court foreclosure of collaterals and the parallel efforts of the
Corporate and Industrial Restructuring Corporation, and further improvement in disclosure standards to
instill market discipline.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure of critical assumptions found in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Risk                    Risk Rating            Risk Mitigation Measure
From Outputs to Objective
Macroeconomic stability                     H         Close consultation with IMF team
Successful privatization                    H         Banks are being restructured to improve their
prospects for sale; technical assistance is being
provided to the Privatization Commission to
employ top-notch financial advisors
Competitive banking sector                  H         Dependent on successful privatization of the 5
largest banks; mitigation measures as above.
From Components to Outputs
Fiscal cost of program affordable           H         Banking reform considered priority at the
highest levels and will be accommodated in the
fiscal program through reordering of priorities;
Sufficient acceptance of voluntary          H         Adequate preparation by banks, including
retrenchment scheme by bank employees                 consultations with the labor unions; attractive
package; experience in 1997 guiding design of
the current scheme.
Court cases filed by retrenched staff       H         Banks have sought the advise of legal experts
and were advised that the best way to avoid
legal suits would be to make the scheme
voluntary.
Adequate response from qualified            H         Announcement by the government of bank
investors                                             privatization policy; clear-cut criteria for
pre-qualification; transparent terms and
conditions of sale; restructuring program is
focused on cost reduction to increase the
franchise value of the NCBs; balance sheet
restructuring will be undertaken by the
government prior to privatization; top-notch
financial advisors being provided; risk-sharing
mechanisms between the government and buyers
will be provided.
Islamic banking policy clarified            H         A high-level government commission is
preparing recommendations vis-a-vis the
supreme court's decision on Islamic banking; in
- 15-



view of progress made but more time needed to
implement Islamic banking, the court has
decided at the request of the government to
postpone implementation to July 2002.
Adequate market appetite for MCB shares     H         The government is committed to divest all its
and government approval process:                      shareholding in MCB, as evidenced by its good
Three bidders for a total of 14 million               faith offer to sell all its shares at market price.
shares (out of the government's holding of
40 million shares) have offered bids at
what was the market price of Rs 26 per
share; as required, the bids had to be
approved by the central bank, the
privatization commission and the cabinet;
all three approvals have been given but in
the meantime the market price had
decreased to Rs. 23
Overall Risk Rating                         H
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N(Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
None.
G. Main Credit Conditions
1. Effectiveness Condition
The standard condition for credit effectiveness is the submission of a legal opinion confirming that the
Development Credit Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and is legally binding
upon GOP. There are no other conditions for credit effectiveness.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]
Board Conditions
* Legal instrument for amalgamation of NDFC into National Bank in place and transfer of NDFC
deposits to National Bank completed
* Bona fide attempt at fully divesting the government's remaining shareholding in Muslim
Commercial Bank at market prices
* Decision on a satisfactory privatization route for Allied Bank that resolves its govemance problem
reached and substantial progress in implementing this decision
* Revised tax policy and initial reduction of the tax on the banking sector announced
* Ordinance to facilitate the foreclosure of loan collaterals promulgated
* Circular to liberalize bank branching policy issued
* Reform of the National Savings Schemes
*   Reform of the Foreign Currency Deposit Scheme
Disbursement Conditions
*   The whole credit of US$300 million will be disbursed as reimbursement of eligible severance
- 16-



payments paid out to NCB and NDFC staff.
*  The US$100 million notionally allocated to the NDFC reform would be available for disbursement
upon effectiveness of the Credit since the legal instrument for amalgamating NDFC into National
Bank would have been in place and NDFC deposits would have been transferred to National Bank,
these two actions being conditions of Board presentation.
*  Disbursement of the US$200 million notionally allocated to the NCB restructuring components
will be made not only on the basis of progress made in NCB staff reduction but also in branch
closures. The first US$100 million equivalent would be available for disbursement when 600 NCB
branches or 1/3 would have been closed; the next US$50 million, when 1,200 branches or 2/3
would have been closed; and the final US$50 million, when 1,800 branches or 3/3 would have been
closed. However, when an NCB is privatized, its branch closure program would cease (branch
closure being a means to facilitate bank privatization and further branch closure becoming the
prerogative of the new owners), and the overall branch closure target of 1,800 branches would be
accordingly adjusted.
Retroactive Financing. Following the approval of a Standby Arrangement for Pakistan by the IMF,
Pakistan presented to the Bank a structural reform program in support of a request for exceptional IDA
financing. In view of the strength of the prograrn and the government's commitment to it as evidenced
by advanced implementation of key components, the Region proposed a package of assistance for
Pakistan to the Operations Committee consisting of a Structural Adjustment Credit (Board approval
-June 12, 2001) and the proposed project, supported by a CAS Update (Board discussion - June 12,
2001). The country assistance continued to espouse the strategy of supporting strong reforms with a
series of one-tranche adjustment operations - with all required actions taken up-front - that started with
the 1997 Banking Sector Adjustment Loan and was followed by the 1999 SAL.
In line with this strategy, the proposed project was conceived to be a single-tranche adjustment
operation whereby Bank assistance would be provided on basis of actions already taken rather than on
promises still to be kept. In this case, the Bank's financial assistance was to be provided only upon
completion of the restructuring program of the Nationalized Commercial Banks (consisting of staff and
branch downsizing), the implementation of agreed policy measures, and the amalgamation the National
Development Finance Corporation into National Bank of Pakistan. As such, the Bank advised the
govermment to proceed with project implementation along agreed lines, the results of which would then
be assessed, and if found satisfactory, would be the basis for the presentation of the proposed project to
the Bank's Board.
In the course of project preparation, the adjustment lending approach was modified because a key
component of the project, namely branch closures, could take 2 to 3 years to complete. In such a case,
the adjustment lending approach would have required that bridge-financing be provided by the central
bank over the required timeframe to cover the cost of the program until IDA funding is disbursed.
Such bridge-financing was not envisioned in the current monetary program agreed with the Fund, and
was considered difficult to accomodate considering its size. The conversion to an investment operation
was cleared with the Managing Director. Nevertheless, the Bank advised the government to proceed
with project implementation along the agreed lines to demonstrate its commitment to reforms. Because
it was convinced of the benefits of the program, the government proceeded to implement the project
starting in January 2001.
By project appraisal in June 2001, United Bank was halfway done with its staff downsizing program
and Habib Bank announced and started its own program. United Bank and Habib Bank were also
implementing their Phase I branch closure programs. The appraisal mission, therefore, also conducted
- 17 -



a supervision of the project, assessed how project implementation was proceeding and was satisfied
that the project was being implemented according to prior agreements with the government, as
described above. A review of the disbursement documentation being used by the banks in making
severance payments showed that the banks have satisfactory documentation for purposes of Bank
reimbursement and external audits. By negotiations, 7,500 staff had been separated from United Bank
(4,500) and Habib Bank (3,000), and 605 branches had been closed (United Bank - 356; Habib Bank
-249). By the planned Board presentation in September 2001, it is expected that United Bank and
Habib Bank would have completed their staff and Phase I branch rationalization programs, while
National Bank would be halfway done with its staff rationalization program.
In view of the advanced stage of achievement of project objectives and the commitment to reforms that
project implementation to date has demonstrated, retroactive financing would be allowed for eligible
expenditures incurred since January 1, 2001, up to an amount equivalent to US$100 million, or half of
the amount expected to be incurred by the government and the banks for the proposed project by Board
presentation.
H. Readiness for Implementation
O  1. a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start
of project implementation.
0 1. b) Not applicable.
OI 2. The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation.
O 3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory
quality.
O 4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
The credit will help finance the cost of restructuring the NCBs and amalgamating NDFC into National
Bank. IDA funds, however, will finance only severance payments for NCB staff who are separated from
service and NDFC staff who lose their jobs, with the government and NCBs financing the cost of
amalgamating NDFC and real estate-related costs in closing NCB branches, respectively. Therefore, there
are no procurements to be made under the project.
1. Compliance with Bank Policies
1  1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
O 2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.
Jos h Del Mar Pemia               Marilou Jane D. Uy                     W. Wall
Team Leader                       Sector ManagerlDirector           Co  try Manager/Director
- 18 -



Annex 1: Project Design Summary
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
Key Performance
Hierarchy of Objectives          Indicators          Monitoring & Evaluation    Critical Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:   Sector Indicators:        Sector/ country reports:    (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Macroeconomic stability    Reduced quasi fiscal deficits  Financial Sector Update, May Implementation of IMF
in banking                2000                       program
Monthly banking sector
monitoring report
Improved resource allocation  Banking sector responding to                      Successful privatization
through improved governance price signals, not vested
interest
Competitive private sector    Greater credit access by                          Privatization of 5 largest
private sector                                       banks leads to true
competition among them
Project Development       Outcome I Impact           Project reports:           (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                 Indicators:
To improve corporate       Reduction of the cost/income  NCBs management accounts  Fiscal cost included in agreed
governance through        ratio of the NCBs to 0.65;    reflecting reduction in cost to  macroframework
privatization of the NCBs to                         income ratios.
qualified strategic investors,
and complete privatization of Rationalization of branch  Bank supervision
partially privatized banks.    network of NCBs by reducing
no. of branches by 40 percent;
To improve market structure  Staff retrenchment in the  Bank supervision and    Sufficient acceptance of
by reducing the state-owned   NCBs to reduce headcount by statement of expenditures  voluntary retrenchment
segment of the banking     50 percent;               review                     program by bank employees
system.
Outsourcing of non-core   Bank supervision
activities of the NCBs
Sale negotiations commenced Invitations for bids for sale of Macroeconomy, foreign
with pre-qualified strategic    HBL, UBL and ABL     investment climate and legal
buyer(s) for HBL and UBL.   published.               (shariah) environment
conducive to attracting
Privatization timeline agreed  Contracts with FAs    qualified strategic investors;
and Financial Advisor                                Adequate number of qualified
retained for NBP.                                    investors interested in
acquiring NCBs.
Amalgamation of NDFC into  Government notification
National Bank.            dissolving the NDFC Act.
Full divestment of MCB and  Transfer of MCB shares as    SECP approval for ABL block
sale of 49 percent government recorded by company    sale as a public offering;
shares in ABL to a qualified  registrar.             adequate market appetite for
strategic investor.                                  MCB shares.
To sustain and deepen the    Bank branching policy   State Bank of Pakistan
banking reforms started in   liberalized             Circular
- 19-



1997
Announcement of revised tax  Policy and budget
policy and regime for banking pronouncements
system
Ordinance amending the Loan Copy of ordinance
Recovery Act of 1997
promulgated
Reformn of National Savings   Policy pronouncements,
Schemes                    reduction in interest rates and
removal of tax advantage
Discontinuance of the Foreign State Bank Circular
Currency Deposit Scheme
Output from each           Output Indicators:         Project reports:           (from Outputs to Objective)
Component:
NCBs reduced in size and   Cost/income ratio of 0.65;    NCB progress reports; NCB   Adequate acceptance of
market share and more      staff reduced by 50 percent;  annual audited reports; Bank  voluntary retrenchment
efficient                  branches reduced by 40     supervision reports;       program by bank staff
percent
NDFC amalgamated into      NDFC Act revoked; deposits  MOF, SBP and CIRC         Consensus on treatment of
National Bank              and assets transferred to  progress reports; Bank     retail and wholesale deposits;
National Bank; bad assets    supervision reports      Agreement of creditors
transferred to CIRC;
satisfactory resolution of
energy fund (LTCF)
Project Components I       Inputs: (budget for each    Project reports:          (from Components to
Sub-components:            component)                                             Outputs)
NCB and NDFC Staff         $437 million               NCB progress reports        same as above
Rationalization
NCB Branch Rationalization  $3 million                NCB progress reports       same as above
NDFC Amalgamation          $100 million               MOF, SBP, CIRC progress   same as above
reports
- 20 -



Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
The proposed project supports implementation of the government's banking sector reform program by
helping to: (a) restructure the NCBs to facilitate their privatization; (b) complete the privatization of the
partially privatized banks; (c) amalgamate NDFC into National Bank; (d) promote the growth of sound
private banks and a reduction in the market share of the NCBs by liberalizing bank branching, thereby
improving the structure of the banking market; (e) rationalize the taxation of the banking sector in line with
the rest of the economy; (f) improve loan recovery by facilitating the foreclosure of collaterals; (g) reduce
market segmentation by integrating the National Savings Schemes with the financial market and phasing
out the subsidized export finance scheme; and (h) pre-empting a repeat of the foreign currency deposit
crisis by discontinuing the foreign currency deposit scheme of the central bank.
By Component:
Project Component I - US$437.00 million
NCB Staff Rationalization -To achieve an interim target of a 0.65 cost/income ratio, the three NCBs will
reduce staff by 25,600 or 50%, namely 10,900 from HBL, 7,300 from UBL and 7,400 from NBP. This
will be done through a voluntary separation scheme whereby staff who wish to leave would be provided
with a severance package consisting of cash compensation calculated on the basis of one month pay per
year of service plus the commutation of all annual leave, pensions and medical benefits. The cash
component would account for about 1/3, while the commutation of accrued benefits 2/3, of the package.
To achieve some targeting of staff departures, the voluntary scheme will be complemented by the
outsourcing of non-core staff and leave with pay but without benefits for those in executive levels. IDA
will finance about 2/3 of the estimated cost of US$437 million equivalent.
Project Component 2 - US$3.00 million
NCB Branch Rationalization - To assure a structural and virtually irreversible reform, staff rationalization
will be accompanied by a proportional reduction of bank branches from 4,500 to 2700, or by 1800, namely
600 in HBL, 650 in UBL and 550 in NBP. The cost of this component would come mainly from the
settlement of long-term leases on rented space, amounting to about $3 million equivalent. NCB funds will
finance this cost as part of counterpart funding.
Project Component 3 - US$ 100.00 million
NDFC Amalgamation - The amalgamation of NDFC into National Bank will entail two types of costs.
The first is the severance payment to NDFC staff (800) who will lose their jobs. IDA funds can also be
used to finance this cost, estimated to be about US$ 10 million equivalent, within the overall credit amount,
i.e. IDA disbursement can be against eligible severance payments made to NCB staff only or both NCB
and NDFC staff. The other cost emanates from the recognition of quasi fiscal costs embedded in NDFC's
balance sheet. NDFC's deposits would have to be moved to National Bank, but in view of the condition of
NDFC's loan and investment portfolio, National Bank can only be compensated partially by good NDFC
assets. The shortfall would have to be covered by a combination of cash and short and long-tenn
government securities that match the duration of the deposit liabilities being transferred. It is expected that
retail depositors would be fully covered while institutional investors might have to share in the losses
brought to light by the NDFC's amalgamation into National Bank. CIRC will be responsible for disposing
of NDFC's bad assets and distributing the proceeds to claimants according to seniority of claims.
Government funds will finance this cost as part of counterpart funding. Although the present value of the
loss could be as high as $ 100 million equivalent, only the cash portion and the debt service on the
government securities used to compensate National Bank for the shortfall in NDFC assets need to be
- 21 -



budgeted annually.
Project Component 4 - US$0.01 million
Completion of Privatization of MCB and ABL - As part of the proposed project, the government will sell
its remaining shareholding in MCB and ABL. In the case of MCB, the government's remaining 17%
shareholding will be divested either through the stock market where MCB shares are already listed or to
IFC. In the case of ABL, there are problems with the financial condition and internal governance of the
bank. The bank is probably operating with a negative networth. The defacto ownership of the bank's
shares, which are supposed to be held by employees, is not established. The government plans to sell its
49% shareholding as a block to an institution or a group of investors who qualified to take over the bank's
management, but it is constrained by the original terms of sale of this bank to its employees which require
that the government's remaining share must be sold in a public offering. Considering the severe deficiencies
in the financial condition and governance of this bank, the sale of the government's share must result in the
transfer of control of the bank to such other private party that is deemed fit to owned and manage this bank.
The cost of this component would depend on the level of insolvency of ABL. This cost will be financed by
the government implied in the price the bank would fetch for the government's remaining shareholding.
Project Component 5 - US$0.01 million
Other Policy Measures - Other policy measures being supported by the project include the following:
1. Liberalization of bank branching policy - Past central bank policy required the NCBs to establish two
branches in unbanked areas for every branch established in a banked area. No NCB was allowed to close a
branch in an unbanked area without central bank approval. Although closing of branches in banked areas
was liberal, NCBs preferred to sit on their banked area branch licenses instead of surrendering them as they
becarne an economic rent in the policy environment. Private and foreign banks were also required to apply
for a license for each branch opening, including ATMs. Foreign banks were usually allowed only 4
branches. These policies have been partly responsible for the domination by the NCBs in branching and an
oligopoly in low-cost deposit mobilization, even after private banks were allowed to open more than 10
years ago.
In general, the policy reform allows banks to open or close branches on the basis of commercial reasons.
In "banked" areas, the closing of bank branches is already liberal. With regard to branch opening, the
amended policy requires a bank to present to the central bank an annual branch expansion plan for
approval. Actual branch openings in accordance with the approved annual plan would require only a
notification to the central bank on an ex-post basis. In "unbanked" areas, the recommendations of the
inter-bank committee which proposed a sharing of the "tax" of maintaining bank branches among the five
largest banks appear to be an acceptable interim solution until more efficient alternative institutional
arrangements for providing financial services to the rural areas are found. At privatization, closing of bank
branches in unbanked areas would be agreed with the new owners as part of the sales negotiation. The
expected outcome of this reform would be a reduction of the branch network of the NCBs, which in itself
would facilitate their privatization, and an increase in the network of private and foreign banks, leading to a
more competitive market structure even before privatization.
2. Revision of tax policy and administration to reduce the taxation of the financial sector in line with the
rest of the economy - At 58% of net profits, the corporate income tax rate is higher for financial institutions
than for non-financial companies, which are taxed at 35%. Until recently, the tax authorities did not allow
banks to deduct their loan loss provisions from income for tax purposes. Now, the government has allowed
the deduction of future loan loss provisions, although losses accrued as a result of previous provisions are
not deductible. Financial institutions are also subject to a 30% withholding tax on income from
- 22 -



government securities which take a few years to refund, a 2% turnover tax, and a 5% interest-free cash
reserve requirement. All these explicit and implicit taxes raise the effective tax rate of a bank to between
75% and 80%.
The reform consists of an initial reduction in the income tax rate with a path toward the ultimate target of
35%. Loan loss provisions that are certified by the central bank are now tax deductible. Interest in
suspense will not be taxable. The withholding tax would be reduced. And, banks will be allowed to
estimate the advance turnover tax and pay on that basis provided that if the estimate is less than 80% of the
actual tax liability a penalty would be imposed. These reforms will facilitate privatization, attract needed
capital to the sector and encourage banks to expand lending activities to the middle market.
3. Ordinance amending the Loan Recovery Act of 1997 to facilitate the foreclosure of loan collaterals -
The legal and judicial reforms implemented in the past three years have facilitated financial contract dispute
resolution but only up to the handing down of court judgments. Implementation of court judgments is still
ineffective partly due to remaining weaknesses in the law and, especially, with its implementation. The law
would be further strengthened by enabling financial institutions to foreclose on collateral without the
intervention of the courts. Implementation of this law could be facilitated by providing financial
institutions with the required resources of the state to implement out-of-court foreclosure. At the same
time, implementation of court judgments would also be facilitated by providing the courts with adequate
resources to effect loan recovery through the courts.
4. Reform of the National Savings Schemes - The National Savings Schemes (NSS) had caused
large-scale financial disintermediation by paying very high returns that were tax-exempt, and had grown to
half the size of the banking system in five years. Reform of these schemes aims to integrate them with the
financial market by reducing the rates, removing the tax advantage and benchmarking their rates to
comparable government securities. The government has agreed to these reforms and has started
implementing them. So far, it has disallowed institutional investors from investing in the schemes, reduced
the rate, removed the tax advantage, and issued long-dated government bonds which will serve as
benchmarks for NSS rates in future.
5. Discontinuance of the new Foreign Currency Deposit (FCD) scheme to avoid a repeat of the 1998
foreign currency deposit crisis - In an attempt to raise BOP financing, banks were required to surrender to
the central bank foreign currency deposits that they raised but could not invest domestically in matched
assets. This new scheme quickly generated over US$550 million in FCDs putting the central bank at risk,
similar to the risk it bore under the previous foreign currency deposit scheme. It was agreed that banks
should raise only the foreign currency deposits that they can prudently lend or invest locally and
internationally, and not be encouraged to bring them in to place with the central bank for purposes of BOP
financing. In April 2001, the central bank removed the restriction that banks must place with it the foreign
currency deposits that they cannot invest locally, resulting in a reduction in the amounts deposited with the
central bank to US$20 million.
- 23 -



Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
Local        Foreign         Total
Project Cost By Component                   US $million    US $million    US $million
NCB Staff Rationalization                                    437.00           0.00         437.00
NCB Branch Closures                                             3.00          0.00           3.00
NDFC Amalgamation                                            100.00           0.00         100.00
Completion of MCB and ABL Privatization                        0.00           0.00           0.00
Other Policy Measures                                          0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Baseline Cost                                          540.00           0.00         540.00
Physical Contingencies                                        0.00           0.00           0.00
Price Contingencies                                           0.00           0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs               540.00           0.00         540.00
Total Financing Required                540.00           0.00        540.00
Identifiable taxes and duties are O(US$m) and the total projectcost, netoftaxes, is 540 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 55.56%. oftotal
project cost net of taxes.
- 24 -



Annex 4: Cost Benefit Analysis Summary
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
ANNEX 4.A: Restructuring Program Projected Cash Flows
NCB CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
Assumptions                                                 Staff Loans:      10,513
Admin cost growth: 8%               Staff Loan Ammortization Yrs: 10
Present                   To Be Closed           Total Closed   Remaining Branches after Phase I
Branches:   Banked      Un-banked         Banked        Un-banked                   Banked   Un-banked
Urban     1481           30             521              0            521           0          0
Rural     729           837              0              334           334          0           0
Totall   3254          1191             521             334           855:        .7~         857
Employees:
No. of Empl.  Cost of GHS  Retirement Benefits  Total Cost  Cost Employee
Executives       1,126         1,219             2,475         3,695          3.28
Officers      8,815          3,676            8,714         12,389          1.41
Clerical       5,031         1,157             2,542         3,699          0.74
Non-Clerical      10,663         2,328             5,510         7,838          0.74
Total      25j635        8380             19,241-    27,621  -            LO
Present no. of total
employees               50,343
No. employees post
retrenchment            25,686
Outflows:                  2001          2002              2003          2004          2005       2006        2007
VHS cost                (27,621)
Adjustment to above       (286)
Cost of outsourcing        (379)         (775)             (837)         (904)         (976)    (1,054)     (1,139)
Cost of New Hires         (232)          (499)             (652)         (704)         (760)      (821)       (887)
Outplacement &
Training                  (247)             0                 0             0             0          0           0
Cost of branch
closure-                  (202)             0                 0             0             0          0           0
Sub Total     (28,966)        (t,274)           (1,489)       (1,608)    -(1-73)    (1$76)         (2,026)
Inflows:
Salary savings of
retrenched staff          2,975         6,701             7,237         7,816         8,441      9,117       9,846
StaffLoans Principal     10,513        (1,051)           (1,051)       (1,051)       (1,051)    (1,051)      (1,051)
Cost Staff Loans
Subsidy                    404            809              728            647           566        485         404
Admin cost saving
branch closure              178           385              415            449           485        523         565
Sub Total      14,070         6,843             7,329         7,860         8,441      9,074       9,764
Net Cash Flows          (14896)        .5,569             5,840         6j252       .6J0G       , .79B       7,739
Payback - no. of
vears:                     3.53          IRR:              -16%            9%           22%        30%         35%
Required Residual
for IRR of 15%             11,561.76        15,866.28       9,680.98      2,273.90  (6,580.84) (17,146.40)
- 25 -



NATIONAL BANK OF PAKISTAN
As-pdo-
Wage growth: 8%           Admin costs  80%       StaffLoans: 2,580        Loan subsidy:  6%
Loss of rural Loans (Rs, NO: O    Staff Loan AnlwriztionYrs: 10
Presernt           Planned Closwe    Total Closed   Remainng Branches afterPhas I
Branches:                 Baied    Un-bned   Banked   Un-barked                          B l          Un-banked
Urban     671              20        150           0            150
Riaal     367             346         0         100            100
Emnployees:
Retirement
No. of Empi. Cost of GHS  Benefits   Total Cost Cost/ Employee
Executives        171         286       405         690           4.04
Officers      3,784       1,784     3,766       5,549           1.47
Clerical      1,246        290        715        1,005          0.81
Non-Clerical      2,229         519      1,636      2,155           097
0 .    <  W  9  S  S           -        .i9 
2001       2002       2003        2004          2005          2006           2007
Present no. of total
employees                     15,147
Curient Daily Waged            3,800
New Hires                        250
No. of employees post
retrenchment                   7,967      7,967      7,967
Outsource positions post
rerfenchment                   1,100
Outflows:
VHS cost of 7,430
employees                    (9,399)
Cost of outsourcing             (40)        (43)       (46)       (50)           (54)          (58)            (63)       (68)
CostofNewHires                  (90)        (97)      (105)       (113)         (122)         (132)          (143)       (154)
Cost of branch closure -        (75)
4$:; K. O: .  ( 140)   (151)       (163)         (176)          (190)          (206)       (222)
Innfows:
Salary savings of
retrenched staff                1,050      2,268      2,449      2,645          2,857         3,086          3,332       3,599
Staff Loans Principal         2,580        (258)      (258)      (258)          (258)         (258)          (258)       (258)
Cost StaffLoans Subsidy           77         155       139         124            108            93             77          77
Admin cost saving branches
closed                            50         108       117         126            136           147            159         171
Sub Total      3 757       2,73       2447       2637            843          3067           3,311       3,590
IRR                               -16%         90/0          22%           300/o          35%         38%
Required Residual for IRR
Of 15%            6,912.86   5,047.26    2,762.80       (18.80)     (3,388.80)     (7,453.48) (12,352.00)
-26 -



HABIB BANK LIMITED
Assmdns
Wagegrowth: 8%               Admincostsgrow8%                     Staff Loans: 6,018        Loansubsidy    8%
Loss ofruralwans (Rs. M): 492           Staff Loan Ammort Yrs:         10
Present                     Planned Closure        Total Closed    Remaining Branches after Phase I
Urban       810              10              159                            159
Rural      362              491                             90             90
J-,                          4M.A.                  !49                                        1.k3          411
Employees:
No. of Empl.    Cost ofGHS  RetirentBenefit   Total Cost   Cost/Empk4Yee
Executives            544            927            1,138          2,065            3.80
Officers          2,601           1,754           2,624          4,378            1.68
Clerical          2,309            529            1,143           1,671           0.72
Non-Clerical          5,419           1,362           2,612          3,975           0.73
.ta   .   -    3-    . .,.   45072          p .        * 12,64
2001           2002             2003           2004           2005            2006          2007
Prsent no. of total
emnployees                      21,847
New Hires                          400             400             400
No. of employees post
retrnchment                     11,374          11,774          12,174
Outsouce positions post
retrnchment                      4,000
Outflows:
VHS cost of 10,873
employees                      (12,088)
Costofoutsourcing                 (144)          (311)            (336)          (363)           (392)          (423)         (457)
Cost ofNew Hires                   (52)          (209)            (338)          (365)           (394)          (426)         (460)
Cost of branch closu  -            (74)
Si*Toh                 .                    .    . *.-(520)       (674)          (728)          (786)           (849)         (917)
Inflows:
Salary savings of
retrenchedstaff                  1,298            2804            3029            3271           3532           3815           4120
Staff Loans Principal            6,018           (602)            (602)          (602)          (602)           (602)         (602)
Cost StaffLoans Subsidy            241             481             433             385            337            289            241
Admin cost saving
branchescdosed                      53             114             123             133            143            155            167
SubTotal                         7,610           2,797           2,983           3,187          3,411          3,657          3,926
Paybad >.6t-#                      3.50          IRR:              -2%            22%            35%             42%            46%
Required Residual for
IRRof 15%                    8,599.69         6,166.78       3,309.17         (52.69)      (4,011.56)     (8,675.49)
- 27 -



UNITED BANK LIMITED
Assumptions         Wage growth year 1: 30%          Wage growth subsequent yrs : 8%
Admin costs gi8%            Staff Loans: 1915         Loan subsidy: 9%
Loss of rural Loans (Rs. M): 0            Staff Loan Ammortiz Yrs: 10
Present                Planned Closure       Total Closed Remain. Branches after Phase I
Branches:             Banked       Un-banked      Banked      Un-banked                   Banked        Un-banked
Urban                                 212                         212
Rural                                               144          144
)~~~~~it';mffl          SO M 0 ;(dt tWg344 ^t-<.Ii  -.i %]R 1110000;  00 0i4063t    80  io:
Employees:
Retirement
No. of Empl.  Cost of GHS    Benefits     Total Cost Cost/Employee
Executives         411             7          933           940          2.29
Officers       2,430          138         2,324         2,462          1.01
Clerical        1,476          339          685         1,024          0.69
Non-Clerical        3,015          446         1,262        1,708          0.57
MI               .            I                I20  4   VI  0 84
2001         2002          2003         2004          2005          2006           2007
Present no. of total
employees                 13,349
Present no.
outsourced positions       1,680
New Hires                    328
New outsourced
positions                  2,897
No. of employees
post retrenchment          6,345        6,345         6,345
Outsource positions
post retrenchment          4,208
Outflows:
VHS cost of 7,332
employees                 (6,133)
Adjustment to above         (286)
Cost ofoutsourcing          (195)        (421)         (455)        (491)         (531)         (573)          (619)
Cost of New Hires            (90)        (193)         (209)        (225)         (244)         (263)           (2S4)
Outplacement &
Training                    (247)
Cost of branch
closure -                    (53)
;;Sub1-t4   l             ( 5  7*5 5 o>04i)  (615)     (664)        (717)         (774)         (836)           (903)
Inflows:
Salary savings of
retrenched staff             627          1629          1759         1900         2052          2216            2393
StaffLoansPrincipal        1,915         (192)         (192)        (192)         (192)         (192)           (192)
Cost Staff Loans
Subsidy                       86           172           155          138           121           103             86
Admin cost saving
branches closed               76           163           176          190          205           222             240
Sub Total                  2,703        1,773         1,899        2,037         2,187         2,350           2,528
yeasw .. .tWi :> S          4.09
IRR                                                    -31%           -7%           7%           16%            21%
Required Residual
for IRR of         15%                5,510.91     4,652.25      3,609.02     2,345.39        819.51       (1,017.43)
- 28 -



ANNEX 4.B: Actual and Projected Cost - Income Ratios of the NCBs
NATIONAL BANK OF PAKISTAN
Prior to Restructuring           Post Restructuring - Phase I            Post Restructuring - Phase 2
(as at Dec. 31, 2000)
Staff        Staff                     Staff         Staff
retnc'dtretire  hiredloutsd  Total Staff  retnc'dtretire  hired/outsd   Total Staff
Total Perm Staff         15,147          7,430        250        7,680          1,000          250        6,930
Executives                  547           170         -            170            -               0         170
Officers                  7,779          3,784        250        4,034          1,000          250        3,284
Clcrical                  4,592          1,247        -           1,247                          0         1,247
Non-clerical              2,229          2,229        -          2,229            -               0       2,229
Contract hire             4,000          4,000        -          4,000                           0        4,000
Outsourced                  -              -        1,100        1,100            -              0        1,100
TOTAL                    19,147         11,430      1,350       12,780          1,000          250       12,030
Total staff costs     5,491,813      3,954,269                              3,881,769
Saving from staff
retnch'd/refd                       (1,647,544)                              (100,000)
Costs of staff
hired/outs'd                           260,000                                 37,500
Saving from staff
loans                                 (150,000)                               (10,000)
Other operating
expenses               2,516,807     2,416,807                              2,316,807
Provisions and
other costs            1,162,623     1,162,623                              1,162,623
Savings from
branch closures                       (100,000)                              (100,000)
Total operating
expenses               9,171,243     7,533,699                              7,361,199
Total branches            1,408         1,158                                    908
No. of branches
closed                                    250                                    250
Deposits of closed
branches                            11,000,000                             11,000,000
Expected deposit
loss                                 6,600,000                              6,600,000
Total Deposits       316,493,342   309,893,342                            303,293,342
Cost of deposits      20,898,938  20,762,853.91                          19,714,067.23
Income loss from
deposits                              (264,000)                              (264,000)
Loss in other
income                                 (75,000)                               (75,000)
Interest income      29,677,937    29,413,937                              29,149,937
Operating & other
income                 4,054,506     3.979,506                              3,904,506
Total Income         12,833,505     12,630,589                             13,340,376
Cost/Income Ratio          0.71           0.60                                   0.55
- 29 -



HABIB BANK LIMITED
Prior to Restructuring           Post Restructuring - Phase 1          Post Restructuring - Phase 2
(as at Dec. 31, 2000)
Staff       Staff                    Staff         Staff
retnc'dlretire  hired/outsd  Total Staff retne'd/retired  hired/outsd   Total Staff
Total No.Perm. Staff       21,847       10,873         400      11,374         1,921          400       9,853
Executives                  1,444          544         -          900            -               0        900
Officers                    9,802        2,601         400       7,601         1,219          400       6,782
Clerical                    5,182        2,309         -         2,873           702             0      2,171
Non-clerical                5,419        5,419         --                        -               0
Contract hire                      O-            -           -            -                     0
Outsourced                    -            -         4,000       4,000           -              0       4,000
TOTAL                      21,847       10,873       4,400      15,374         1,921          400      13,853
Total staff costs       8,345,614     5,580,366                             4,939,943
Savings fr. staff
retnch'd/refd                        (2,596,400)                            (458,716)
Costs of staff
hired/outs'd                           312,640                                (96,640)
Saving from staff loans               (481,488)                              (85,067)
Operating & other
expenses                3,725,917     3,565,468                             3,339,294
Provisions/other costs  1,370,735     1,370,735                             1,370,735
Savings from branch
closures                              (160,449)                             (226,174)
Total operating
expenses               13,442,266    10,516,569                             9,649,972
Total branches              1,680        1,431                                 1,080
No. of branches closed                    249                                   351
Deposits of closed
branches                              8,823,000                            12,437,334
Expected deposit loss                 3,529,200                             4,974,934
Total Deposits        266,000,000   262,470,800                           257,495,866
Cost of deposits       17,385,761    15,748,248                         15,449,751.98
Income loss from
deposits                              (647,100)                              (895,488)
Loss in other income                    (68,850)                              (98,504)
Interest income        25,407,135    24,760,035                            23,864,547
Operating & other
income                  6,564,341     6,495,491                             6,396,987
Total Income           14,585,715    15,507,278                            14,811,782
Cost/Income Ratio            0.92         0.68                                  0.65
- 30 -



UNITED BANK LIMITED
Prior to Restructuring               Post Restructuring - Phase 1        Post Restructuring - Phase 2
(as at Dec. 31, 2000)
Staff         Staff                       Staff
retnc'd/retire   hired/outsd    Total Staff   retnc'd/retire    Total Staff
Total Perm. Staff             13,125         8,151           328         5,302          1,068          4,234
Executives                       763           540           252           475               0           475
Officers                       7,368         2,923            76         4,521            1034         3,487
Clerical                       1,608          1,491          -             117               0           117
Non-clerical                   3,386         3,197           -             189              34           155
Contract hire                   224            -             -             224              0            224
Outsourced                     1,680           369         2,897         4,208            290          3,918
TOTAL                         15,029         8,520         3,225         9,734          1,358          8,376
Total staff costs           3,325,610     3,305,624                                  3,041,624
Saving from staff
retnch'd/retd                            (1,274,000)                                  (233,000)
Costs of staff hired/outs'd                569,000
Saving from staff loans                   (172,000)                                   (31,000)
Operating & other
expenses                    1,833,520     1,682,520                                  1,582,520
Provisions & other costs     120,539        120,539                                    120,539
Savings from branch
closures                                  (151,000)                                   (100,000)
Total operating expenses    5,279,669     5,108,683                                  4,744,683
Total No.branches              1,368          1,012                                       722
No. branches closed                            356                                        290
Deposits of closed
branches                                 10,613,000                                 10,976,000
Expected deposit loss                    3,842,000                                  6,358,000
Total Deposits           128,679,245    124,837,245                                118,479,245
Cost of deposits            6,740,868   6,241,862.25                              5,923,962.25
Income loss from deposits                 (202,000)                                  (297,000)
Loss in other income                       (67,000)                                   (98,000)
Interest income            10,416,460    10,214,460                                  9,917,460
Operating & other income   3,497,037      3,430,037                                  3,332,037
Total Income                7,172,629     7,402,635                                  7,325,535
CostlIncome Ratio               0.74          0.69                                       0.65
- 31 -



Summary of Benefits and Costs:
Main Assumptions:
Sensitivity analysis / Switching values of critical items:
- 32 -



Annex 5: Financial Summary
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
Years Ending
Year1 I   Year 2    Year 3    Year 4     Year 5    Year 6  | Year 7
Total Financing
Required
Project Costs
Investment Costs         390.0     100.0       50.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Recurrent Costs            0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Total Project Costs        390.0     100.0       50.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
.Total Financing           390.0      100.0      50.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Financing
IBRDIIDA                150.0      100.0      50.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Government              137.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Central                0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Provincial             0.0       0.0        0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Co-financiers             0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
User Fees/Beneficiaries   0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Others                  103.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Total Project Financing   390.0      100.0      50.0        0.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Main assumptions:
- 33 -



Annex 6: Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
Procurement
Not Applicable
Procurement methods (Table A)
Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(US$ million equivalent)
Procurement MethodL
2
Expenditure Category             ICB             NCB           Other        N.B.F.    Total Cost
1. Works                             0.00            0.00           0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)      (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Total                             0.00             0.00          0.00          0.00        0.00
(0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)      (0.00)
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.
Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of
contracted staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental
operating costs related to (i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government
units.
- 34 -



Not Applicable
Table Al: Consultant Selection Arrangements (optional)
(US$ million equivalent)
Selection Method
Consultant Services
Expenditure Category   QCBS    QBS    SFB    LCS      CQ     Other   N.B.F. Total Cost
A. Firms              0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
B. Individuals        0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
Total  0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.00     0.00
(0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)  (0.00)  (0.00)   (0.00)
1\ Including contingencies
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
QBS = Quality-based Selection
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants Guidelines),
Commercial Practices, etc.
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Credit.
- 35 -



Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Not Applicable
Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
: Contract-Value                             Contracts Subject to
Threshold              Procurement             Prior Review
Expenditure Category      US$ thousainds)            Method               (US$ millions)
1. Works
2. Goods
3. Services
4. Miscellaneous
5. Miscellaneous
6. Miscellaneous
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
Overall Procurement Risk Assessment
Frequency of procurement supervision mussions proposed: One every months (includes special
procurement supervision for post-review/audits)
Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Documentation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.
- 36 -



Disbursement
Allocation of credit proceeds (Table C)
Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category        Amount in US$milhlon         Financing Percentage
Severance payments                        300.00                        100
0.00
0.00
Total Project Costs                       300.00
Total                                     300.00         _
Use of statements of expenditures (SOEs):
The Credit will finance severance payments to staff who leave the NCBs and NDFC, up to a maximum of
$300 million equivalent.
Financial Management Risk Assessment: The financial management systems of the implementing
agencies are adequate to properly account for and report on the project expenditures. The key financial
management-related risk is that the disbursements of funds for the project relate to actual severance
payments made in accordance with approved policies. Mitigating measures taken on this risk are extensive,
and concern the flow of funds, the procedures for verifying severance payments, the quality of internal
audit, and the financial reporting and extemal auditing arrangements.
Flow offunds: IDA funds will be financing the "non-funded" portion of severance payments given to the
NCB and NDFC staff, as reimbursement of actual payments made, subject to branch closure targets and
NDFC conditions being met.
The US$100 million notionally allocated to the NDFC reform would be made available for disbursement
upon effectiveness of the Credit since the NDFC conditions (the legal instrument for amalgamating NDFC
into National Bank is in place and NDFC deposits have been transferred to National Bank) would have
been met, these two actions being conditions of Board presentation.
Disbursement of the US$200 million notionally allocated to the NCB restructuring components would be
made not only on the basis of progress made in NCB staff reduction but also in branch closures. The first
US$100 million equivalent would be made available for disbursement when 600 NCB branches or 1/3
would have been closed; the next US$50 million, when 1,200 branches or 2/3 would have been closed; and
the final US$50 million, when 1,800 branches or 3/3 would have been closed. However, when an NCB is
privatized, its branch closure program would cease (branch closure being a means to facilitate bank
privatization and further branch closure becoming the prerogative of the new owners), and the overall
branch closure target of 1,800 branches would be accordingly adjusted.
The NCBs and NDFC would pay from their own sources the "funded" portion of severance payments and
get reimbursed the "non-funded" portion from SBP. SBP would then have the non-funded portion
reimbursed from IDA. IDA funds will be disbursed to reimburse the actual severance payments made,
- 37 -



upon receipt of SOEs in a format agreed (attached to the minutes of negotiations).
Ministry of Finance would authorize SBP to incur expenditure in respect of GoP's share in the project cost.
SBP would make the payments and charge to the head of account advised by the MoF. SBP's Accounts
Department would keep details of expenditure incurred. The project Coordinator would be responsible for
consolidating the expenditure under various heads/financiers.
Severance payment procedure/control in NCBs and NDFC: Payroll and compensation are
computerized/controlled at the region level. Human resource departments of NCBs/NDFC would prepare
statement of claims in respect of severance payments based on the computerized payroll and compensation
system that the three NCBs/NDFC have in place. The statements would be pre-audited by the respective
internal audit departments of the NCBs/NDFC before payment by the accounts department. Heads of
human resource, internal audit and accounts departments would sign off the statements. Payments would be
either made through crossed cheques or credit to beneficiaries' accounts. The NCBs/NDFC would keep
supporting documents for subsequent verification by SBP's inspection teams and Bank supervision
missions. These statements would be submitted to the Project Coordinator of the project in SBP. The
Project Coordinator would have the services of the International Organizations' Accounts Section in the
Accounts Department to conduct check before payment. These payments would also be subject to pre-audit
by Audit Division of the Accounts Department as well as post-audited by Audit Department of SBP. The
Banking Inspection Department of SBP would also test-check these payments as part of their normal
on-site inspection of NCBs/NDFC whereas the Banking Supervision Departrnent would carry out the
off-site supervision. Terms of reference of external auditors of NCBs/NDFC would be expanded to include
audit of severance payments. As per Prudential Regulations, SBP is empowered to recover improper
payments and also to levy penalties. Hence SBP would be able to recover any irregular payments
highlighted by the Banking Inspection Department or the external auditors.
Capacity of internal audit departments in NCBs/NDFC/SBP: The three NCBs/NDFC have internal
audit departments that report to the Board of Directors. In all cases the departments comprise a mixture of
professionals (chartered accountants, cost & management accountants and MBAs) who have rich
experience in the banking sector and in EDP auditing. Staff in the Audit Department of SBP is well trained
in bank audit. Banking Supervision Department comprises of one inspection department (for on-site
inspection) each for bank and non-bank (DFIs) audit. It also has a supervision department that has
divisional heads who are supported by professional accountants and MBAs for off-site regulatory
supervision.
Financial Reporting and External Auditing: Audited entity financial statements, accompanied by the
auditors' management letters, for the NCBs will be required within six months of the close of financial
year. In addition SBP would provide quarterly project management reports within 45 days of the end of
each quarter (agreedfornat attached to the minutes of negotiations):
*   Summary of Sources & Uses of Funds
*   Output Monitoring Report
The following annual audited financial statements, accompanied by the auditor's management letter, would
be provided for the project within six months of the close of each financial year:
* Summary of Sources & Uses of Funds
* SOE Withdrawal Schedule
The project audit report will include opinions on the financial statements, and on whether the SOEs
submitted, together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied up
- 38 -



on to support the related withdrawals. Formats of project annual and quarterly reports, and the form of
auditors' opinion in respect of Entity, Project/SOE have been agreed.
The ARCS requirements will therefore be:
*   Entity financial statement audits for the three NCBs
*   Project/SOE financial statement audit - SBP
External Auditors: SBP has categorized firms of chartered accountants in three categories (A, B & C).
NCBs/DFIs are mandated to appoint external auditors from these categories based on the value of total
assets and number of branches. Auditors are appointed by the shareholders for a term of three years. UBL,
NBP, HBL and NDFC have appointed joint auditors. SBP's Central Board appoints auditors affiliated
with the "Big Five" international accounting/auditing firms for a term of five years. Acceptability of the
auditors in each case has been confirmed at negotiations.
PMR-Based Disbursements: Because of the nature of the project, PMR-based disbursements are not
considered appropriate.
- 39 -



Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
Project Schedule                                  Planned                      Actual
Time taken to prepare the project (months)      4                            6
First Bank mission (identification)             02/01/2001                   02/01/2001
Appraisal mission departure                     04/01/2001                   05/26/2001
Negotiations                                    08/01/2001                   07/19/2001
Planned Date of Effectiveness                   12/01/2001
Prepared by:
Preparation assistance:
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                     Speciality
Joseph Pernia                     Financial Sector Specialist
Mudassir Khan                     Financial Sector Specialist
Christopher Juan Costain          Financial Sector Specialist
Esen Ulgenerk                     Financial Sector Specialist
Rune Barneus                      Banking Specialist
Kishor Uprety                     Counsel
Hasan Saqib                       Financial Management Specialist
Ahsan Ali                         Procurement Specialist
Mary Agnes Evidente               Program Assistant
-40 -



Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
A. Project Implementation Plan
Borrower Project Implementation Plan
B. Bank Staff Assessments
I . Bank Privatization Mission Supplementary Aide Memoire, June 2000
2. Technical Assistance Mission Aide Memoire, September 2000
3. Preparation Mission Aide Memoire, February 2001
4. Technical Mission Aide Memoire, April 2001
5. Appraisal Mission Aide Memoire, June 2001
C. Other
I . Operating and Financial Ratios of NCBs
2. CIRC Ordinance, September 28, 2000
3. National Bank of Pakistan Action Plan
4. National Bank of Pakistan, Annual Report 1999
5. National Bank of Pakistan Corporate Restructuring, Feb. 2, 2001
6. National Bank of Pakistan VHS Scheme 2001, June 2, 2001
7. Draft Confidential Information Memorandum presented to the Privatization Comnrnissiorn, March 1999
8. Habib Bank Limited Staff and Branch Rationalization Plans (11 vols)
9. Paper on Restructuring of Commercial Banking within UBL, September 1, 2000
10. Bank Restructuring Plan by UBL, January 1, 2001
11. United Bank Restructuring, January 2001 (2 vols)
12. United Bank Limited Audit Report (External), May 12, 2001
13. United Bank Limited Company Profile, June 2001
14. Options Towards Resolving Tax Issues in Banking, June 2001
15. Letters to Minister of Finance (2)
16. Implementation Completion Report #18684: Pakistan - Banking Sector Adjustment Loan, Dec. 10,
1998
17. Pakistan - Financial Sector Update #20218-PAK, May 31, 2000
18. Pakistan - Country Assistance Strategy - Progress Report, December 28, 1998
19. Pakistan - Periodic Economic Report, January-March 2000
20. Banking Sector Monthly Update
*Including electronic files
-41 -



Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
Difference between expected
and actual
Original Amount in USS Millions                              disbursements'
Project ID    FY   Purpose                                        IBRO         IDA                           Carnel.   Undisb.       Orig  Frm Revd
P071092       2001 NWFP ON-FARM WATER MANAGEMENT PROJECT               0.00      21.35                            0.00      20.80       0.00       0.00
P056213        2001 TRADE & TRANSPORT                                  0.00       3.00                            0.00       1.88      -1.00       0.00
P049791        1999 POVERTY ALLEVIATION FUND                           0.00      90.00                            0.00      69.91       3.40       0.00
P037835        1998 SOCIAL ACTION PRG II                               0.00     250.00                            0.00      54.17      -5.87       0.00
P037834        1998 NORTHERN EDUCATION                                 0.00      22.80                            0.09      16.85      15.18       0.00
P010500        1998 NATIONAL DRAINAGE PR                               0.00     285.00                            0.24     176.64     107.10       0.00
P010501        1997 PVT SECTOR GROUND WA                               0.00      56.00                           25.34       9.39      40.47       2.80
P036015        1997 IMPR FIN REP & AUDIT                               0.00      28.80                            0.00      19.45      19.64       0.00
P039281        1996 GHAZI BAROTHA HYDROP                             350.00       0.00                            0.00      80.35      72.90      35.33
P010478        1996 NWFP COMMUNITY INFRA                               0.00      21.50                            0.00       8.94      12.48      12.36
P010482        1996 BALOCHISTAN COMMUNITY IRRIGATION & AGRI.           0.00      26.70                            0.00       4.80       7.09       6.19
P034101        1996 TELECOMREG&PRIVAT                                 35.00       0.00                           10.00       8.40      18.40       8.40
P010481        1995 PUNJAB FOREST SECTOR DEV.                          0.00      24.90                            5.46       4.30      12.09       2.57
P010470        1995 FIN SECTOR DEEPENING & INTEGRATION               216.00       0.00                          188.03      16.53     204.36      13.92
Total:     601.00      830.05                          229.17     49Z39      506.23      81.57
-42 -



PAKISTAN
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
May-2001
In Millions US Dollars
Committed                       Disbursed
IFC                             IFC
FY Approval        Company                       Loan   Equity   Quasi  Partic   Loan  Equity   Quasi  Partic
1995               ABAMCO                        0.00    0.29    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.29      0.00    0.00
1995               AES Lal Pir                  35.20    9.50    0.00    0.00   35.20    9.50      0.00    0.00
1996               AES Pak Gen                   17.43    9.50    0.00   34.88   17.43    9.50     0.00   34.88
1996               Atlas Inv Bank                3.44    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.44    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994               Atlas Lease                   3.60    0.21    0.00    0.00    3.60    0.21      0.00    0.00
1998               BRRIL                         0.00    0.24    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.24      0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         BRRIM                         0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00
1995               BSJS Fund                     0.00    0.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.50      0.00    0.00
1995               Bank of Khyber                 1.13    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.13    0.00     0.00    0.00
1993               CDCPL                         0.00    0.16    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.16      0.00    0.00
1993/97            Crescent Greenwd              0.00    2.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.00      0.00    0.00
1996               Crescent IBank                9.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    9.00    0.00      0.00    0.00
1994/95/96         D.G. Khan                     0.00    0.51    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.51      0.00    0.00
1998               Engro Asahi                   14.25    0.00    0.00    0.00    8.00    0.00     0.00    0.00
1991/95/97         Engro Chemical                7.07    0.00    0.00    6.00    7.07    0.00      0.00    6.00
1996               Engro Paktank                 8.74    0.00    0.00    3.64    8.74    0.00      0.00    3.64
1990/91/96        FPB                             1.92    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.92    0.00     0.00    0.00
1993               Fauji Cement                 22.40    5.00    0.00   17.50   22.40    5.00      0.00   17.50
1995               First Crescent                0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00      5.00    0.00
1994/96            First Leasing                 0.00    0.69    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.69      0.00    0.00
1995               First UDL                     0.00    0.00   10.00    0.00    0.00    0.00    10.00    0.00
1996               Gul Ahmed                    22.95    4.10    0.00   26.38   22.95    4.10      0.00   26.38
1988               Hala Spinning                 3.80    0.00    0.00    0.00    3.80    0.00      0.00    0.00
1991/95            IHFL                          0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40      0.00    0.00
1992/96            JSCL                          0.00    0.27    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.27      0.00    0.00
1995               Kohinoor                     20.00    6.30    0.00   24.40   20.00    6.30      0.00   24.40
1994/95/97         Maple Leaf                    0.00    0.52    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.52      0.00    0.00
1985/92            Mari Gas                      2.86    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.86    0.00      0.00    0.00
1993               Muslim Comm Bank              2.34    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.34    0.00      0.00    0.00
1984/94            NDLC                          4.22    1.25    0.00    0.00    4.22    1.25      0.00    0.00
1994               Orix Finance                  0.00    0.58    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.58      0.00    0.00
1994               Orix Leasing                  4.22    1.25    0.00    0.00    4.22    1.25      0.00    0.00
1994               PACRA                         0.00    0.15    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.10      0.00    0.00
1994               PI&CL                         2.19    0.00    0.00    0.00    2.19    0.00      0.00    0.00
1991/94/95         PILCO                         0.00    0.54    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.54      0.00    0.00
1983/84/94         PPL                            1.12    0.00    0.00    0.19    1.12    0.00     0.00    0.19
1965/80/82/87/91/94/9 Packages                   9.07    2.50    0.00    1.25    9.07    2.50      0.00    1.25
5                  Pakistan Service               5.00    3.00    0.00    0.00    5.00    3.00     0.00    0.00
1993               Pakistan Unit Tr              0.00    1.48    0.00    0.00    0.00    1.48      0.00    0.00
1995               Prudential                    0.00    0.40    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.40      0.00    0.00
1991               RUPAFIL                        1.20    0.00    0.31    0.00    1.20    0.00     0.31    0.00
1992               Regent Knitwear               6.38    0.00    0.00    2.80    6.38    0.00      0.00    2.80
1994               Rupafab                       5.50    0.00    0.00    0.00    5.50    0.00      0.00    0.00
1995               Sarah Textiles                0.00    0.20    0.00    0.00    0.00    0.20      0.00    0.00
1993/96
Total Portfolio:      255.03    51.54        20.31   192.04  243.81   51.49   20.31  I,
-43 -



Approvals Pending Conimitment
FY Approval        Company                           Loan    Equity      Quasi    Partic
Total Pending Commitment:         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
-44 -



Annex 10: Country at a Glance
PAKISTAN: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                               South      Low-
Pakistan      Asia  income         Development diamond*
1999
PoDulation, mid-year (millions)                        134.8     1.329      2,417                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas mefhod, USS)                      450        440       410
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                        60.8       581       988
Average annual growth, 1993-99
Population (%)                                           2.4       1.9        1.9                      1 
Labor force (%i                                          2.9       2.3        2.3     GNP                               Gross
cpe                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1993-99)                                  pita                         enrollment
Povertv (I% of Population below national poverty line)    ..
Urban Population (% of total population)                 36         28        31
Life expectancy at birth (vears)                         62         62        60
Infant mortalitv (oer 1,000 live births)                 91         75        77
Child malnutrition (I% of chitdren under 5)              38         51        43                 Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        60         77        64
Illiteracv (% of population age 15+)                     55         46        39
Gross orimarv enrollment (% of school-age populalion)    74        100        96             -P    kistan
Male                                                  101        110       102                   Low-income group
Female                                                 45         90        86
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989       1998      1999
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ billions)                            19.7      40.2      62.2       58 2
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 17.9      18.9      17.7       15.0                     Trade
ExDorts of aoods and services/GDP             10.7      13.9      16.1       15.2
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     5.8      11.0      13.2       10.1
Gross nationai savinas/GDP                    13.7      15.6      15.0       11.2
Current account balance/GDP                    -4.2     -3.4      -2.7       -3.8      Domestic         Je                  n
Interest Davments/GDP                          1.1       1.1       1.3        1.8                                  Investment
Total debt/GDP                                45.3      45.7      51.8       53.6     S avins
Total debt service/exports                    18.5      24.2      23.6       27.4
Present value of debt/GDP                        ..       ..      41.1
Present value of debt/exports                   ..        ..    220.1
Indebtedness
1979-89  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual qrowth)
GDP                                   6.7      3.9       2.6       2.7        5.1             PPkistan
GNP per caDita                        3.8      1.5      -1.4       0.3        2.9                   Low-income group
Exports of qoods and services         9.2      2.9      -5.7      -2.4        6.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989       1998      1999      Growth of investment and GDP (%)
(% of GDP)                                                                            20
AQriculture                                   30.4      26.9      27.3       27.2
Industrv                                      23.6     23.9       23.8       23.5     20
Manufacturing                                15.4     16.6       15.8      15.6      0
Services                                      46.0     49.2       48.9      49.4    -10               
Private consumption                           83.8     72.2       75.5      78.4    -20 
General qovernment consumDtion                10.4      16.8      11.3       11.5              -                e  GP
Imoorts of goods and services                 22.8     21.7       20.6      20.1
1979-89  1989-99      1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports (%)
(averagqe annual qrowth)
Aqriculture                                    4.6       4.4       4.5        1.9    20
lndustrv                                       7.3      4.3        6.1       2.5
Manufacturinq                                 7.9      4.0        6.9       4.2    10
Services                                       7.2      4.5        1.6        4.1
Private consumption                            4.2       5.0       0.1        6.3     0                   |
General oovernment consumDtion                10.5       0.4       6.8      -5.1
Gross domestic investment                      6.5       2.2       9.8     -11.8    -10
Imports of ooods and services                  1.7      3.4       -5.6      -6.2             -Exports            Dmports
Gross national product                         6.6      4.0        1.0       2.8
Note: 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four kev indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missinq, the diamond will
be incomplete.
- 45 -



Pakistan
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1979    1989       1998     1999      Inflation (%)
Domestic prices                                                                    5
(% change)                                                                        15
Consumer prices                                ..       ..       7.8      5.77                                   
Implicit GDP deflator                         6.6      8.6       7.5      6.0
Government finance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                                ..    18.1       16.3     16.3             94   95    9s   97   98
Current budget balance                         ..    -1.8       -4.2     -2.6            - GDP deflator          cPi
Overall surplus/deficit                        ..    -7.7       -7.7     -6.1
TRADE
1979    1989       1998     1999       Export and import levels (USS mill.)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                            ,,   4,634      8,433    7,527     15,000
Cotton                                        ..    930        126        2      200
Rice                                         ..    304         562      533     .2,000
Manufactures                                  ..   3,312     4,866    4,538      9,0.0
Total imports (ci)                             ..   7,851    10,456    10,888      8     __
Food                                         ..       ..    1,685      1,622     3_0                            _
Fuel and energy                               ..   1,006     1,750     1,458         -
Capital goods                                 ..      ..    2,288    3,027          o
93  94  9s  98  97  98  99
Export price index (1995=100)                  ..      51        94        90
Import price index (1995=100)                  ..      45        91       102                  H Exports     * Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                      ..    112         104       88
*ALANCE of PAYMENTS
1979    1989       1998     1999      Current account balance to GDP (%)
(USS millions)
Exports of goods and services               2,107    5,577    10,017    8,838     0
Imports of goods and services               4,485    8,736    12,819   11,6888
Resource balance                           -2,378   -3,159    -2,802    -2,850    -2
Net income                                   -233    -875    -2,330   -1,808
Net current transfers                       1,790    2,687     3,430    2,471    -4
Current account balance                      -820   -1,347    -1,702   -2,187    -s
Financing items (net)                        515    1,347      1,554    3,441
Changes in net reserves                      305        0       148    -1,254
Memo:
Reserves includinq qold (US$ millions)         ..   1,237      1,464    2,228
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)              9.9    19.2       43.0     50.1
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979    1989       1998     1999
(US$ millions)                                                                     Composrtion of 1999 debt (USS mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        8,919   18,348    32,229   31,176
IBRD                                       339    1,428      3,262    3,175
IDA                                        751    1,915      3,732    3,857                    G 1.390 A: 3,175
Total debt service                           658    1,841      2,743    2,743            F: 3,028
IBRD                                        57      147       381       400                 L: 3,857
IDA                                          9       30        70        81
Composition of net resource flows                                                                               c: 1,519
Official grants                            146      381       175       194
Official creditors                         561      931       891     1,642        E: 10.680 _         _
Private creditors                           23      -12       306      -316
Foreign direct investment                   58      210       500       428                              D 7,527
Portfolio equity                             ..      ..         ..       28
World Bank program
Commitments                                139      746       250       808     A - IBRD                    E - Bilateral
Disbursements                              105      471       606       683     B - IDA    D - Other multilateral  F - Private
Principal repayments                        27       82       243       264     C- IMF                      G - Short-term
Netflows                                    79      389       363       419
Interest payments                           39       95       208       217
Net transfers                               39      294       155       202
Development Economics                                                                                                _
- 46 -



60.                                 65-                                  70'           f       TAJIKISTAN  75-        (
)   - /                  t            .~' C H I N A
PAKISTAN                                                                                     J
0   SELECTED CITIES                                                                trII
    NATIONAL CAPITAL
-   MAIN ROADS
| z RAILROADS >( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 4, #5f J ~~~~~~~~...................-,,,:-
RAILROADS
35'                                    RIVERS                                                                           m  dcn                       t
PROVINCE BOUNDARIES                                                                                       Lne Aof Ctrle
- -- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                      p           35J
Kah             ~~~Is MABD          JAMMU
I          :.Z Land KASHMIR
O        100       200        300 KILOMETERS                                                                                           / J ,4
0        50       100       150      200MILES
t*_ s/ tg |LL-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~arg                                                u  nweaa
AFGHANISTAN                                                                                      a
30'       e/D
30'-
"-.~~~    ~         ~~~~~~ At BL 0C   TAN    \,-/ZI N D I A
I S L A M I C R E P  t         Ja                   /ahimye~~~~~~~~~~~~Roimyr Khan /
ISLAMIC  REP.                                                    Kudr/"-  
OF IRAN                )'                                                                                                               715)ohzdr'  p-j  ,
(' P o nVgu r   | I  D o k r i  f6                                  5 ' "  U Z BE K       J .K S TA N IK   T   , C HIN A
25   ~~~~   S   /7   >_  lela  0  wWshoh 1 25- / e N.Wr.P. ,^ .......... .~~~~~~~~~~?e~wp  ........ .. 
: .   <   - _                   %    ;    H yderak                        1           b       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AFGHANISTAN   ; 
Herbad
-  - - ARAB-1-AN - SEA       ._ _"-i.                                                            BALOCHrrAN   ,r  \'.,
z ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~- -eboIoi,orr,a.rafnsirytlrrfsysREbw  *1                                         IN- -    1A
h othmsfpbseonpoy theMop toeosn it ofTeWodd   nk 
Z     The,hucois  0m dn nsiatomad.yotheinfomatono shown                                                                                       OIH'
onl tis ft  d nthq,   hept f heWddBak&*p-m
Jedme4mSo' ta he k1smta- of m,y WeYioory, or oyenoroe,eotor -                                                       -"d  Idmen
in    Ocoptame if AmG boendaorte,_
M2 - t . ELS5 - > _Z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arohis,n                                                                    50 i 
A       --4        '._
'65,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



