Page  1
RCA 248423. 
\09
WUI 64145 
\09
FAX (202) 477-6391
 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
 
July 11, 2003 
 
Dr. Waqar Masood Khan  
Secretary 
Economic Affairs Division 
Ministry of Finance and Economic Affairs 
Government of Pakistan 
Islamabad, Pakistan 
 
Re: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project: Cr.3571-PAK 
Amendment of Development Credit Agreement  
 
Dear Dr. Khan: 
 
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) between the Islamic Republic of 
Pakistan (the Borrower) and the International Development Association (the Association) dated 
October 24, 2001, for the above-referenced Project. We also refer to the letter dated March 27, 
2003, from Mr. M.Tahsin Khan Iqbal, Additional Finance Secretary (Banking), Finance Division, 
Ministry of Finance & Economic Affairs, requesting the Association to include Allied Bank 
Limited (ABL) in the Project, which had been privatized but subsequently intervened by the State 
Bank of Pakistan (SBP) due to its financial and governance problems, and the letter dated May 9, 
2003, from Ms. Nazrat Bashir, Joint Secretary (IF), Finance Division, Ministry of Finance & 
Economic Affairs, requesting the Association to amend the DCA to allow National Bank of 
Pakistan (NBP) to hire temporary workers as approved by its Board of Directors. 
 
The Association, after due consideration, has decided to accede to said request, and  
consequently hereby amends the DCA as follows: 
 
1. 
Paragraph B of the Preamble is amended to read as follows: 
 
“WHEREAS  (B)  the Association has received, from the Borrower, a Staff 
Rationalization Plan describing the terms and conditions and criteria for voluntary separation of 
the employees of the nationalized commercial banks, Allied Bank Limited and the National 
Development Finance Corporation (the Staff Rationalization Plan), and declaring the Borrower's 
commitment to the execution of the Staff Rationalization Plan; and 
 
2. 
In Section 1.02: 
 
(a)  
paragraph (h) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(h) 
"Staff Rationalization Plan" means collectively the plans adopted by the 
NCBs, ABL (as hereinafter defined) and NDFC describing the terms and conditions and 
criteria for voluntary separation of the employees of the NCBs, ABL and NDFC, 
including severance payments thereunder;”  
 
Page  2
Dr. Waqar Masood Khan 
 
-2- 
July 11, 2003 
 
(b)  
paragraph (i) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(i) 
"SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan, being the Borrower's central 
bank established and existing under the Borrower's State Bank Act of 1956, as the same 
may be amended from time to time, or any successor thereto; and” 
 
(c)  
a new paragraph 1.02(j) is added to read as follows: 
 
“(j) 
“ABL” means the Allied Bank Limited, a commercial bank established 
under the laws of the Borrower.” 
 
3. 
In Article III: 
 
(a) 
Section 3.01 is amended to read as follows: 
 
 
“Section 3.01. (a)  The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project through SBP, NCBs, ABL and NDFC with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and banking practices, and shall 
provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required 
for the Project.” 
 
(b) 
Section 3.03 is amended to read as followS: 
 
“Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the 
NCBs  and ABL will not hire any new staff over their normal attrition, so as to guarantee 
a
zero staff growth, net of those separated under the Project in accordance with the Staff 
Rationalization Plan, except as the Association shall otherwise agree.” 
 
4. 
In Article IV: 
 
Section 4.03 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the NCBs and ABL to: 
 
(i)   have their records, accounts, and financial statements (balance sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent, internationally recognized auditors; 
 
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
six (6) months after the end of each such year:  
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year so audited; and (B) the report 
of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and  
 
Page  3
Dr. Waqar Masood Khan 
 
-3- 
July 11, 2003 
 
(iii)   furnish to the Association, such other information concerning such records, 
accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time 
to time reasonably request.”  
 
5. 
In Schedule 1: 
 
paragraph 2 is amended to read as follows: 
 
“2.  
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Severance payments" means 
payments made by the NCBs, ABL and NDFC to their employees separated pursuant to 
the Staff Rationalization Plan.” 
 
6. 
In Schedule 2: 
 
(a) 
sub-paragraph (a) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(a) restructure the NCBs and ABL to improve their prospects for privatization to 
qualified strategic investors, and complete privatization of partially privatized banks;” 
 
(b) 
Part A is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Part A
:
NCB and ABL Staff Rationalization
Implementation of the Staff Rationalization Plan including the payments of 
severance for approximately 50% staff of NCBs and ABL seeking voluntary separation, 
as a result of restructuring of the NCBs and ABL.” 
 
(c) 
Part B is amended to read as follows: 
 
“Carrying out of NCBs’ and ABL’s branch rationalization through the reduction 
of bank branches, including provision for real-estate costs resulting from the branch 
closure.” 
 
7. 
In paragraph 1of Schedule 3: 
 
(a) 
sub-section (ii) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(ii)  
the NCBs and ABL to be responsible for the design and implementation of their 
respective restructuring plans;” 
 
(b) 
sub-section (iv) is amended to read as follows: 
 
“(iv) 
the SBP to be responsible for: (a) resolution of issues at ABL; and (b) 
amalgamating NDFC into NBP in an orderly manner.” 
 
Please confirm your agreement to the above amendment by signing the form of 
confirmation set forth below, returning to us one fully executed original of this amendment letter, 
and retaining one original for your records.  
 
Page  4
Dr. Waqar Masood Khan 
 
-4- 
July 11, 2003 
 
Except as specifically amended by this amendment letter, all provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.  
Page  5
Dr. Waqar Masood Khan 
 
-5- 
July 11, 2003 
 
This amendment shall be effective as of date of this letter upon receipt by the Association 
of the countersigned copy of this letter. 
 
Sincerely 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
/s Abdi Hasan 
Country Director, Pakistan 
South Asia Region 
 
CONFIRMED: 
 
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN 
 
By /s/ Dr. Waqar Masood Khan 
 
Title: Secretary 
 
Economic Affairs Division 
 
Government of Pakistan 
 Islamabad 
 
