Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3571 PAK
Development Credit Agreement
(Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project)
between
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 24, 2001
CREDIT NUMBER 3571 PAK
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 24, 2001, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN, acting 
by its President (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the 
Association).
WHEREAS  (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; 
WHEREAS (B) the Association has received, from the Borrower, a Staff 
Rationalization Plan describing the terms and conditions and criteria for voluntary 
separation of the employees of the nationalized commercial banks and the National  
Development Finance Corporation (the Staff Rationalization Plan), and declaring the 
Borrower’s commitment to the execution of the Staff Rationalization Plan; and
WHEREAS (C) the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set 
forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through 
October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions), 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
Page  2
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
"12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines meets the requirements set forth in Section 11 of Resolution No. 
194 of the Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on April 8, 1999; 
and ‘Participating Countries’  means, collectively, all such countries."; and
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not a Participating Country or for goods produced in, 
or services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment or 
import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"BSAL" means the Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (Number 
4357-PAK) provided by the Bank to the Borrower under the Loan Agreement dated
December 
12, 1997, between the Borrower and the Bank;
(b)
"Fiscal Year" means the Borrower’s fiscal year starting July 1 and ending 
June 30 of each year;
(c)
"MOF" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Finance;
(d)
"NDFC" means the National Development Finance Corporation, established  
and operating pursuant to the Borrower’s NDFC Act of 1974, as the same may  be amended 
from time to time; 
(e)
"NCBs" means collectively the Nationalized Commercial Banks comprising 
Habib Bank, Limited, United Bank, Limited, and National Bank  of Pakistan; 
(f)
"PC" means the Borrower’s Privatization Commission established through 
the Borrower’s  Presidential Ordinance No. L-II of 2000, as the same may be amended 
from time to time, or any successor thereto;
(g)
"Project Management Report" means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement; 
(h)
"Staff Rationalization Plan" means collectively the plans adopted by the 
NCBs and NDFC describing the terms and conditions and criteria for voluntary 
separation of the employees of the NCBs and NDFC, including severance payments 
thereunder; and
(i)
"SBP" means the State Bank of Pakistan, being the Borrower’s central bank 
established and existing under the Borrower’s State Bank Act of 1956, as the same may 
be amended from time to time, or any successor thereto.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to two hundred thirty-nine million five hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 239,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made in respect of the reasonable payments required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
Page  3
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2012 and ending July 15, 2036. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2021 shall be one and 
one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Page  4
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project through SBP, NCBs and NDFC with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and banking practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) above, and except 
as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree,  the Borrower  shall carry 
out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in  Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the continued achievement of the Project’s 
objectives; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the 
NCBs will not hire any new staff over their  normal attrition,  so as to guarantee a 
zero staff growth, net of those separated under the Project in accordance with the 
Staff Rationalization Plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and 
expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with auditing standards acceptable to the Association, 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited, and 
(B) an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report 
of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of  statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
Page  5
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause SBP to prepare, in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the Association not later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project management report for 
such period, which: (i) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (ii) shows 
separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Credit during the period 
covered by said report.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause the NCBs to:
(i)
have the records, accounts, and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) 
for each fiscal year  audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent, 
internationally recognized auditors;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year: 
(A) certified copies of its financial statements for such year so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association, such other information concerning such 
records, accounts and financial statements and the audit thereof 
as the Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that  the Staff Rationalization Plan  
shall have been amended, abrogated, or waived  so as to materially and adversely 
affect the  implementation of the Project.
ARTICLE VI
Termination
Section 6.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs 
Division, or any Additional Secretary, Joint Secretary, Deputy Secretary or Section 
Officer in that Division of the Borrower is designated as representative of the 
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Page  6
 Islamabad
Pakistan
Cable address:
Telex:
ECONOMIC
ECDIV-05-634
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
 
(202) 
477-6391
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ISLAMIC
REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ Tanwir Ali Agha
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ John Wall
Country Director, Pakistan
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Category of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amount of the Credit to the Category set 
forth below and the percentage of expenditures to be financed there under:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Severance payments  
   79,800,000 100%
(2)
Severance payments  
   79,800,000 100%
(3)
Severance payments  
   40,000,000 100%
(4)
Severance payments  
   39,900,000 100%
TOTAL
  239,500,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Severance payments" means payments 
made by the NCBs and NDFC to their employees separated pursuant to the Staff 
Page  7
Rationalization Plan.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement,  
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of  
SDR79,800,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after January 1, 2001.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above: 
(i)
no withdrawal shall be made on account of  Severance payments 
under Category 2, unless the Borrower has furnished to the 
Association, evidence (A) that the payments have been made in 
accordance with the terms and conditions and criteria stipulated 
in the Staff Rationalization Plan, and (B) that the Borrower has 
made satisfactory progress in the closure of 1/3 of the branches, 
as agreed between the Borrower and the Association;
(ii) 
no withdrawal shall be made on account of Severance payments under 
Category 3, unless the Borrower has furnished to the Association, 
evidence (A) that the payments have been made in accordance with 
the terms and conditions and criteria stipulated in the Staff 
Rationalization Plan, and (B) that the Borrower has made 
satisfactory progress in the closure of 2/3 of the branches, as 
agreed  between the Borrower and the Association; and 
(iii) no withdrawal shall be made on account of Severance payments under 
evidence Category 4, unless the Borrower has furnished to the 
Association, (A) that the payments have been made in accordance 
with the terms and conditions and criteria stipulated in the Staff 
Rationalization Plan, and (B) that the Borrower has made 
satisfactory progress in the closure of all of the branches, as 
agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
5.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures, under such terms and 
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) restructure the NCBs to improve their 
prospects for privatization to qualified strategic investors, and complete 
privatization of partially privatized banks;  (b)  improve market structure by 
reducing the  market share of the state-owned segment of the Borrower’s banking 
system, including the amalgamation of NDFC into the NBP, and encouraging the expansion 
of sound and efficient private banks; and (c) sustain and deepen the banking reforms  
initiated by the Borrower in 1997 under the BSAL. 
The Project consists of the  following components, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
 NCB Staff Rationalization
Implementation of the Staff Rationalization Plan including the payments of 
severance for approximately 50% staff of NCBs seeking voluntary separation, as a 
result of restructuring of the NCBs.
Part B:
Branch Rationalization
Carrying out of NCBs branch rationalization through the reduction of bank 
branches, including  provision for real-estate costs resulting from the branch 
closure.
Part C:
NDFC Amalgamation 
Amalgamation of NDFC into NBP including the payments of severance for 
approximately 800 staff laid off as a result of  said amalgamation.
Page  8
* * 
*
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
1.
In the overall carrying out of the Project, the Borrower shall assign the 
responsibilities for Project implementation as follows:
(i)
the SBP and the MOF to be responsible for the coordination of the 
restructuring measures under the Project;
(ii)
the NCBs to be responsible for the design and implementation of 
their respective restructuring plans; 
(iii)
the PC to be responsible for: (A) coordinating all necessary 
actions for bringing the NCBs to the point of sale and for 
identifying bona fide strategic investors in parallel with the 
restructuring exercise; and (B) coordinating the selection process 
with the SBP, the bank regulator and supervisor, to ensure that 
the process would result in the selection of qualified buyers who 
have the required integrity, capital, banking expertise, 
technology, and management; and
(iv)
the SBP to be responsible for amalgamating NDFC into NBP in an 
orderly manner. 
2.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, on or about June 30, 2002, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by September 30, 2002,  or such later date 
as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the 
matter.
