                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 32588

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                               (IDA-35710)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

          IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 239.5 MILLION (US$300 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                                 TO THE

                                    GOVERNMENT OF PAKISTAN

                                                 FOR A

             BANKING SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT




                                              June 15, 2005




Finance and Private Sector Development Unit
South Asia Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

            (Exchange Rate Effective June 15, 2005)

                  Currency Unit = Pakistani Rupees (Rs)
                           Rs. 1 = US$ 0.0168
                         US$ 1 = Rs. 59.65

                        FISCAL YEAR
                       July 1   June 30

            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

 ABL               Allied Bank Limited
 ADB               Asian Development Bank
 BSAL              Banking Sector Adjustment Loan
 BSDP              Banking Sector Development Program
 CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
 CIRC              Corporate and Industrial Restructuring Corporation
 DFI               Development Finance Institution
 FA                Financial Advisor
 FCD               Foreign Currency Deposit
 FSDIP             Financial Sector Deepening and Intermediation Project
 GOP               Government of Pakistan
 HBL               Habib Bank Limited
 MCB               Muslim Commercial Bank
 MOF               Ministry of Finance
 NBP               National Bank of Pakistan
 NCB               Nationalized Commercial Bank
 NDFC              National Development Finance Corporation
 NSS               National Savings Scheme
 PC                Privatization Commission
 SBP               State Bank of Pakistan
 UBL               United Bank LimitedABL
 ADB               Asian Development Bank
 BSAL              Banking Sector Adjustment Loan

                 Vice President:    Praful C. Patel
              Country Director      John W. Wall
                Sector Director     Joseph Del Mar Pernia
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Kiatchai Sophastienphong

                                          PAKISTAN
                   Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 12
8. Lessons Learned                                                               14
9. Partner Comments                                                              15
10. Additional Information                                                       16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             17
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             18
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             19
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             22
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             23
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                24
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            25
Annex 8. Borrower's Assessment of the Project                                    26

Project ID: P055292                                                  Project Name: Banking Sector Restructuring and
                                                                     Privatization Project
Team Leader: Kiatchai Sophastienphong                                TL Unit: SASFP
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 15, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization           L/C/TF Number: IDA-35710
                            Project
   Country/Department: PAKISTAN                                                           Region: South Asia Regional
                                                                                                     Office

        Sector/subsector: Banking (100%)
                  Theme: State enterprise/bank restructuring and privatization (P); Corporate
                            governance (P); Tax policy and administration (S); Law reform (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/06/2001                                     Effective: 10/24/2001                10/24/2001
     Appraisal: 04/10/2001                                         MTR: 08/31/2002                  09/01/2002
      Approval: 10/23/2001                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOP/MOF; GOP/SBP; GOP/PC; GOP/NCBs
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Praful C. Patel                                Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:               John Wall                                      John Wall
Sector Manager/Director:        Joseph Del Mar Pernia                          Marilou Jane D.Uy
Team Leader at ICR:             Kiatchai Sophastienphong                       Joseph Del Mar Pernia
ICR Primary Author:             Kiatchai Sophastienphong;
                                Isfandyar Zaman Khan;
                                Weenarin Lulitanonda


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The objective of the Project, which remained unchanged throughout the project life, was to help
Pakistan continue implementation of its banking reform program started in 1997, supported by the
Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (BSAL), aimed at achieving a competitive private banking
system that operates under a strong regulatory framework, is supported by an effective banking
court system, and intermediate resources independently of vested interests and in response to
price signals. Specifically, the Project was planned to help the Government privatize Habib Bank
Ltd. (HBL) and United Bank Ltd. (UBL) within a period of two to three years, get National Bank
of Pakistan (NBP) ready for privatization, and divest the remaining government shareholdings in
partially privatized banks.     In addition, the project sought to address the problems of the
specialized financial institutions by reducing their number to three (catering to small industries,
housing finance and small agriculture), and amalgamating the largest Development Finance
Institution (DFI) - National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC), into the National Bank
of Pakistan (NBP). On the policy side, the government was expected to liberalize bank branching
policy, revise the tax policy for the banking sector, reduce the level of taxation, amend the Loan
Recovery Act of 1997 to facilitate the foreclosure of loan collaterals, reform the National Savings
Schemes, and reform the Foreign Currency Deposit Scheme.

3.2 Revised Objective:

None

3.3 Original Components:

To achieve its objectives, the project consisted of the following components:

        a) Restructuring Components
           · Branch rationalization of the Nationalized Commercial Banks (NCBs)
           · Staff rationalization of the NCBs
           · Amalgamation of NDFC into National Bank

        b) Privatization Components
          · Bona fide attempt at fully divesting the government's remaining shareholding in
Muslim Commercial Bank at market prices
          · Sale of the government's 49% share ownership in Allied Bank to a qualified strategic
investor
          · Substantial progress in the sale of United Bank
          · Substantial progress in preparing Habib Bank for sale
          · Initial progress in preparing National Bank for sale

        c) Policy Components
           · Liberalization of bank branching policy
           · Revision of the tax policy for the banking sector and initial reduction in the level of



                                                 - 2 -

taxation
           · Amendment to the Loan Recovery Act of 1997 to facilitate the foreclosure of loan
collaterals
           · Reform of the National Savings Schemes
           · Reform of the Foreign Currency Deposit Scheme

3.4 Revised Components:

        The project was restructured twice under which amendments were made to the
Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to add new components needed to facilitate the
achievement of the project development objective, even though the project development objective
remained unchanged. The first amendment to the DCA was made in February 2003 to allocate
$50 million, earlier earmarked for the second phase of the Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS)
of Habib Bank Limited (HBL), for the VRS of Allied Bank Limited (ABL). The second phase of
HBL's VRS was not carried out as staff retrenchment under the first phase was able to achieve the
desired objective of improving the cost structure of the bank to a level that made it saleable. As a
result, there was a cost saving under the project. ABL was the second bank in the public sector
to be privatized.    Unlike Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB), which was sold to a strategic
investor, ABL was privatized through an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP). During
1991-1993, a total of 51 percent shares was sold to the Allied Management Group, which
represented the employees of ABL, thus making the bank a private bank and the provisions of the
Banks Nationalization Act of 1974 ceased to apply. In 1999, it transpired that one of ABL's
major defaulters had purchased about 35-40 percent of ABL shares from employees.
Subsequently in July 1999, the SBP imposed restrictions on the transfer of shares from employees
to non-employees, except with prior approval from the SBP. The bank had also been operating at
a loss with alarming levels of NPLs and its capital adequacy ratio was well below the minimum
requirement. In August 2001, the SBP appointed a new Board of Directors to look after the
affairs of the bank. Thus, ABL was effectively re-nationalized and taken over by the SBP because
of its governance and financial problems. There was a need to re-privatize the bank and so the
project was restructured to make this possible. Essentially, the DCA was amended to include
ABL in the definition of NCBs so that the project money could be used to fund its VRS, which
would improve its cost/income ratio and make it privatizable. However, due to strong demand
for a bank presence in Pakistan and the change in the transaction structure with investors asked to
pay for the shares to the bank itself rather than to the government, the authorities were able to
privatize ABL without having to pay for its VRS. Given that the high cost of balance sheet
restructuring to the government was not fully financed and the relevant project development
objective of privatizing the NCBs had already been met, the DCA was further amended in
September 2004 to allow for reimbursement against the cost of balance sheet restructuring of
NCBs, which was incurred early on by the government to pave the way for their eventual
privatization.

3.5 Quality at Entry:


The project was not subjected to QAG assessment of Quality at Entry.




                                               - 3 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

       All the major development objectives of BSRPP, namely restructuring of the Nationalized
Commercial Banks (NCB) to improve their prospects for sale to qualified strategic investors and
completing the privatization of the partially privatized banks, have been fully realized. With the
privatization of two of the three NCBs which accounted for nearly 25 percent of the system,
nearly 80 percent of the country's banking sector assets are now in private hands. ABL, which
was taken over by the government in August 2001 because of financial and governance problems,
was successfully re-privatized in August 2004. The National Development Finance Corporation
(NDFC) was successfully merged with NBP. The government was able to divest its remaining 25
percent shareholding in Muslim Commercial Bank (MCB) in three market sales from November
2001 through November 2003. Necessary policy actions including reforms of the NSS and
FCDS, gradual reduction of the taxation of the banking sector, and liberalization of bank
branching policy were carried out. All of the key performance indicators were achieved (See
Annex 1).

       As a result of reforms undertaken under BSAL and BSRPP, financial soundness indicators
of commercial banks have been improving in recent years. Banks' average capital adequacy
ratio--capital to risk-weighted assets--improved from 6.0 percent at end-December 1997 to 11.6
percent as of September 2004. This reflects improved profitability and fresh injections of capital,
particularly in state-owned banks prior to privatization. Similarly, the aggregate NPL ratio--share
of gross NPLs in total loans--for the banking system has shown a declining trend from 20.1
percent to 11.0 percent over the same period. Profitability indicators have also shown a marked
improvement. After being negative in 1997 and several years thereafter, ROE turned around to
about 19.9 percent and ROA increased to 1.2 percent as of September 2004. The market share of
state-owned banks has declined steadily with nearly 80 percent of banking sector assets now in
private hands. The improvements in the financial soundness of the banking system and the
declining role of public sector banks can be demonstrated in the table below.




                                                - 4 -

                          Financial Indicators of the Banking System
                                              (in percent)



                                                         Before   After Reforms 2/
                                                       Reforms 1/



Capital Adequacy
  Regulatory capital to risk-weighted assets              6.0           11.6
  Tier I capital to risk-weighted assets                  5.5           9.5
  Capital to total assets                                 3.1           6.2

Asset composition and quality
  NPLs to gross loans                                     20.1          11.0
  Provisions to NPLs                                      54.2          70.2
  NPLs net of provisions to capital                       10.3          3.6
  Net NPLs to capital                                    143.6          26.5

Earnings and Profitability
  ROA (after tax)                                        (1.3)          1.2
  ROE (after tax)                                        (36.2)         19.9
  Net interest income to gross income                     46.5          60.1
  Cost/Income Ratio                                       85.8          53.5

Liquidity
  Liquid assets to total assets                           41.4          42.3
  Liquid assets to total deposits                         49.4          53.0

Market Share of Public Sector Banks
  Assets                                                  48.5          21.0
  Deposits                                                52.6          22.9
  Loans                                                   46.9          17.1
                           1/ Data as of end-December 1997
                           2/ Data as of end-September 2004

                           Source: SBP.

4.2 Outputs by components:

    a) Restructuring Components




                                                  - 5 -

   The first phase of restructuring the NCBs (HBL, UBL and NBP), implemented under the
   Banking Sector Adjustment Loan (BSAL), was achieved by bringing in professional
   management from outside to undertake cost restructuring by downsizing staff and closing
   down unprofitable branches. The NCBs underwent extensive operational restructuring
   with the start of the BSRPP program in 2001, a total of 11,083 staff out of a target
   number of 25,635 or 43 percent were separated through voluntary separation programs.
   Staff rationalization, de-layering, and branch rationalization (where 1,487 branches out of
   a target number of 1,800 branches or 83 percent were closed) reduced the high cost
   structure of NCBs and brought their cost/ income ratios closer to the international
   benchmark of 0.50. Although branch closure and staff retrenchment were below the
   targets, the cost reduction brought about by staff and branch rationalization enabled the
   banks to invest further and faster in technology, increased staff productivity, improved
   work culture and, improved public access to banking services. Thus, the government was
   able to privatize the banks well before the completion of BSRPP.

   The project development objective of promoting the expansion of the healthy part of the
   banking system was accomplished through the liberalization of bank branching policy and
   with the amalgamation of NDFC with NBP under the scheme approved by the federal
   government, thus dissolving the largest and most chronically insolvent development
   finance institution.

b) Privatization Components

   As a result of cost restructuring, coupled with the improving investment climate, the
   government was able to privatize the two NCBs (UBL and HBL) to qualified strategic
   investors, divest a minority equity stake through public offering in one NCB (NBP), and
   complete the privatization of the partially privatized banks (MCB and ABL). A qualified
   buyer from UAE joining hands with a local business group won the bid for a 51 percent
   stake in UBL with the purchase price of Rs. 12.35 billion (US$ 210 million) in September
   2002.    Strategic equity stake of 51 percent in HBL was sold to a qualified foreign
   institutional investor for a total bid price of Rs.22.40 billion (US$390 million) in February
   2004. As NBP is planned to be privatized only in the medium term, the government sold a
   10 percent of the bank's shares through an initial public offering in November 2001.
   Further sales of 10 percent and 3.2 percent respectively in October 2002 and October
   2003, brings the total to 23.2 percent. The government also successfully sold 16 percent
   of the remaining 24 percent shares in MCB in 2001 and the remaining 8 percent
   government shares in MCB were divested through the stock exchange in early 2003. In
   the case of ABL, the bank has operated under state appointed management and board
   since 2001 due to governance and financial problems. ABL was originally not included in
   the project but was subsequently brought under its purview at the request of the
   government, through amendment to the DCA in July 2003, as the government accorded it
   high priority and its inclusion was consistent with the original project objectives. In July
   2004, SBP structured a sale of 75 percent shares with an issue of additional shares in the
   bank to a local finance group. The group paid for the shares and took over the control of
   the bank at the end of August 2004. Four out of five large nationalized commercial banks



                                              - 6 -

       have now been privatized while 14 private domestic and 18 foreign banks are operating in
       the banking sector. State ownership of banking assets has declined from 92 per cent in
       1992 to 20 percent. Moreover, the governance structure of banks has been strengthened,
       better disclosure and transparency standards have been introduced and credit ratings of
       banks have been made mandatory and disseminated widely to the public at large. Fit and
       proper criteria have been prescribed for the directors and senior managers.

    c) Policy Components

       In the area of policy reforms the project has brought about the desired outcome.
       Artificially high rates of return on National Savings Schemes, which were putting bank
       deposits at an intrinsic disadvantage and creating uneven playing field against the banks,
       have been gradually rationalized and aligned with market-based benchmarks so that the
       choice of the savers between NSS and bank deposits is less tilted than before. Foreign
       exchange markets have been liberalized to a significant extent, although the SBP
       intervenes from time to time to stabilize the currency. All current account transactions
       and most capital account transactions have been made convertible.              Formation of
       exchange companies has encouraged further liberalization of capital movements.
       Government borrowing from the banking system is increasingly market-based and the
       annual volume of borrowing is limited and pre-announced. Mandatory credit allocations
       or subsidized interest rates have been abolished and the Central Bank does not require
       banks to lend to preferred sectors.     Financial instruments of varying tenure such as
       Pakistan Investment Bonds have been introduced by the Government to serve as the
       benchmark enabling a corporate debt market to function. An on-line Credit Information
       Bureau is maintained by the Central Bank for sharing information with the commercial
       banks on the credit history of the borrowers, and particularly those who are not servicing
       their debt on time. Diversification of risks has been attempted by encouraging bank
       lending for agriculture, SMEs, consumer financing, mortgages etc., and widening and
       strengthening the customer base in place of a narrow concentration on public sector and
       corporate borrowers.

       In terms of regulatory framework, the State Bank's capacity to supervise and regulate
banks, effectively monitor non-performing loans, enforce actions against banks found violating
regulations and laws has been strengthened. In the last four years, license of one bank was
revoked while appropriate intervention resulted in change of ownership and management of three
banks. Several institutions were forced to liquidate or merged with strong institutions. Several
development financial institutions have either been closed, wound up, privatized, converted into a
bank, restructured and adequately capitalized for eventual sale to the private sector.

       An independent assessment of the financial sector by a joint World Bank-IMF team has
concluded that the financial soundness indicators of Pakistani banking system are robust and can
withstand exogenous shocks. Observance of internationally accepted standards and codes has
been found to be quite high. Stringent measures have been laid and enforced on classification of
non-performing loans, loan loss provisioning, tier 1 and tier 2 capital adequacies, write off of
unrecoverable debt and allocation of capital against market risk.          Three different sets of



                                               - 7 -

regulations specifically tailored to manage the risk profiles of corporate, consumer and SME
lending have been issued by the State Bank in consultation with the banks and businesses.

        Minimum capital requirements of banks have been raised twice during the last four years
to weed out weak banks and allow mergers and consolidation to take place so that fewer but
stronger banks operate in the system. Banks and DFIs are now required to meet the minimum
capital of Rs.1.5 billion by December 2004 and of Rs.2 billion by December 2005. In order to
prepare banks/DFIs for Basel II, the State Bank has also imposed additional capital charge for
market risk. Most recently the State Bank has decided formally to adopt Basel II and has issued a
circular setting out the timeframe for adoption of different approaches under Basel II as follows:
(i) Standardized Approach for credit risk and Basic Indicator/Standardized Approach for
operational risk from 1 January 2008; (ii) Internal Ratings Based Approach (IRB) approach from
1 January 2010, with banks/DFIs given the flexibility to implement it sooner if their internal risk
management systems are approved by the State Bank; and (iii) banks/DFIs will be required to
adopt a parallel run of one and a half years for Standardized Approach and two years for IRB
Approach starting from July 1, 2006, and January 1, 2008 respectively.


4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

        The cost restructuring program involving the introduction of VRS for staff and closure of
branch offices was justified as an investment project that was expected to produce a stream of
cost reductions in terms of salary savings of retrenched staff, administrative cost saving on
account of branch closures, and removal of subsidy on staff loans. Applying this methodology,
the EIRR was estimated to be 21 percent for UBL compared to the estimated EIRR of 21 percent
at the time of appraisal. Similarly, the EIRR for NBP was found to be 16.45 percent as against
the estimated figure of 38 percent due to the lower number of staff retrenched and the higher
number of outsource positions post-retrenchment than anticipated at the time of appraisal.
However, the EIRR is considered acceptable since it is still much higher than the cost of funds in
the country. No estimate has been made for HBL as the SBP is still checking the accuracy of data
received from the bank (see Annex 3).

4.4 Financial rate of return:

        The payback period for NBP was found to be 3.36 years compared to the estimated
payback period of 3.18 years. Similarly, the payback period for HBL was 4 years compared to
the estimated payback period of 3.5 years, and for UBL the payback period was 4 years compared
with the estimated payback period of 4.09 years. The actual payback periods of the VRS
programs are in line with the estimates made at the time of appraisal and so are considered
satisfactory (see Annex 3).

4.5 Institutional development impact:

        The institutional impact has been substantial. The experience gained from implementing
VRS in the NCBs would be useful for the government in trying to design a similar retrenchment
program for other public sector corporations. The lessons learned from institutions restructuring



                                                - 8 -

program in NCBs could be gainfully employed for undertaking similar restructuring programs in
other public sector banks.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

        The most contentious points in the design of Voluntary Retirement Scheme (VRS) were
staff loans and medical benefits. Cases went to the court where it was decided that staff loans
could not be deducted from the lump sum severance payment and hence these were ultimately
retained in an on-going relationship with the ex-staff member. In the case of medical benefits, it
was decided that early termination was problematic (especially for large families) and hence a
five-year insurance coverage was offered in lieu of this prior benefit. It was discovered that to
implement VRS successfully NCBs needed to have clear target groups, set the stage early, offer
packages that would be accepted quickly, and close out the program quickly.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

        The restructuring program required endorsement by the Ministry of Finance, the SBP and
the three NCBs. The plans prepared by the three NCBs were approved by the Cabinet in a timely
manner and, consequently, project implementation began even before the project was approved by
the Bank.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

        Timely processing of VRS payments and effective controls (in NCBs and SBP) in this
regard assured smooth implementation of the project. The implementing agencies i.e. HBL, NBP
and UBL processed VRS payments as agreed during appraisal and subsequent supervision
missions. Payments were in line with their respective policies in this regard. Payments were
processed by the respective Human Resource Departments and checked by the Accounts and
Internal Audit Departments. External auditors' TORs were expanded to include audit of VRS
payments. Banking Policy Department and Accounts Department of the SBP efficiently processed
payments to NCBs. Banking Inspection Department (BID) also test-checked VRS payments as
part of their inspection that resulted in a couple of recoveries. The Bank financed the unfunded
part of VRS through SBP.             HBL, NBP, UBL and SBP maintained professional financial
management staff throughout life of the project.


5.4 Costs and financing:

        The Bank team reviewed actual project costs by components and sources of financing
vis-à-vis its own estimates. The table below gives the breakdown of the figures.




                                                     - 9 -

                  Project Costs by Components (in US$ million equivalent)

                Project Component          Appraisal    Actual Latest Percentage
                                           Estimates      Estimates   of Appraisal
                                          Bank   GoP    Bank    GoP   Bank  GoP
         NCB Staff Rationalization        300     137    211     -     70     -
         NCB Branch Closures               -       3      -      -            -
         NDFC Amalgamation                 -      100     -     282     -    282
         Completion of MCB and ABL         -       -      -      -      -     -
         Privatization
         Other Policy Measures (capital    -       -     116     -    116     -
         payments)
         Total Baseline Cost              300     240    327    282   109    118
         Physical Contingencies            -       -      -      -      -     -
         Price Contingencies               -       -      -      -      -     -
                       Total Project Cost 300     240    327     -    109    118
                Total Financing Required  300     240    327    282   109    118




        It was found that the total cost of the BSRPP project increased from $540 to $609
million. While the actual cost of staff rationalization dropped from $437 million to $211 million
due to the less than expected number of staff being retrenched, the cost of NDFC amalgamation
with NBP rose by almost two-folds from $100 million to $282 million and the whole amount was
funded from GOP resources. Only 70 percent, as opposed to the entire amount, was used to
finance the cost of staff rationalization. The remaining amount was used for recapitalization of
NCBs (see Annex 2).

        The banking reforms that were initiated in 1997 have cost the Government about US$ 2
billion, nearly 1.8 % of GDP. The costs include capital injections, voluntary separation programs
for downsizing and bringing the cost structure of public sector banks in line with international
norms and other outstanding claims of the banks on account of state owned enterprises and tax
settlements. The costs of operational restructuring of the banks were partially supported by the
Bank under BSAL, BSRPP and BSDP. The net cost to the government, after factoring in
financial support from the Bank and other development partners and proceeds from the
privatization of NCBs, was estimated to be about US$940 million. Details of the costs incurred
over reforms carried out since 1997 are provided in the table below.




                                                - 10 -

                         Cost of Restructuring & Privatization (US$ in millions)

                            Capital            VRS         SOE/CIRC*            Tax        Total Cost of
                           Injection                       Recognition      Settlements   Restructuring
                                                              Bonds
UBL                            530              105             90               91            816
HBL                            275              160             60               172           667
NDFC                            50               10              --               --           60
NBP                             --              415              --              82            497
Total Cost                     855              690             150              345          2,040
GoP Sale Proceeds**              -                -              -                -            590
Bank Support***                400              450                                            850
OECF                                            250                                            250
Sub total                                                                                     1,100
Net Cost                                                                                       940
                     * HBL figures includes $39 million SOE Recognition Bonds.
                     ** Proceeds from the sale of UBL, HBL and NBP's 23 percent shares.
                     ***Includes BSAL $250 million, BSRPP $300 million, and BSDP $300 million.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

        Overall project sustainability is rated highly likely. The GOP's final evaluation project
report prepared by the SBP endorsed the mission's main finding that the project development
objective has been achieved. According to the report, Pakistan's banking sector was on the brink
of a crisis triggered by over-staffing, over-branching, poor customer services, undercapitalized
banks, poorly managed and narrow product range, undue interference in lending, and huge
portfolio of NPLs. The reforms implemented under BSAL were able to stabilize the financial
sector while BSRPP was designed to help the Government with second level of operational
restructuring of the NCBs in preparation for their privatization as well as for improving corporate
governance of the partially privatized banks by divesting the remaining Government holding and
allowing complete private sector ownership.            The reforms introduced significantly improved
soundness and efficiency of the financial system by reducing state intervention and improving the
environment for banking. The prospects for the project's sustainability are good given that GOP
has now embarked on a second generation of reforms including completing the process of
restructuring and privatization of the remaining state-owned financial institutions, improving the
environment for financial intermediation including integration of the NSS with the financial
markets, improving the framework for contractual savings to further deepen capital markets and
develop the long-term private debt market, improving access to finance, and strengthening of the
AML/CFT regime.



                                                    - 11 -

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

        During the course of reforms it was recognized that the NCBs would require substantial
balance sheet restructuring to attract quality investors and provide the basis for genuine
privatization. The total cost of restructuring and recapitalizing the NCBs to date was about US$2
billion with net cost of about US$600 million after taking into account reimbursement by the
Bank for operational restructuring and the sale proceeds received by the Government from
privatization of UBL and HBL. Earlier operations have supported operational restructuring in
order to facilitate privatization, however, the Bank had linked any recapitalization support to
successful privatization. With the completion of privatization of UBL, HBL, and resolution of
ABL, the Bank agreed in December 2004 to provide IDA credit of $100 million and IBRD loan
of $200 million to support the Banking Sector Development Program (BSDP) in the context of
Government's overall banking reform strategy as spelled out in its Letter of Development Policy.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:


        Satisfactory.    The Bank was responsive to the special circumstances of Pakistan in
preparing this operation. A Bank mission was asked by the government in September 2000 to
help revive implementation of the 1997 reform program, focusing on bank privatization as the
next critical set of steps in the process. The plan was to privatize HBL and UBL within the tenure
of the current government and to take steps towards preparing NBP for privatization. The Bank
was able to respond quickly and timely to the government's request by launching the first
identification mission in January 2001, which was followed by an appraisal mission two months
later. The investment operation was designed to meet the objective of improving the banks'
prospects for sale while working on the sale transactions themselves. It was well designed, cost
effective, and timely as the NCBs had finalized their branch closure plans in Phase I by the time of
the appraisal mission. The BSRPP was approved by the Board in October 2001 (see Annex 4).

7.2 Supervision:


        Satisfactory. Bank staff maintained close liaison with NCBs and SBP throughout the
project period. The project benefited from inputs provided by the operational and financial
management staff during supervision.             The supervision mission followed up on project
implementation on a regular basis and was able to identify problems hindering the achievement of
project development objective. The project was restructured twice under which amendments
were made to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) to add new project components needed
to facilitate the achievement of the project development objective which had remained unchanged.
The first amendment was made in February 2003 to allocate $50 million, earlier earmarked for the
second phase of HBL's VRS, for ABL's VRS. The second phase of HBL's VRS was not carried
out as staff retrenchment under the first phase was able to achieve the desired objective of
improving the cost structure of the bank to a level that made it saleable. As a result, there was a
cost saving under the project. Since ABL was re-nationalized because of its governance and
financial problems and needed to re-privatized, the supervision mission sought and obtained



                                                  - 12 -

Bank's agreement to utilize the cost savings under the project for ABL's VRS. However, due to
strong demand for a bank presence in Pakistan and the change in the transaction structure with
investors asked to pay for the shares to the bank itself rather than to the government, the
authorities were able to privatize ABL without having to pay for its VRS. Given that the high
cost of balance sheet restructuring to the government was not fully financed and the relevant
project development objective of privatizing the NCBs had already been met, the subsequent
supervision mission decided to seek a second amendment to the DCA to allow for reimbursement
against the cost of balance sheet restructuring of NCBs, which was incurred early on by the
government to pave the way for their eventual privatization. The credit was disbursed in full on
November 17, 2004, well within the closing date for fund disbursement (see Annexes 4 and 6).

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

The overall Bank's performance is rated satisfactory. (See Annexes 4 and 6).

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:


    Satisfactory. BSRPP was the first of its kind in the South Asia Region. It is a unique case of
a loan supporting a "home-grown" program where the Borrower was in full command of program
design and implementation. Decisions were made and actions were taken by the Borrower on its
own. The Borrower was clear about its responsilities and knew that BSRPP would be approved
after all major components of the project had been agreed on. The implementation timetable was
driven solely by the Borrower. The project was well-designed. The Borrower was a willing
client. Cooperation was excellent throughout preparation and implementation. The Borrower,
led by the Central Bank, was convinced that the measures supported by the program were critical
not only in improving the cost structure of NCBs but also in achieving an efficient and sound
banking sector (see Annex 6).

7.5 Government implementation performance:


        Satisfactory.   Project implementation was satisfactory.    The VRS supported by the
project was designed mainly by the Pakistanis. Justifiably, the government claimed ownership of
the reform agenda and proclaimed it to be "home-grown" program.        Decisions were made and
actions taken on their own volition and according to their own their timetable. The Bank's role
consisted principally of providing a global perspective, giving technical advice to enhance the
bankability and market credibility of the program, and promoting the program to potential
co-financiers and donors for support (see Annex 6).


7.6 Implementing Agency:


        Satisfactory.   The implementing agencies i.e. HBL, NBP and UBL processed VRS
payments as agreed during appraisal and subsequent supervision missions. Payments were in line
with their respective policies in this regard. Payments were processed by the respective Human
Resource Departments and checked by the Accounts and Internal Audit Departments. External
auditors' TORs were expanded to include audit of VRS payments. Banking Policy Department


                                               - 13 -

and Accounts Department efficiently processed payments to NCBs. Banking Inspection
Department (BID) also test-checked VRS payments as part of their inspection that resulted in a
couple of recoveries. The Bank financed unfunded part of VRS through SBP. HBL, NBP, UBL
and SBP maintained professional financial management staff throughout life of the project (see
Annex 6).


7.7 Overall Borrower performance:


    The overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory (see Annex 6).

8. Lessons Learned

                A number of useful lessons can be learned from Pakistan's experience with bank
    restructuring and privatization including the following:

    1. NCB reforms could not be carried out without strong government's support and
        commitment as reflected by the government agreeing to promulgate the Privatization
        Ordinance in 2000 to pave the way for privatization of the NCBs.
    2. Public sector banks must undergo cost restructuring before privatization to bring their
        cost/income ratios in line with private banks. In Pakistan this was achieved through
        downsizing of staff and closure of unprofitable branch offices.   In order to reduce the
        surplus staff in the NCBs, voluntary separation packages were offered to employees. This
        resulted in downsizing of the work force of the three big NCBs (HBL, NBP and UBL) by
        11,083 staff out of a total of 39,277. In addition, as part of the downsizing exercise,
        1,487 branches of NCBs were closed down.
    3. In order to secure a good price for a bank sale, the bank must be recapitalized so that it is
        able to meet the minimum capital adequacy requirement. The balance sheets of public
        sector banks were cleaned up and their accumulated losses wiped off by the injection of
        new equity in HBL and UBL. A total of Rs 46.6 billion (US$ 855 million) was injected as
        equity in these two banks prior to their privatization.
    4. Downsizing requires bank management to identify excess manpower in the labor force.
        There is a need to coordinate approach with other banks under SBP umbrella. Success of
        VRS was contingent on NCBs being able to agree on common packages and timeframe.
    5. Formula instead of subjective approach should be used to minimize contention, give
        signals to stakeholders (staff, unions, government officials and politicians) on culture
        change intent, and ease legal process.
    6. The stock of NPLs must be dealt with through major amendments to loan recovery laws
        and implementation of government-induced recovery drives. The Loan Recovery Act of
        1997 was amended in 2002 through promulgation of the Financial Institutions (Recovery
        of Finance) Ordinance to allow foreclosure of collateral without court intervention. The
        SBP also issued incentives for debtors to settle their chronically overdue debts with
        financial institutions under its Circular No 29 dated 15 October 2002. The Circular
        provided debtors a one-time incentive scheme for lump sum payment. Much of the loan
        recoveries was achieved through these measures. The remaining uncollectible amounts
        were settled in the court of law or removed through a system-wide carve out of NPLs.



                                                - 14 -

        The government established the Corporate and Industrial Restructuring Corporation
        (CIRC) in 2000 to acquire those NPLs that NCBs found impossible to collect after
        exhausting all efforts including legal means. NPLs worth Rs. 47.4 billion were transferred
        to CIRC at a discount for rapid disposal. As a result, the government was able to clean up
        the balance sheets of NCBs.
    7. The government must bring in professional management teams from outside to restructure
        and turn around the failed banks. In order to streamline the working of NCBs, the
        government put in place professional managers in HBL, NBP and UBL. The Board of
        Directors were reconstituted with private sector individuals of integrity and eminence.
    8. For privatization to succeed, the government should avoid unrealistic timelines, conduct
        the sale transparently, lay out clear road maps, launch targeted road shows, and establish
        track record to widen investor interest.
    9. Restructuring of failed banks is costly but is necessary.        The high costs reflect the
        cumulative costs of misgovernance and poor management.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

        The banking system was on the verge of crisis in the mid 1990s with the problems of
over-staffing, over-branching, poor customer services, undercapitalized banks, narrow product
range, undue interference in lending, and high stock of NPLs. In early 1997, the government
designed and started banking sector reforms. The first phase of these reforms was supported by
BSAL. Reforms implemented under BSAL were short term in nature but were able to stabilize
the financial sector by addressing some of the core issues, thus creating a platform for longer term
reforms. BSRPP was designed to help the Government with the second level of operational
restructuring of the NCBs in preparation for their privatization as well as for improving corporate
governance of the partially privatized banks by divesting the remaining Government holding and
allowing complete private sector ownership.        The reforms introduced significantly improved
soundness and efficiency of the financial system by reducing state intervention and improving the
environment for banking. The successful implementation of reforms under BSRPP improved the
overall performance of the banking system. The divestiture of state owned institutions has
substantially changed the struture of the banking sector and nearly 80% of sector assets are now
controlled by the private banks. The overall banking sector has now become considerably more
competitive and responsive. The Financial Institutions (Recovery of Finances) Ordinance of 2001
significantly improved recoveries and, thus, helped to reduce the level of NPLs in the system. As
a result, the government's debt burden was reduced and it was left with only a few minor areas to
concentrate (see Annex 8).


(b) Cofinanciers:

        None

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

        In addition to government officials, the ICR mission also met with stakeholders in the
private sector including senior bankers in private banks, foreign banks, and industrialists. Given


                                                - 15 -

the rapid expansion of the banking sector, some people in the private sector felt strongly that
there was a role to be played by an international credit rating agency. Though there are currently
two credit rating agencies in Pakistan, it was felt that they lacked adequate capacity to judge the
strengths of the financial institutions. Others in the private sector took the view that the existing
credit rating agencies tended to give more weights to quantifiable factors such as growth and
financial performance than to qualitative aspects of risk management capabilities, which are more
difficult to assess. Also, doubts had been expressed about the capital and technical capacity of
banks to take on increasing interest rate risks, given the current volatility of interest rates and the
trend towards rising rates. Most banks doubled their loan books in the last 3-4 years with the
bulk of lending going into consumer finance. As the interest rates went up, it was generally
believed, there would be a need to monitor the loans more vigilantly. Since most of the loans
were on a floating rate basis, the banks felt comfortable with their ability to manage these risks.
However, the risk management capabilities, especially when it came to accessing credit risk of
consumers, appeared to be weak and needed to be strengthened significantly. There appeared to
have been a shift in the focus of the private sector from restructuring and privatizing NCBs to
reaping the benefits of privatization. There was a perceived additional pressure by the new
owners and the public on the privatized banks to perform better. Privatization had also led to a
rethinking in the foreign banks with respect to their strategy for Pakistan. Prior to privatization,
the various types of banks (public banks, local banks and foreign banks) were all catering to
different segments of the market, but now the landscape had changed and with the leveling of the
playing field and the growing economy, they all found themselves operating in a highly
competitive environment.

10. Additional Information

    None




                                                - 16 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Reduction of the cost/income ratio of the     Target                                         Actual
NCBs to 0.65                                  12/31/2002                                     12/31/2004
                                              HBL = 0.65; NBP = 0.55; UBL = 0.65             HBL = 0.60; NBP = 0.43; UBL = 0.56
Rationalization of the branch network of the  12/31/2002                                     12/31/2004
NCBs by reducing the number of branches       HBL = 600; NBP = 550; UBL = 650;               HBL = 503; NBP = 367; UBL = 617
by 1,800 (40%)                                TOTAL = 1,800                                  TOTAL = 1,487. The closure was below the
                                                                                             target as UBL and HBL were privatized well
                                                                                             before completion of BSRPP.
Staff rationalization in the NCBs by reducing 12/31/2002                                     12/31/2004
the headcount by 25,635 (50%)                 HBL = 10,873; NBP = 7,430; UBL = 7,332; HBL = 3,533; NBP = 3,048; UBL = 4,502;
                                              TOTAL = 25,635                                 TOTAL = 11,083. The staff retrenchment
                                                                                             was below the target as UBL and HBL were
                                                                                             privatized well before completion of BSRPP
Amalgamation of NDFC into the National        December 2001                                  November 2001
Bank of Pakistan
Full divestment of MCB and sale of 49%        By December 2004                               Residual shares of MCB divested in three
government shares in ABL to a qualified                                                      market sales from January 2001 to October
strategic investor.                                                                          2002. ABL was reconstructed in August
                                                                                             2004 under Section 47 of Banking
                                                                                             Companies Ordinance and, as a result,
                                                                                             GOP's shareholding was reduced to 11.9%.

Bank branching policy liberalized             March 2001                                     March 2001

Announcement of revised tax policy and        Gradual reduction of 5% per year               Tax structure for banking sector has been
regime for banking system                                                                    gradually decreased by 7% per year from
                                                                                             55% to 41% and will be brought down to the
                                                                                             normal corporate tax rate of 35% for which
                                                                                             the schedule has already been announced.

Ordinance amending the Loan Recovery Act August 2001                                         Amended in 2002 through promulgation of
of 1997 promulgated.                                                                         "The Financial Instituitions (Recovery of
                                                                                             Finances) Ordinance, 2001".

Reforms of National Savings Schemes           Rates are linked to market rates and other tax Rates are increasingly linked to market rates
                                              advantages removed                             but some tax advantages still remain.

Discontinuance of the Foreign Currency        April 2001                                     Discouragement of using foreign currency
Deposit Scheme                                                                               deposit for balance of payments financing.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                 1
                Indicator/Matrix                         Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Initial progress in preparing NBP for sale    Gradual sale through IPO                       23.2% shares of NBP divested through an
                                                                                             IPO and market sales in tranches between
                                                                                             November 2001 and November 2003
NDFC Act revoked                              NDFC Act revoked                               NDFC Act revoked
Bad assets of NCBs transferred to CIRC        Bad assets of NCBs transferred to CIRC         Bad assets of NCBs transferred to CIRC
Substantial progress in the sale of HBL and   Sale negotiations commenced with               Sale of 51% shares of UBL completed in
UBL                                           pre-qualified strategic buyers for HBL and     October 2002. Sale of 51 % shares of HBL
                                              UBL                                            completed in February 2004

1End of project




                                                                 - 17 -

  Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

  Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                               Appraisal      Actual/Latest    Percentage of
                                                               Estimate         Estimate         Appraisal
                           Component                          US$ million       US$ million
   NCB Staff Rationalization                                    437.00             211.24            48.33
   NCB Branch Closures                                            3.00              0.00                  0
   NDFC Amalgamation                                            100.00             282.38           282.38
   Other Policy Measures (Capital Payments)                       0.00             115.55           115.55

   Total Baseline Cost                                          540.00             609.17
                              Total Project Costs               540.00             609.17
                        Total Financing Required                540.00             609.17




Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          Percentage of Appraisal
       Component                 Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                              Bank      Govt.      CoF.    Bank        Govt.      CoF.     Bank   Govt.   CoF.
NCB Staff Rationalization    300.00    137.00      0.00    211.24      0.00       0.00     70.4    0.0     0.0
NCB Branch Closures           0.00      3.00       0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00     0.0     0.0     0.0
NDFC Amalgamation             0.00     100.00      0.00     0.00      282.38      0.00     0.0    282.4    0.0
Completion of MCB and         0.00      0.00       0.00     0.00       0.00       0.00     0.0     0.0     0.0
ABL Privatization
Capital Payments              0.00      0.00       0.00    115.55      0.00       0.00     0.0     0.0     0.0
Total Baseline Cost          300.00    240.00      0.00    326.78     282.38      0.00     108.9  117.7    0.0




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

                                  Restructuring Program Projected Cash Flows of NBP
                                             2001       2002       2003      2004     2005    2006    2007
Present # of total employees               15163       12195      13272     13745
Current Daily Waged                          3800
New Hires                                                 49        159        155      80      80      80
# of Employees post retrenchment                       12195      13272     13745    13825   13905   13985
Outsource positions post retrenchment                              1345      1350     1349    1349    1349



Outflows:
VHS costs of 3048 employees                           (6,175)
Cost of outsourcing                                                 (24)      (25)     (26)    (28)    (29)
Cost of New Hires                                        (41)     (137)      (211)   (249)   (288)   (326)
Cost of branch closure                                   (25)
Sub total                                    -        (6,241)     (161)      (236)   (276)   (316)   (355)
Inflows:
Salary saving of retrenched staff                     1,015       1,082     1,176   1,298    1,402   1,514
Staff loan principal                                  1,349
Cost staff loans subsidy                                 54         54          27     54      67      67
Admin cost saving braches closed                        108        117        126     136     147     159
                         Subtotal                     2,526       1,253     1,329   1,488    1,616   1,740
Net Cash flows                                        (3,715)     1,092     1,093   1,212    1,300   1,385
Payback # years                                                                                        3.36
IRR                                                                       -30.66%   -6.02%   8.03%  16.45%



The IRR for NBP was estimated to be 16.45 percent with a payback period of 3.36 years




                                                       - 19 -

                            Restructuring Program Projected Cash Flows of United Bank Limited
                                              2001       2002       2003        2004      2005    2006     2007
Present # of total employees                 13349       8446       8815        9206
Current Daily Waged
New Hires                                      328
# of Employees post retrenchment              6345       6345       6345
Outsource positions post retrenchment         4208



Outflows:
VHS costs of 7,332 employees                 -6,133
Cost of outsourcing                            -195       -421      -455        -491       -531   -573     -619
Cost of New Hires                               -90       -193      -209        -225       -244   -263     -284
Cost of branch closure                          -53
Sub total                                     -7004       -614      -664        -716       -775   -836     -903
Inflows:
Salary saving of retrenched staff              627       1629       1759        1900      2052    2216     2393
Staff loan principal                          1915        -192      -192        -192       -192   -192     -192
Cost staff loans subsidy                        86        172        155         138       121     103       86
Admin cost saving braches closed                76        163        176         190       205     222      240
                         Subtotal             2704       1772       1898        2036      2186    2349     2527
Net Cash flows                                -4300      1158       1234        1320      1411    1513     1624
Payback # years                                  4
IRR                                                                 -31%         -7%        7%    16%      21%
Required residual for IRR of 15%                      5510.91    4652.25     3609.02    2345.39  819.51 -1017.43



The IRR for UBL was estimated to be 21 percent with a payback period of 4 years.




                                                        - 20 -

                                    Restructuring Program Projected Cash Flows of HBL
                                             2001          2002       2003        2004  2005   2006     2007
Present # of total employees                21847         19978      19733      17724
Current Daily Waged                            429          454        480        412
New Hires                                       77            90       106         80
# of Employees post retrenchment            19978         19733      19724      19826
Outsource positions post retrenchment          342          359        444        789



Outflows:
VHS costs of 3520 employees                  -6437         -143       -204
Cost of outsourcing                            -55           -58       -72        -128
Cost of New Hires                              -55           -63       -53         -85
Cost of branch closure                         -74           -13         0          0
Sub total                                    -6621         -277       -329        -213

Inflows:
Salary saving of retrenched staff              980         1058       1143        1235
Staff loan principal                         2225             31         1         -25
Cost staff loans subsidy                        89            90        90         89
Admin cost saving braches closed                53          114        123        133
                         Subtotal            3347          1293       1357        1432
Net Cash flows                               -3274         1016       1028        1219
Payback # years                                  4
IRR                                                          -69     -26%          0%
Required residual for IRR of 15%



The IRR has not been estimated for HBL as the SBP is still checking the accuracy of the data submitted by
HBL. However, the payback period was estimated to be four years.




                                                        - 21 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               02/01/2001                3    TASK LEADER (1); TEAM                 S               S
                                              MEMBER (2)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               05/26/2001                3    TASK LEADER (1); TEAM                 S               S
                                              MEMBER (2)
               07/19/2001                3    TASK LEADER (1); TEAM                 S               S
                                              MEMBER (2

 Supervision
               09/01/2002                 3   TASK LEADER (1); TEAM                 S               S
                                              MEMBER (2)
               03/31/2003                 3   TASK LEADER (1); TEAM                 S               S
                                              MEMBER (2)
               10/01/2003                 3   TASK LEADER (1); TEAM                 S               S
                                              MEMBER (2)
               02/15/2004                 4   SENIOR FS SPECIALIST (1);             S               S
                                              SENIOR FM SPECIALIST (1);
                                              FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                              LEAD FS SPECIALIST (1)

 ICR
               04/1/2005                 5     SENIOR FS SPECIALIST                 S               S
                                               (1); TEAM MEMBER (1);
                                               SENIOR FM
                                               SPECIALIST(2)
                                               FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                               (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation               18.2                            82.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    42.3                       173.351
  Supervision                             39.59                       159.741
  ICR                                      23.2                        89.565
  Total                                 123.29                        504.857




                                               - 22 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA
Financial stability




                                                    - 23 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 24 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide-Memoire of the Implementation Completion Report Mission on BSRPP
2. Back to Office Report of the ICR Mission datedd April 30, 2005
3. A Project Completion Report prepared by the State Bank of Pakistan
4. Project Appraisal Document for the Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project
  dated October 1, 2001
5. Program Document for the Banking Sector Development Program dated December 13, 2004
6. Country Assistance Progress Report for the Islamic Republic of Pakistan dated Marach 26,
  2004




                                           - 25 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Assessment of the Project


    PROJECT: BANKING SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION
                                        PROJECT

a.    Write up ( summary)
b.    Key performance indicators
c.    Impact of BSRPP
d.    Annexures

      (I)    Status of Divestment of 23.2% shares of NBP and remaining shares of MCB (9%)
      (II)   Data on branch closure
      (III)  Chart on cost/income ratio and number of employees
      (IV)   Status of reimbursement of claims to NCBs/NDFC
      (V)    Estimated/Actual Project Cost tablesa
      (VI)   Financial Summary

e.    Provided in hard copy form

             i) Statement showing the position of remaining shareholding of MCB ( 9%)
             ii) Court order
             iii) Branch Licencing Policy
             iv) BSD Circualar on implementation of BASEL 11 in Pakistan
             v) BSD Circular on MCR and Capital Adequacy Ratio




                                            - 26 -

a)       Write-Up
BANKING SECTOR RESTRUCTURING AND PRIVATIZATION PROJECT(BSRPP)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT

The World Bank approved a loan of SDR 239,500,000 ( approximately US$ 300 million) on 24th
October 2001 for Banking sector Privatization Project (BSRPP). Project appraisal document of
the World Bank, laid own following plan of financing:
·        the staff rationalization of NCBs & NDFC
·        amalgamation of NDFC with NBP
·        Balance Sheet restructuring of NCBs (this component has been added recently to allow
utilization of remaining funds under the project.
         Sr. No.       Financier              Amount         Purpose
                                              (USD million)

         i)            Borrower (GOP)         240       a] Partial Financing (USD 137 million) for
                                                        staff rationalization of NCBs & NDFC;
                                                        b] Branch Closure (USD 3 million);
                                                        c]   NDFC      amalgamation   (USD   100
                                                        million).
         ii)           International          300       For severance payments only.
                       Development
                       Association
         iii)          Total Project cost     540

2.       Initial Schedule of Reimburesment

As per Development Credit Agreement (DCA), amount of SDR 239,500,00 (approximately USD
300 million) had to be reimbursed in four installments against the unfunded portion of the
severance payments made by the NCBs/NDFC, as under:
   Sl No.                 Initial Schedule of Reimbursement/Catetory Amount

      1                             Severance payment SDR 79,800,000

       2                            Severance payment SDR 79,800,000

       3                            Severance payment SDR 40,000,000

       4                            Severance payment SDR 39,900,000

                                                Total SDR 239,500,000




                                                - 27 -

3.      Amendments made in the DCA ( Development Credit Agreement)

As a result of discussion with the Supervision Mission of the World Bank that visited Pakistan
from February 1 to 7, 2003 amendments were made in the DCA to incoroporate the following
aspects:

l allocation of funds of US$50 million, earlier earmarked for Staff reduction by HBL were
    earmarked for VSS to be launched by ABL (however due to reconstruction of ABL this
    amount remained unutilized.

l allowing hiring of temporary employees of NBP on permanent basis.

Later, on 27th September 2004, in order to utilize the remaining funds available under the
BSRPP, the World Bank on the request of GOP amended the agreement to allow for
reimbursement against the cost incurred by the Government on balance sheet restructuring of
Nationalized Commercial Banks for their Privatization. The schedule of reimbursement was
amended as under:

   Sl No.                        Amended Schedule of Reimbursement

                                            CateogoryAmount

      1                           Severance payment SDR 79,505,000

      2                           Severance payment SDR 79,800,000

      3                           Severance payment SDR       3,671,000

      4                           Capital payment      SDR 76,524,000

                                                 Total SDR 239,500,000


Reimbursement status:

Against VSS claims:

5.      Total VSS claim of Rs 13.322 billion were received from the banks/NDFC. These
included Rs 560.600 million representing income tax payments, which are non-reimbursable item
under the bSRPP. Accordingly claims amountign to Rs 12.761 billion were submitted with the
World Bank which were reimbursed in US$s. As a result , on conversation of these USDs into
rupees, the claims received from the World Bank decreased by Rs 36.119 million due to exchange
rate differential . Following is the postion of reimbursement against the claims submitted with the
World Bank:-




                                                 - 28 -

Banks      Employees     USD reimbursed by the WB         Amount Paid to banks or
            Relived                                      adjusted against the bridge
                                                          finance provided to the
                                                                   banks
                                                                 ( Rupees)
HBL          3533               76,306,979.35                  4,649,387,263

UBL          4502               25,667,201.31                  1,561,004,675

NBP          3048                 99,139,542                   5,909,651,885

NDFC          773                 10,125,449                    605,726,554

Total        11,856              211,239,172                   12,725,770,378

                      N.B Total may differ due to rounding

AgainstCapital Payments:

6.     In addition , consequent upon amendments in DCA, claim of Rs 7.9 billion ( provided to
UBL for equity injection in May 2002) was submitted to the World Bank for reimbursement
against the Capital payments. The World Bank reimbursed the amount as given below which has
already been credited to Government's account.

    Amount of Claim       US D reimbursed by the WB         Amount paid to GOP
    submitted to the                                               ( Rupees)
    WB
     7,900,000,000               115,54,5737.18                6,878,611,052.93




                                            - 29 -

                    b)      Key Performance Indicators and their outcomes:

     Key Performance Indiicators                               Outcome
1.      Reduction of the cost/income       By December 2003, all NCBs cost/income ratios
ratio of the NCBs to 0.65.                 below 0.65(Annexure-III)
2.      Ratinalization of branch network NCBs reduced branches by 836. The closure is
of NCBs by reducing number of branchesbelow the target as UBL and HBL were privatized
by 1,800 ( 40%).                           well before completion of the
                                           BSRPP.(Annexure-II)
3.      Staff retrenchment in the NCBs     VSS programs implemented which reduced NCB
to reduce headcount by 35,560 (50%).       staff by 11,856 (Annexure-IV).
4.      Amalgamation of NDFC with          NDFC amalgamated with NBP in November,
NBP.                                       2001.
5.      Full divestiture of GOP remainingResidual shares of MCB divested in three market
shareholding in MCB. Sale of GOP 49% sales from Jan 2001, to Oct ,2002(Annexure-I).
shareholding in ABL.                       Further, ABL was reconstructed in August, 2004,
                                           under section 47 of BCO, 1962 and GOP
                                           shareholding at present is 11.9%.
6.      Substaintial progress in the sale  Sale of 51% shares of UBL completed in October
of HBL and UBL.                            2002. Sale of 51% shares of HBL completed on
                                           February 26, 2004.
7.      Intial progress in preparing NBP 23.2% shares of NBP divested through an IPO &
for sale.                                  market sales in tranches between November 2001,
                                           and November 2003.(Annexure-I)
8.      Liberalization of bank branching Bank branching policy liberalized(Provided in
Policy                                     Hard Copy)
9.      Revision of the tax policy for the Tax structure for banking sector has been
banking sectorand intial reduction in the gradually decrease to 41% and will be brought
level of taxation.                         equivalent to Corporate Tax Rate(35%) for which
                                           schedule has already been announced.
10.     Ordinance amending the loan        The Loan Recovery Act, 1997 amended in 2002
Recovery Act of 1997                       through promulgation of "The Financial
                                           Institutions (Recovery of Finances) Ordinance,
                                           2001".(A copy of one of the court order provided
                                           in Hard Copy).




                                                - 30 -

c)      Impacts of BSRPP:-

The banking system was on the verge of crisis in the mid ninetees. Over-staffing, over-branching,
poor customer services, undercapitalized banks, poorly managed / narrow product range, adverse
to lending to SMEs/Housing & Other Segments, undue interference in lending, huge portfolio of
Non performing Loans , had all contributed to these crisis. In early 1997, the State Bank of
Pakistan and Ministry of Finance designed and started Banking Sector Reforms. The first phase of
these reforms were supported by BSAL. Reforms implemented under BSAL were short term in
nature but were able to stabalize the financial sector by addressing some of the core issues, thus
creating a platform for longer term reforms. BSRPP was planned to help the Government with
second level of operational restructuring of the NCBs in preparation of their privatization as well
as for improving corporate governance of the partially privatized banks by divesting the remaining
Government holding and allowing complete private sector ownership. The reforms introduced
under the heading of the above mentioned programs significantly improved soundness and
efficiency of the financial system by reducing state intervention and improving environment for
banking.

The successful implementation of Banking Sector Restructuring & Privatization program
improved the overall performance of the banking system. The divestuture of state owned
institutions has substantially changed the struture of the banking sector and nearly 80% of sector
assets are now controlled by the private banks. The overall banking sector has now become
considerably more competitive and responsive. Financial Institutions (Recovery of Finances)
Ordinance, 2001, had a significant impact on reducing the overall level of NPLs and has improved
recoveries. Thus continious restructuirng has reduced the burden on the government and has left
it with few minor areas to concentrate.




                                                - 31 -

d)    Annexures
                                                                         Annexure-I

STATUS OF DIVESTMENT OF 23.2% SHARES OF NBP AND REMAINING SHARES
                                    OF MCB

Date of   Name of       Shares      Mode of        Average       Total
Offer     Entity        Divested    DIvestment     Price Per     Proceeds
                                                   Share         ( Rs)
November National Bank 37.3 million  IPO           Rs 10/-       Rs 373.039
2001     of Pakistan   (10%)                       (IPO)         million
October                 37.3 million secondary     Rs. 21/- ( in Rs 783.382
2002                    (10%)        public offer  secondary     million
                                                   offer)
October                 13.13        secondary                   Rs 604
2003                    million      public offer  Rs 46
                        (3.2%)                     (secondary
                                                   public offer)
Otober   Muslim        24,024,560    Through CDC   Rs 27.65      664.17
2002     Commercial    shares ( 9%)                              million
         Bank




                                      - 32 -

                                                                           Annexure-II

                      STATUS ON BRANCH CLOSURE

Bank   Branches Closed Branches Branches Branches     Branches       Branches    Branches closed
Name   Since July 1997 Closed   Closed     Closed      Closed      Closed during during July 1997
        to December     during   during   during 2003 during 2004 January 2001 to to December
            2000         2001     2002                            December 2004       2004
 NBP        121          199       41          6           0           246             367
HBL         226          233       43          1           0           277             503
UBL         304          269       5          35           4           313             617
Grand       651          701       89         42           4           836            1487
Total




                                    - 33 -

                                                                          Annexure-III
                      Cost/Income Ratio and number of employees



                     2001*          2002*          2003*      2004**
Cost Income Ratio
 NBP                     53.6%           52.0%        39.4%      42.8%
 HBL                     70.0%           61.8%        45.9%      59.8%
 UBL                     65.6%           61.1%        57.9%      56.1%
Number of Employees
 NBP
                         15,163         12,195       13,272     13,745
 HBL
                         19,212         18,911       18,714     18,536
UBL
                         8,906           8,453        8,815      9,206
All Banks
                        87,373          83,998       85,878     97,633
                     *Based on Annual Audited Accounts of the banks.
                     ** Based on Quarterly Reports of Conditions of the banks.




                                   - 34 -

                                                                                   Annexure-IV
                              STATUS OF REIMBURSEMENT

                          (i) Against VSS claims of NCBs/NDFC

                                                                                   (Amount in Rupees)
     Bank        Employe       Amount claimed             USD      Exchange rate    Eq. PKR of USD
                     es       and reimbursed by       reimbursed     differential Credited to BRSPP
                                   the WB             by the WB         (Rs)           A/c at SBP
        1              2              3                    4              5              9=6-8
      HBL          3,533
                               4,660,720,985.67      76,306,979.35 11,333,722.30    4,649,387,263.37

     UBL*          4,502
                               1,564,840,000.00      25,667,201.31 3,835,324.97     1,561,004,675.03

      NBP          3,048
                               5,928,834,032.00      99,139,542.21 19,182,146.53    5,909,651,885.47

     NDFC           733
                                607,494,621.00       10,125,449.45 1,768,066.91     605,726,554.09

   TOTAL           11,856      12,761,889,638.67     211,239,172.32 36,119,260.71   12,725,770,377.96


N.B Total may differ due to rounding. The payment amount differs due to tax and exchange rate
differential which are both non-reimbursable items .


                               (ii)  Against Capital Payments

  Amount of Claim           US D reimbursed by the WB            Amount paid to GOP
submitted to the WB                                                   ( Rupees)
     7,900,000,000                 115,54,5737.18                  6,878,611,052.93




    (iii)Status of Total Payments Claimed and Total Reimbursed by the World Bank

 Amount of Claim submitted USD Reimbursed by the WB                  Amount Paid to GOP
            to the WB
        20,661,889,638.67                326,784,909.50                 19,604,381,430.89




                                               - 35 -

                                                                                        Annexure-V

                                    Estimated/Actual Project Costs
                PAKISTAN : Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project

   Project Cost by Competent          Estimated    Actual Local      Foreign        Total
                                        US $       US $ million     US$ million  US$ million
                                       million
(1*)NCB Staff Rationalization            437            211           0.00           211

NCB Branch Closures                       3             0.00          0.00           0.00

(2**)NFDC Amalgamation                   100            282           0.00           282

Completion of MCB and ABL                 0             0.00          0.00           0.00

Other Policy Mearues( Capital             0             116           0.00           116
Payments)

Total Baseline Cost                      540            609           0.00           609

   Physical Components                    0             0.00          0.00           0.00

   Price Contingency                      0             0.00          0.00           0.00
Total Project Costs                      540            609           0.00           609
                        N.B. Total may differ due to rounding


(1*) The captioned Project started in October 2001with a tenure of 3 years. One of the major
      targets of the project, was the privatization of NCBs. Accordingly, UBL was privatized in
      October 2002 followed by HBL which was privatized in February 2004. Further, 23.2%
      shares of NBP were divested through an IPO & market sales in 3 tranches between
      November 2001, and November 2003.

      The estimated cost for staff rationalization as highlighted in the Project Appraisal document
      was US$ 437 million. However,            US$ 326 were paid for staff rationalization of
      NCBs/NDFC.

      Privatization of HBL and UBL before the end of the project was the main reason behind
      lower than the estimated cost. Since the purpose of the project was to prepare these
      intitution for their privatization, they were not eligible for availing the finaning after the
      privatization. As a result, branch and staff rationalization remained lower than estimated and
      consequently cost of staff rationalization remained lower than the estimated.




                                                - 36 -

(2**) As per the Project Appraisal Document, the estimated cost for NDFC's amalgamation with
     NBP was US$100 million. However its actual cost came to US$282.38 million. The main
     reasons for higer than the estimated cost were:-

l As per clause 5.04 of the scheme of amalgamation of NDFC , the outstanding claims of the
   Federal Government against NDFC amount to Rs 14,431,337,063 approximately US$ 234.25
   million ( @ of Rs 61.6053 per dollar as on 29th October 2001) were written-off.

l As per clause 1.15 of the Scheme of Amalgamation for NDFC with NBP, the final valuation
   of Assets and Liabilities was to be conducted by external auditors. As per the external auditors
   calculation the gap between the assets and liabilities was Rs 2.925 billion approximately US$
   48.13million (@ of Rs 60.7759 per dollar as on 21st December 2001). As per clause 5.05 of
   the Scheme for Amalgamation , NBP was provided an amount of Rs 2.925 billion US$ 48.13
   million on 21st December 2001.

l In lieu of the above developments the total cost born by the        GOP on implementing the
   Scheme for Amalgamation of NDFC with NBP stood at US$ 282.38 million ( US$234.25 +
   US$ 48.13), which is higer than the estimated cost by USD 182.38 million.




                                              - 37 -

                                                                           Annexure-VI
                            Estimated/Actual Project Costs
            PAKISTAN : Banking Sector Restructuring and Privatization Project

Componen          Appraisal Estimate                   Actual               Percentage
      t       Bank     GOP         Total      Bank      GOP         Total      of
                                                                             Appraisal
NCB Staff     300.00   137.00     437.00      211.24      0        211.24    48.34%
Rationalizati
on
NCB Branch      0       3.00       3.00         0         0           0        0%
Closures
NFDC            0      100.00     100.00        0      282.38      282.38
Amalgamati
on
Completion      0        0          0           0         0           0         0
of MCB and
ABL
Other Policy    0        0          0         115.55      0        115.55    115.55
Mearues(
Capital
Payments)
Total         300.00   240.00     540.00      326.78   282.38      609.16    112.81
Baseline
Cost
Physical        0        0          0           0         0           0         0
Components
Price           0        0          0           0         0           0         0
Contingency
Total Project 300.00   240.00     540.00      326.78   282.38      609.16    112.81%
Costs




                                        - 38 -

                                                                          Annexure-VII

                                     Financial Summary

                       Year 1(2001)    Year 2(2002)  Year 3(2003) Year 4(2004)     Total
                         (US$)              (US$)       (US$)       (US$)
Financing
 IBRD/IDA                  95.46             97.65      11.51         6.62        *211.24
Government                282.38             0.00        0.00         0.00         282.38
     Central                0.00             0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00
  Provincial                0.00             0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00
Co-Financers                0.00             0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00
User fees/Beneficiaries     0.00             0.00        0.00         0.00           0.00
Other (Capital              0.00             0.00        0.00        115.55       *115.55
Payments)
Total Project             377.84             97.65      11.51        122.17      **609.16
Financing
               N.B Total may differ due to rounding




                                             - 39 -

- 40 -

