Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-7274-GE
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED ENERGY SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 18.1 MILLION (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
To
GEORGIA
JUNE 4, 1999
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



GEORGIA
Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
Currency Equivalents
(as of end April 1999)
Currency Unit = Larl
2.39 Laris = US $ 1.00
1.00 Lari = 100 tetri
Weights and Measures
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCM        -   Billion Cubic Meters
CAS        -   Country Assistance Strategy
EBRD       -   European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ESAF       -   Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
GDP        -   Gross Domestic Product
GIC        -   Gas International Corporation of Georgia
GNERC    -   Georgian National Electricity Regulatory 'Commission
IBRD       -   International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA        -   International Development Association
IMF        -   Intenational Monetary Fund
KFW            Kreditanstaft fur Wiederaufbau
KWH        -   Kilowatt Hours
MW         -   Megawatts
OECF       -   Overseas Economic Cooperation Find
SAC        -   Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR        -   Special Drawing Right
Georgia's Fiscal Year
January I - December 31
Vice President:      Johannes Linn, ECA
Country Director:    Judy O'Connor, ECCO3
Energy Sector Leader:   David Craig, ECSEG
Team Leader:         Jonathan Walters, ECSEG



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GEORGIA
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CREDIT SUMMARY
Borrower:                 Georgia Government
Amount:                   SDR 18.1 million (US$25 million equivalent)
Terms:                    Standard IDA, with 10 years grace and 35 years maturity
Commitment Fee:           A variable rate between 0.0 - 0.5% of the undisbursed credit
balance, set annually by the Executive Directors of IDA.
Objectives and Description: The proposed credit would maintain the momentum of energy
sector reform in Georgia, and help mitigate its social costs. The
energy sector reform program aims to enhance financial
management, combat corruption, increase the availability of
energy on a sustainable basis, catalyze private investment, realize
Georgia's pipeline transit potential, and upgrade environmental
management.
Benefits:                 Energy sector reform will improve service quality, reduce
environmental damage, and enhance the prospects for private
participation in energy infrastructure. By removing a source of
soft financing for the economy, it will force more rapid structural
adjustment. Similarly, eliminating this quasi-fiscal role of the
energy sector will remove the threat of such a role being thrust
back on the Government budget, thereby undermining fiscal
sustainability. Relieving energy shortages will remove a major
constraint to private sector development and employment
generation.
Risks:                    The reform program is ambitious in the face of huge problems in
the sector. The reforms may face stiff resistance from vested
interests determined to preserve rent-seeking opportunities. The
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



political will to proceed with energy reform may dissipate in the
face of a sociopolitical reaction. In the winter of 1999/2000,
electricity supply may be no greater than in the previous winter;
this could lead to a backlash against electricity privatization.
Implementation capacity of state agencies wilL be sbtetched,
which can be only partially offset by technical assistance.
Declining appetite for emerging market risk rmay deter private
investment in spite of the attractive policy framework. Broader
stabilization and structural reform programs rnay break down in
the face of political resistance, inadequate external financing, or
a further sharp deterioration in the economies of ma jor trading
partners.
These risks are substantially mitigated by a widespread
perception in Government and Parliament that there is no
alternative to the proposed energy reform program. The collapse
in services has been so great and the ability o f the State to
overcome the problems of the sector has proved to be so limited,
that attracting private investment is perceived as an
overwhelming imperative. In addition, the need to attract private
investment in transit pipelines through Georgia in the face of few
perceived alternative sources of growth and economic
independence, serves to bolster political support for energy
sector reform.
Poverty Category:          Poverty-focused. The proposed credit and program would
support the provision of social benefits targeted to vulnerable
groups.
Project ID Number:          GE-PE-64094



GEORGIA
Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
CONTENTS
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT ..........................................................1
PART II. GEORGIA'S ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM .............2
A. The Power Sector .......................................................2
B. Natural Gas Transmission and Distribution .......................................................               5
C. Oil and Gas Exploration and Production .......................................................7
D. Oil and Gas Transit Pipelines ........................................................7
E. Energy and the Environment ........................................................8
PART III. THE PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT .............................................8
A. Rationale for the Credit .........................................................8
B. Link to the CAS and other Bank Group Operations ..................................................9
C. Benefits and Risks of the Proposed Program  and Credit ........................                  ................. 10
D. Poverty Impact ........................................................ 11
E. Environmental Impact ........................................................                                 12
F. Prior Actions, Effectiveness and Second Tranche Conditions ................                       ................. 13
G. Credit Amount and Disbursement Procedures ........................................................ 15
H. Program  Implementation Arrangements ........................................................                  15
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT ....................................... 16
Annexes
Annex 1   Georgia - Key Economic Indicators
Annex 2   Government of Georgia: Letter of Energy Sector Policy
Annex 3   Policy Matrix
Annex 4   Timetable of Key processing Events
Annex 5   Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia - Operations Portfolio
Annex 6   Georgia - Statement of IFC's Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
Annex 7   Georgia at a Glance
Maps
Map 1 Georgia Gas Network -IBRD27432
Map 2 Georgia Power System - 1BRD 27433
Map 3 Georgia Oil Fields, Processing & Transportation Facilities -IBRD 30236



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED ENERGY SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT TO GEORGIA
1.    I submit for your approval the following report and recommendation on a
proposed credit to Georgia for SDR 18.1 million (US$ 25 million equivalent). The
proposed credit would be on standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years, including a
grace period of 10 years.
2.    The proposed credit is a key element of IDA's Country Assistance Strategy (the
last CAS was discussed by the Executive Board in September 1997). It has been
prepared in parallel to a proposed Third Structural Adjustment Credit. Georgia's
stabilization and adjustment program is supported by the International Monetary Fund
through a three-year Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (the third annual
arrangement was approved on July 27, 1998).
3.    Georgia became a member of IBRD in August 1992, of MIGA in December
1992, and of IFC in June 1995. Georgia became eligible for IDA terms in August 1993.
PART I. COUNTRY CONTEXT
4.    Georgia is a country of 5.4 million people, bounded by Armenia, Azerbaijan, the
Russian Federation, Turkey, and the Black Sea. It is strategically located as a transit
corridor in the Caucasus, between Europe and Asia, Russia and the Middle East. The
country became independent in 1991 upon the dissolution of the former Soviet Union.
The Georgian economy was highly integrated in the Soviet economy.
5.    The breakup of the former Soviet Union, and civil conflict involving separatist
tendencies in Abkhazia and South Ossetia, led to the collapse of the Georgian economy.
Conflicts elsewhere in the region (Nagorno Karabakh, Chechnya), and consequent border
closures, also contributed to economic decline in Georgia. Disappearing markets,
disruptions in production, and a huge adverse terms of trade shock (due in large part to
rapidly rising energy prices), caused GDP to fall by more than 70 percent in the 1991-94
period. External arrears accumulated, mainly for natural gas, and lax fiscal and monetary
policies led to hyperinflation. Infrastructure fell into a state of extreme disrepair. The
building of new state institutions took place in extremely unfavorable circumstances.
6.    From 1994, after the cessation of civil conflict in Georgia, the Government
embarked on a comprehensive program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural
reform. Results have been impressive: a national currency was introduced, GDP has
grown strongly since 1995, inflation has been brought down to single digits, fiscal and
external deficits have been reduced, and broad stability in the exchange rate has been
achieved.



-2-
7.    However, macroeconomic stability is still fragile and a substantial structural End
institutional reform agenda remains to be implemented. In addition, the regional
economic outlook continues to be uncertain in the Caucasus, since conflicts have not yet
been fully resolved, and important transport, electricity and gas connections therefore
remain blocked. The fiscal position is extremely weak in Georgia, due to very poor tax
collection, and Government service provision is consequently highly inadequate
(particularly in the social sectors). External deficits are growing, particularly in the wake
of the economic crisis in Russia, and the real appreciation of the lari against the ruble.
On the structural reform side, enterprise budget constraints have not hardened sufficiently
to catalyze the degree of restructuring required, obstacles remain to private sector
development, and the climate for private participation in infrastructure is not yet
favorable enough to attract the large amounts of capital needed for rehabilitation and
upgrading. An intensification of stabilization and structural reform is clearly needed.
PART II. GEORGIA'S ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM
8.    Reform of the Georgian energy sector has faced the twin challenges of a Soviet
heritage of negligible prices for energy services and a collapse of the economy since the
dissolution of the Soviet Union and civil war in Georgia. Against this background, sector
reform has so far proceeded gradually. Cost recovery has improved in the power secltor,
with increases in both tariffs and collections, but revenues still remain well below costs.
Gas supply to households was cut in 1995 in the face of mounting external arrears, but
the investmnent climate in the sector is still unfavorable and the investment necessary to
restore supply to paying customers therefore remains limited. Gas transmission has been
reorganized but losses remain very high. The oil sector has attracted significanit foreign
investment, but development has been retarded by an uncertain legal and regulatory
framework. Oil and gas pipeline transit has attracted considerable attention and some
investment, but much needs to be done to mitigate investor risk and enhance
environmental management.
9.    The Government and Parliament now recognize that energy sector reforms need
to be accelerated. Economic growth is highly constrained by the unreliable energy
supply, and popular discontent with poor service and with corruption in the energy sector
is growing. At the same time, grasping the economic and political opportunity presented
by the potential transit through Georgia of Caspian oil and gas also requires sector
reform. In consequence, the Government has elaborated a series of energy sector reforms
to be taken in 1999, which are reflected in a Letter of Energy Sector Policy (see Annex
2).
A. The Power Sector
10.   The Georgian power sector has been drastically affected by economic crisis.
Disrepair, civil war damage, financial collapse, and improper operation have all taken
their toll. Today, only 15-30 percent of the sector's 5,090 MW of nameplate generation
capacity is operational, the main constraint being a severe lack of working capital due to



-3-
poor cost recovery. Although tariffs and collections have been allowed to rise, the
sector's financial deficit is equivalent to about two percent of GDP, and serious blackouts
occur as a result. In the winter of 1998/99, Tbilisi had only 4-6 hours of electricity per
day, and the rest of the country averaged 3-4 hours (with some parts of the country
receiving only negligible amounts). In combination with the near-suspension of gas
supply to all but large users (see para. 21), these shortages cause severe hardship and
economic dislocation. Sustainable economic growth is severely undermined by the lack
of electricity supply.
11.    The sector's financial performance has been improving gradually since 1994.
End-user tariffs have increased by about 200 percent to their present level of about 4.5
US cents per kwh. Collections have increased over the period from about 20 percent of
billings to about 65 percent, but appear to have stagnated at that level. The obstacles to
further improvement are a combination of political interference (particularly at the
municipal level), corruption, weak management, inadequate metering, inefficient
billings/collections systems, and limited financial accountability.
12.    The track record in reorganizing the sector has been mixed. On one hand, the
sector has been unbundled, with generation, transmission, dispatch, and distribution
handled by different entities to permit greater transparency and to lay the foundation for
eventual competition. 1 On the other hand, the distribution sector has broken up into more
than 70 municipally-owned companies, mostly of uneconomic size and suffering
considerable political interference.
13.   However, the regulatory framework for the sector has been considerably
strengthened by the 1997 passage of the Electricity Law, which created the independent
Georgian National Electricity Regulatory Commission (GNERC). GNERC has
progressively strengthened its technical capacity and is becoming independent of
Government budget funding (both essential prerequisites for political independence).
GNERC has adopted a transparent tariff methodology2 and issued licenses to sector
enterprises.
14.    The Government has recognized that radical measures are needed to redress the
disastrous situation in the power sector, and has launched a comprehensive privatization
l Generation is divided between (i) small plants which have been privatized (which represent 2 percent of
capacity); (ii) plants leased to employees (4 percent); (iii) state-owned corporatized plants representing 51
percent of capacity (including Tbilsresi which owns and operates the Gardabani Thermal Power Plant); (iv)
Sakenergogeneratsia (which owns and operates 3 plants in Abkhazia representing 38 percent of capacity,
and manages all the corporatized plants except for Gardabani ); and (v) idle plants which have not been
corporatized, come under the authority of Sakenergogeneratsia, and represent 4 percent of capacity.
Transmission is handled by Electrogadatsema, except for import/export which is handled by Sakrusenergo,
a Georgia-Russia joint venture. Sakenergo is responsible for dispatch, as well as purchasing and selling
wholesale power pending establishment of the Wholesale Electricity Market.
2 The tariff methodology calculates maximun tariffs on a cost-of-service-basis, but allows conversion to a
price-cap methodology at a later stage, once regulatory capacity is sufficiently developed.



-4-
program, to attract strategic investors with substantial capital and operating experience
into the sector. In the Government's view, privatization offers the only sustairnable
solution to financial mismanagement of the power sector, given the endemic wAeakness of
state institutions. Merrill Lynch, an internationally-experienced and reputable investment
bank, has been engaged to assist in the privatization transactions.
15.   The first enterprise to be offered was Telasi, the Tbilisi distribution cornpany,
which was sold in December 1998 to AES, an American utility investor experienced in
the region and elsewhere.3 Since Telasi accounts for more than half the total distribution
load in Georgia, and distribution is at the front end of the nonpayments chain, this
privatization should contribute much to the financial soundness of the sector. The
successful sale of Telasi - even in the midst of declining investor interest in emerging
markets - has galvanized the power privatization process in Georgia.
16.   The Government has decided to offer the rest of electricity distribution and
generation for privatization (transmission will be privatized later). The distribution
companies have been offered in two packages, East and West Georgia. In both cases, 75
percent of the shares have been offered to strategic investors. If those packages should
not prove sufficiently attractive to investors, they will be reconfigured. In the generation
sector, all plants have been offered either for sale of a majority stake or for long-term
concession (at least 25 years) with full control to the concessionaire. A debt commission
has been formed comprising the Ministries of Finance, Fuel and Energy, and State
Property Management to restructure the debt of sector enterprises immediately prior to
privatization, where necessary. In those enterprises where privatization may take some
time, financial control systems will be reviewed and international accounting/auditing
standards will be introduced in order to upgrade financial management as soon as
possible. Debts of those enterprises will be restructured only after overall sector
privatization is well-advanced.
17.   Privatization and other measures to increase cost recovery in the power sector
make it necessary to protect the most vulnerable sections of the population. Although
severe budgetary constraints limit the amounts that can be provided to such groups, the
Government has decided to increase the poverty benefit targeted to poor single
pensioners, which has been identified as a particularly vulnerable group. The benefit
levels established for 1999 are intended to bring the beneficiaries just to the poverty line
(which the Bank estimates on the basis of household surveys at 52 lari per month for a
one-person household and 80 lari per month for a two-person household).
18.   As a key element of the power sector reform program, the foundations of a
competitive wholesale electricity market will be laid. This market will be estab lished in a
gradualist manner given the organizational, financial, and infrastructural constraints. In
the first phase, to be introduced in July 1999, generators will sell power to the rnarket at
regulated prices set by GNERC periodically. Prices will cover average generation cost
3 Georgia is thus only the second country in the former Soviet Union to sell an electricity distribution
company to a strategic investor (after Kazakhstan).



-5-
(comprising an energy charge based on the variable costs of actual supply, and a capacity
charge to cover fixed costs based on capacity made available in case of need). Each
generator will receive a tariff reflecting its own costs, and the market will supply
distribution companies and large industrial customers at a weighted average tariff, with
dispatch being on a least-cost basis. Some direct contracting between generators and
customers (distribution companies and industries) will be permitted, with charges for
transmission and ancillary services being set by GNERC.
19.  In essence, the first phase will create the transparent institutional framework
necessary for the settlement of debts and for the later development of a true market. A
major benefit of the first phase is that stakeholders will be represented in market
management (in contrast to the current situation, in which Sakenergo plays a dominant
role).
20.   In the second phase of establishment of the market, generators will all receive the
same price, which will reflect the marginal cost of supply in the system (i.e. the cost of
supply from the highest cost plant) determined on an hourly basis. The introduction of
hourly marginal cost pricing will allow dispatch and consumption to be continuously on
an economic basis as demand varies over each 24 hour period. The second phase can
only be introduced after the necessary investment in bulk metering and control systems
has been made to allow accurate determination of hourly marginal cost. In the third
phase, generators will actually bid for supply to the market. This phase will be
introduced once a sufficient number of private operators are participating in the market to
make competitive bidding meaningful. Direct contracting will continue to be allowed
during the second and third phases.
B. Natural Gas Transmission and Distribution
21.   The gas sector in Georgia has been particularly hard hit by the contraction in the
economy. In 1990, the country consumed approximately 5.45 billion cubic meters
(BCM) of natural gas, of which 5.4 BCM was imported. By 1995, owing largely to the
accumulation of large external debts (primarily to Turkmenistan) and the consequent
reduction in access to gas supplies, domestic consumption had dropped to approximately
0.9 BCM, and fell further to 0.8 BCM in 1997 - all of it imported from Russia. Most of
the gas received is used for power generation, and by a few large industries. Supply to
households and commercial customers in the cities has been reduced to very low levels,
since a lack of investment in metering and billing/collections systems has made
commercial operation of gas distribution very difficult. Technical losses in transmission
remain very high. Domestic production is negligible, and any associated gas is being
flared. While some of the oil producers suggest that there are commercially viable gas
resources available, they are unwilling to invest in development of those resources in the
absence of viable markets and access to those markets.
22.   Gas transmission and distribution in Georgia is organized into a state-owned
transmission operator company, Saktransgasmretsvi, about 30 gas distribution
companies, a number of wholesale suppliers, and a single supplier at the Russian border.



-6-
The transmission network itself is owned by the state-owned Gas International
Corporation of Georgia (GIC), which was established to negotiate gas transit joint
ventures. Six of the distribution companies were privatized during 1998. However, the
privatization process was conducted in a less than fully competitive manner, and the new
companies may not be adequately capitalized. One of the new owners also holds a
contract for managing the State's shares in Saktransgasmretsvi.4
23.   The gas sector reform program seeks to establish a framework in which private
operation and investment will be encouraged to restore gas supply to consumers, while
protecting those consumers from abuse of monopoly power. The authority of the
Georgian National Electricity Regulatory Commission has been extended, through
amendments to the 1997 Electricity Law, to include regulation of monopolistic
components of gas supply through the transmission and distribution network (it will not
regulate exploration and production).
24.   The Comnmission will adopt a transparent methodology for setting tariffs for
monopoly services, including gas purchase/resale (until competitive markets can be
established), transmission, and distribution. The tariff-setting procedures will ensure that
regulated enterprises can recover prudently incurred costs of service, while at the same
time promoting efficiency in gas supply and energy consumption, and protecting
consumers from monopolistic pricing practices. The Commission will also adopt dispute
resolution procedures (applicable also to electricity sector enterprises).
25.   The Commission will develop terms and conditions for commercial licenses
which address the rights and responsibilities of sector enterprises, and will issue licenses
to participants in the supply chain. The amended Electricity Law gives the Commission
the authority to prevent a given participant in the gas sector from holding more than one
license. This will allow the Commission to induce greater competition in the sector.
26.   Once the new gas regulatory framework is firmly established, the remaining 23
municipal gas distribution companies will be privatized. For those gas distribution
companies already privatized, the Ministry of State Property Management will ensure
that the new owners meet their commitments with respect to extending supply to
financially viable markets within their service areas. If necessary, the Ministry will
require the new owners to bring in additional partners with adequate capital. Given that
the government proposes to seek strategic investors to participate in the upgrading of the
high-pressure transmission network for transit purposes, the transmission operating
company, Saktransgasmretsvi, will not be privatized until transit potential is clarified.
However, in order to facilitate regulation and improve performance, financial
management of the company will be upgraded through the introduction of international
accounting standards, appointment of international auditors, and a review of financial
control procedures.
4 The single gas supplier at the border is Itera Russia, an affiliate of RAO Gasprom of Russia. Itera Russia
is also a shareholder in the newly-privatized gas distribution companies, along with affiliate companies,
Itera Georgia and Sakgasi Georgia. Sa.kgasi holds the management contract for managing the State's
shares in Saktransgasmretsvi, and is also active in the wholesale supply of gas.



-7-
C. Oil and Gas Exploration and Production
27.   The Georgian oil sector has seen modest amounts of foreign investment by
international standards (about US$ 60 million) since Independence. While Georgia's oil
and gas potential is not large, development has been retarded by lack of security in the
legal framework. The new Oil and Gas Law, adopted in May 1999, is expected to
catalyze investment in exploration and production of oil and natural gas by establishing a
one-stop regulatory authority for the sector, and by consolidating the legal foundation for
existing operations (each of which is currently governed by a presidential decree). The
Oil and Gas Law will also facilitate pipeline access for Georgian oil and gas (where
access is not constrained by international agreement). In parallel, regulation of the gas
sector by the Electricity and Gas Regulatory Commission to facilitate competitive supply
should stimulate development of Georgian gas potential, and eliminate the current
practice of flaring gas (which will be of environmental benefit).
28.   Under the new Oil and Gas Law, the state-owned Georgian Oil Company
(Saknaftobi) will focus on its commercial activities and will cease to play a regulatory
role, to avoid conflict of interest. During 1999, Saknaftobi will be prepared for
privatization, to ensure that maximum revenues from existing production sharing
agreements accrue to the State (Saknaftobi disposes of the State's profit oil under the
production sharing agreements).
D. Oil and Gas Transit Pipelines
29.   Georgia's geographic location and positive investment climate create substantial
potential for the transit of crude oil and natural gas from the Caspian basin. Already the
"Early Oil" pipeline is transporting oil from fields off the Azeri coast to the Black Sea
terminal of Supsa. Crude oil is being transported (so far by boat and rail) from the
Tenghiz field in Kazakhstan and from Turkmenistan to the Georgian port of Batumi, and
pipeline options are being considered. Gas transit is to date limited to transport of about
1.5 b.c.m. per year from Russia (and formerly Turkmenistan) to Armenia, but prospects
for much larger volumes of Russian, Azeri, or East Caspian gas transiting through
Georgia to Turkey (and beyond) are being actively explored. However, for both oil and
gas pipelines, Georgia is in competition with a number of other transit options (through
Russia, Iran, Armenia, under the Black Sea, or eastwards from the Caspian).
30.   Georgia's ratification of the Energy Charter Treaty could contribute substantially
to realizing the country's pipeline transit potential, through enhancing security for the
large volumes of private capital that will be required. The attraction of private
investment into oil and gas transit pipelines in Georgia will be facilitated by the adoption
of legislation on eminent domain, which will permit land access in exchange for fair
compensation, where that access is for an investment in the public interest.
5 This pipeline involves an investment (from international oil companies) of about US$ 590 million,
divided approximately equally between Georgia and Azerbaijan.



-8-
31.   Pipelines involve large infrastructure investments of long gestation and payback
periods, with very limited alternative uses once constructed. They will therefore require
long-term predictability in the tax regime. The Government will achieve this through
legislating tax stabilization, while avoiding any discretionary tax exemptions or
concessions on a case-by-case basis. The attractiveness of the investment climnate for
pipelines will also be enhanced by the conclusion of double taxation agreements with
major home country governments. In this manner, oil and gas pipelines could become a
major source of tax revenue and other economic benefits for Georgia, while providing a
fair return to private investment and mitigating investor risk. Internationally-experienced
advisors have been recruited to assist in commercial negotiations with potential foreign
investors in oil and gas pipelines.
E. Energy and the Environment
32.   During the past two years, a broad legal framework to govern environrnental
management has been put in place in Georgia, reflecting the high priority the
Government and Parliament place on this issue. However, further legislation and
regulation is necessary to give full effect to the broader legal framework, particularly in
the energy sector. Strengthening the legal framework should both enhance environmental
management and reduce negative perceptions of investment in the environmentally-risky
energy sector, thereby improving the investment climate.
33.   The energy privatization due diligence process should include appropriate
environmental audits to ensure that the responsibility for environmental mitigation can be
clearly assigned post-privatization, and the Privatization Law will be amended during
1999 to achieve this. Legislation to clarify environmental liability in the energy sector
will be adopted. Operational standards and permitting procedures applicable to oil and
gas pipelines will be developed to enhance pipeline safety. In addition, Georgia will
ratify international conventions related to marine oil pollution damage and adopt the
requisite enabling legislation. Existing insurance arrangements to cover the costs of oil
spill clean-up will be reviewed and, if necessary, legislation will be adopted to require
compulsory insurance in the oil sector. These measures will help ensure that the risk of
oil spills is minimized, and that an effective emergency response facility will be in place
to mitigate any spills which do occur.
PART III. THE PROPOSED ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
A. Rationale for the Credit
34.   Georgia urgently needs adjustment financing. Restructuring of the economy after
the dissolution of the Soviet Union and the civil war in Georgia is still underway, and
serious fiscal, quasi-fiscal, and external imbalances remain. In recent months, these
imbalances have been compounded by the impact of the crisis in the Russian Federation
on the Georgian economy.



-9-
35.   These imbalances originate in part from energy sector policies, and in part from
broader macroeconomic policy. In particular, the energy sector has been used as a source
of quasi-fiscal financing for the population and the economy, resulting in very poor
service and high capital consumption. Weak fiscal management and insufficient
structural reform have made it difficult to remove this quasi-fiscal role.
36.   The proposed Energy Sector Adjustment Credit has therefore been designed in
parallel with stabilization and structural reform programs supported by the IMF's ESAF
and by the Bank's structural adjustment lending. The proposed credit is intended to
allow the implementation of the energy sector reform program, with adequate funding of
social sector expenditures to mitigate the impact of the program on the most vulnerable
groups. The combined funding from the proposed ESAF and the Bank's adjustment
lending is intended to provide an appropriate blend of financing and structural
adjustment.
B. Link to the CAS and other Bank Group Operations
37.   The proposed program and credit will support all four objectives of the CAS
(I 7000-GE). It will strengthen public finances by removing the continued threat to the
Government budget, which is posed by the unsustainable deficits in the electricity sector,
by complementing public investment with private capital, and by transforming the energy
sector into a major taxpayer. Sources of growth will be deepened and diversified as
opportunities for private participation in the energy sector develop, and as the improved
availability of energy removes a key obstacle to private sector development throughout
the economy (which will also serve to strengthen the taxbase). The objectives of poverty
reduction and environmental protection will be pursued as described below (paras. 46-49
and 50-51).
38.   The proposed credit and the associated energy sector reform program are closely
related to a number of Bank activities in Georgia. Structural adjustment lending, and the
associated technical assistance credits,6 have directly supported energy sector reform in
Georgia. Moreover, the structural adjustment program serves to improve social safety net
provision, underpin fiscal adjustment, and create hard budget constraints for enterprises;
all these measures should improve payments discipline amongst customers of the energy
sector. Correspondingly, measures to improve energy sector financial management,
taken under the proposed credit, will themselves harden budget constraints and thereby
stimulate structural adjustment. They should also reduce corruption in a notoriously
corrupt sector, thus mitigating popular opposition to economic reform.
39.   In the energy sector itself, the Power Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 2958-GE) aims
to rehabilitate, physically and financially, a 300 MW unit (No. 10) of the country's main
6 Related structural adjustment and technical assistance credits include the Second Structural Adjustment
Credit (Credit 2983-GE), the proposed Third Structural Adjustment Credit, the First and Second Structural
Adjustment Technical Assistance Credits (Credit 2848-GE and Credit 2984-GE), and the proposed
Structural Reform Support Credit. In essence, the proposed Energy Sector Adjustment Credit reflects the
energy policy component of the Third Structural Adjustment Credit proposed in the CAS.



-10-
thermal power plant (Tbilsresi's plant at Gardabani). This project is part of a program of
rehabilitation of generation plants funded by the Government of Georgia, sector
enterprises, IDA, EBRD, KFW, OECF, and the Government of Switzerland. The
electricity sector reform program supported by the proposed credit will be essential to the
realization of Tbilsresi's financial rehabilitation. The program will also pave the way for
preparation of an Electricity Market Support project. This would undertake limited
rehabilitation of transmission and dispatch, and provide bulk metering and other
information technology necessary for the functioning of a competitive wholesale
electricity market. A Power Privatization Report (No. 17152-GE) helped to clarify the
strategy for privatization and the creation of a competitive market. IFC is actively
seeking investment opportunities in the electricity sector.
40.   The oil and gas pipeline measures under the proposed credit are closely integrated
with the technical assistance provided to the sector by the Oil Institution Building Credit
(Credit 2944-GE) and the structural adjustment technical assistance credits. IFC has
already made investments in the Early Oil pipeline and the Ninotsminda oil field.
41.   The electricity privatization program supported by the proposed credit is the first
major infrastructure privatization program in Georgia. As such, it should help to
stimulate privatization initiatives in the water and transport sectors which are supported
by Bank projects. The enviromnental initiatives to be taken with the support of'the
proposed credit will be complementary to the Integrated Coastal Management P'roject
(Credit No. 31560) and the proposed IDF for Environment Legislation (which will focus
on capacity building for implementing such legislation).
C. Benefits and Risks of the Proposed Program and Credit
42.   The proposed credit would maintain the momentum of energy sector reform in
Georgia, and help mitigate its social costs. Energy sector reform will improve service
quality, reduce environmental damage, and enhance the prospects for private
participation in energy infrastructure. By removing a source of soft financing for the
economy, it will force more rapid structural adjustment. Similarly, eliminating this
quasi-fiscal role of the energy sector will remove the threat of such a role being thrust
back on the Government budget, thereby undernining fiscal sustainability. Relieving
energy shortages will remove a major constraint to private sector development and
employment generation. Thus, energy sector reform is essential to macroeconomnic
stabilization, sustainable economic growth, and poverty alleviation in Georgia.
43.   However, the credit is a high-risk operation. The reform program is ambitious in
the face of huge problems in the sector. The reforms may face stiff resistance from
vested interests determined to preserve rent-seeking opportunities. The political will to
proceed with energy reform may dissipate in the face of a sociopolitical reaction against
cost recovery and foreign investment, and of parliamentary elections in November 1999
and presidential elections in April 2000. In the winter of 1999/2000, electricity supply
may be no greater than in the previous winter, because drought has diminished
hydropower reserves and poor financial management has starved the system of working



-11-
capital to buy fuel. This could lead to a backlash against electricity privatization (and
against infrastructure privatization in general), yet the reform agenda depends heavily on
privatization.
44.   Implementation capacity of state agencies will be stretched, particularly as
regards complex legal/regulatory reform, environmental management, and overall
program coordination. This can be only partially offset by technical assistance.
Declining appetite for emerging market risk may deter private investment in spite of the
attractive policy framework. Broader stabilization and structural reform programs may
break down in the face of political resistance, inadequate external financing, or a further
sharp deterioration in the economies of major trading partners.
45.   These risks are substantially mitigated by a widespread perception in Government
and Parliament that there is no alternative to the proposed energy reform program. The
collapse in services has been so great and the ability of the State to overcome the
problems of the sector has proved to be so limited, that attracting private investment is
perceived as an overwhelming imperative. In addition, the need to attract private
investment in transit pipelines through Georgia in the face of few perceived alternative
sources of growth and economic independence, serves to bolster political support for
energy sector reform. However, the political risks of the proposed program and
supporting adjustment credit remain significant.
D. Poverty Impact
46.   Privatization and other measures to increase cost-recovery in the power sector can
potentially have a large social impact. On the one hand, these measures are expected to
bring about a sustained improvement in the availability and reliability of electricity, with
a very favorable impact on the living standards of Georgian households (both directly by
allowing households to use electricity rather than more expensive heating fuels, and
indirectly through the revitalization of the economy, and the consequent generation of
jobs and incomes). On the other hand, the combination of increased payment discipline
and expected increase in electricity tariffs over the medium term, could place a large
additional burden on already over-stretched household economies. The poorest and most
vulnerable households are those most at risk.
47. According to the quarterly Household Expenditure Survey, the average Georgian
household spends 14.7 lari per month on energy and fuel (about 5% of total household
monthly expenditures). Approximately 60% of this figure is spending on relatively
expensive heating fuels (kerosene and wood), with only 24% of the energy bill
representing outlays on electricity, and less than 5% spending on natural gas (due to the
lack of supply). Hence, the average family is spending some 3.5 lari per month on
electricity, or the equivalent to 60 kWh at current retail tariffs. However, given
significant non-payment by the population and the proliferation of illegal connections,
actual electricity usage, for those receiving supply, is likely to be much higher.
Assuming that average household usage, post privatization, is around 150 kWh per



-12-
month,7 expected monthly outlays at current tariffs and 100% collections, would reach
some 9 lari per month. For the average Georgian household, this would represent
approximately 3% of total monthly expenditures-not an unreasonable burden.
Moreover, there is potential for these households to reduce their overall energy bills by
shifting spending from kerosene and wood towards cheaper electricity and gas, once
these services are provided on a reliable basis.
48. For the poor, however, the financial impact of increased cost-recovery will be much
larger. Total monthly expenditures for the average poor family amount to only 80 lari per
month, of which currently some 4 lari per month are spent on all forns of energy (heating
fuels plus electricity). An increase in electricity payments to 9 lari per month, even if it
were to allow an elimination of all spending on other sources of heating, would represent
a significant fraction of their monthly spending (about 11%). For some particularly
vulnerable groups, such as poor single pensioners, whose monthly expenditures amount
to only 38 lari, the impact of increased cost recovery could be even more formidable.
49.  In this context, it will be essential to protect these especially vulnerable groups
from the impact of increased cost-recovery. Although severe budget constraints limit the
amounts that can be provided to vulnerable households, the Government has increased
the poverty benefit targeted to poor single pensioners, who are among the poorest
identifiable groups in society, and whose incomes will not improve significantly with
growth, at least in the short term. The authorities will monitor the impact of increased
cost-recovery in the energy sector on poor families, using the continuous Georgian
Household Income and Expenditures Survey. A parallel beneficiary assessment will be
carried out to monitor the actual receipt of the poverty benefit.
E. Environmental Impact
50.   The sector adjustment program supported by the proposed credit is expected to
yield significant environmental benefits. Increased cost-recovery in the electricity sector
will encourage conservation by enterprises and households. The restoration of natural
gas supply will allow substitution for environmentally-harmful wood and oil products,
and will reduce the wasteful transformation of gas into electricity. Improved market
access for Georgian gas should eliminate gas flaring.
51.   The adoption of legislation to clarify environmental liability is expected to
improve the environmental management practices of energy enterprises, particularly in
the oil sector. Amending the Privatization Law to require environmental audits will
facilitate the disclosure of pre-privatization environmental damage, as well as enhancing
the enforceability of environmental liability legislation. The legislation on environmental
liability will be complemented by the adoption of minimum operational standardis for
7 It is not possible to determine reliably actual average monthly consumption of electricity by households in
Georgia. It is even more difficult to predict usage once electricity becomes available on a 24-hour basis.
However, a comparison with neighboring countries suggests that an average of 150 kWh per month is a
reasonable estimate.
8 "Single" is defined in Georgian law to represent pensioners with no relatives of working age.



-13-
pipelines to help prevent onshore oil spills. Ratification by Georgia of international
conventions related to marine oil pollution damage will also serve to mitigate
environmental damage to the marine environment from the oil industry, as will ensuring
that oil companies are adequately covered by insurance against oil-spill risks.
F. Prior Actions, Effectiveness and Second Tranche Conditions
52.    A set of prior actions were taken before presentation of the proposed credit to the
Board. These prior actions were:
* sale of Telasi;
* offering for privatization of all remaining electricity distribution companies and
generation plants9;
* increase in electricity tariffs (by an average 45%);
* inclusion the 1999 Consolidated Budget of 14.3 million lari for the poverty benefit
targeted to poor single pensioners, and approve an increase in the benefit was
increased to 18 lari for an individual recipient and 29 lari for two recipients in the
same household (from 9 and 14.4 lari respectively);'0
*  inclusion in the 1999 Consolidated Budget of 10 million lari to compensate for
unpaid electricity supplied by Inguri Hydro Power Plant (to Abkhazia)' 1;
* adoption of detailed electricity market rules;
* parliamentary adoption of Oil and Gas Law (governing exploration and production);
* parliamentary adoption of amendments to the Electricity Law to authorize GNERC to
regulate gas marketing, distribution and transmission.
A satisfactory macroeconomic framework (ESAF and SAC programs on track) is
an effectiveness condition.
53.    The conditions of second tranche release are12:
9 The generation plants in Abkhazia will only be privatized once the Government of Georgia regains
sufficient control over that region.
10 The individual benefit levels bring the beneficiaries just up to the Bank-estimated poverty line.
1' The Inguri Hydro Power Plant is located just inside Abkhazia, but is controlled by the Government of
Georgia (an agreement reached as part of the cease-fire in the hostilities over Abkhazia). Abkhaz
consumers of electricity, who are supplied from Inguri, do not pay for electricity to any significant extent.
The cost of this supply is therefore a financial leakage from the Georgian power sector, borne by the
transmission and generation companies. It thus represents a serious obstacle to financial rehabilitation and
to privatization. However, providing for budget funds to cover this leakage is obviously not a long-term
solution.



-14-
*  satisfactory progress on power privatization 13;
*  actual expenditures on the poverty benefit for poor single pensioners to fully reflect
the 14.3 million lari total budgetary allocation (i.e. no arrears) and individuaLl benefit
levels specified, and abolish direct transfers to Sakenergo in respect of pensioners,
civil servants, and refugees in privatized distribution areas14;
  actual expenditures in compensation for electricity supplied by Inguri Hydro Power
Plant to fully reflect the budgetary allocation;
*  continued implementation of the electricity tariff methodology adopted by GNERC
on July 1, 1998;
*  adoption of a gas tariff methodology by GNERC and licenses to have been issued to
all privatized gas distribution companies, the gas transmission company, and all gas
purchasers/resellers;
*  Parliamentary adoption of legislation on eminent domain;
*  Parliamentary adoption of legislation on environmental liability;
*  Sakenergo, Energotransmission, Sakenergogeneratsia, Tbilsresi and
Saktransgasmretsvi to adopt a Chart of Accounts according to Intemnational
Accounting Standards, and appointment of international auditors to audit the 1999
financial statements of those enterprises;
*  satisfactory overall performance on the Government's energy refonn prograrn as
stated in the Letter of Energy Sector Policy;
*  satisfactory macroeconomic framework (ESAF and SAC programs on track).
12 These actions are expected to be completed by end - 1999.
13 Progress will be measured against the target that by Fall 1999 (i) bids for Gardabani Thermal P'ower
Plant should have closed; (ii) at least 10 percent of state-owned generation capacity (other than Gardabarii
or plants in Abkhazia), i.e. about 130 MW, should have been sold (majority stake) or long-term
concessions awarded (at least 25 years) through a competitive process; and (iii) offers for the two packages
of distribution companies should have been evaluated, or if no eligible offers are received, the packages
should have been reconfigured and offered for sale again.
14 These direct transfers were introduced in 1997 to provide Sakenergo with urgently-needed working
capital, which was failing to flow from the distribution companies due to non-enforcement of payments
from consumers and to theft. The transfers are fnanced by a defacto withholding tax from pensions, civil
service salaries, and refugee allowances. As such, they represent a forced consumption of electricity and
should be abolished once distribution privatization removes the reason for which they were introduced.



-15-
G. Credit Amount and Disbursement Procedures
54.  The proposed credit of SDR 18.1million (US$25 million equivalent) will be made
to Georgia, represented by the Ministry of Finance, which will be responsible for credit
administration. Disbursements will be made in two tranches, each of SDR9.05 million
(US$ 12.5 million equivalent), against submission by the Borrower of a simplified
withdrawal application. The first tranche will be disbursed immediately upon credit
effectiveness; the second on completion of the second tranche conditions outlined above
(para. 53). Disbursements will be made to an account (the "Deposit Account") of the
Ministry of Finance established at the Georgian central bank (National Bank of Georgia)
for that purpose (upon Board approval of the proposed credit).
55.   The credit will be disbursed according to the Bank's simplified disbursement
procedures for adjustment operations. Thus disbursements will not be linked to specific
purchases and there will be no procurement requirements. If the proceeds of the credit
are used for ineligible purposes as defined in the credit agreement (i.e. to finance items
imported from non-member countries, or good and services on the Bank's standard
negative list), IDA will require the Borrower to either (a) return that amount to the
deposit account for use for eligible purposes; or (b) refund the amount directly to IDA, in
which case IDA will cancel an equivalent undisbursed amount of the credit. Although
routine audits of the deposit account will not be routinely required, the Bank reserves the
right to require audits at any time.
H. Program Implementation Arrangements
56.   The program has been designed in a context of strong ownership by individual
government agencies, but of weak coordination between them. Coordination under the
program will be provided primarily by oversight from a Government interministerial
working group, which is chaired by the State Minister. IDA will monitor implementation
through frequent review missions, periodic reporting by individual implementing
agencies, and by continuous involvement of the Resident Mission.
57.   The technical capacity to implement complex privatization transactions and
legal/regulatory reform is still evolving in Georgia. As such, extensive technical support
will be provided through consultancy advice and training programs, financed principally
by USAID and by IDA's Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance credits (Credit
2848-GE and Credit 2984-GE) and the proposed Structural Reform Support Credit.
58.   USAID is proposing to provide technical support for (i) development of the wholesale
electricity market; (ii) upgrading accounting, auditing, and financial controls of energy sector
enterprises; (iii) capacity-building of GNERC in both electricity and gas regulation; (iv)
capacity-building for the Competent Authority under the Oil and Gas Law; and (v)
development of legislation on environmental liability and eminent domain. IDA will finance
(i) negotiation advisors for oil and gas pipelines; (ii) power and gas privatization advisors; and
(iii) support to GNERC and the Electricity Market Administration.



-16-
PART IV. RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
59.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles of
Agreement of IDA and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve it.
James D. Wolfensohn
President
By Sven Sandstrom
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 4, 1999



b1dbr"U)3M1b MMan3660
PRESIDENT OF GEORGIA
Mr. James D. Wolfensohn
President
Intffational Bank for Reconstuction
and Development
Washington, 20433
June 2, 1999
Dear M4r. Wolfensohn:
Ile attached Letter of Energy Sector Policy outlines the energy reform progm  of
Georgia. We request the World Bank to support this prgram with an Energy
Sector Adjustnent Credit.
The program of measues in the Letter is intended to enhance financial
muanagement in the energy sector and catalyze pnrvate investnent in electricity, gas
and oil. The program places particular emphasis on strengthening environmcntal
management and on providing social protection. We consider this program to be
essential to the restructring of the Georgian economy and attainment of a
sustinable growth in the living stndards of our population.
Yours sincerely,
Eduard Shevardnadze
,2'r



Annex 2
Page 1 of I
ANNEX 2
GOVERNMENT OF GEORGIA: LETTER OF ENERGY SECTOR POLICY
The Government of Georgia has embarked upon a program of reform to restructure the
country's energy sector. The primary objective of this program is to transform the sectlor from
one drained of resources and providing unreliable service to one capable of promoting economric
growth, environmentally-sustainable development, and the realization of Georgia's considerable
transit potential. This letter outlines the measures to be taken in the energy sector during 1998
and 1999 in pursuit of that objective. The Govermment believes that the success of these
measures will depend on the sustained implementation of macroeconomic stabilization and broad
structural reform.
In the electricity sector, a series of measures are being taken to enhance financial
management, combat corruption, and protect the most vulnerable sections of the population. The
sector is being progressively privatized through a transparent and competitive process to bring
new capital and commercial management techniques into the country's power enterprises. This is
being achieved by offering majority shares (or very long-term concessions) in major sector
enterprises to strategic investors with capital and expertise, in combination with minority shares
to be sold on the Georgian capital market or offered to employees. The involvement of an
internationally-reputable investment bank is critical to the success of this process.
Efficiency gains from privatization will be enhanced by the gradual introduction of a
competitive wholesale electricity market to ensure the dispatch of electricity on a least-cost basis.
Market institutions and regulations are being developed in this regard, and the market will be
launched in July 1999. The Government will focus its limited budgetary and donor resources on
removing systemic constraints to sector privatization (for example, by upgrading transmission
and dispatch services and building market infrastructure) and undertaking urgent rehabilitation in
advance of privatization.
Private ownership and competitive market relations are expected to substantially enhance
payments discipline, greatly improve cost recovery, and stimulate investment in the sector. This
will be of major benefit to the majority of the Georgian population after years of receiving an
extremely low-quality service from a sector deprived of working capital and operating extremely
dilapidated plant and equipment. The adverse social effects on the poorest sections of the
population of cost recovery in the power sector will be mitigated by the provision of targeted
social benefit payments from the State budget. The Government will ensure that these benefits
are disbursed on a timely basis.
In parallel to the restructuring and privatization process, the Georgian National Electricity
Regulatory Commission's capacity to regulate monopoly practices is being strengthened through
training and legal reform. The Government will ensure the continued independence of the
Commission in accordance with the Electricity Law. The tariff methodology adopted onI July 1,
1998 will continue to be applied to protect consumers from monopoly practices while providing
an adequate return to investment. This will be essential to ensuring that the power sector in
Georgia is rehabilitated and upgraded to provide reliable electricity to the population and the
economy.



Annex 2
Page 2 of 2
Sector enterprises remaining in state ownership will face a considerable challenge to
improve their financial management practices. For enterprises where privatization may
commence only in a later phase (dispatch company, transmission company, generation plants in
Abkhazia), financial management will be enhanced by the conduct of audits to international
standards (which will be published) and through systematic reform of internal financial controls.
International auditors will be appointed for those companies by June 1999. International
accounting standards will become mandatory for all sector enterprises by June 1999. The
Government will closely monitor the financial performance of the power sector, and will
accelerate privatization and financial management reforms if performance improves less than
projected.
In the natural gas sector, a similar program of sector reform is under way with a view to
creating a suitable climate for investment and improving the efficiency of gas supply. The
restoration of gas supply to the population will reduce energy costs and replace energy products
which are environmentally harmful (particularly wood and oil products). The authority of the
Georgian National Electricity Commission is being extended, through amendments to the 1997
Electricity Law, to include regulation of monopolistic components of gas supply. The
Commission will, by June 1999, adopt a transparent methodology for setting tariffs for monopoly
services, including gas supply (until competitive markets can be established), transmission, and
distribution. The tariff-setting procedures will ensure that regulated enterprises can recover
prudently incurred costs of service, while at the same time promoting efficiency in gas supply and
energy consumption, and protecting consumers from monopolistic pricing practices. The
Commission will develop terms and conditions for commercial licenses which address the rights
and responsibilities of sector enterprises and will by June 1999 issue licenses to all major
participants in the supply chain, including at a minimum the transmission company, the privatized
distribution companies, and gas purchasers/resellers. The Commission will also establish clear
dispute-resolution procedures (applicable also to electricity sector enterprises).
Once the new gas regulatory framework is firmly established, the remaining municipal
gas distribution companies will be privatized. For those gas distribution companies already
privatized, the Ministry of State Property Management will ensure that the new owners meet their
investment and service commitments with respect to extending supply to financially viable
markets within their service areas. If necessary, the Ministry will require the new owners to bring
in additional strategic partners. Given that the government proposes to seek strategic investors to
participate in the upgrading of the high-pressure transmission network, the transmission operating
company, Saktransgasmretsvi, will not be privatized at the present time. However, in order to
facilitate regulation and improve performance, financial management of the company will be
upgraded through the introduction of international accounting standards, appointment of
international auditors, and a review of financial control procedures (by June 1999).
In the Georgian oil sector, the new Oil and Gas Law is expected to catalyze investment in
exploration and production of oil and natural gas by establishing a one-stop regulatory authority
for the sector, and by consolidating the legal foundation for existing operations. The Law will
also facilitate pipeline access for Georgian oil and gas. The Georgian Oil Company (Saknaftobi)
will focus on its commercial activities and will play no regulatory role. During 1999, Saknaftobi
will be prepared for privatization, to ensure that maximum revenues from existing production
sharing agreements accrue to the State. In parallel, regulation of the gas sector by the Electricity
and Gas Regulatory Commission to facilitate competitive supply should stimulate development of
Georgian gas potential.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
The Government places a high priority on environmental management, particularly in the
energy sector. The energy privatization due diligence process should include appropriate
environmental audits to ensure that the responsibility for environmental mitigation can be clearly
assigned post-privatization, and the Privatization Law will be amended during 1999 to achieve
this. Legislation to clarify environmental liability in the energy sector will be adopted by June
1999. Operational standards applicable to oil and gas pipelines will be developed. In addition,
Georgia will ratify all international conventions related to marine oil spill prevention and
mitigation by March 1999, and adopt the requisite enabling legislation. Existing insurance
arrangements to cover the costs of oil spill clean-up will be reviewed and, if necessary, legislation
will be adopted to require compulsory insurance in the oil sector.
Georgia's location and positive investment climate create enormous potential for the
pipeline transit of crude oil and natural gas, which will be financed largely by private capital.
Georgia's ratification of the Energy Charter Treaty will contribute substantially to realizing that
potential. The attraction of private investment into oil and gas transit pipelines in Georgia will be
facilitated by the adoption by June 1999 of legislation on eminent domain in order to permit land
access in exchange for fair compensation. Pipeline investment will also require predictability in
the tax regime; this will be achieved through legislated tax stabilization, while avoiding any
discretionary tax exemptions or concessions on a case-by-case basis. The attractiveness of the
investment climate for pipelines will also be enhanced by the conclusion of double taxation
agreements. In this manner, oil and gas pipelines could become a major source of tax revenue
and other economic benefits for Georgia, while providing a fair return to private investment and
mitigating investor risk. Internationally-experienced advisors will be recruited by January 1999
to assist in negotiations with potential foreign investors in oil and gas pipelines.
The Government expects this program of measures to stimulate investment in Georgia's
energy resources and to steadily improve the provision of services. Greater efficiency in the
energy sector will have a positive effect on the external balance of payments and on the State
budget. Overall, energy sector reform will bring a major improvement in the living standards of
the Georgian people and in the country's ability to realize its considerable economic potential.



Annex 3
Page 1 of 1
ANNEX 3
GEORGIA: ENERGY SECTOR
ADJUSTMENT CREDIT - POLICY MATRIX
Note: Core conditions in bold
OBJ:ECTIVES                       CURRENT STATUS                           MEASURtES IN THE LESP
POWER SECTOR
Enhance financial management         Telasi privatized                    Progress on privatization satisfactory to IDA
Remove threat to Government budget from  Rest of distribution and generation  Continued implementation of electricity tariff
quasi-fiscal deficit in the power sector  offered for sale or long-term concession  methodology adopted July 1, 1998 by GNERC
Promote private investment           Electricity Law adopted, which creates    Sakenergo, Energotransmission,
independent regulatory commission   Sakenergogeneratsia, and Tbilsresi to adopt
Regulate monopoly power and promote    (GNERC)                            IAS chart of accounts, appoint international
competition                                                               auditors, and review internal financial controls
Electricity tariffs increased
Harden budget constraints on enterprises                                  Public investment resources to focus on removing
consuming power                      Debt commission formed to restructure    systemic constraints to sector privatization and
debt at point of privatization      undertaking urgent rehabilitation
Improve social protection
Consolidated budget for 1999        Actual expenditures on Abkhazia
compensates for part of leakage to  compensation to reflect budget allocation
Abkhazia
Wholesale market commences first phase of
Wholesale market rules adopted      operation
Consolidated budget for 1999 provides   Actual expenditures on poverty benefit to
increased poverty benefit to        reflect budget allocation and continuous
compensate poorest for increased cost   monitoring of poverty impact of cost recovery
recovery                            and of actual receipt of the poverty benefit to take
place.



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
OBJECTIVES                      __CURRENT STATUS                              MEASURES IN THE LESP
NATURALI GAS 'IRANSMCiSS0N AND DISTRIBU'[ION
Enhance financial managerment   Some gas distribution companies pnrvatized   Remaining gas distribution companies to be
privatized
Restore gas supply to paying  Electricity Law amended to authorize GNERC to
customers                     regulate gas marketing, distribution and       Miniistry of State Property Management to
transmission                                   enforce investment and service commitments of
Promote private investment                                                   new owners of gas distribution companies
Regulate monopoly power and                                                  GNERC to adopt gas tariff methodology
promote competition
GNERC to license sector enterprises
Improve social protection
Saktransgasmretsvi to adopt IAS chart of
accounts, appoint international auditors, and
review internal financial controls
GNIERC to adopt dispute-resolution procedures
(applicable also to electricity enterprises).
OIL AND GAS EXPLORATION AND PRODUCTION
Catalyze private investment on    Oil and Gas Law adopted to create one-stop  Saknaftobi to be prepared for privatization.
terms beneficial to Georgia   competent authority to regulate oil and gas
exploration and production, and negotiate
production sharing agreements



Annex 3
Page 3 of 3
OBJECTIVES           |CURRENT STATUS                               |MEASURES IN THE LESP
OIL AND GAS TRANSIT PIPELINES
Catalyze private investmett  Energy Charter ratified                       Legislation on eminent domain to be adopted
realize Georgia's transit potential
Early oil pipeline in operation; other oil and gas  Legislation to be adopted to stabilize tax regime
transit pipelines under discussion            applicable to pipelines; no discretionary tax
concessions to be granted
GIOC (oil) and GIC (gas) established to liaise with
potential pipeline investors                  Double taxation agreements to be concluded
with major investors' home countries
Recruitment of internationally-experienced advisors
for pipeline negotiations



Annex 3
Page 4 of 4
OBJECTIVES                         CURRENT STATUS                             MEASURES IN THE LESP
ENERGY AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Enhance environment           Broad legal framework for environmental        Adopt legislation on environmental liability
management in the energy sector management has been adopted.
Amend Privatization Law to require appropriate
environmental audits
Develop operational and permitting standards for
pipelines
Georgia to ratify all international conventions
related to oil spill and to adopt requisite enabling
legislation
Oil spill insurance arrangements to be reviewed,
and legislation on compulsory insurance to be
adopted if necessary



Annex 4
Page 1 of 1
ANNEX 4
GEORGIA
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
Timetable of Key Processing Events
1. Time taken to prepare:                        12 months
2. Prepared by:                                   Government of Georgia in collaboration
with World Bank staff and consultants*
3. Preparation missions:                         June 1998, October 1998
4. Negotiations:                                  December 1998 (and subsequent
communications)
5. Planned Board presentation:                   June 1999
6. Planned date of effectiveness:                August 1999
7. Expected program completion:                  June 2000
* Messrs./Mmes.: Arpad Bajkay, Privatization Specialist
David Craig, Sector Leader
Manuel Dussan, Regulatory Specialist
Zurab Javakhishvili, Project Officer
Vakhtang Kvekvetsia, Financial Analyst
William Onorato, Petroleum Lawyer
Ana Revenga, Sr. Country Economist
Allan Rotman, Environmental Specialist
Ralf Schwimmbeck, Pipeline Engineer
Peter Thomson, Oil and Gas Sector Leader
Vladislav Vucetic, Power Engineer
Jonathan Walters, Task Team Leader/Senior Economist
Peggy Wilson, Energy Economist
Salman Zaheer, Energy Economist



Annex 5
Page I of 1
ANNEX 5
Status of Bank Group Operations in Georgia
Operations Portfolio
Difference b/t
expected &    Last PSR
Original Amount in US$ Millions   actual     Supervisio
Fiscal                                                                    disbursements a! n Rating b/
Project  Year      Borrower           Purpose        IBRD   IDA    Cancel Undisb.   Orig  Frm    Dev  Imp
ID                                                                                       Rev'd  Obj Prog
Number of Closed Projects: 5
Active Projects
GE-PE-   1995  Gov't of Georgia   Municipal Infra. Reh    0.00  18.00    0.00    1.02   2.65    0.00  S    S
8417
GE-PE-   1996  Gov't of Georgia   Transport            0.00  12.00    0.00     .09    .88    0.00  HS    S
39892
GE-PE-   1996  Gov'tofGeorgia   Health                 0.00  14.00    0.00    9.46   8.19    0.00  U    U
8414
GE-PE-   1997  Gov't of Georgia   Oil Institution Bldg  0.00   1.40    0.00    .56    .23    0.00  S    S
44830
GE-PE-   1997  Gov't of Georgia   Agriculture Develop.   0.00  15.00    0.00    6.73  -3.52    0.00  S    S
8415
GE-PE-   1997  Gov'tofGeorgia   PowerRehab.            0.00  52.30    0.00    2.70  -3.17    0.00  U    S
35784
GE-PE-   1998  Gov't of Georgia   Cultural Heritage    0.00   4.49    0.00    4.23   1.22    0.00   S    S
55573
GE-PE-   1998  Gov't of Georgia   SATAC II             0.00   5.00    0.00    1.50   1.38    0.00  S    S
51034
GE-PE-   1998  Gov't of Georgia  Social Invest. Fund   0.00  20.00    0.00   17.30   5.39    0.00   S    S
39929
GE-PE-   1998  Gov'tof Georgia   MunicipalDev.         0.00  20.90    0.00   18.61   7.74    0.00  S    S
50910
GE-PE-   1999  Gov't of Georgia   Tmspt Min Restruct.   0.00   2.30    0.00    2.44   1.54    0.00   S    S
56514
GE-PE-   1999  Gov't of Georgia  Integ. Coastal Mgt    0.00   4.40    0.00    4.34    .12    0.00   S    S
50911
GE-PE-   1999  Gov't of Georgia   Enterprise Rehab.    0.00  15.00    0.00   14.90   0.00    0.00
8416
Total                                                  0.00 184.7    0.00   83.88  22.65    0.00
9
Active Projects    Closed Projects      Total
Total Disbursed (IBRD and IDA):            97.44           213.56            311.00
of which has been repaid:                0.00             0.00             0.00
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:           184.79           209.90            394.69
Amount sold                                 0.00             0.00              0.00
Of which repaid                           0.00              0.00             0.00
Total Undisbursed                          83.88              .01             83.89
a. Intended disbursements to date minus actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b. Following the FY94 Annual Review of Portfolio performance (ARPP), a letter based system was introduced (HS
highly Satisfactory, S = satisfactory, U = unsatisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Improvements
in Project and Portfolio Performance Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 1
ANNEX 6
Georgia
STATEMENT OF IFC's
Committed and Disbursed Portfolio
As of April 1999
(In US Dollar Millions)
Committed                      Disbursed
IFC                            IFC
FY Approval        Company         Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic  Loan  Equity  Quasi  Partic
1997         Georgia G&MW Co.       0.00    2.80   0.00    0.00   0.00    2.80   0.00    0.00
1998         TBC Bank               3.00    0.00   0.00    0.00    .38    0.00   0.00    0.00
1999         Ninotsminda            0.00    0.00   6.00    0.00   0.00    0.00   0.00    0.00
Total Portfolio:          3.00    2.80   6.00    0.00    .38    2.80   0.00    0.00
Approvals Pending Comnmnitment
Loan  Equit  Quasi  Partic
1999         GEORGIA M-F BANK    0.00    Y74    0.00    0.00
1998         TBC Bank               0.00   1.00    0.00    0.00
1999         ThilComBank            3.00   0.00    0.00    0.00
1998         THE KSANI              6.32   2.50    0.00    0.00
Total Pending Commitmnent:           9.32   4.24    0.00    0.00



Annex 7
Page 1 of 2
Georgia at a glance                                                              10/1/98
Europe &    Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                           Central  middle-                        -
Georgia      Asia  income       Developrnent diamond'
1997
Population, mid-year (millions)                       5.4       476     2,285                 Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, US$)                    840      2,320     1,230
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       4.5     1,106     2.818
Average annual growth, 1991-97
Population (V.)                                       -0,2       0.2       1.2     GNP                             Gross
Labor force t%)                                       -0.1       0.5       1.3     ppe                             Gmary
perpimr
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1991-97)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (A of population below national poverty line)  30         ..
Urban population (% of total population)               58        67        42
Life expectanCy at birth (years)                       73        69        69
Infant mortaiity (per 1,00 tive births)                18        25        36
Child malnutrition (% of children under 5)             ..         ..        ..              Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% ofpopulation)                    .        ..       84
Illiteracy (% of population age 15+)                    1         .,       19
Gros primary enrollment ( ofschol-age population)      86        92       111        -Georgia
Male                                                 .-         .       118              Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                .1 ,.             t13   1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976     1986      1996      1997
Economic ratios'
GDP (US$ bilions)                                       -        4,6       52
Gross domestic investment/GOP                  ..    29.9        6,0       6.7                    Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP              .        ..      11.2      11.9
Gross domestic savings/GDP                     ..    29.8       -1,8      -4.2
Gross national savings/GDP                     ..       ..       2.3       1.9
Cunrent account baiancelGDP                    ..       ..      -9.1    -10.2      Domestic        /            n
Interest payments/GOP                    .            ..        1.4       0.8     Savings                     Investment
Total debt/GDP                                 ..       ..      30.1      29.6
Total debt service/exports                    ,.       ..       15.3      13.9
Present value Of debt/GDP                      ..      ..       23.9      19.1
Present value of debt/exports                 ..        ..    213.4    208.9
Indebtedness
1976-86  1907-97    1996       19S7   199842
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   ..      ..    10.5        10.9       7.6            Georgia
GNP per capita                        *               12.7      12.8       8.1              Lower-middle-income group
Exports of goods and services        ..       ..    17.8        18.4      12.2                     e
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1996      1997     Growth rates of output and investment (%6)
(% of GDP)                                                                         iso 
Agriculture                                    *      26.8      33.4      31.6     75-
industry                                      ..    37.0        25.1      23.4        +
Manufacturing                                ..    27.8       18.8      17.5       o
Services                                       ..    36.2       41.5      45.0      74   9S   9S   97
Private consumption                            ..    57.4       92.7      95.2    -1SO
General govemment consumption                  ..    12.8        9.1       9.0                     GDI      6   GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..        ..      18.9      22.7
197646  1987-97       1996      1997     Growth rates of exports and Imports (%)
(average annual growth)                                                           45
Agriculture                                   ..        ..       3.0       3.5     5 T
Industry                                      ..       ..        2.0       2.0    30-
Manufacturing                                ..       ..       2.0       2.0    iS
Services                                      ..        ..      16.8      17.2                               /"e 
Private consumption                            ..      ..        2.2      15.4   -1S      92   93   94         5S   97
General govemment consumpton                  ..       .-       40.0      10.9
Gross domestic investment                     ..        ..      57.0      90.9   -30
Imports of goods and services                 ..        ..       9.7      39.2            -E   xports        Imports
Gross national product                       4.4    -16.5       12.7      11.2
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 2
Georgia
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1976     1986       1996      1997       Infation (%h)
Domestic prices                                                                         20 OC0
(% change)                                                                                . 
Consumer prices                                    ..       ..       39.4       7.1     15.000 /I\Q
Implicit GDP deflator                            0.5       6.1       40.2       7.1    10,00 -0
Government finance                                                                       5,00. 
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                         o
Current revenue                                    ..       ..        8.1       9.9                92   93   94   90   96   97
Current budget balance                            ..        ..       -4.6      -3.5                    GDPdenator    O  CP
Overall surplus/deficit                           ..        ..       -5.8       4.6              -G-P-d-|at-r-0-OP
TRADE
(US$ miifons)                                  1976      1958       1996      1997       Export and import levels (US; millions)
Total exports (fob)                               ,-         -       463       559      1,00
Black metal                                      ..       ..         80       101
Tea                                              ..       ..         19        24       750
Manufactures                                     ..       ..       231        236
Total imports (cif)                               *.         *       768       947       sr
Food                                                               213        154            9r
Fuel and energy                                  .         ..       184       196
Capital goods                                    .         ..       129       330        o
91   92   93   94   90   9    97
Export price index (1995100)                       ..
Import price index (1995=100)                      ..       ..         ..        ..                    Exports         Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                          ..       .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                 1976      1986       1996      1997       Current account balance to GEIP ratio (h)
Exports of goods and services                      .        ..       511       623        0
Imports of goods and services                      .        ..       867      1,192          91   92   93         94          97
Resource balance                                  ..        ..      -356       -569    | .
Net income                                         .        ..       -62        34
Net current transfers                             ..                 141        188     -20
Current account balance                           ..        ..      -418       -535     .30
Financing items (net)                             ..        ..       339       474 
Changes in net reserves                           ,.        ..        79        61    |40
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)            ..        ..       159       175
Conversion rate (DEC, localUUS$)                   ..       ..   1,263.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986       1996      1997
(USS millions)                                                                           Composition of total debt. 19ie (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed               ..       ..      1,378     1,550
IBRD                                            ..                   0         0                          lF:1
IDA                                             ..       ..        157       212                                 B:157
Total debt service                                ..        ..        49         53                 /
lORD                                            .         ..         0         0                                       C:196
IDA.                                                                 1         1
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                                  -                 141        84                                        D:13
Official creditors                              ..        ..       186       192
Private creditors                               ..        ..         0         0
Foreign direct investment                        ..      ..         54       189             E: 995
Portfolio equity                                ..        .          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                     ..       ..         91       155      A A- IBD                       E- Bilateral
Disbursements                                   ..       ..         76        64      8 - IDA    D- Other mulfilateral    F - Prvate
Principalrepayments                             ..                             a   0  C-IMF                          G - Short-term
Net flows                                        ..       ..        76        64    1                                             s
Interest payments                               ..        ..         1          1
Net transfers                                   ..       ..         76        63
Development Economics                                                                                                        10/1/98



MAP SECTION



no  GAS LINES WITH FLOW IN                I C   SELECTED CITIES
MILLIONS OF CUBIC FEET (MCF)            0   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER
R U S S I A N        F E D E R A T I O  N                                    COMPRESSOR STATIONS                        AUTONOMOUS REFUBLIC (ASSRI CENTERS
425o FILLING STATIONS WITH CAPACITY IN MCF   O    ATONAL CAPUBL
E  %                                                                                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* NATIONAL CAPITAL
EFThE E   BUILT-UP URBAN AREA
GLACIER AREAS
RIVERS
-MAIN ROADS
) K g / < g V A_<4                                                                                                                               -      SECONDARY ROADS
_/   7               y                                                                                                     -   RAILROADS
Sukhut                    ...... _S=_ =/> i <,;==,,,,&7>,, ,< .................................................................                                                                                                                               -*- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  43
7'0 z Xvgrdlb        ,-"                            "              =                                                              0      15    30    45    60    7s K7LOMETERS
V'NN1A                     T U          RniekI,i                            - E Y             T, oAToLeninrogi ToTaTir,Aloverdi   Wt=wA             O.
Ae*ro   I   i~~'I                                                                                                       USA
0                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEDERATION
2  DusI,e~           Ames,\/ 
Z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  eecl
-  Tear /  coal~~~~~~~~~~~~~4'
/         ojm                                  'tlhe                 /        N                                 4  ooeA
cZAKHSTAN                      'LIkIk                                                                 27Tol-Tar
7>                        ~~~~~~~~T U  R K E Y~                 ~'rTR                                                       oAl4~!,
"C'                                                                                             T. T~~~~~~~~~~~~K 7    T  reaLaaT                                                            4



E  HYDRO POWER PLANT                      0   AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER
!   SUBSTATION                               AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) CENTERS
POWER LINES:                         k  NATIONAL CAPITALS
-       ---   220 kv                            GLACIER AREAS
_   _ _  I,,  %   .  .  <                                                        - -  330     kV                               RIVERS
(                                                                                                           Ruv t .s                                  .: -- 500oO kV  -     M AIN ROADS
J\              At            -          -                                                                   -..~..   1   BUILT UP URBAN AREA  -- SECONDARY ROADS
KNU d                                        \                                                    t                                                    ~D .............XA/  's  .  _.' ................. 1  RAILROADS
Sukh                                              (                                                    b                                                      S N  (  , CJ --  A INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
se-Ps0p    1 F ~ --TKVAR(-HEL -'                                                                                                                     0    15   30   45   60   75 KROMETEP5
7                                                                                 Ti,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GbiT li
;;O N4I(-9Kthesehi            \'E  ekE,                                        0Gebi N.~ 5 TAO,e         *la'ir    k  'liav
0~~~~ER-      r                                   Toef 9t~ A2JANURI  'Yev         . r   ).         ,,,-AU(       Keee0   \,
\;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/  -                    Tse'j :Rier.D '                                            i'''
ANSHN   t'''-- y'   ''   '\s    '  2 "- .~~Kseis  t''                                                                                                 _,                  . 
v~ ~~~~~h <- m                                                     l ( -\ . S NA                                                                  . . - S.hhr -         RUSSIAN         
IN RI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                        FDRTO
ot~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-N.Loeel   uht {                                                                 Tpcif          
TSUSL     ---'K                     I~      ~~~~~~~~~ U    'TIo 
4611   Euekhev1,i,j 'Y<  --    HAOR-       -5kh
Raiser, /.ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ E-                                                               D II ATI 
C,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~                  EhoIkoM~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                      2~~~~~I
'-V~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
TURKEY~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T 1ik 4r''                          -e



GDo   OIL FIELDS
R  U  S  S  I A  N        F E  D  E  R  A  T  I O    N                                        L=OLNGSERNRGOS2'';3GLACIER AREAS
OIL REFINERIES                                              RIVERS
~~~~~~s _< _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OIL PIPELINE                                                                                                                         MAIN ROADS
C;17-sR  <  Rt                                                                        ' ' '  OIL TERMINALS                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECONDARY ROADS
4 !  0  .   . ~~~~~~~ 5~~ ' , ;    g                          <                                                                     o17    SELECTED CITIESRALOD
(;/  <    3   <_== >  /f   g '     -;w>t   g                                                                     O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ AUTONOMOUS OBLAST (AO) CENTER
t > _          t   /z~~~~~i <S;zE -<;v- ~~~~~~~~ ~~ '+   W                                                      O ~~~AUTONOMOUS REPUBLIC (ASSR) CENTERS                                                                            4 
t j <, .Hg<> X * ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATIONAL CAPITAL                                                                                       ,3                   15      30       41   513   75 EI.OlmsEE
.'.,r32gE  ~    .i.C}  \   #                <~- --            .--  -.        r    X    \   "@> >9r teeo.lzv@
=v4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7
>  41'   T U R K E Y                                                  /-<t                              r -                      rs    ( Wsi W                                    \                                           41gC~~
rE;.r,=i"_,,  ,  , ,. _,,,,, ,9.ii~.2 JS3  .7 



