Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 24719
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-32660)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 18.1 MILLION (US$25 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO
GEORGIA
FOR AN
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
August 30, 2002



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective August 2002)
Currency Unit = Lari
Lari 2.2 = US$ US$1
US$ 0.45 = Lari I
FISCAL YEAR
January 1   December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AES       Applied Energy Services
BCM       Billion Cubic Meters
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CHP       Combined Heat and Power
EBRD      European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EMSP      Electricity Market Support Project
ESAC       Energy Sector Adjustment Credit
ESAF      Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ETIB       Energy Transit Institution Building
FSU       Former Soviet Union
GDP       Gross Domestic Product
GGIC      Georgia Gas Intemational Corporation
GNERC      Georgian National Energy Regulatory Commission
GTC       Gas Transportation Company
GUDC       Georgian United Distribution Company
IDA        International Development Association
IFC        Intemational Finance Corporation
IMF       International Monetary Fund
JBIC      Japan Bank for International Cooperation
KfW        Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Reconstruction Loan Corporation)
kWh        Kilowatt Hour
MW         Mega Watts
OECF       Overseas Economic Cooperation Fund
SAC        Structural Adjustment Credit
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SRS        Structural Reform Support
USAID      United States Agency for International Development
USD        Unted States Dollars
USSR       Union of Soviet Socialist Republics
WEM        Wholesale Electricity Market
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECA
Acting Country Director:    Peter Nicholas, ECCU3
Sector Director:   Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
Task Team Leader:      Vladislav Vucetic, ECSIE



GEORGIA
ENERGY SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            8
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                             18
6. Sustainability                                                                 20
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                  21
8. Lessons Learned                                                                23
9. Partner Comments                                                               25
10. Additional Information                                                        28
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                              29
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                              30
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                              31
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                              32
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components              34
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                 35
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                             36






Pr-oject ID- P064094                                     Project Name: ENERGY SECAC
Team Leader: Vladislav Vucetic                           TL Unit. ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: August 30, 2002
1. Project Data
Name: ENERGY SECAC                                  L/C/TFNumber. IDA-32660
Counn-y/Department: GEORGIA                                             Region  Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: Power (39%); Oil & gas (32%); Central government
administration (18%); Other social services (7%);
Telecommunications (4%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   11/16/1998                             Effective. 08/02/1999         08/02/1999
Appraisal:  11/10/1998                               MTR
Approval:  06/29/1999                              Closing: 06/30/2000         03/01/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency  Georgia/Government of Georgia
Other Partners.  N/A
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President.      Johannes F. Linn                          Johannes F. Linn
Country Manager:     Peter Nicholas                            Judy M. O'Connor
Sector Manager.      Hossein Razavi                            Hossein Razavi
Team Leader at ICR:  Vladislav Vucetic                         Jonathan D. Walters
ICR Primary Author.  Vladislav Vucetic; Jonathan D.
Walters
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability L
Institutional Development Impact M
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entrv.                        S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No



3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The Georgian economy has been experiencing serious fiscal, quasi-fiscal, and extemal imbalances. A major
source of these imbalances has been the use of the power sector for quasi-fiscal financing of subsidies to
the population and economy through low tariffs, low collection of paymnents, and tolerance of high
commercial losses. As in many other energy-poor FSU countries, the Georgian energy sector absorbed the
bulk of the terms of trade loss consequent on the break-up of the USSR. The consequent quasi-fiscal
subsidies to energy customers, amounting to approximately 5 percent of GDP annually have severely
decapitalized the energy sector and diminished its ability to provide services, exacerbating the economic
downtum. The problem has been compounded by inefficient economic management and widespread
corruption, both inside and outside the sector, resulting in economic waste and large scale misallocation of
resources.
The weak fiscal management and the weak management of state companies, combined with insufficient
structural reforms and widespread governance problems have made it difficult to abandon this quasi-fiscal
role of the sector and to fight off its increasing capture by vested interests and corrupt groups. The abuse
and mismanagement of the sector resulted in poor collection of billed revenues, and large billing and other
commercial and technical losses, completing the self-perpetuating vicious circle of the sector's diminishing
ability to service its customers and the decreasing ability of the customers to afford the services.
The combination of softening the budget constraints of poorly-performing enterprises in an energy-intensive
economy and failure to provide reliable energy services to all enterprises as a result of the consequent
financial crisis in the energy sector, has been economically devastating in Georgia. The impact on poverty
has been considerable, which has in turn hampered sector reform. In particular, the inability of the sector
to provide reliable electricity supplies in the winter created enormous hardship, caused significant
environmental degradation, and posed considerable political risk to the Government's overall reforrn
program. As in many other FSU countries, the quasi-fiscal deficit in the energy sector allowed increased
control of the fiscal deficit itself (at least on a cash basis), which greatly facilitated monetary stabilization
and the all-important fight against inflation. However, eventually the cost of using quasi-fiscal energy
subsidies to substitute for monetary expansion became unsustainable. Nonetheless, considerable vested
interests had coalesced around the quasi-fiscal policy.
The Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) was designed to help break out of these vicious circles by
supporting structural, policy, legal, and institutional reforms in the energy sector, in conjunction with
broader economic reforms pursued by IDA's adjustment lending (Structural Adjustment Credit III) and the
IMF-supported program (Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility). The reform program supported by the
ESAC was well integrated into the Country Assistance Strategy (17000-GE). The ESAC was conceived as
a significant step forward on a long process of economy-wide reform and adjustment in post-Soviet
Georgia; it was not expected that all the major distortions in the energy sector would have been resolved by
the end of the ESAC period.
In parallel to the reform of the domestic energy sector, Georgia faced an opportunity to capitalize on its
pipeline transit potential for landlocked Caspian oil and gas resources (as well as in exploiting Georgia's
own, albeit limited, hydrocarbon resources). The ESAC-supported reforms focused on maximizing the net
benefits to Georgia from private investment in transit pipelines, in both fiscal and environmental terms.
Although this component was secondary in the ESAC program to power sector reform, it was nevertheless
an important part of promoting private infrastructure investment in Georgia.
-2 -



It should be emphasized that Georgia's reform program took place against the background of the territorial
disintegration of Georgia, the aftermath of civil war, and complex relations with neighboring countries in a
conflict-ridden region. The extreme challenge this posed to state-building in a newly-independent Georgia,
and the central role that the energy sector played in regional political dynamics, are critical to an
understanding of Georgia's energy reform program.
The weakness of the Georgian state both constrained the pace of reform and conditioned its design; this
point cannot be overemphasized. Most importantly, this represented the joint perception of government
officials (from the President downwards) and IDA staff. The ESAC reform program reflected a strong
intemal and external consensus.
The main elements of sector reform supported by the ESAC included strategic privatization in the
electricity sector, creation of an enabling environment for private sector participation in the oil and gas
industries, and improved environmental regulation and social protection.
The objectives of the credit were to help:
*   maintain momentum of energy sector reform and help mitigate its social costs;
* enhance financial management and combat corruption;
*   increase the availability of energy on a sustainable basis;
*   catalyze private investment;
* realize Georgia's pipeline transit potential; and
*   upgrade environmental management.
The objectives reflected well the priorities of the sector at the time of the program's inception.
3.2 Revised Objective:
There were no revisions to the original objectives.
3.3 Original Components:
The reform program supported by the IDA Credit included the following components, measures and
activities:
A.     The power sector
*   Privatization of distribution and generation companies: the program called for completing the sale of
Telasi, the electricity distribution company serving the capital Tbilisi; offering all remaining
distribution and generation companies (outside Abkhazia) for privatization to strategic investors;
successful sale or long-term concession for at least about 130 MW of hydropower plants; and closing
bids for the Gardabani thermal plant.
* Adoption of electricity market rules, and stakeholders' management of the wholesale electricity
market (as opposed to managing the market through a single buyer model, with Sakenergo, the
transmission and dispatch company, being the single buyer);
*   Maintaining cost reflective tariffs: an initial increase by an average of 45% was necessary, after which
the Georgian National Energy Regulatory Commission (GNERC) would maintain tariffs per tariff
methodology, privatization contracts, and license conditions;
- 3-



*   GNERC to adopt dispute resolution procedures for companies operating in the electricity market;
* Adoption of a Chart ofAccounts according to International Accounting Standards for Sakenergo,
Electrodispetcerizatsia, Electrogadatsema, Sakenergogeneratsia, and Tbilsresi. The first four
enterprises played a central role in sector operation and were envisaged to remain under state
management; Tbilsresi's privatization timetable - and indeed the very feasibility of privatization - was
unclear at the time of program design, hence its inclusion under this policy action;
* Auditing the 1999 financial statements of Sakenergo, Electrodispetcerizatsia, Electrogadatsema,
Sakenergogeneratsia, and Tbilsresi by international auditors (see bullet point above);
* Introducing budgetary compensation for electricity delivered to Abkhazia: the power system was
delivering a significant amount of electricity (10-15% of total generation and imports) to Abkhazia
without any compensation. Since disconnection of Abkhazia was not possible for political reasons, it
was necessary that the budget compensate the power system for at least part of the cost of this
electricity;
* Increasing poverty benefits to poor single pensioners: the Consolidated Budget was to include benefits
to single pensioners, as the most vulnerable group, in an amount sufficient to bring the beneficiaries to
the Bank-estimated poverty line (total amount to be included in the 1999 Consolidated Budget was Lari
14.3 million); and
* Abolishing direct transfers from budget to Sakenergo on behalf of pensioners, civil servants, and
refugees (i.e. amounts withheld by Government from salaries and pensions and paid to Sakenergo) in
privatized distribution areas and disbursing them directly to the beneficiaries.
B. Natural gas transmission and distribution
*   GNERC to regulate domestic gas supply: Parliament was to adopt amendments to the Electricity Law
to authorize GNERC to regulate gas marketing, distribution, and transmission;
* GNERC to adopt a transparent gas tariff methodology and issue.commercial licenses to the
companies operating in the gas market;
*   GNERC to adopt dispute resolution procedures for companies operating in the gas market;
* Pursue privatization of gas distribution and supply companies; and
*   Adoption of a Chart ofAccounts according to Intemational Accounting Standards for
Saktransgasmretsvi, the gas transmission operating company (envisaged to remain under state
management).
C. Oil and gas exploration and production
*   Adoption of Oil and Gas Law, goveming exploration and production of oil and gas; and
*   Separation of regulatory and commercial activities in state agencies.
-4 -



D. Oil and gas transit pipelines
* Attracting private investment in oil and gas transit;
* Adoption of legislation on eminent domain;
* Legislating tax stabilization and concluding double-taxation agreements;
*   Adopting operational standards and permitting procedures for oil and gas pipelines to enhance
safety; and
* Ratifying international conventions on marine oil pollution damage.
E. Environment
* Clarifying environmental liability through adoption of legislation on environmental liability;
*   Ratifying international conventions on marine oil pollution damage; and
* Amending the Privatization Law to include environmental due diligence.
To help implement the program, the Government contracted a number of advisors and consultants, financed
by IDA credits (Structural Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit, Oil Institution Building Credit,
Structural Reform Support Credit) and bilateral technical assistance from USAID. IDA Credits financed a
contract with Merrill Lynch to advise on electricity privatization, negotiation advisors for oil and gas
pipelines, and support to GNERC. USAID financed services of PA Consulting for regulation, market
administration, and gas privatization; Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu for upgrading accounting, auditing, and
financial controls of energy sector enterprises; advisors for capacity-building for the Competent Authority
under the Oil and Gas Law; and advisors for development of legislation on environmental liability and
eminent domain.
The main thrust of the program was to build on Government's strong commitment to privatization to
strategic investors, which had been demonstrated through previous operations (Structural Adjustment
Credit II) and during preparation of the ESAC. Strategic investors were seen as the principal source of
investment finance and technological and managerial know-how, and an essential force to enhance financial
management of the sector and combat corruption, thus improving the supply of energy on a sustainable
basis.
The Credit was divided into two equal tranches, the first to be disbursed upon Board approval and Credit
effectiveness (the tranche was released on July 27, 1999). Release of the second tranche was contingent on
completion of a number of prior actions, on satisfactory progress with respect to the Energy Sector Reform
Program laid out in the Letter of Energy Sector Policy, and on maintaining a satisfactory macroeconomic
framework, as defined by the Third Structural Adjustment Credit, and the International Monetary Fund's
three-year Poverty Reduction and Growth Facility.
The set of actions taken before presentation of the proposed credit to the Board included:
* sale of Telasi;
-5 -



*   offering for privatization of all remaining electricity distribution companies and generation plants
(outside Abkhazia);
*   increase in electricity tariffs (by an average of 45%);
*   inclusion in the 1999 Consolidated Budget of 14.3 million lari for the poverty benefit targeted to poor
single pensioners, and approval of an increase in the benefit to 18 lari for an individual recipient and 29
lari for two recipients in the same household (from 9 and 14.4 lari (respectively, calculated to bring the
beneficiaries just up to the Bank-estimated poverty line);
*   inclusion in the 1999 Consolidated Budget of 10 million lari to compensate for unpaid electricity
supplied by Inguri Hydro Power Plant (to Abkhazia);
*   adoption of detailed electricity market rules;
*   parliamentary adoption of Oil and Gas Law (governing exploration and production); and
*   parliamentary adoption of amendments to the Electricity Law to authorize GNERC to regulate gas
marketing, distribution and transmission.
A satisfactory macroeconomic framework (ESAF and SAC programs on track) was an effectiveness
condition.
Actions completed before the release of the second tranche included:
*   satisfactory progress on power privatization: bids for the Gardabani thermal plant closed; at least 130
MW of state-owned generation, other than at the Gardabani plant, privatized through a competitive
process (sold or given for concession for at least 25 years); offers for distribution companies evaluated
and, if no eligible offers received, the packages reconfigured and offered for sale again;
*   actual expenditures on the poverty benefit for poor single pensioners to fully reflect the 14.3 million
lari total budgetary allocation (i.e., no arrears) and individual benefit levels specified, and abolish direct
transfers to Sakenergo in respect of pensioners, civil servants, and refugees in privatized distribution
areas;
*   actual expenditures in compensation for electricity supplied by Inguri Hydro Power Plant to fully
reflect the budgetary allocation;
*   continued implementation of the electricity tariff methodology adopted by GNERC on July 1, 1998;
*   adoption of a gas tariff methodology by GNERC and licenses to have been issued to all privatized gas
distribution companies, the gas transmission company, and all gas purchasers/resellers;
*   Parliamentary adoption of legislation on eminent domain;
*   Parliamentary adoption of legislation on environmental liability;
*   Sakenergo, Energotransmission, Sakenergogeneratsia, Tbilsresi and Saktransgasmretsvi to adopt a
Chart of Accounts according to International Accounting Standards, and appointment of intemational
- 6 -



auditors to audit the 1999 financial statements of those enterprises;
*   satisfactory overall performance on ihe Government's energy reform program as stated in the Letter of
Energy Sector Policy; and
*   satisfactory macroeconomic framework (ESAF and SAC programs on track).
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no revisions to the components of the program supported by the Credit.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Given the enormous problems facing the Georgian energy sector - mismanagement, corruption, physical
decay, financial problems -- the main design issue was to select priorities which would have the largest
impact on these problems and be feasible to implement in the context of Government's limited
implementation capacity and the domestic and external political and economic environment. During the
1995-1998 period, the Government focused on physical rehabilitation of the energy system (using donor
financing), development of legal and regulatory framework, and on sector restructuring which would
facilitate commercialization and privatization. During that period, cost recovery improved somewhat in the
power sector, with increases in both tariffs and collections, but still staying well below the levels needed for
sustained operation of the sector (collection had been reported at the level of about 60-70%, although these
figures had not been audited and could have been subject to significant accounting manipulations). There
were clear signs that further improvements in increasing collections and reducing commercial losses were
stalling (indeed, in some areas progress was beginning to reverse). In any case, electricity supply was not
improving and supply disruptions were having a serious impact on growth and poverty reduction. Gas
supply was reduced to a minimum in the face of mounting extemal arrears. The investment climate was
unfavorable and the investment necessary to restore supply to paying customers remained limited. The oil
sector had attracted significant foreign investment, but development was retarded by an uncertain legal and
regulatory framework. Oil and gas pipeline transit had also attracted considerable attention and some
investment, but much needed to be done to mitigate investor risk and enhance environmental management.
Corruption, already extensive, was becoming rampant and the quasi-fiscal deficit unsustainable.
The main design dilemma for the reform program, especially in the power sector, was: to what extent to
push for improving financial performance of state-owned companies prior to their privatization
(accompanied possibly with horizontal re-aggregation of unbundled sector) vs. pursuing privatization of the
sector under the existing conditions. Although these two strategic options were not completely mutually
exclusive, they did imply a significant degree of focus on one option at the expense of the other in terms of
instruments, degree of restructuring, sequencing, pacing, and, perhaps most importantly, allocation of
limited financial, human and institutional resources.
The balance of the arguments between the two strategic choices favored privatization, in spite of the risks it
implied and which were recognized. The most important among these arguments were: extremely poor
record in management and performance of state-owned energy companies and low probability that this
would change, given the near-universal weakness of state institutions in Georgia; the need to mobilize
investments quickly; Govemment's demonstrated commitment to privatization; demonstrated willingness of
private sector, including foreign strategic investors, to invest in Georgia and expectation that this
willingness would continue, given Government's willingness to accept the responsibility for historic debts,
relatively low cash prices for the privatized assets, and tolerate higher tariffs. Above all, the Government
expected that strategic investors would be effective in commercializing the sector, improving its efficiency
and financial performance, and weeding out corruption; the state had already demonstrated its inability to
- 7 -



do so.
Thus, both intemal and extemal conditions created a window of opportunity to attempt privatization to
strategic investors. It is difficult to argue that seizing that window was incorrect, even if, in retrospect,
some assumptions - e.g., on the buoyancy of extemal investment environment - were perhaps too
optimistic. It is possible that some elements of the program could have been handled differently and
perhaps with somewhat better outcome in terms of financial performance of the sector. For example,
municipal distribution companies - about 70 of them at the time - could have been merged into larger ones,
which could have possibly both enhanced their attractiveness to investors and made this key segment of the
power sector more manageable under the state-ownership (although this proposal met with considerable
resistance at the local level). This measure, in combination with more emphasis on financial performance
indicators of state-owned distribution companies, especially if leveraged explicitly by IDA's other
adjustment operations and IMF lending, may have induced the Government to focus its attention more
forcefully on improving financial performance of state-owned electricity distribution companies. However,
these are counterfactual suppositions and it is difficult to prove that they indeed would have led to a
significantly different or better outcome. Indeed, the Govemment's track record suggested very limited
ability to control state enterprises, and previous adjustment lending had not proved effective in improving
financial performance on a sustained basis (although some temporary modest successes had been recorded).
The proposed program was fully consistent with the CAS, supporting all four CAS objectives: (i)
strengthening public finances (by reducing the continued threat to the Govemment budget, posed by the
unsustainable deficits in the electricity sector, by complementing public investment with private capital, and
by transforming the energy sector into a major taxpayer); (ii) deepening and diversifying sources of growth,
as opportunities for private participation in the energy sector develops and the energy supply improves; (iii)
contributing to poverty reduction (directly, through poverty benefits introduced under the program, and
indirectly, through enhanced growth); and improving environmental protection.
The reform program was prepared collaboratively by the Government, Parliament, and IDA staff. The
majority of those involved had worked together on energy reform for a period of years prior to ESAC
negotiations. The ESAC was negotiated in Tbilisi (the only adjustment credit to Georgia to be so), and all
relevant ministries and agencies participated throughout negotiations (Finance, Economy, Fuel and Energy,
State Property, Environment, Justice, Georgia Intemational Oil Company, GNERC). As a result, the
ESAC was built on strong consensus, and any unresolved differences of perspective were fully transparent.
The ESAC was well coordinated with other IDA-financed activities in Georgia. Structural adjustment
lending and the associated technical assistance credits directly supported energy sector reform and served to
improve social safety net provision, underpin fiscal adjustment, and create hard budget constraints for
enterprises - all of which should have improved payments discipline amongst customers of the energy
sector. The ESAC also complemented investment lending by IDA (the Power Rehabilitation Credit (Credit
2958-GE)), EBRD, KFW, OECF/JBIC, the Government of Switzerland, the Government of Georgia, and
sector enterprises. Also, the ESAC operationalized the strategy for privatization outlined in the Power
Privatization Report (No. 17152-GE). In the oil and gas sector, the measures under the ESAC were
integrated with the technical assistance provided to the sector by the Oil Institution Building Credit (Credit
2944-GE) and the structural adjustment technical assistance credits. There was close coordination with
IDA's environmental activities in Georgia, particularly in coastal zone management.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 OLiztcome/achievernent of objective:
-8 -



Outcomes and achievements of the program supported by the ESAC against individual components of
program objectives are as follows:
*   Maintain momentum of energy sector reform and help mitigate its social costs: satisfactory
The credit definitely helped maintain the momentum of energy sector reform on a broad set of issues in the
energy sector: privatization, restructuring, regulation, legal environment, and social protection. Overall, the
achievements met expectations. Major progress was achieved in electricity privatization, putting Georgia
at the forefront among the FSU states. Significant segments of the electricity distribution market and
generation assets were privatized to AES, a strategic investor with worldwide experience in operating
electricity companies. Some distribution companies were privatized to local investors, giving the
opportunity to the domestic private sector to contribute to recovery of the industry. A number of investors
had a chance to acquaint themselves with Georgia and its potential. Although these contacts did not result
in additional privatization, they helped put Georgia on investors' maps, making it easier to pursue
opportunities later. As a result, Georgia became known as a country genuinely interested in working with
private investors, albeit having a very difficult operating environment. Success in privatization of
distribution and generation catalyzed Government plans to privatize management of transmission, dispatch
and WEM;.this had not even been under discussion at the time of ESAC design. A number of legal actions,
described elsewhere in this report, were undertaken to improve this environment in the electricity, oil and
gas industries.
The credit helped improve mitigation of the social costs of reform. A poverty benefits program was
established as part of the program supported by the credit. The program was designed to help single poor
pensioners and orphans, as the most vulnerable groups, deal with increasing costs of electricity supply. The
Government, faced with difficulties in maintaining overall budgetary conmuitments especially in the
post-crisis years after the 1998 financial crisis, was slow to start paying the stipulated poverty benefits.
However, the accumulated arrears were repaid and the payments became more regular in 2001. The
Government continued to disburse poverty benefits in 2002, after the ESAC closed, and it appears that
these payments are likely to be sustained. The consolidated budget disbursed about 12.9 million lari for
1999, 11.45 million lari for 2000, and 13.3 million lari for 2001. About 8 million lari was disbursed for the
first six months of 2002. The program covered about 45,000 families.
The ESAC prompted USAID to initiate a major social assistance program (the "Winter Heat" program),
now in place for several years, to help poor families and some social institutions pay for electricity
consumption. Between 100,000 and 200,000 households and several hundred social institutions were
included. The "Winter Heat" program was supported by donations from private companies (British
Petroleum). The Program disbursed $2.7 million during the 1998/1999 winter (all from USAID), $5
million during the 1999/2000 (all from USAID), $5.5 million during the 2000/2001 winter ($5 million from
USAID, $0.5 million from British Petroleum), and $10.1 million during the 2001/2002 winter ($9.1 million
from USAID, $1 million from British Petroleum).
*   Increase the availability of energy on a sustainable basis: satisfactory (achieved in privatized
areas).
Before the privatization of Telasi and other distribution companies, Georgia had a reasonably reliable
electricity supply only in summer. Winter supply was terrible - blackouts were very long and
unpredictable. Now, Tbilisi, which represents 35-45% of electricity demand, has significant supply
reliability year-round. Although winter supply is not yet 24 hours a day, blackouts are much shorter and
considerably more predictable. This is an achievement of major importance for macroeconomic
-9-



stabilization, structural adjustment, and poverty reduction. Indeed, it is one of the few major successes of
Georgian reform since inflation was brought under control in the late 1 990s. Of course, much still depends
on the private investors earning a return on investment sufficient to ensure they remain involved.
In the rest of Georgia, the electricity supply has not improved. Privatization has not been possible due to
lack of investor interest in distribution companies in rural areas and secondary cities (a common problem in
developing and transition countries); state management of those companies has gone from bad to worse.
In short, the reform program has worked only where private investors have been attracted. Economically,
that represents almost half the country. Where the private sector has feared to tread, state management has
failed and reform has not proved effective. The resulting inequalities pose a political risk to the reform
program nationally, and have substantial economic costs. This is highly unfortunate, but not unexpected at
the time of ESAC design. Success in Tbilisi was itself very uncertain; success outside of Tbilisi was
always seen as highly ambitious within the ESAC period. It can only be hoped that success in Tbilisi has
laid the basis for subsequent distribution privatization elsewhere.
* Enhance financial management and combat corruption: marginally satisfactory (partially
achieved as AES-owned companies improved financial management and are actively fighting
corruption, but serious problems persist in the rest of the sector)
The outcome of the program relative to this objective was mixed. AES brought in better financial
management of the companies it bought (Tbilisi's distribution company Telasi, the Gardabani thermal
plant, and the Krami I and Krami II hydropower plants). Gardabani and Telasi had previously been major
sources of financial leakage in the sector. AES contributed a disproportionately high share of cash
payments to the electricity market between 1999 and 2001 (in comparison with other companies in the
market), injecting more than US$200 million into the sector to finance investments and operating expenses.
Most importantly, AES improved supply of electricity to Tbilisi beginning in early 2001. One of the most
important benefits of AES's involvement, was the anti-corruption effect: directly - by decreasing
corruption in the companies which it took over (it may take still a few more years to root it out, though),
and indirectly - by adding its strong and influential voice to the national anti-corruption debate and actions.
These effects demonstrate the central benefits of privatization to strategic investors:
*   improved customer services and corporate performance, as a result of better alignment of incentives
within the company among the staff, management, and shareholders based on a shared objective of
sustaining, improving and expanding the business (vs. a mismanaged and corrupt state-owned
company, in which the staff and management are motivated by short-term personal gains, including
through illegal actions); and
*   better alignment of private (corporate) and public interests based on a shared objective of efficient and
sustained provision of good quality service.
Both of these types of alignments of interests and incentives - within a state-owned company and between
the company, and its environment - had fractured in the Georgian environment, where accountability and
penalties for mismanagement had been weak. Management's short-term interest is to maximize their
income and other benefits, in alliance with influential politicians and public officials with whom they share
the gains, even if it means damaging the interests of the company and the public. This goes deep in the
companies such as electricity distribution, where a large number of employees are in a position to*
"privatize" the company's production (electricity) and/or cash. Such behavior, owing to weak
accountability and corruption in public services, is protected by the officials who, one way or the other,
benefit from the situation. The result is widespread corruption and high financial losses in the sector which
- 10 -



are ultimately transferred to the budget, undermining both the sector and public financing in general.
AES was on the verge of leaving Georgia in late 2001 and early 2002, after coming under strong market
pressure at the corporate level, which reduced the company's appetite for tolerating financial losses and
forced it to take a hard look at all poorly performing investments worldwide. (The serious intentions of
AES to consider leaving Georgia, announced at that time, and the difficulties in electricity supply at the
outset of the 2001/2002 winter, explain a more pessimistic outlook by IDA on achievements and
sustainability of ESAC's objectives at that time.) However, by about April 2002, AES was reported to
have succeeded in improving its financial performance in Georgia, after managing to provide decent
electricity service during the winter.
There has been, however, no improvement in financial performance nor in the level of corruption in the
state-owned companies (with the arguable exception of some of the hydropower plants benefiting from
AES demand for wholesale power through bilateral contracts). Payment collections by state-owned
companies even deteriorated to about 35% overall (only about'10% in cash in 2001). Some structural
changes in the state sector were introduced later: in year 2000 more than 70 municipal distribution
companies were merged into eight regional companies and subsequently, in 2002, into one company;
trading arrangements in the wholesale electricity market were relaxed to allow bilateral contracts. However,
these changes have not yet resulted in appreciable improvement of the performance of the state-owned
companies. Since the state companies dominate the sector, the net outcome for the sector as a whole has
been continuing poor financial performance and still widespread corruption.
The only exception to this rather gloomy picture of the public side of the electricity (and gas distribution)
sector has been the performance of the Georgia National Energy Regulatory Commission (GNERC), whose
role was strengthened and extended beyond the regulation of the electricity industry to cover regulation of
gas transport and distribution. The Commission has been able to maintain both its credibility and
independence, despite strong opposition, thanks to its strong legal underpinning and the competence and
credibility of its directors. This has helped maintain proper tariffs and their adjustments on a timely basis.
Another major institutional and structural initiative -- the establishment of the Georgian Wholesale
Electricity Market (WEM) -- has not been successful. The purpose of creating the WEM was to replace
Sakenergo as a single buyer, prone to mismanagement, corruption, and waste, with a more transparent
trading arrangement, which consisted of a regulated pool ("market" was something of a misnomer). The
WEM was supposed to issuer bills to the wholesale consumers (distribution companies and direct customers
- large consumers which were members of the wholesale market), collect and enforce payments (i.e., issue
disconnection orders for nonpaying market members), and forward the payments to generators and the
transmission and dispatch companies. Bilateral contracts for imports and between wholesale consumers and
generators were also allowed (at the pool prices). The transmission company was supposed to provide
transmission services and implement disconnection orders issued by the WEM and cleared by the dispatch
company (to ensure security of the system). This "market" organization was supposed to be a transitional
arrangement between the single-buyer model and a more competitive trading arrangement.
However, the WEM proved to be almost equally prone to mismanagement and corruption as the former
single-buyer Sakenergo, unable and unwilling to enforce payments, improperly allocating collected
amounts, and engaging in activities beyond its terms of reference (signing long-term power purchase
agreements with investors on behalf of market members, taking commercial loans, etc.). The trading was
based on market rules as a form of a collective contract between sellers/producers (power plants and
importers) and buyers/consumers (distribution companies, direct customers), which made all consumers
party to the "contract" with all producers. The Government, the owner of most of the market members on
both sides of the market (the producing and the consuming) and of the companies operating the market



(transmission and dispatch), appeared not to be very interested in inducing the market to operate
commercially; rather, political pressures at various levels were exerted on the companies to supply
customers, even if they were in serious payment defaults.
The WEM's management did not succeed, nor did they try, in resisting political and other vested interest
pressures for allocating electricity deliveries and payments. The WEM borrowed from commercial banks
and engaged in signing long-term power purchase contracts with investors in generation, in clear violation
of its mandate. As a result, the WEM failed to enforce payments, allowing consumers to' accumulate large
debts at a rate comparable to the pre-WEM situation. This record of failure is mitigated slightly in that
leakages from the WEM were more transparent than from its predecessor, Sakenergo: It was perhaps
mitigated more strongly, but unintentionally, by the fact that a bilaterally-contracted competitive market
emerged because of the failure of the WEM to operate according to agreed rules. .Although this was a
transitional phenomenon, it accelerated the efforts to reform the WEM, which is now under way under the
EMSP program. Ii essence, the WEM represented a failure of state management, which resulted in a
spontaneous emergence of more genuine market mechanisms.
* -Catalyze private investment: satisfactory
The program supported by ESAC led to privatization of significant parts of the electricity sector.
Privatization accomplished during 1998-2000 in the electricity sector has not yet been followed by
additional sales due to a number of reasons, of which most important are probably general retrenchment of
intemational investments and difficulties experienced by AES in attaining profitability of its investments in
Georgia and fighting vested interests. However, the privatization strengthened Government's resolve to
continue along the same reform path. ESAC, through the work on strengthening the legal, regulatory and
institutional framework for oil and gas exploration, production, transport, supply, and distribution, also
contributed to the successful conclusion of negotiations of oil and gas transit agreements and to the
expansion of private investment in oil and gas exploration and production (in July 2002, Georgia invited
proposals for new oil and gas concessions).
*   Realize Georgia's pipeline transit potential: satisfactory
As mentioned above,' Georgia has worked successfully and effectively with other govemments (notably
Azerbaijan and Turkey) and with the private sector, to negotiate what it considers to be a fair share of
potential revenues from oil and gas pipeline transit, at the same time improving security of its energy
supply, especially in gas. It has also facilitated the application of international best practice in
environmental management and land acquisition for pipeline development.
* Upgrade environmental management: satisfactory
The legal framework for environmental management in the energy sector has been strengthened through
adoption of a number of environmental,meas s (see Sections 4.2. D and E), particularly relating to new
transit pipelines, although enforcement will only be tested once operation commences. Especially important
was the establishment of the legal framework for dealing with oil spills from pipelines through the law
imposing strict liability on pipeline operators, ard Georgia's ratification of the various marine oil spill
treaties.
The achievements under the ESAC generally mret expectations. The specific measures envisaged under the
program were largely implemented, as described above, and the Government generally followed the policies
-12 -



which it had committed to. The situation in the power sector before and after the ESAC differs
fundamentally in several aspects. Most importantly, the ownership structure changed: a major strategic
investor has acquired significant stakes, which should have significant and lasting positive effects which are
yet to be fully felt. This has led to improved electricity supply in the capital Tbilisi, politically and
economically the most important region in the country. It has also led to a significant injection of cash in
the system and, now, to a better financial performance of distribution business in the capital. AES also
took over some of the assets which were a major source of corruption: electricity distribution in Tbilisi and
the productive assets at the Gardabani thermal plant, where procurement of fuel was an attractive target for
corrupt groups and individuals. Social policies in the energy sector were transformed from a system of
subsidies based on Soviet-era type of privileges, poorly related to income and unaffordable, to a system
with a narrower and better targeted base, but affordable to the budget. The strengthening of the legal and
regulatory framework in oil and gas industries, including environmental liabilities and land acquisition
rules, created a better environment for the private sector and contributed to the successful conclusion of
transit oil and gas pipeline deals. Macroeconomic benefits of these achievements are potentially very large:
reduced quasi-fiscal and external deficits, increased public income from oil and gas transit, lower public
and publicly-guaranteed external debt (as the responsibility for energy imports is shifted to private sector),
etc.
Of course, significant-problems remain: corruption is still rampant, and financial performance and the
quality of service by the state-owned companies remain dismal, both in the electricity and gas sectors.
However, Georgia is in a better position after the ESAC to continue solving these problems. The ESAC
was just a stage in sector reforms: it was not realistic to expect, nor was it expected, that it would end
sector problems. Thus, the most relevant question for judging the success of the ESAC - is the energy
sector of Georgia in a better shape after the ESAC than before - should be answered with "yes", assuming
that the benefits of the ESAC program will be sustained, as expected.
4.2 Ouitputs by coinponents:
A. The power sector
* Privatization of distribution and generation companies: Telasi, the electricity distribution company
serving the capital Tbilisi and taking 3545% share of Georgia's 7+ TWh annual electricity
consumption, was sold to AES at the end of 1998. The remaining distribution companies were initially
grouped into two packages ("East" and "West") and offered for sale, but received no preliminary
expressions of interest. Subsequently, all distribution companies were offered for privatization with
investors having the right to buy them in any configuration. As result, only eight small companies (less
than 5% of the market in total) in the Kaheti region (out of about 70 offered) were sold to a local
investor. The Government recently (in April 2002) consolidated all remaining distribution companies,
outside the autonomous republic of Adjara, the autonomous region of South Ossetia, and the disputed
region of Abkhazia, into a single, state-owned (vs. previously muiucipally-owned) distribution
company ("The Georgian United Distribution Company" -- GUD2) in order to facilitate improving its
management and performance and make it more attractive to pri'riMe investors. The Govermnent is in
the process of hiring private management for the GUDC.
On the generation side, two newer units at the Tbilsresi (Gardabani) thermal power plant, 300-MW
each, were also sold to AES in April 2000, after protracted negotiations. These units represent the bulk
of Georgia's thermal capacity; the remaining thermal capacity includes a small (15-MW) CHP plant in
Tbilisi, and eight 150-160 MW old units at the Tbilsresi plant, most of which have been
decommissioned except for 2 units maintained for emergency services. No offers to buy the old
Tbilsresi units (Units I through 8) were received. Hydroelectric plants at Krami I and Krami II, with
- 13-



combined capacity of about 230 MW, were given to AES under a 25-year concession. There were a
couple of bids for a number of hydro plants in Western Georgia, from a French and a Chinese investor.
However, negotiations with these investors failed due to lack of required experience in the case of the
French investor, and over high tariffs required in the case of the Chinese investor.
In early 2001, the Government signed a contract with EFC for advisory services for privatization of all
state-owned distribution and generation enterprises.
* Adoption of electricity market rules, and stakeholders' management of the wholesale electricity
market: The Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM) was established in July 1999, to facilitate trading of
electricity among the wholesale market participants. The WEM replaced Sakenergo, the single buyer in
charge of buying electricity from domestic and foreign generators and selling it to distribution
companies. The WEM was not allowed to enter into any commercial deals, its sole purpose was to
issue payment invoices for the consuming market members, collect payments, distribute them to
generators, importers, and transmission and dispatch service providers, and issue disconnection orders
for nonpaying consumers. Although physical and financial flows in the system became more
transparent, the expectation that the WEM would lead to improved payment discipline has not
materialized. Technical problems, political pressures, social concerns and corruption have outweighed
the market operator's legal right to impose dispatch of electricity to customers only against payment.
In late 2001, the Government hired a foreign contractor (Iberdrola, a Spanish utility) to manage the
WEM for five years, as part of the program agreed under the Electricity Market Support Project (IDA
Credit 3502 GE). This management contract will be complemented by a management contract for
transmission and dispatch, awarded to ESBI, the Irish utility, under the sane program.
*   Maintaining cost reflective tariff: GNERC adopted an electricity tariff methodology by Resolution No.
3 dated July 1, 1998, and regularly adjusted tariffs based on that methodology. Recently, GNERC
established tariffs of 13.7 tetri per kWh for AES-Telasi's consumers and 8.5 tetri per kWh for other
retail consumers, to be effective on September 1, 2002 (up from 12.4 tetri per kWh and 8.1 tetri per
kWh, respectively). The tariffs should be adequate to compensate generators, distributors and the
transmission and dispatch companies for prudently incurred costs of service. AES's tariffs are
significantly higher than for the state owned distributors on account of the much higher level of
investment and higher rate of returns required by the private operator. In addition, the Commission has
adhered to the contractual increases for AES Telasi as laid out in the privatization agreement, and to
the tariff levels for the Inguri hydropower plant which were agreed with EBRD to ensure repayment of
the EBRD Loan for rehabilitation of the plant.
*   GNERC to adopt dispute resolution procedures for companies operating in the electricity market:
GNERC approved Resolution #4 on Prbcedural Rules for Resolution of Disputes Between Licensees or
Licensees and Customers on April 6, 2000.
*   Adoption of a Chart ofAccounts according to Intemational Accounting Standards for Sakenergo,
Electrodispetcerizatsia, Electrogadatsema, Sakenergogeneratsia, and Tbilsresi. The companies adopted
their respective Charts of Accounts consistent with the accounting standards in 1999.
* Auditing the 1999 financial statements of Sakenergo, Electrodispetcerizatsia, Electrogadatsema,
Sakenergogeneratsia, and Tbilsresi by international auditors. Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu carried out
audits of the 1999 financial statements of the enterprises.
*   Introducing budgetary compensation for electricity delivered to Abkhazia: the Government of Georgia
paid to the electricity sector 33.3 million lari for the 1999-2001 period (i.e., more than 10 million lari
- 14 -



annually) to compensate for unpaid electricity supplied by the Inguri Hydro Power Plant to customers
in Abkhazia.
*   Increasing poverty benefits to poor single pensioners: The consolidated budget and USAID's "Winter
Heat" program provided significant social assistance to vulnerable groups to help pay electricity bills
(see Section 4.1 for data).
*   Abolishing direct transfers from budget to Sakenergo on behalf ofpensioners, civil servants, and
refugees in privatized distribution areas and disbursing them directly to the beneficiaries:
Presidential Decree of December 19, 1999 abolished direct budgetary transfers for the country as a
whole (effective from May 1, 2000).
B. Natural gas transmission and distribution
*   GNERC to regulate domestic gas supply: Parliament adopted amendments to the Electricity Law in
1999 to authorize GNERC to regulate gas marketing, distribution, and transmission, which established
independent regulation of this segment of the energy sector.
*   GNERC to adopt a transparent gas tariff methodology and issue commercial licenses to the
companies operating in the gas market: In September 1999, GNERC adopted a gas tariff methodology
that meets the requirements of transparency, cost recovery, and the promotion of efficiency in gas
supply and consumption. GNERC started introducing tariffs based on this methodology in November
1999. Licenses have been issued to all privatized gas distribution companies, the gas transmission
company, and all gas purchasers/resellers, in accordance with the Energy Law of May 1999.
* GNERC to adopt dispute resolution procedures for companies operating in the gas market: GNERC
approved Resolution #4 on Procedural Rules for Resolution of Disputes Between Licensees or
Licensees and Customers on April 6, 2000.
* Pursue privatization of gas distribution and supply companies. Several efforts were made since
mid-1999 to privatize the Tbilisi gas distribution company (Thilgazi), but the Government was unable
to reach satisfactory terms with potential investors. USAID provided funding for a team of
management consultants to take over key aspects of the company's operations in an attempt to improve
its operations and facilitate continuing efforts to find a suitable strategic investor. The Government has
also indicated its intention to privatize the remaining gas distribution assets. The assets of the
high-pressure transmission network have been consolidated under the control of the Georgia Gas
Intemational Corporation (GGIC). GGIC has established a Gas Transportation Company (GTC)
which is contracted to provide operations and maintenance services. The clarification of ownership and
operating responsibility represents a significant step forward, and will facilitate GGIC's negotiations,
on behalf of the Government, for gas transit through Georgia either from Russia or from gas-producing
areas to the east.
*   Adoption of a Chart ofAccounts according to Intemational Accounting Standards for
Saktransgasmretsvi, gas transmission operating company. The company adopted a Chart of Accounts
consistent with the accounting standards in 1999.
C. Oil and gas exploration and production
*   Adoption of Oil and Gas Law. The new Oil and Gas Law, goveming exploration and production of oil
- 15-



and gas, was adopted in May 1999. The law established a one-stop regulatory authority for the
upstream regulation of oil and gas exploration and production (State Agency for Oil and Gas
Regulation). The law consolidated the legal foundation for operations which had started before the law
was adopted and which were governed by presidential decrees. The law should catalyze investment in
exploration and production of oil and natural gas and facilitate pipeline access for Georgian oil and gas
(where access is not constrained by international agreement). The Government recently invited offers
for the rights to explore and produce oil and gas in several fields.
*   Adoption of legislation on eminent domain. Parliamnent approved the Law on Rules of Expropriation
of Property for Public Purposes on July 23, 1999, which established the legal framework for the
expropriation of, including provision of fair compensation for, land needed for a public good such as an
oil or natural gas pipeline, and easement rights needed for the servicing and maintenance of such public
good. Pipeline transit agreements reflect the provisions of this law (in neighboring countries the
respective transit agreements impose greater financial risk on government to act as an intermediary in
land acquisition, because of the lack of adequate legal provision for eminent domain).
*   Separation of regulatory and commercial activities. In July, 1999, the Government established the
Georgian Oil Company, Saknaftobi, as a joint stock company, with 100 percent of the shares held by
the State. The company no longer acts as the principal regulatory authority in the oil and gas industry,
although it does provide support to the regulatory agency established under the Oil and Gas Law (State
Agency for Oil and Gas Regulation), and endorses all petroleum agreements. Its primary function is to
serve as a commercial and operating enterprise.
D. Oil and gas transit pipelines
*   Attracting private investment in oil and gas transit. Georgia negotiated arrangements for the transit of
both oil and gas from Azerbaijan. The Early Oil pipeline from Baku to Supsa is already in operation.
Contractual agreements have been reached for the Baku-Thilisi-Ceyhan oil pipeline, which is expected
to be completed in 2004, significantly raising oil transit revenues over the next 10 years. The South
Caucasus Gas pipeline from Azerbaijan through Georgia to Turkey is also expected to be completed in
2005. Gas deliveries from Turkey will be phased up from 2 BCM in the first year to a plateau level of
6.6 BCM in the fourth year of operation (i.e., about 2009), further increasing transit revenues to
Georgia. While the two transit arrangements provide the potential for attractive revenues to Georgia in
the medium-to-long term time frame, they also incorporate significant contingent liability risk for
Georgia, particularly with regard to Georgia's obligations to provide security (at Georgia's expense) for
the two lines. The South Caucasus Gas Pipeline Host Government Agreement also includes provisions
for the sale of the Azeri gas to Georgia. This, ostensibly, will reduce Georgia's dependence on Russia
for its gas supplies, although the terms of the proposed arrangement leave all the swing supply
responsibility with Russia, which still leaves Georgia with considerable exposure on the issue of
security of gas supplies.
* Adoption of legislation on eminent domain. (See Section 4.2.C. above.)
* Legislating tax stabilization and concluding double-taxation agreements. With respect to reform of
the tax regimes pertaining to foreign investments in oil, gas and pipeline developments, clarification
and stabilization of the tax regime was essentially handled in the inter-governmental agreement and in
the Host Govemment Agreement on new oil transit pipelines, which established a benchmark that can
be applied to anticipated negotiations on gas transit. Double taxation agreements have been concluded
with a number of countries (Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belgium, Bulgaria, Germany, Greece, Iran, Italy,
- 16-



Kazakhstan, Poland, Romania, Russia, Turkmnenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan). The pipeline transit
agreements incorporate fiscal terms, which preclude the risk of double taxation, without penalizing
Georgian revenue in consequence.
* Adopting operational standards and permitting procedures for oil and gas pipelines. The
development of operational and pernitting standards for pipelines is a part of the Energy Transit
Institution Building Credit (ETIB), approved by IDA in 2001. Pipeline transit agreements contain
permitting procedures, which reflect best intemational practice.
E. Environment
*   Ratifying international conventions on marine oilpollution damage. The Government has also
ratified all intemational oil spill conventions and has developed a draft National Contingency Plan
defining arrangements which have been or should be put in place by the Maritime Administration and
third parties to mitigate the effects of an oil spill in the harbors or offshore areas of Georgia. Additional
support for this initiative is also to be provided under the proposed ETIB project.
*   Clarifying environmental liability. Parliament adopted the Law on Compensation of Damages Caused
by Harmful Substances on July 23, 1999, which govems liabilities for damages and pollution, caused
from production, processing, transportation and distribution of liquid and gaseous hydrocarbons on
land. The law imposes strict liability on companies for environmental damage, and requires full
compensation to affected parties. The provisions of the law were reflected in the Georgian pipeline
transit agreements (in contrast to the respective agreements in neighboring countries which are less
demanding).
* Amending Privatization Law to include environmental due diligence. An amendment to the law has
been drafted, but not adopted by Parliament yet.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
NA
4.4 Financial rate of return:
NA
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The ESAC helped further advance the concept of separating the ownership, policy, regulatory, and
commercial activities, strengthen the institution of independent regulation, and promote transparency in
commercial operations, through the following measures:
* introduction of independent regulation of domestic gas transmission, distribution, and supply, and
strengthening the regulatory framework through adoption of transparent tariff methodologies and
dispute resolution procedures in the electricity and gas markets;
* establishment of the Wholesale Electricity Market (WEM) as an association of market members, in
charge of transaction accounting and payment collections, but not responsible for purchase and sale of
electricity; and
* separating commercial activities in oil exploration and production from regulatory functions
(establishment of State Agency for Oil and Gas Regulation).
- 17 -



The initial success of the new institutions differs. GNERC has managed to establish itself as a reputable
agency, both in the electricity and gas industries. The WEM, however, has not met expectations, as
described in Section 4.1. The abuse of the institution and its mismanagement prompted the Government to
hire an independent firm ([berdrola) to manage the WEM for five years. This management contract, as well
as a similar management contract for transmission and dispatch, are supported by the IDA-financed
Elec ricity Market Support Project. The State Agency for Oil and Gas Regulation is a young institution
with short track record, which has been satisfactory so far.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The main factors largely outside Government control which adversely affected the program were: (i)
regional political risks; (ii) general attitude of investors; and (iii) performance of private companies.
The Caucasus region is one of the most complex in terms of the local and regional political situation and
wider geopolitical interests. The civil war in Azerbaijan between the Armenian and Azeri populations and
the unresolved status of Nagomo-Karabakh, the problems with the Georgian breakaway region of
Abkhazia, the civil war in neighboring Chechnya and its direct impact on Georgia through the Pankisi
gorge, made the political situation volatile and the investment environment risky. Occasional discormections
of Georgian electricity and gas networks from Russian networks, as much as ostensibly related to
nonpayments, did not help reduce concerns with Georgian vulnerability to possible political use of these
dependencies.
The private sector became more risk averse sooner than anticipated, resulting in a tepid response to
investment in the Georgian energy sector. There were few credible bids for the remaining properties to be
privatized, despite the Government's engagement of expert international advisors, and its willingness to
restructure companies and historic debts in order to create more attractive packages. It appears that the
"window of opportunity" started closing already in 2000, when major intemational energy investment
firms, which were active in the region, such as AES, Enron, Union Fenosa, may have started feeling
financial pressures at the corporate level. The investment retrenchment became very clear in 2001, which
saw the collapse of Enron and decimation of market values of many energy companies, including AES.
Thus, although the minimum privatization targets set under the ESAC program were met, these deals were
not followed by additional sales.
AES -- the private owner/operator of the Tbilisi electricity distribution network, the 600-MW of thermal
capacity at the Gardabani thermal plant, and the Krami I and Krami II hydropower plants - had to climb a
steeper and longer learning curve than anticipated to address serious financial and operational problems in
both distribution and generation during the 1999-2001 period. The re-metering and re-wiring program in
Tbilisi has not yet been completed (about 75-80% of consumers were covered as of mid-2002), and internal
corruption and theft in the company, while reduced, is still strong, in spite of the major effort to reduce it
(significant portion of the original work force in the company has been replaced). The company operated at
a financial loss until Spring 2002, when it appeared to break even. AES also had its share of difficulties at
the Gardabani thermal plant: a mishap during the start-up of one of the units at the plant in December 2001
daraged its boiler, taking the unit out of operation. Whether the result of poor Government support in
addressing some of the key problems (corruption, theft, system dispatch, etc.) or possibly company's
sub-optimal approach in addressing some of the problems in the Georgian environment, the net result has
been still high losses in the distribution network (mostly theft) and reduced power supply from the thermal
plant (mitigated by increased imports). In addition, significantly higher tariffs for consumers supplied by
AES-Telasi distribution company (about 60%: 13.7 tetrilkWh vs. 8.5 tetri/kWh for low-voltage customers,
-18-



to be introduced as of September 1, 2002) on the one side, customer theft and the large debt by the WEM
to AES for electricity supplied to the market by the AES-owned power plants (more than $20 million in
mid-2002) on the other, have complicated the relationships between the company, the Government, and the
public. The significant improvements in electricity supply made by AES, its large contribution to the
sector's cash flow, and generally the important constructive role which AES is playing both in the sector
and beyond, helped the company manage these difficulties.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government has contributed substantially to a successful outcome of many of the program measures
through its positive attitude towards privatization and restructuring, constructive negotiation of oil and gas
transit agreements, support for a suitable legal and institutional framework for sector regulation and
environmental protection, support for the social protection measures, and proactive approach in eliciting
donor assistance for social program related to commercialization and privatization of the energy sector. On
the other hand, the Government failed to address forcefully some of the most serious problems:
*   pervasive corruption and mismanagement in state companies (which has undoubtedly contributed to the
failure of the Wholesale Electricity Market and the ongoing financial problems in both state-owned and
private sector enterprises);
*   inadequate support to AES in their fight against theft, corruption, for better performance of
state-owned companies and better management of the sector,
* poor enforcement of payment discipline in the electricity and gas markets;
* poor enforcement of laws and contracts; and
*   weak general security in the country (illustrated, e.g., by abductions of high-profile businessmen).
The Government is aware of these failures and is trying to address them through the follow-up programs in
the sector and broader program. The sector program is supported by donors, including the IDA, KfW and
EBRD-financed Electricity Market Support project which focuses on management and financial
performance of state-owned electricity companies.
The long delay between the first and second tranches is also attributable to Government's performance.
Owing to a number of populist measures taken during the run-up to national elections in late 1999, the
government failed to meet agreed macro-economic targets, and the IMF suspended its program. It took
several months before the IMF and the Government were able to agree on a revised program. During that
time the Government was unable to meet some key conditions for the second tranche release -- satisfactory
macro-economic performance, and timely disbursement of poverty benefits, although all the energy-specific
conditions were satisfied on schedule. As a result, the closing date for ESAC had to be extended to March
1, 2002.
5.3 Factors generally siubject to implementing agency control:
N/A
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The total cost of the project was SDR 18.1 million, equivalent to USD 25 million at the time of approval.
The Credit was disbursed in two equal tranches. The first tranche was disbursed after declaration of
effectiveness (in July 1999). Disbursement of the second tranche was delayed because of problems with
Government's macroeconomic performance in 2000 and early 2001, which led to suspension of the IMF
-19 -



program and extension of ESAC's closing date to March 1, 2002. During the second half of 2001, IMF
program was reinstated. ESAC's second tranche was disbursed in December 2001.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the reforms implemented or initiated under the ESAC depends dn a number of intemal and
external factors: regional and domestic political stability; external economic and investment environment;
domestic economic growth and fiscal discipline; and political will to fight corruption, strengthen
enforcement of laws and contracts, enforce fmancial discipline, and further commercialize and privatize the
energy sector.
AES had a difficult experience in Georgia, very much frustrated by the adverse business environment and
the resulting sustained financial losses it experienced between 1999 and early 2002. While in late 2001 and
early 2002 AES was on the verge of leaving Georgia, the company now appears determined to stay,
recently encouraged by better financial results of its distribution business in Tbilisi. In late 2001 and
throughout 2002, the Government took several steps to create a better environment for AES and the sector
in general, including elimination of some excessive tax obligations. AES's electricity tariffs are about the
highest in the region, mainly because of the significant investments made and the higher rate of returns
required relative to state-owned companies. Its main difficulties at this stage - apart from fighting theft in
its network - come from the pressure by non-perforning state-owned transmission and dispatch companies
(which have been, e.g., tolerating diversion of electricity procured by AES for its own customers), and the
WEM, which has accumulated large debts toward AES-owned generation as result of its tolerance of
non-payments by other distribution companies and other weaknesses described elsewhere.
These difficulties are being addressed in part by the Government through the Electricity Market Support
Project (EMSP), which envisages 5-year private management contracts for the transmission and dispatch,
the WEM, and the consolidated state-owned distribution company (GUDC). The program is supported by
IDA, EBRD, and KfW. USAID has stepped up its already significant social assistance to the sector, which
benefits AES (as well as other distribution companies). The IMF has also included performance of the
electricity sector in its program, increasing Government's incentives to continue with sector reforms. The
success (or failure) of the program under the EMSP will have significant impact on the sustainability of
AES's business in Georgia and on the sustainability of the reform in the electricity sector supported by the
ESAC. In this context, the ESAC should be viewed as a stage in the long-term effort to reform the energy
sector, supported by a series of IDA's operations (and of other donors), which had started before the ESAC
and are continuing after it.
Many of the changes effected under the ESAC are enshrined either in law or in the form of legal contracts.
For this reason, it is considered unlikely that the Government and Parliament would reverse these measures.
More of a question is implementation and enforcement of the laws and contracts, where Government's
performance has been weaker. However, if the presence of private investors keeps increasing as expected -
through management contracts in the electricity sector followed by privatization, operation of the oil and
gas transit pipelines, privatization of domestic gas supply, and domestic oil and gas exploration - there will
be increasing pressure for better enforcement of laws and contracts which should translate into an
improving legal and commercial environment for businesses.
Georgia is becoming increasingly integrated into international markets in electricity and, especially, into oil
and gas markets through oil and gas transit pipelines and oil and gas explorations on its own territory.
These international projects are financed by major international companies, which should bode well for
- 20 -



sustainability of the reforms. Major international donor organizations, multilateral and bilateral, including
IDA, also remain actively involved in the energy sector, and will continue their effort to sustain and
advance the reform process.
Performance of GNERC has been generally good, but remains vulnerable to political and personnel
changes. GNERC derives much of its strength from the Government's support and the personal attributes
of the current regulators. While an ideological shift in the government or a change in personnel at the
GNERC's top management level could weaken the regulatory institution, GNERC has established a good
track record and its institutional reputation to build on and to resist political and other pressures.
Sustainability of social benefits will depend on macroeconomic performance. It is encouraging that these
benefits have been preserved in 2002, i.e., after the ESAC was closed, indicating the likelihood that these
benefits will be sustained.
Overall, the main benefits of the ESAC program, while under considerable risks, are still more likely to be
preserved in the medium to long-term, although the progress may not be uniform and some setbacks along
the way are quite possible. The benefits from the increased involvement of the private sector in electricity,
oil and gas, take time to materialize. Much will depend on the progress in other areas domestically
(corruption, sustained economic growth), as well as on the external political and economic environment,
which contains many risks, but, encouragingly, economic growth has returned to the region during the last
few years.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regiular operations:
N/A
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The ESAC was prepared rather efficiently. Many of the problems that were addressed under the credit had
been identified as part of the ongoing dialogue with the government and preparation of other projects. As
such, IDA was in a situation to respond quickly to the request for the Credit and agree on the priorities to
be included in the program. As argued elsewhere in this report, the selection of the priorities was generally
appropriate, even if ambitious and with high risks, especially with respect to privatization in the electricity
sector.
7.2 Supervision:
IDA supervised the project very actively, both directly and through the work on preparation and
supervision of other operations (Electricity Market Support Project (EMSP), Energy Transit Institution
Building (ETIB), Structural Reform Support (SRS)). The missions were frequent, especially during the
1999-2000 period, when most of the program was implemented. The delay in disbursement of the second
tranche was caused by Government's fiscal (macroeconomic) performance going off track, due to which
the IMF program was suspended and SAC HI tranche delayed. This caused a temporary accumulation of
arrears in disbursement of poverty benefits, another violation of ESAC's second tranche disbursement
conditions. These issues were actively pursued by the IMF and IDA's SAC III teams in late 2000 and
throughout 2001. During that period, IDA's energy team focused on preparation of follow-up operations in
the energy sector - EMSP and ETIB - which are designed to sustain and further advance the reforms
undertaken under ESAC. Activities on preparation and supervision of EMSP and ETIB, given the nature of
these operations, were also used to supervise the ESAC program, especially during 2001 and 2002.
-21 -



7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Highly satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government's ownership of the program was very strong. The Government was frank and explicit in
realizing its limitations and weaknesses in managing the energy sector and in fighting corruption. Thus, the
Government was very eager to privatize the energy industry to strategic investors in order to elicit their
assistance in reducing corruption and improving performance, even if it meant higher prices and initial
increase in social costs, aware that in the medium term it should lead to significant economic and social
benefits. The Govermnent was very active in preparing the reform program, although it was not able to
fully deliver on all initial commitments, (such as, e.g., to include the Zhinvali hydropower plant into
privatization packages due to unclear contractual relationships with plant's management and some foreign
investors). The ESAC was built on a strong consensus between the Government, Parliament and IDA about
the objectives and the content of the reform program.
7.5 Goveniment implementation performance:
The Government implemented the ESAC program eagerly. It did its best to privatize as much of the sector
as possible, repeatedly trying to privatize electricity distribution and generation which remained unsold
after AES bought the assets it wanted. The Government negotiated hard and was willing to accommodate
the private sector on a number of important issues to get a strategic investor in and keep it in. The'
Government, e.g., was willing to accept rather low prices for the assets it offered for privatization, aware
that price was the main risk-mitigating measure for the private sector. The Govermment was also willing to
take over almost the entire historical debts, tolerate significant increases in tariffs, and ease the tax burden
for investors. The Government also expended great effort to sell Thilgazi, the gas distribution company in
Tbilisi, with assistance of USAID; it has not succeeded, though, as the market interest was insufficient. The
Govemment was prepared to accommodate investor's concems as much as possible, through, e.g.,
accepting the responsibility for the historical debts, allowing GNERC to operate rather independently and
set tariffs on an economic basis, allowing investors to pick and group assets offered for sale, etc. After
realizing that further privatization was not forthcoming, the Govemment continued with efforts to introduce
private management contracts in the sector which previously had been in the exclusive domain of the state
(electricity transmission and dispatch), as well as for the non-privatized distribution assets (under the
EMSP). After some initial delays in disbursing poverty benefits due to fiscal difficulties, the Government
repaid the arrears and continues to disburse the benefits.
The Govemment exhibited weaknesses in the areas of the program dealing with the performance of state
companies (distribution, generation, transmission, dispatch, WEM) - their financial performance remains
extremely weak. This is not surprising, however, as these weaknesses (payment collections, corruption)
were the very reasons for launching the ESAC program in the first place. It would not be realistic to expect
that the Government would somehow have more success in these areas before other ESAC measures -
privatization, strengthening of the legal framework - and measures in other areas, such as judicial reforms,
public sector reforms, and general privatization, had time to make their impact. The Govemment also has
not succeeded in curbing corruption, neither in state-owned companies, nor did it do particularly well in
actively helping AES fight corruption in the companies it acquired. This is obviously a problem which
needs to be addressed. However, even in this respect, while more should be expected from and done by the
Govemment, the Govermment had not extended unrealistic promises and implicitly admitted that it needed
the private sector's assistance. Given the success in attracting the private sector, however vulnerable that
success is, the Government is now in a better position to fight corruption than before the ESAC.
-22-



7.6 Implementing Agency:
N/A
7.7 Overall Borro+t'erperfornzance:
Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
Energy sectors in FSU countries (particularly those which are poor in primary energy like Georgia) carry
an enormous macroeconomic burden, probably not experienced anywhere else in the world on such scale,
as the combination of such energy-intensive economies, fragile states, near-universal connection to network
energy, and cold winters is unique to this region. Low collections, high commercial losses, and low tariffs --
resulting from combined effects of mismanagement at the sector and enterprise levels, corruption,
inappropriate tariff policies (often justified by social concems), tolerance of non-payments (typically
ordered by politicians), and low affordability -- produce significant quasi-fiscal deficits which the sector is
forced to carry. The key issue -- often not recognized or addressed explicitly by the governments or
international financing institutions - is how to manage and eventually eliminate this deficit. The Georgian
case illustrates the difficulties of a strategy which deals with the problem through privatization, where the
private sector is asked to take over bankrupt companies with large upfront investment and working capital
needs, with limited government support and with expectations that tariff increase will be within the
"affordability range". The risk is that the cost to the private sector during the first several years -- even
assuming its most efficient performance, low purchase price, and Government's taking over the historic
debts -- may still be too large. It is very likely that this cost was higher than the private sector had expected
in Georgia (although they may also have had broader strategic reasons for making that investment). While
the subsequent measures taken by the Government of Georgia, the donors (especially the US Government),
and the regulator in the form of social programs, Abkhazia subsidy, tax policies and tariff increases could
create conditions for AES to sustain its business, it would be difficult to replicate such privatization under
similar conditions (some examples to the contrary notwithstanding, such as in Moldova and Ukraine, which
share similar problems with Georgia but where some privatization of electricity companies happened after
the privatization in Georgia). The governments should improve performance of the companies and reduce
or eliminate their financial deficit before privatization (in countries where this is possible, unlike Georgia),
or should have an explicit program of assistance to private investors in dealing with the financial deficit for
a certain period. The first option requires good public governance, and the second requires a fiscal support
to investors (either directly or through support to consumers). This in turn requires a higher level of
coordination between governments, the IMF and the World Bank Group than is usually necessary for
energy system reforms. This last point cannot be overemphasized.
The ESAC confirned that reforms in the energy sector are complex and, thus, inherently difficult to design
and implement, because of the sector's political, economic and social implications which transcend the
sector, and because the very same weaknesses which the reforms are trying to address are limiting
implementation of the reforms. Thus, sector reform is difficult and slow, depending to a great extent on
progress in other areas of reforms outside the energy sector, and most importantly in the pace of actual
adjustments in response to those reforms. Expectations should be realistic, and success measured against
those expectations.
Energy sector reforms need to be designed in coordination with overall economic reforms and need to be
leveraged with instruments whose scope and impact are correspondingly broad and include Government
-23 -



agencies and other interest groups beyond those dealing with the energy sector directly.
In some cases, even the substantial amounts of financing available from the World Bank and the IMF may
be unable to counter-balance the potential profits from corruption. At best in such an environment,
conditionalities that affect vested interests will only be met with great difficulty.
Commercialization of the sector, especially if accompanied with privatization, hardens budget constraints
and, in the short-term, is likely to increase the cost of electricity, even substantially. This increase should be
compensated for vulnerable households through appropriate social programs, to make the cost of reforms
more equitable and socially acceptable.
Weak states cannot manage energy sector recovery and restructuring effectively, but that very weakness
deters many private investors. Postponing privatization will only make matters worse; therefore,
privatization should proceed urgently when feasible, but the terms must reflect high levels of risk.
Privatization may be possible even under adverse'conditions (poor financial performance, high corruption,
weak state), although at the cost of low privatization proceeds, higher tariffs, and even worsening
performance of state companies before and during privatization. While it may look attractive - and
certainly desirable - to try to improve performance of the state companies before privatization to increase
privatization proceeds and reduce the risks for investors (thus reducing the returns and tariffs they may
require, i.e., reducing the cost to consumers), this may be a very costly and elusive option in cases where
the governments are too weak to bring about such improvements within a reasonable timeframe. Whether
the net benefits of this option are higher than the 'net benefits of proceeding with privatization even under
adverse conditions (to accelerate sector improvements), should be the main criteria for deciding which way
to go (provided there are interested qualified investors to make privatization a feasible option). The
judgment depends on a number of considerations and does not lend itself to easy generalizations and
prescriptions.
Structuring properly assets to be privatized is a key element for both attracting investors and making
privatization sustainable. Important considerations include the degree of leverage which the rest of the
sector - if publicly owned and poorly managed - may have over the privatized companies afier
privatization, and vice versa: the degree to which the privatized companies may induce change within
themselves and within the sector. The more independent the privatized company is from the rest of the
sector, the more attractive and resistant to public sector mismanagement it becomes. The leverage of the
privatized companies, however, also need to be balanced in order to control market power, guard against
monopolistic or monopsonistic behavior and protect public interest.
Privatization to strategic investors does'bring benefits: improved supply, access to investments and
technology, reduced corruption, better management and financial discipline, improved governance practices
which should spill out into the rest of the sector and the economy, and more competent debate on sector and
economic reforms.
Government's support to private investors after privatization is very important, especially in helping fight
vested interests and corruption and provide adequate fiscal policies. The ability of the government to carry
out this responsibility is a key factor affecting the sustainability of privatization. Similarly important is
regulatory support through, e.g., tolerance for higher losses inherited from state companies, during the first
few years after privatization.
Post-privatization support by international financing institutions plays an important role as well. IFC and
-24-



EBRD are almost the only financial institutions capable of providing investment funds to private investors
during the first post-privatization years, as commercial banks may be reluctant or too expensive. Continued
attention of international financing institutions to sector reforms and broader economic reforms are often
critical to ensure sustainability of reforms and enabling environment for private sector. Bilateral
organizations, as well as private sector, could play an importanit role in mitigating social costs.
The private sector has a steep leaming curve to climb in the FSU environment. Time is needed for private
investors to hone their managerial, technological, and cultural skills to the specifics of the region.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/impleinenting agency:
The purpose of this document is to provide contribution by the Government of Georgia to the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy Sector Adjustment credit (ESAC) and it forms
an integral part of the said ICR. Notwithstanding the minor discrepancies, the assessments by the
Govermment of Georgia mainly coincide with the World Bank's estimations with regard to the
implementation of the above Project.
BACKGROUND
Reform-of the Georgian energy sector has faced the twin challenges of a Soviet heritage of negligible
prices for energy services and a collapse of the economy since the dissolution of the Soviet Union and
civil war in Georgia. Therefore Georgia urgently needed adjustment financing to restructure the
economy.
The Energy Sector Adjustment Credit (ESAC) is a key element of IDA's country assistance Strategy
and had therefore been designed in parallel with stabilization and structural reform programs supported
by the IMF's ESAF and by the Bank's structural adjustment lending. The credit intended to allow the
implementation of the energy sector referm program, with adequate funding of social sector
expenditures to mitigate the impact of the program on the most vulnierable groups.
Credit was made to Georgia, represented by the ministry of finance, which was responsible for credit
administration. Credit budget was 18.1 million SDR (US$ 25 million equivalent). The credit was on
standard IDA terms with a maturity of 35 years, including a grace period of 10 years. The first tranche
disbursed immediately upon credit effectiveness; the second tranche disbursement was made to an
account (the "Deposit Account) of the Ministry of Finance established at the Georgian National Bank.
The ESAC was designed to help break the vicious circle of sector's inability to provide services and
collect payments and improve its performance by supporting structural, policy, legal, and institutional
reforms in the energy sector, cormpounded by the associated broader economic reforms pursued by the
Bank's adjustment lending. The main elements of reforms supported by the ESAC including strategic
privatization in the, electricity sector and creation of enabling environment for private sector
participation in the oil and gas industries, and improved environmental regulation and social protection.
The objectives of the credit were to help:
(i) Maintain momentum of energy sector reform and help mitigate its social costs;
(ii) Enhance financial management and combat corruption;
- 25 -



(iii) Increase the availability of energy on a sustainable basis;
(iv) Catalyze private investments;
(v) Realize Georgia's pipeline transit potential;
(vi) Upgrade environmental management.
THE PROJECT AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
A. The power sector
Privatization: The Government privatized Telasi - Tbilisi electricity distribution company (sold in
December 1998 to AES). #9 and #10 units of Gardabani Thermal Power Plant privatized (capacity 600
MW, sold AES). At least about 230 MW of hydro plants privatized/leased competitively (Krami I and
II leased for 25 years to AES). State own regional electricity distribution companies consolidated
(Georgian United electricity Distribution Company Established). The Government has decided to offer
for privatization or long-term concession of Georgian United Electricity Distribution Company and rest
hydro power plants. International financial Corporation (IFC) helps to Georgian Government in the
privatization transactions.
Direct Transfers to Sakenergo: Direct transfers to Sakenergo on behalf of pensioners, civil servants
and refugees in privatized areas were abolished in December 1999.
Compensation'for Abkhazia: 10 million GEL included in the 1999-2001 budget to compensation cost
of electricity needs in Abkhazia. No compensation in the 2002 budget though, but planned to be included
in the 2003 budget.
Introduction of International Accounting Standards in Sakenergo, Energotransmission,
Sakenergogeneratsia, Tbilsresi and Saktransgasmretsvi: International accounting/auditing standards
were inserted in July 1999 in order to upgrade financial management.
Increase poverty benefits to poor single pensioners: The Government has decided to increase the
poverty benefit targeted to poor single pensioners, which has been identified as a particularly vulnerable
group. It was inclused 14.3 million GEL in the 1999 Consolidated Budget, to bring the beneficiaries to
the world Bank-estimated poverty line. Poverty benefits paid in 1999, 2000, 2001 and 2002.
Adoption of electricity market rules and stakeholders management of the market: As a key element
of the power sector reform program, the foundations of a competitive wholesale electricity market were
laid. It was established Georgian electricity wholesale market (GWEM) in June 1999. A major benefit
of the firsi phase is that stakeholders were represented in market management (in contrast to the
situation in Sakenergo, which played a dominant role).
Cost reflective tariffs: Georgian National Energy Regulatory Commission (GNERC) maintains proper
tariffs.
Dispute resolution procedures to be adopted: According to the resolution -On approving the
procedural rules for reviewing the dispute issues between licensees, licensees and customers- of
Georgian national Energy Regulatory Commission (April 6, 2000, resolution #4) Dispute resolution
procedures adopted.
-26 -



B. Natural gas transmission and distribution
GNERC to regulate tariffs and issue licenses: Parliament of Georgia adopted amendments to the
Electricity Law to authorize GNERC to regulate gas marketing, distribution and transmission.
Adoption of gas tariff methodologies and issuance of licenses: The Georgian national Energy
Regulatory Commission adopted a transparent methodology for setting tariffs for monopoly services,
including gas purchase/resale (until competitive market can be established), transmission and
distribution. The tariff-setting procedures ensured that regulated enterprises can recover prudently
incurred costs of service, while at the same time promoting efficiency in gas supply and energy
consumption, and protecting consumers from monopolistic pricing practices.
Maintaining cost reflective tariffs: Georgian National Energy Regulatory Commission (GNERC)
maintains proper tariffs.
Licenses to be issued: The Georgian National Energy Regulatory Commission developed terms and
conditions-for commercial licenses which address the rights and responsibilities of sector enterprises,
and issued licenses to participants in the supply chain. The amended electricity Law gives the
Commission the authority to prevent a given participant in the gas from holding more than one license.
Privatization: Six gas distribution companies were privatized during 1998. However, the privatization
process was conducted in a less than fully competitive manner. Repeat attempts to privatize Thilgazi
were unsuccessful, but still going on.
C. Oil and gas exploration and production
Parliamentary adoption oil and gas Law: The new Oil and Gas Law adopted in may 1999, is expected
to catalyze investment in exploration and production of oil and natural gas establishing a one-stop
regulatory authority for the sector, and by consolidating the legal foundation for existing operations.
Parliamentary adoption of legislation on eminent domain: According of the resolution of Georgian
parliament (July, 23, 1999) the Law on Rules of Expropriation of Property for public Purposes was
adopted.
Separation of regulation and commercial activities: Saknavtobi established as a commercial
enterprise, State Agency for Oil and Gas regulation established for regulation.
Catalyze private investments in exploration and production: Private investments in.explorations and
productions successfully implemented. a number of private investors involved.
D. Oil and Gas transit pipelines
Legislating tax stabilization: As is known pipelines involve large infrastructure investments of long
gestation and payback periods, with very limited alternative uses once constructed. They will therefore
require long-term predictability in the tax regime. Tax stabilization legislating handled in the
intergovernmental agreements on oil transit pipelines.
Conclusion of double-taxation agreements: The attractiveness of the investrnent climate for pipelines
will also be enhanced by the conclusion of double taxation agreements with major home country
-27 -



governments. Such agreements Georgia already concluded with 15 countries.
E. Energy and environment
The energy privatization due diligence process include appropriate environmental audits to ensure that
the responsibility for environmental mitigation can be clearly assigned post privatization and the
privatization Law to.be amended. The parliament of Georgia adopted Legislations to clarify
environmental liability in the energy sector (the Lae on Compensation of damages Caused by Harmful
Substances was adopted on July, 23, 1999).
BANK'S ROLE IN PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Throughout the entire project implementation as well as during the Project preparation, the Bank and its
staff offered appropriate and relevant assistance.
The Bank support provided was qualified and adequately due and was therefore critical to success in
fulfilling the Project objectives.
As far as disbursements are concemed, the Banks operations were performed in a smooth and timely
manner.
The Bank's contributi6ii in the Project implementation is rated as highly satisfactory.
SUMMARY
Proceeds of credit have been used in accordance with conditions under the Development Credit
Agreement. In addition, this credit have carried out the two most important functions: Budget deficit of
the State of Georgia for years 1999 and 2001 have been financed and credit funds have been used by the
State for ensuring the right accomplishment of the obligations under the Loan Agreement.
On the whole, the Government of Georgia estimates as satisfactory the objective achieved through the
Project implementation and agrees to the assessments provided in the Implementation Completion
Report by World Bank.
(7') Cofinanciers:
Not applicable.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 28 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
lndicitdtIIato r    '--      _        _ lfl__ _ _ _ _ _SR.         ____________________
Improved social protection measures    No arrears in disbursement of poverty   No arrears in disbursement of poverty
benefits from the central and local budget.  benefits from the central and local budget
Adoption of legislaton to clarify environmental Legislation adopted.           Legislation adopted.
liability in the energy sector and
environmental audits
Satisfactory overall performance on the  Satisfactory.                        Satisfactory.
Govemmenfs energy reform program as
stated in the Letter of Energy Sector Policy
Macroeconomic framework (ESAF and SAC  Sustained satisfactory macroeconomic    Satisfactory
programs on track)                     performance
Output Indicators:
_-  . .' AIdicator/ir!M    txPet'q             aate      R,i1;gA-*AiUa                           mt     . -
(1) Actual expenditures for elecricity  On target.                             Not Included in the 2002 budget; will be
supplied by Inguri Hydro Power Plant to fully                                 Included in the 2003 budget
reflect the budget allocation.
(2) Continued implementation of electdricity  On target.                       Satisfactory implementatlon.
tariff methodology adopted by GNERC on
July 1, 1998.
(3) Adoption of a gas tariff methodology by  Completed.                        Completed.
GNERC and licenses to have been issued to
all privatized gas distribution companies, the
gas transmission company and all gas
purchasers/resellers
(4) Parliamentary adoption of legislation on  Legislation adopted.             Legislation adopted.
eminent domain.
(5) Adoption of chart of accounts according  Charts of accounts adopted.       Charts of accounts adopted.
to IAS, and appointment of intemational
auditors to audit the 1999 accounts of major
electricity companies
End of project
-29 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
The total cost of the project was SDR 18.1 million, equivalent to USD 25 million at the time of approval.
The Credit was disbursed in two equal tranches. The first tranche was disbursed after declaration of
effectiveness (in July 1999), and second tranche in December 2001.
- 30 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 31 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
MontWfYear    Count           Specialty                      Progress     Objective
Identification/Preparation
June 1998                   2    Economists
1   Pipeline Specilist
I   Environmental Specialist
1   PSD Specialist
I   Financial Analyst
October 1998                2    Economists
I   Pipeline Specilist
1   Financial Analyst
Appraisal/Negotation
December 1998               2    Economists
I   Financial Analyst
Supervision
April 1999                   2   Economists                         S             S
I   Financial Analyst
1   Environmental Specialist
August 1999                  2   Economists                         S             S
I   Financial Analyst
September 1999               1   Economistt                         S             S
I   Financial Analyst
October /November            2   Economist                          S             S
1999                         1   Financial Analyst
February 2000                1   Economist                          S             S
1   Financial Analyst
July 2000                    1   Energy Specialist                  S             S
I   Financial Analyst
2   Economists
September 2000               1   Economist
I   Financial Analyst
November 2000                1   Economist
I   Financial Analyst
May 2001                     1   Energy Specialist                  S             S
I   Financial Analyst
October 2001                 1   Economist                          U             s
1   Financial Analyst
May 2002                     1   Energy Specialist
1   Financial Analyst
- 32 -



(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks             US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation              NA                      64,084
Appraisal/Negotiation                    3.5                    22,000
Supervision                            57.8.                   204,603
Total                                  61.3                    290,687
- 33 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                      O H   * SU O M O N O NA
El Sector Policies                    O H *SUOM O N        O NA
O Physical                            O H  OSUOM O N       * NA
L Financial                           OH   OSUOM      ON   ONA
O Institutional Development           0 H O SU *M 0 N 0 NA
O Environmental                       O H   *SUOM O N O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction            O H OSU*M O N        O NA
El Gender                       OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Other (Please specify)        -O H OSUOM O N * NA
El Private sector development         0 H * SU O M 0 N     0 NA
El Public sector management           0 H O SU O M * N 0 NA
O Other (Please specify)              O H OSUOM O N        * NA
.34-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
II Lending                                          *HS OS       OU     OHU
OI Supervision                                      *HS OS       OU     OHU
OI Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
L Preparation                                       OHS OS       O U    O HU
L Government implementation performance             O HS O S     0 U    0 HU
LI Implementation agency performance                OHS *@S      O U    O HU
LI Overall                                          OHS OS       O U    O HU
-35 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Not applicable.
- 36 -



