Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7413-NEP
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND EARTHQUAKE
EMERGENCY HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
JANUARY 27, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Asia Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Nepalese Rupee (NR)   -    100 paisa
US$l                   -    NRs 24.4
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                   -    3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              -    0.62 mile (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                -    2.47 acres (ac)
1 square kilometer (km2)      -    247 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)               -    2.2046 pounds (lbs) - avoirdupois
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB       -    Agriculture Development Bank
BOARD     -    Town Development Fund Board
DWSS      -    Department of Water Supply and Sewerage
EAARRP    -    Earthquake Affected Areas Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Program
EEHRC     -    Earthquake Emergency Housing Reconstruction Component
GTZ       -    Germdn Agency for Technical Cooperation
HMGN      -    His Majesty's Government of Nepal
LDO       -    Local Development Officer
MDC       -    Municipal Development Component
MHPP      -    Ministry of Housing and Physical Planning
MPLD      -    Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development
MSTP      -    Management Support for Town Panchayats
MSUD      -    Management Support for Urban Development
NBL       -    Nepal Bank, Ltd.
NGO       -    Non-Government Organization
NRB       -    Nepal Rastra Bank
OPS       -    Office of Project Services/UNDP
RBB       -    Rastriya Banijya Bank
UNDP      -    United Nations Development Programme
WSSC      -    Water Supply and Sewerage Corporation
ZC        -    Zonal Commissioner
FISCAL YEAR
July 16 - July 15



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY
HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY....................................                  i-v
I.  BACKGROUND .................................................  1
A.  Urbanization and Municipal Trends  ......................  1
B.   Institutional Framework  ................................  2
C.  Local and Municipal Government  .........................  3
D.  Municipal Finances  .....................................  3
E.  Government Policies and Actions  ........................
F. The Bank's Sector Role and Assistance
Strategy in Nepal  ....................................  5
G.  Earthquake Emergency ....................................  6
H. Earthquake Affected Areas Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Program ................................  7
II.  THE PROJECT ................................................  8
A.   Introduction ...........................................  8
B.  Project Objectives  .....................................  8
C.  Project Description  ....................................  9
III.   PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ............ ..               .................. 14
A.   Cost Estimates  ......................................... 14
B.  Financing Plan ......................................... 16
IV.   PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION .........                ............. 19
A.  Municipal Development Component ......................... 19
B.  Earthquake Emergency Housing Reconstruction Component ... 24
C.  Procurement ........................................5.... 25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Nepal in
June 1988 for the Municipal Development Component and on the contributicns of
His Majesty's Government of Nepal and the Management Support for Town Panchayats
Project Unit. Mission members included Messrs. Arnaud Guinard (Mission Leader),
Carlos Escudero, Chandra Godavitarne and Patrick McCarthy (IDA). In October
1968 Messrs. Godavitarne, McCarthy and B.N. Singh (consultant) appraised the
Earthquake Emergency Housing Reconstruction Component.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



D.  Implementation and Disbursements ........................ 26
E.  Accounts and Audii .....................................  27
F.  Monitoring and Supervision ........ ..................... 27
V.  BENEFITS AND RISKS ................................... 28
VI.  ASSURANCES, AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ..................  29
ANNEXES
1.  Municipal Financial System in Nepal ......................... 32
2.  Town Development Fund Board - Formation Order ............... 41
3.  Town Development Fund Board - General Policy ................ 45
Statement and Rules and Regulations
4.  Town Development Fund Board - Organization Chart ............ 58
5.  Town Development Fund Board - Flow of Funds
and  Proforma Financial Statements ........................ 59
6.  Solvency Tests
A.  Birgunj Town Panchayat .................................. 67
B.  Nepalgunj Town Panchayat ................................ 75
7.  Disbursement Schedule ....................................... 83
8.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File... 84
MAP       IBRD  20783R



NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY
HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              The Kingdom of Nepal
Beneficiaries:         The Town Development Fund  Board (the Board) and town
panchayats in Nepal; and the Ministry of Housing and
Physical Planning (MHPP) and earthquake affected
households.
Amount:                SDR 30.9 million (US$ 41.5 million equivalent)
Terms:                 Standard, with 40 years' maturity
Cofinanciers:          The United Nations  Development Programme (UNDP) will
provide US$5.1 million in the form of grants to fund
technical assistance and training requirements. The
German Agency for Techrnical Cooperation (GTZ) will
provide about US$1.7 million of grant funds for
technical assistance and demonstration civil works
through the Board.
Project Description:  The  project  comprises   two   distinct  streams  of
investments: (a) the Municipal Development Component
(MDC); and (b) the Earthquake Emergency Housing
Reconstruction Component  (EEHRC).    Both components
will be coordinated by MHPP.
The MDC would assist town panchayats to provide
infrastructure  and   municipal   services  to  their
growirg population by (a) establishing, as a pilot
operation, a national level financial intermediary,
the Town Development Fund Board, which would have a
line of credit for financing of priority social
infrastructure and revenue generating projects in
eligible  town  panchayats;   (b)  strengthening  the
Board's   operating   procedures   through  technical
assistance and training; and (c) providing technical
assistance  and   training   for  strengthening  town
panchayats'   administration    and   technical   and
financial capacity for project implementation and
service management.   The  Government would onlend to
the Board at 32 p.a. over 25 years including five
years' grace period. The Board would onlend to town
panchayats (a) for social infrastructure projects at
8% p.a. for a maximum of 1 years including a maximum
grace period of three years; and (b) for revenue-



- ii -
generating projects at 12Z p.a. for a maximum of 12
years including a maximum grace period of two years.
The MDC would also include equipment for the Board,
and funds to finance the establishment and management
costs of the Board during the first three years of
operations.
The EEHRC would (a) assist in the reconstruction of
housing damaged in the August 1988 earthquake by (i)
arranging immediate training for 300 contract staff,
and (ii) providing funds for house reconstruction
loans;    (b)  improving  construction  standards and
developing earthquake resistant features in planning
and development control regulations; (c) improving
the environment by mitigating the use of timber in
building  products;   and   (d)  providing  technical
assitance and training to address longer term needs.
The Government would relend part of the proceeds of
the credit to two commerc4al banks (Nepal Bank, Ltd.,
and  Rastriya  Banijya   Bank)  and  the  Agriculture
Development Bank at 14Z p.a. The banks would onlend,
nominally,   to   affected   householders   at  their
prevailing interest rate for this type of loan,
currently 19% p.a.    Households  would  repay at 1%,
lOZ, and 15Z, depending on loan size, over eight
years including a grace period of two years. The
Government would pay the interest differential to the
banks from its budgetary resources, and would also
provide as grants, funds for building materials
production, low cost sanitation and improved stoves,
demonstration housing, and support for non-government
organizations (NGOs) for their reconstruction related
activities
Benefits and Risks:   The MDC's main benefit would be the development of an
institutional and financial capability to assist town
panchayats in financing and implementing priority
projects. The main risks would be related to the
possible lessening of the Government's capacity to
pursue the performance-oriented strategy implicit in
the program, and to the pervasive difficulty of
recruiting and retaining qualified staff in the Board
and   town   panchayats.        The   establishment  of
eligibility and appraisal criteria and guidelines for
project financing together with tech-ical assistance
to the town panchayats and the Board, and IDA support
for the establishment and management of the Board
during the first three years of its existence, would
minimize those risks.



- iii -
The EEHRC's main benefit will be the reconstruction
of  ab ut  66,000   homes   affecting  about  460,000
persons. The main risk is the potential for default
on recovery of some loans, especially Lhose to the
rural poor. The Government will reserve about 3% of
the interest paid to it by the banks to cover
possible default.
MDC Cost:
Local    Foreign   Total
-------ÖLS$ million)----
Establishment of the Board 0.4           0.0       0.4
Investment Projects          6.8         7.8      14.6
Equipment for the Board    0.0           0.2       0.2
Technical Assistance
and Training               0.4         2.2       2.6
Total MDC Cost /a            7.6        10.2      17.8
/a Including taxes and duties of US$0.4 million.
MDC Financing Plan:
Local    Foreign   Total
-------(US$ million)----
HMGN                         1.2         0.0       1.2
Town Panchayats              1.8         0.0       1.8
UNDP                         0.4          2.2      2.6
GTZ                          0.0         1.7       1.7
IDA                          4.2         6.3      10.5
Total                        7.6        10.2      17.8
MDC Estimated IDA Disbursements:
IDA     FY      89   90   91   92   93   94   95    96
------------(US$ million)-------------
Annual          0.0  0.8  1.6  1.7  1.6  2.0  1.8   1.0
Cumulative      0.0  0.8  2.4  4.1  5.7  7.7  9.5  10.5



- iv -
EEHRC Cost:                                         Local    Foreign   Total
-(US$ million)----
House Reconstruction Loans  20.8         8.3      29.1
Demonstration Housing and
Support to NGOs              0.4       0.2       0.6
Building Materials
Production                   0.3       0.7       1.0
Grants for Sanitation and
Stoves                       1.4       0.0       1.4
Project Management             1.7       0.7       2.4
Technical Assistance and
Training                     0.6       1.9       2.5
Total EEdRC Cost /a           25.2      11.8      37.0
/a Including taxes and duties of US$0.5 million.
EEHRC Financing Plan:                               Local    Foreign   Total
Ö------(US$ million)----
HMGN                         3.5         0.0       3.5
UNDP                         0.0         2.5       2.5
IDA                         21.7         9.3      31.0
Total                       25.2        11.8      37.0
EEHRC Estimated Disbursements:
IDA        FY        89         90         91          92
-----------(US$ million)---------
Annual               0.0       29.5        1.0         0.5
Cumulative           0.0       29.5       30.5        31.0
Project Financing Plan (MDC and EEhRC)-
Local    Foreign   Total
-------(US$ million)----
HMGN                         4.7         0.0       4.7
Town Panchayats              1.8         0.0       1.8
UNDP                         0.4         4.7       5.1
GTZ                          0.0         1.7       1.7
IDA                         25.9        15.6      41.5
Total                       32 8        22.0      54.8



Project Estimated Disbursements (MDC and EEHRC)
IDA     FY      89   90   91   92   93   94   95    96
- ---(US$ m'llion)-----------
Annual          0.0 30.3  2.6  2.2  1.6  2.0  1.8   1.0
Cumulative      0.0 30.3 32.9 35.1 36.7 38.7 40.5  41.5
Economic Rate
of Return:           Not Applicable.



NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY
HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Urbanization and Municipal Trends
1.01     Although urbanization is a  relatively recent phenomenon in Nepal,
it has accelerated rapidly during the last decade. Several factors point
to a continuation of this trend.    While national economic policy in Nepal
emphasizes the development of the rural sector, urban areas are presently,
and will increasingly, serve as administrative centers and provide services
and commercial activities to the rural population, including employment,
thus promoting urban growth.   Improved  and  new road linkages between the
central and eastern Terai regions and the middle hill towns, aimed
primarily at improving accessibility to the required inputs and outputs to
develop the agricultural potential of the Terai region, have resulted in a
large increase in urban growth of 6 to 8% per year. Terai towns, in
particular, have been growing on average at 82 per year since 1971.
Furthermore, because of the high cost of infrastructure development in
geographically remote areas, the main growth in industry and services is
taking place within the existing large towns situated on the national road
and electricity networks.   Finally,  limited farm employment opportunities
will continue to contribute to rural-urban migration. It is 'atimated that
the total urban population will increase at a rate of at least 4% per year
from the present level of 1.6 million to about 2.4 million in the next
decade.
1.02     Towns in Nepal play a  key  role in the country's economic growth.
Not only do they absorb a large share of the rural labor surplus, but they
also provide essential services to support the rural economy. Managing
urban growth rather than constraining it is, therefore, a major challenge
that needs to be met rapidly while urbanization is still at an early stage.
Accelerating urban growth is already putting increasing demands on the
limited existing infrastructure. Service levels are being eroded and the
provision of basic urban services is being constrained due to limited
institutional  and  managerial  capacity   as   well  as  scarce  financial
resources, at both the central and local levels. Development grants from
the center to all town panchayats have averaged only about US$450,000
equivalent over the  past  five  years.    Precise  data  on investments by
central line ministries, and by the town panchayats themselves are not
available, but are known  to  be  limited.    The  project would assist His
Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN) to set up, as a pilot operation, a
national level financial intermediary to provide funds to town panchayats
for improvement of their municipal services.



-2-
B. Institutl nal Framework
1.03     As Nepal opened up to the  outside world only in the early 1950's,
its administrative structure is not yet fully established and remains
heavily centralized. As in many other sectors, the institutional framework
in the infrastructure sector is weak and fragmented. Several ministries
and central agencies, together with their representatives at the local
level, as well as various levels of local government (region, zone,
district, town panchayat, village panchayat) operate in the infrastructure
sector. In an effort to streamline responsibilities among ministries and
agencies, a recent government reorganization (January 1988) resulted in the
structure described below.
1.04     A new Ministry of  Housing  and  Physical Planning (MHPP) has been
created.  Its mandate  covers  two  main  areas:   (a) housing and physical
planning;  and  (b)   water   supply   and   sanitation,   each  under  the
responsibility of an  Additional  Secretary.    Under  the Water Supply and
Sanitation wing, there are  two  agencies:    the Water Supply and Sewerage
Corporation (WSSC), and the Department of Water Supply and Sewerage (DWSS).
These agencies w-re previously under the supervision of the Ministry of
Water Resources, which is now responsible only for irrigation. WSSC is
responsible for providing water supply and sanitation in 13 regional urban
centers, including Kathmandu, while DWSS is responsible for all other urban
and rural water supply/sanitation, and for drainage. DWSS is also the lead
sector agency with responsibilities for sector planning, setting standards,
and monitoring. The Ministry of Panchayat and Local Development (MPLD),
which until recently had responsibilities lor rural water supply for
communities with fewer than 1,500 inhabitants, and for rural trails, is now
responsible only  for  coordinating  the  activities  of  local governments
(districts, town and village panchayats).    The Department of Roads in the
Ministry of Works and Transport is responsible for the construction,
maintenance, administration, and planning of all national and rural roads
and trails.  At the  local  level,  districts and town panchayats have been
granted greater responsibilities under the 1987 Decentralization Act, but
their role is still evolving, and their financial and human resources are
limited (para. 1.07).
1.05     Several  constraints   hamper   the   development  of  appropriate
infrastructure  policies  and  practices  iii  Nepal.    Although  HMGN  is
advocating a more decentralized policy, the decision-making process on
policy and project implementation issues remains cumbersome and highly
centralized, and most project decisions are made at the highest level. The
lack of continuity of personnel in key positions and the difficulty of
retaining staff in regional centers, also constitute major impediments to
developing  cohesive  and  stable   policies.        Financial  resources  for
infrastructure maintenance and development are limited due to inrdequate
pricing policies, weak general tax revenues, and the absence of adequate
cost recovery mechanisms.   Finally,  the  capacity of central agencies and
local governments to prepare, appraise, execute, supervise, operate and
maintain infrastructure facilities remains weak because of the lack of
qualified and trained staff resources.   The proposed project would address
these issues.



-3 -
C. Local and Municipal Government
1.06     Administratively,  Nepal  is  divided  into  14  zones,  which are
further subdivided into 75 districts.    Each  level  is headed by a public
official responsible through his superiors to the Home Minister. Zones are
headed by a Zonal Commissioner (ZC), appointed by His Majesty the King.
ZCs are responsible for maintaining law and order and coordinating all
development projects within their respective zones. At the district level,
the Local Development Officer (LDO) is responsible for coordinating the
activities of the sectoral line agencies to implement district plans.
However, district representatives of line agencies continue to remain
heavily under the control of their respective ministries/agencies. Below
the district level, there are two main types of local government: town
panchayat and village panchayats, whose numberR have increased rapidly.
There are currently 33 town panchayats and some 4,000 village panchayats.
Town and village panchayats councils are presided over by mayors (Pradhan
Panchas) assisted by deputy mayors (Upa Pradhan Panchas), and consist of
between 9 to 33 ward chairmen, who are elected for five-year terms.
Executive  responsibilities  are   vested   in  the  mayor;  implementation
responsibilities are vested in the Chief Officer (Pradhan Adhikrit).
1.07     The ability  of  town  panchayats  to  provide  basic  services is
severely constrained because of the lack of qualified technical staff and
financial resources. Few towns have an engineer or a qualified overseer
(technical officer). While town panchayats will have to continue to rely
for some time on their own limited technical resources and those aXailable
at the district level, the development of training programs is a key
necessity. Efforts in this respect have already been made and substantial
training of town panchayats' officials and staff has been provided under
the UNDP-financed Management Support for Town Panchayats project (para.
1.10). Courses have included financial management, tax record keeping and
collection, budget preparation, and basic capital investment programming
and budgeting. MPLD and MHPP are aware of the importance and the need for
systematic provision of training, and have requested that efforts 4n this
respect be continued under the project.
D. Municipal Finances
1.08     The financial situation of  town  panchayats in Nepal is generally
poor. There is great variation among towns in raising local revenues, due
both to differences in local economic bases and to differences in local tax
effort and enforcement. Central government recurrent grants to towns are,
on average, relatively small and declining; town panchayats raise a large
percentage (80Z in 1987-88) of their revenues from own sources. Revenues
that are mobilized locally are predominantly in the form of indirect taxes,
primarily the trade tax, which is usually collected as "octroi" and
represents about 70% of town panchayats' own resources. The heavy reliance
on the trade tax has left most towns with little revenues from direct taxes
and benefit-based taxes and fees. Acknowledging that this imbalance should
be corrected gradually, HMGN has recently initiated changes in the local
finance system to shift from reliance on indirect taxes to direct taxes,
most importantly, the property-based taxes, the business tax, and the
vehicle tax.



-4-
L.09     At present, there are four separate taxes on property, two of them
(roof top tax and house rent tax) collected by town panchayats, and the
other two (land tax and compound tax) collected by the central government.
In the short term, HMGN proposes to raise the rate of the house rent tax
progressively. In the long term, it is considering consolidating the four
separate taxes into a single property tax that would be collected by town
panchayats.  The professional business  tax  yields low revenues because it
is presently levied as  a  flat  license  fee.    Over time, this tax would
evolve into a tax on business volume, which is a more buoyant tax source.
In  the  meantime,  license   fees   are   being  revised  to  reflect  the
differentiation  based  on  the  size  of  business.    Finally,  the third
potential direct tax revenue source is the vehicle and transportation tax
for which there is room for improvement in collection efficiency. In
addition to all the above revenues, a few towns have developed cost-sharing
mechanisms with beneficiaries for construction costs of projects such as
road extension, street paving and drainage ditches. Such mechanisms would
be further developed and implemented under the UNDP-funded Management
Support for Urban Development project (para. 2.12) as they offer scope for
instituting a more systematic direct cost recovery of investments. A
review of the municipal finance system in Nepal and of the recent changes
is set out in Annex 1.
E. Government Policies and Actions
1.10     The Government recently re-emphasized  its  goals of meeting basic
needs for its population by the year 2000. However, it acknowledges that
achieving even minimum levels of service provision in the country's 33 town
panchayats will require a scale of investment considerably greater than
heretofore, and major improvements in urban administration and resource
mobilization. HMGN is also committed to promoting the decentralization of
planning and development functions from central ministries to local levels
of government. Largely as a result of its dialogue with IDA, HMGN has
accepted that implementing and sustaining a credible urban infrastructure
investment program within the decentralization framework would require
that, as a necessary first step, the management, finances and operations of
the town panchayats be strengthened.   Only  then will they be able to make
good use of new capital inputs.   Accordingly, HMGN has adopted an approach
which gives immediate  emphasis  to  strengthening  management  in the town
panchayats.    This  approach  proceeds  from  the  assumption  that  while
structural matters such as town finance legislation and the division of
responsibilities between central and local governments need to be addressed
over time, significant improvements in managerial performance can be
achieved in the short term through a targeted program of technical
assistance and training. On the initiative of the Ministry of Finance and
the National Planning Commission, support for such a program started in
1985 and has been provided under two phases of the UNDP-funded Management
Support for Town Panchayats (MSTP) project, (NEP1851010 and NEP/861021).
This project, which closes at the end of February 1989, aims to reinfo:ce
MPLD's and MHPP's capacities to (a) assist the town panchayats deliver and
maintain municipal services within the constraints imposed by their current
financial and managerial resources; (b) improve local financial management
and revenue generation; (c) formulate the institutional and financial
framework necessary to justify a subsequent physical investment program;



- 5-
and (d) assist town panchayats develop their own investment plans. Results
to date have been impressive, and significant improvements in resource
mobilization, operating efficiency and revenue utilization have been
demonstrated at the town panchayat level. Preparation of town development
plans, infrastructure needs assessments and identification and preparation
of priority projects have also  been  carried  out.   At the central level,
legislative changes have been incorporated in the Bill of Amendment to Town
Panchayat Act 2019 to revise outdated local tax rates, eliminate confusion
in the existing legislation, and revamp the structure of town government
finances. The Bill was endorsed by the National Assembly in August 1987,
and signed by His Majesty the King  in  October 1987.  MPLD is now drafting
detailed working arrangements prior to issuing the new financial rules.
F.  The Bank's Sector Role and Assistance Strategy in Nepal
1.11     To date, IDA's infrastructure  sector assistance role and strategy
for Nepal have focused on the water supply and sanitation and transport
subsectors. In the 1970's and early 1980's, IDA promoted the public
utility model in the water and sanitation sector, seeking primarily to
assist the financially and managerially autonomous WSSC (Credits 470-NEP,
704-NEP, and 1059-NEP). Our experience in this subsector has been mixed.
.While physical implementation has been satisfactory, achievements have
fallen short of expectations in building up WSSC as a viable institution,
mainly because of HMGN's inappropriate pricing and payment policies, and
inadequate management and sector  leadership.    During the past year there
has been improvement in the management of WSSC. Its finances, however,
remain weak. A broader approach to institutional strengthening, resource
mobilization  and  administrative  management   in  the  water  supply  and
sanitation sector is now being formulated under a service improvement and
management  support  project,  within   the   context  of  a  comprehensive
development program for WSSC.
1.12     In transport, IDA  has  financed  three  highway projects (Credits
223-N)P, 730-NEP and 1515-NEP) to extend the road network, in particular
along the East-West Highway, and to provide technical assistance and
equipment for road maintenance.    Project implementation has improved over
time. The Department of Roads is developing its institutional capacity to
cope adequately with road planning, project evaluation and maintenance
issues, and with flood rehabilitation.   This last topic is being addressed
under the Road Flood Rehabilitation Project (Credit 1922-NEP), declared
effective on January 19, 1989. IDA is also assisting in the preparation of
the following projects: Arun III Access Road (for the Arun III Hydropower
Project), Multimodal Containerization, and Remote Area Access Road.
1.13     The component for municipal  development  described in this report
would be the first IDA operation as a logical evolution from its initial
focus on a single organization and specific subsectors to a broader
emphasis on sector policy and public administration issues. IDA has now
built up a comparative advantage as a catalyst and a technical resource
agency in municipal management through sector work and, more importantly,
through the execution of the UNDP-financed project (para. 1.10). The MDC
would assist HMGN in expanding the current town panchayat development
initiative including the decentralization process, and would build upon



-6-
three areas of development policy that the first Structural Adjustment
Lending   project    (Credit    1769-NEP)    emphasized   as   crucial--the
rationalization of investment programming, the mobilization of local
resources, and the improvement of public administration.
G. Earthquake Emergency
1.14     General.  An earthquake measuring  6.7 on the Richter scale struck
parts of Nepal in the early hours of August 21, 1988. A major earthquake
(8.2 on Richter scale) occurred in January 1934 and a less severe one
occurred in 1980.   The  latest  earthquake  had its epicentre at Udayapur,
about 160 km south east of Kathmandu (map attached). It affected about 28
districts in the Eastern and Central Development Regions. The heaviest
damage occurred in the districts of Dhankuta, Sunsari, Ilam, Morang and
Udayapur. Extensive damage to housing occurred in Dharan, Dhankuta and
Lahan.  The death toll was  721.   The greatest damage occurred to housing,
estimated at about 66,000 units, 1,159 public buildings, 1,222 schools,
nin2 hospitals and 74 health posts.   Damage has also occurred to the East-
West Highway, Dharan-Dhankuta Highway, about 30 bridges and irrigation
structures. HMGN estimates the total damage at about NRs 4.2 billion.
HMGN, with the assistance of the local and the international donor
community mounted a relief operation which included care for the injured,
NRs 2,000 for a death suffered, NRs 1,000 for loss of a house, plastic
sheets for emergency shelter, cloth and 40 kg of rice per family. This
phase has now been completed, and the reconstruction phase is being
launched,  for  which   HMGN   has   requested   IDA   assistance  for  the
reconstruction of damaged housing; the Asian Development Bank is expected
to fund a road rehabilitation project, and IDA is considering a Government
request for meeting the schools' requirements through the Primary Education
Project (Credit 1463-NEP).
1q15     About 66,000 houses either collapsed or are unsafe for hatitation,
rendering about 460,000 persons homeless. Generally, houses in Nepal are 2
to 3 storey brick-mud mortar (commonly called mud-brick) houses, some built
out of stone and others of brick with cement mortar. Collapse occurred
predominantly in mud-brick houses.   Some better quality housing units were
also badly cracked. Only houses with framed construction or of reinforced
concrete escaped any damage.
1.16     The intensity of the  earthquake  was, relatively speaking, a mild
one. Basic building construction techniques are not always incorporated in
the  traditional  building   practices,   much  less  earthquake  resistant
features. For a country that is in the seismic zone, there is no building
code--hence no building requirements to resist earthquakes, nor are seismic
maps available. Bonding of corners, securing of gable walls, provision of
lintels over openings, location of openi.igs, securing of roof structures
and the construction of the roof itself, all too frequently have structural
weaknesses built into them.   It  is  quite  common to construct 3-4 storey
buildings with mud-brick with absolutely no framing, and which are,
therefore, highly susceptible to varying degrees of damage by the intensity
of the earthquakes.



-7-
H. Earthquake Affected Areas Reconstruction and Rehabilitation Program
(EAARRP)
1.17     His Majesty's Government  of  Nepal  has announced, and commenced,
implementation of its reconstruction program:
(a)  constituted   a   Central   Coordinating   Committee   under   the
Chairmanship of the MHPP, to coordinate the program;
(b)  allocated 3% (NRs 340 million approximately) of the current fiscal
year's development budget for reconstruction and rehabilitation,
part of which is available for housing reconstruction;
(c)  recruited, on contract, 28 engineers and 272  overseers to work on
the housing reconstruction program (recruitment completed by mid-
October 1988);
(d)  commenced training of 1,200  rural  workers  to promote the use of
low-cost toilets and smokeless stoves;
(e)  developed  minimum  earthquake   resistant  requirements.    Their
incorporation in District Headquarters and urban areas would be
made mandatory;
(f)  begun construction of demonstration  houses to show sound building
techniques and simple low cost earthquake resistant features;
(g)  providing NRs 600 subsidy  for  families that incorporate low-cost
toilets and improved stoves, as part of the reconstruction
program; and
(h)  begun a house reconstruction  loan  program through two commercial
banks, the Nepal Bank, Ltd. (NBL) and Rastriya Banijya Bank (RBB),
and the Agriculture Development Bank (ADB).
1.18     In the past, the  International  Monetary  Fund has been strict on
credit ceilings; however, it is prepared to be more flexible for the
EAARRP. HMGN has, however, indicated that it prefers to keep EAARRP
expenditures within the credit and budgetary ceilings agreed under the
Structural Adjustment Facility.   Total  fund requirements would be greatly
influenced by the average size of loans and the household distribution in
the three main categories.    Hence,  the  total funds requirement may vary
from about NRs 500 million to about NRs 750 million. Interest subsidies
would be equivalent to nearly two-thirds of the loans made, or between NRs
300 million to NRs 500 million.    The  cost  of the subsidies would be met
from HMGN's own resources.    Some  households,  especially among the rural
poor, may not be able to afford even the 1% loans. HMGN, therefore, would
create a reserve to cover possible defaults (para. 2.17).
1.19     Up to now, HMGN  has  not  intervened  in  the housing sector on a
regular basis. There is, for instance, no formal public or private housing
finance available in Nepal, nor is there a building code for enforcing
minimal building construction requirements. Over 902 of homes are said to



-8-
be owner-occupied but migration from the rural to the urban areas is
beginning to exert pressures on the housing stock which will lower this
favorable home ownership ratio.    HMGN  is  keen  to  adopt, inter alia, a
housing strategy which would address issues facing the sector. This is
being undertaken through an emergency housing component to this project,
and also in future sector work.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Introduction
2.01     The project comprises two  distinct  streams of investments: (a) a
Municipal Development Component (MDC) which would complement the technical
assistance and training work carried out since 1985 under the UNDP-
financed, World Bank-executed MSTP Project (NEP/86/021), and (b) an
Earthquake Emergency Housing Reconstruction Component (EEHRC) which would
provide immediate and longer term assistance to affected householders and
the Government following the earthquake that struck parts of Eastern and
Central Nepal in August 1988. The components are joined in one project to
enable IDA to respond quickly to the devastation of homes resulting from
the earthquake. The MDC was appraised as an independent project in June
1988. The EEHRC was appraised in October 1988 and appended to the MDC for
accelerated processing. MHPP would be the coordinating ministry for both
components.
B. Project Objectives
2.02     The _main objectives of MDC would be to:
(a)  establish, as  a  pilot  operation,  a  financial  intermediary t-è
assist HMGN in  providing  appr priate  financial  support to town
panchayats;
(b)  provide   long-term   loan    financing    for   priority   social
infrastructure and revenue-generating projects of town panchayats
to support growth of industry and to provide services to rising
urban populations; and
(c) strengthen further the financial and administrative capacity of
town panchayats to prepare, implement, supervise and maintain
investment projects.
2.03     The main objectives of EEHRC would be to:
(a) assist HMGN in implementing its program to reconstruct housing
damaged during the earthquake;
(b) improve construction standards and develop earthquake resistant
features for incorporation in buildings through planning and
development control regulations;
(c) provide technical assistance and training for the housing sector
to address longer term needs; and



-9-
(d) address the environmental impact relating to the excessive use of
timber in buildings and building products manufacture.
C. Project Description
Municipal Development Component
2.04     The  MDC  would  include  five   main  sub-components:    (a)  the
establishment and management of the Board (US$0.4 million); (b) a line of
credit to the Board (US$11.1 million); (c) a grant to the Board (US$1.7
million); (d) the purchase of equipment for the Board (US$0.2 million); and
(e) technical assistance and training:   (i) to the Board (US$0.9 million);
and (ii) for urban development (US$1.7 million).
2.05     Establishment and  Management  of  the  Board.    A  new source of
municipal funding has been  established  to  finance equipment, civil works
and technical assistance for the delivery   of municipal services in the 33
town panchayats in Nepal.   The  Board  has  been formally set up through a
Formation Order (Annex 2) under the Development Board Act 2013 as a
corporate body with financial  and  legal  autonomy.    This Order has been
published in the "Nepal Gazette".    As a condition of credit effectiveness
HMGN will: (a) approve the General Policy Statement and Rules and
Regulations of the Board, to be satisfactory to IDA (Annex 3); (b) appoint
an Executive Director of the Board, with qualifications and experience to
be satisfactory to IDA; and (c) appoint a cadre (para. 4.07) of qualified
staff of the Board. The Executive Committee of the Board may delegate the
recruitement and appointment of staff to the Executive Director.
2.06     The Executive Director would  be  responsible for carrying out the
functions of the Board within the framework of its General Policy Statement
and Rules and Regulations.    These  directives  require town panchayats to
exercise strict financial discipline, i.e., achieve acceptable revenue
performance targets, select service standards and technologies consistent
with their priority needs and financial resources, and substantiate
requests for project funding with adequate feasibility studies.
2.07     The MDC would finance  the  establishment  and management costs of
the Board during the first three years of its operations.
2.08     Line of Credit.  HMGN would make available a line of credit to the
Board  for  the  financing   of   investments  proposed  by  eligible  town
panchayats.   The  Board  would  appraise  and  approve  such  proposals in
accordance with formats  and  criteria  agreed  with  IDA.    The review of
infrastructure needs assessments carried out under MSTP (para. 1.10) has
helped town panchayats identify a pipeline of priority projects. IDA would
finance investments mentioned in the Board's General Policy Statement
provided they are technically, economically, financially, environmentally
and socially justified.   Eligible  social infrastructure projects include,
for example, roads and bridges, drainage systems, footpaths and sidewalks,
public parks and recreation areas, solid waste collection and disposal
equipment, street lighting, civil works equipment, sewer systems, public
latrines, local council buildings and any other social infrastructure. The



-10-
eligible revenue generating projects are, for example, public markets
(retail  and  wholesale),   slaughterhouses,  commercial  centers,  stores,
offices, potable water systems, trade centers, workshops, and bus and ruck
parks. This line of credit would represent an approximate annual five-fold
increase over the development grants given to town panchayats (para. 1.02).
2.09     Grant to the Board.  The  Board would also receive the proceeds of
the grant, about US$1.7 million equivalent, from the German Agency for
Technical  Cooperation  (GTZ)  for  supporting:        (a)  the  planning  and
implementation of demonstration projects such as the management of market
places, construction of shopping arcades, construction and improvement of
bus parks, promotion of tourism, and extension and upgrading of physical
infrastructure; (b) the preparation of plans and feasibility studies for
development schemes; (c) the implementation of health education programs to
increase public awareness and commitment to health and hygiene; and (d) the
development of a tax record system in town panchayats. The maximum amount
of grant assistance would be NRs 0.5 million or about US$20,500 per sub-
project. Applications for grant assistance would be limited to those town
panchayats which do not yet meet the financial solvency test criteria for
qualifying for loan assistance from  the  Board.   The effectiveness of the
GTZ  Agreement  with  the  Government   will   be  a  condition  of  credit
effectiveness.
2.10     Equipment for the  Board.    This  sub-component would include the
acquisition  of  two   vehicles,   two  microcomputers,  office  equipment,
furniture and supplies for the Board.    Vehicles would be needed to enable
the Board's staff to make field visits and for site supervision. The
microcomputers would be used to rationalize data collection, and, in
particular, to monitor the financial performance of town panchayats (para.
4.17).
2.11     Technical Assistance  and  Training.    This  comprises three sub-
components, the first of which is to build up the Board's ability to
appraise and supervise projects so that it gradually develops its capacity
to provide financial and technical support to town panchayats. This would
include the provision of 72 months of expatriate assistance to be provided
under a technical assistance grant from UNDP. The expatriate assistance
would  include  a  project   advisor   (36   person  months),  a  municipal
engineer/planner  (18  person   months),   and   a  municipal  finance/loan
specialist (18  person  months).    The  project  advisor  would assist the
Board's Executive Director in overall program management, preparing annual
plans and programs, implementing the policies and procedures within the
General Policy Statement and Rules and Regulations of the Board, and
identifying, in conjunction with the other two advisors, training needs and
programs  to   enhance   the   Board's   effectiveness.          The  municipal
engineer/planner would, under the guidance of the project advisor, assist
Board staff carry out technical evaluation, appraisal and technical
feasibility of projects presented by the town panchayats, review and
refine, as necessary, the procurement procedures of town panchayats and
contracts for projects, and identify and develop training programs for
Board technical staff. The municipal finance/loan specialist would, under
the guidance of the project advisor, assist Board staff in loan evaluation,
appraisal and financial and economic feasibility of projects prepared by



-11-
town panchayats, and identifying and developing related training programs.
In addition to  the  training  needs  of  Board  staff,  the advisors would
conduct seminars and workshops for HMGN and town panchayat officials on the
policies, procedures and requirements of the Board, and arrange appropriate
study tours for such officials.    As the technical assistance and training
described above directly support project investments and objectives, the
United Nations Centre for Human Settlements (UNCHS) would be the Executing
Agency.
2.12     The second and  third  sub  imponents  of technical assistance and
training will build on the activities currently underway in the ongoing
MSTP Project into a third phase of Management Support for Urban Development
(MSUD), to be funded by  UNDP.   They would institutionalize the techniques
and methods used to improve town panchayats' performance within the
reorganized central ministries (para. 1.04) as follows: (a) through MPLD:
(i) complete the outstanding town panchayats' financial assessment reports,
management finance plans and structure plans; (ii) strengthen the national
urban policy framework; (iii) establish town panchayat capacity for
effective  tax   record-keeping,   budgeting,   accounting   and  financial
forecasting; (iv) improve the capacity of town panchayats to generate their
own source revenue, especially through direct taxation; (v) establish
capital investment planning and budgeting systems for multi-year investment
prograimaiiug in selected town ptnchayats; and (b) through MHPP: (i) complete
outstanding structure plans; (ii) strengthen the institutional capacity for
implementing physical plans and projects at the town panchayat level; and
(iii)  prepare,  in  conjunction   with  the  town  panchayats,  additional
investment projects which would be suitable for future financing. The
above support would require approximately 86 person months of expatriate
advisors, 576 person months of local consultants, and 312 person months of
administrative support.    As  the  above  technical  assistance  would not
directly support project investments, UNDP requested the World Bank to be
Executing Agency. During negotiations HMGN confirmed that its obligation
to carry out the project will in no way be limited, restricted or waived by
the fact that the World Bank will act as Executing Agency for these sub-
components.
2.13     As  a  condition  of  effectiveness  HMGN  will  sign  two Project
Documents for the provision of the technical assistance and training
described in paragraphs  2.11  and  2.12  above.    A  further condition of
effectiveness will be the retention of consultants relating to these
requirements.
2.14     Assurances were given at  negotiations  that HMGN will ensure that
the respective ministries will continue to provide technical assistance to
town panchayats after the termination of the UNDP-financed technical
assistance and training inputs.
Earthquake Emergency Housing Reconstruction Component
2.15     The main  objectives  of  this  component    would  include:   (a)
training  for   reconstruction;   (b)   house   reconstruction  loans;  (c)
demonstration housing; (d) support for non-government organizations (NGOs);
(e) building materials production; (f) grants for sanitation and improved
stoves; (g) project management; and (h) technical assistance and training.



-12-
2.16.    Training for  Reconstruction.         Training  would  be provided to
contract staff prior to deployment, and for continuing skills upgrading in
the field. Training would comprise: (a) beneficiary screening procedures;
(b) building techniques and earthquake resistant features; (c) building
materials administration; (d) construction supervision; and (e) monitoring
of EAARRP. Training would be done by local trainers and an expatriate
expert in earthquake resistant features, who would be provided for five
months. The contract staff will, in turn, train village workers in the
construction of low cost toilets and smokeless stoves. Funds provided
under this sub-component would cover costs of trainers, stipends of
trainees, training materials and relevant costs.
2.17     House Reconstruction Loans.    Funds  would  be provided for house
reconstructlon loans for approximately:    (a)  63,000 loans in rural areas
with an average size of NRs 8,600; (b) 410 loans in District Headquarters
with an average size of NRs 18,000; and (c) 2,340 loans for urban areas
with an average size of NRs 40,000. As set out in HMGN's program, the loan
ceilings would be NRs 10,000, NRs 20,000 and NRs 50,000 for rural, District
Headquarters  and  urban  areas,  respectively.    The  repayment  terms to
affected householders would be: (a) the first NRs 5,000 at 1% interest
p.a.,  (b)       the   second   NRs   5,000   at   10%   interest  p.a.  and
(c) amounts above NRs 10,000 and up to NRs 50,000 at 15% interest p.a.
Repayments for District Headquarters and urban areas would be over 8 years
which includes a 2-year grace period on repayment of principal only. Rural
loans would be repaid over the same period but would include a 2-year grace
period for principal and interest. Loans would be made by the three banks
(NBL, RBB and ADB) at their standard lending rate for this type of
operation,  currently  19Z.    HMGN  would  pay  the  banks  annually,  the
difference between their standard lending rate and the repayment rates to
affected households.   The  weighted  average  onlending  rate of the banks
would be about 6% p.a., which approximates the projected inflation rate in
Nepal over the  implementation  period  of  this  component.   The interest
differential to be paid by HMGN would be met, in part, from the 14Z
interest paid by the banks (para. 3.05), and from its budgetary resources,
and would not be financed under the project.
2.18     Demonstration Housing.   Initially,  42 demonstration houses would
be constructed, with 28 demonstration houses (at an average cost of NRs
15,000) to be built in District Headquarters and the balance (at an average
cost of NRs 40,000) to be constructed in urban areas. The objective would
be to demonstrate: (a) sound building techniques, specifically to avoid
weaknesses in traditional building practices; (b) simple and cost effective
earthquake resistant features; (c) construction of low-cost toilets and
smokeless cooking stoves; and (d) where appropriate, the use of alternative
building materials, specifically those that would reduce the use of timber.
2.19     Support to Non-Government Organizations.    A  number of NGOs have
specific experiences in activities that would be required to make the
reconstruction  program  a   success,   including   provision  of  low-cost
sanitation, water supply, improved stoves, innovative building materials
development, employment generation, etc. In addition, they have experience
in the country and are readily accepted in the communities. Because they



-13-
operate on limited budgets, the MDC would provide funds to support NG0
activities related to reconstruction in the affected areas. About NRs 12.5
million would  be  provided  for  this  purpose,    The Government, through
EAARRP,  will  engage  the  services   of   NGOs  willing  to  support  the
reconstruction program under guidelines agreed between HMGN and IDA. Funds
would be provided under the EEHRC as grants to implement agreed programs.
2.20     Building Materials Production.  Funds  would be provided to assist
entrepreneurs  and  community   groups   (for   employmtent  generation)  to
manufacture buiiding products (e.g. stabilised earth blocks, steel door and
window frames, cement blocks, concrete elements for low cost toilets,
etc.). Simple and easily operated equipment would be provided free to
community groups and leased to entrepreneurs.
2.21     Grants for Sanitation and Improved  Stoves.   In support of HMGN's
program to promote low-cost sanitation and improved cooking stoves, this
sub-component would provide for grants of NRs 600 to about 55,000 rural,
district or  urban  households.    About  NRs  500  of  the  grant would be
earmarked for a low-cost toilet and         NRs 100 for a smokeless stove.  It
is estimated that a low cost toilet would cost up to NRs 3,000.
2.22     Project Management.  The MDC would  provide funds to meet costs of
project management.   The  items  to  be  financed would include furniture,
office equipment, vehicles (light vans, motor cars and trucks), operation
and maintenance costs for vehicles and equipment, costs of contract staff
(engineers/overseers, consultants, etc.) and project allowances, if any,
for HMGN staff engaged directly in project activities. Salaries of H.MGN
staff would not be financed. An expatriate program advisor would be funded
by UNDP.
2.23     Technical  Assistance  and   Training.         Longer  term  technical
assistance and training to  mitigate  the  effects  of earthquake and other
natural disasters would be provided unfar the project, as follows: (a)
disaster  management;  (b)   preparation   of   a  national  building  code
incorporating earthquake resistant features; (c) epicentral and seismic
mapping; (d) development of a housing strategy and related studies; (e) new
building products development; (f) study of alternatives to timber in
buildings, and building products development for domestic use; and (g)
housing sector project  preparation.    The  MHPP  will be the coordinating
ministry for technical  assistance  and  training.    However, for disaster
management and epicentral and seismic mapping the responsible agencies
would be the Ministry of Home and the Department of Mines and Geology,
respectively.   HMGN and UNDP plan to obtain funds from the Special Program
Resources and/or country funds for financing the costs of the program
advisor  (para.  2.22),  and   other   technical  assistance  and  training
activities  described  in  this  paragraph.    With  the  exception  of the
functions and duties of the program advisor, the longer term technical
assistance and training activities of the project would not directly
support project investments. IDA, therefore, expects to be the Executing
Agency for the technical assistance and training component, except that of
the program advisor.    During  negotiations,  an understanding was reached
with HMGN that although IDA expects to be Executing Agency for the
technical assistance and training component, this will not limit the



-14-
obligation of HMGN  to  carry  out  the  component.   The above UNDP-funded
technicul assistance is tentatively estimated to cost US$2.5 million. As a
condition of effectiveness HMGN will sign two Project Documents with UNDP
for the provision of the services of a program advisor, and the longer term
technical assistance inputs.
III. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Cost Estimates
Municipal Development Component
3.01       Total  costs  are  estimated   at  NRs  434.3  million  (US$17.8
million),  including  taxes  and  duties  (US$0.4  million).    The foreign
exchange component is NRs 248.8 million (US$10.2 million), or 57% of
project costs. A summary of costs is presented in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: Summary of MDC Estimated Costs
Local  Foreign  Total    Locel  Foreign  Total   Foreign
----NRs million -----    -----US$ million-----   as Z of
Total
Establishment          9.8     0.0      9.8      0.4       0.0    0.4         0
of the Board
Investment          165.9   190.3   356.2        6.8       7.8   14.6        53
Projects
Equipment for          0.0     4.9      4.9      0.0       0.2    0.2       100
the Board
Technical Asst.
& Training
(a) for the Board    0.0    22.0    22.0        0.0       0.9    0.9        100
(b) for Urban Dev.   9.8    31.6    41.4        0.4       1.3    1.7         76
Total Costs a/   185.5   248.8   434.3         7.6     10.2   17.8       557
a/  Including taxes and duties  of  about  NRs  9.8 million (US$0.4 million
equivalent).
Earthquake Emergency Housing Reconstruction Component
3.02     Total costs are estimated at  NRs 902.8 million (US$37.0 million),
including  taxes  and  duties  (US$0.5  million).    The  foreign  exchange
component is NRs 287.9 million (US$11.8 million), or 32% of costs. A
summary of costs is presented in Table 3.2 below.



-15-
Table 3.2: Summary of Estimated EEHRC Costs
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   Foreign
----NRs million -----           US$ million-----   as Z of
Total
Training for             0.7     1.8      2.5      0.0     0.1       0.1    72
Reconstruction
House Recons-         461.2   183.0   644.2    18.9        7.5      26.4    28
struction L.oans
Demonstration            2.0     0.5      2.5     0.1      0.0       0.1    20
Houses
Support to NGOs         8.2      4.0    12.2      0.3      0.2       0.5    33
Buildiag Materials      2.4    17.1    19.5       0.1      0.7       0.8    88
Production
Grants for Sani-       34.1      0.0    34.1      1.4      0.0       1.4    0
tation and Stoves
Project Management    29.2    17.1    46.3        1.2      0.7       1.9    37
Technical Assist.      12.2    36.6    48.8       0.5      1.5       2.0    75
and Training
Total Base Costs      550.0   260.1   810.1    22.5    10.7         33.2    32
Price Contingencies   64.9    27.8    92.7        2.7      1.1       3.8    30
Total Project a/      614.9   287.9   902.8    25.2    11.8         37.0    32
Cost
a/  Including taxes and duties  of  about  NRs 11.9 million (US$0.5 million
equitralent).
3.03     Base costs estimated for the  project  are in October 1988 prices.
Costs for equipment, furniture and office supplies are based on recent
quotations from suppliers. Average person month cost (all inclusive) for
foreign and local consultant and advisory services are estimated at
US$12,300 and NRs  11,000  (US$450),  respectively.    The MDC provides for
about 158 person months of foreign consultancies and about 516 person
months of local consultancies.    No  physical  or price contingencies have
been applied to the line of credit to the Board; however, based on
preliminary project designs and cost estimates of about US$15.0 million
worth of investments potentially suitable for loan financing, physical
contingencies are estimated at 11.3Z, and price contingencies at 13.2Z
based on the following inflation rates:   4Z foreign, 7Z local for FY88-89,
thereafter at 6%. Contiligencies on other components to be financed by IDA,
e.g., the establishment, management and equipment costs of the Board are
negligible and have, therefore, not been shown separately in Table 3.1.
For EEHRC base costs are notional. Contingencies of 10% on the housing
reconstruction loans, and 202 on other components, except support for NGOs,
and grants for sanitation and stoves, have been included in Table 3.2.



-16-
B. Financing Plan
3.04     Municipal Development  Component.    US$10.5  million  of  the IDA
credit would finance 80% of total costs net of (a) taxes and duties, (b)
the GTZ grant to the Board, and (c) the UNDP-financed technical assistance
and training component. UNDP would provide about US$2.6 million; GTZ would
provide about US$1.7 million; the government contribution would be US$1.2
million, representing a 10% equity in the line of credit to the Board, and
taxes and duties, and the town panchayats would contribute an aggregate of
US$1.8 million. The portion of the credit earmarked for onlending by the
Board to town panchayats will be used to cover 80% of the investment costs
financed by the Board.   Town  panchayats  would be required to proide the
necessary land for their proposed investments, plus at least 10% cash
contribution from  their  own  resources.    The  Government  will bear the
foreign exchange risk. The credit would be made available to HMGN which
would pass on US$11.1 million equivalent to the Board under a subsidiary
loan agreement. The signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between HMGN
and the Board, satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness. The
Board would onlend the proceeds of the credit to eligible town panchayats.
The  following  onlending  terms   would   apply,  and  were  confirmed  at
negotiations:
Maximum
Maturity       Maximum
Interest         including       Grace
Rate          Grace Period    Period
Onlending from HMGN to the
Board                            3%           25 years        5 years
onlending from the Board to
town panchayats:
(a) Social Infrastructure       8%           18 years        3 years
Projects
(b) Revenue-Generating         12%           12 years        2 years
Projects
The relatively high interest rate spreads were designed to enable the Board
to maintain its capital base  and    ensure replicability, as is frequently
done in other similar municipal development funds elsewhere, and to be self
supporting. With a projected long term rate of inflation of under 7% p.a.
in Nepal, the average of the rates of interest for onlending to town
panchayats would be  positive  in  real  terms.    Assurances were given at
negotiations that the above rates wil'l be reviewed annually with IDA to
ensure they remain positive in real terms.
3.05     Earthquake Emergency  Housing  Reconstruction  Component.  US$31.0
million equivalent of the IDA credit would finance 91% of total costs net
of: (a) taxes and duties estimated at lS$0.5 million; and (b) the UNDP-



financed technical assistance and training component of US$2.5 million.
HMGN would onlend US$24.8 million of the proceeds of the credit to NBL, RBB
and ADB at 14Z p.a., over eight years with two years grace on principal.
The NBL, RBB and ADB would oniend to affected householders on the terms and
conditions indicated in paragraph  2.17.    The interest differential to be
paid by HMGN would be met, in part, from the 14% interest paid by the
banks, and from its budgetary resources.    About 3Z of the interest earned
by HMGN from the banks would be reserved for meeting possible defaults on
the housing reconstruction lopns.    As  a  condition of effectiveness HMGN
will  enter  into  financial  agreements  with  NBL,  RBB  and  ADB,  to be
satisfactory to IDA, for implementation of the project. The flow of funds
is indicated in the chart below.
3.06     Retroactive financing not exceeding US$6.2  million, or 20% of the
credit allocated to EEHRC, would be provided from November 1, 1988 for
meeting any eligible expenditures incurred under EEHRC.



NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY
HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
FLOW OF FUNDS (NRS MILLION)
IDA          GTZ        UNDP
1,013             4l            12         Earthquake Emergency Housing
Municipai D evelopment Component                                  4                     Reconsbuction Component
Kingdom  of Nepal
r_              21                                                        710                     <93 
.^349                               pm                                                      < Commercial                 M  HPP
BooDrd                     .                                                                                            Training
t1                                                                     Lo, fins        A       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~DetnonsWion
Loans
Buikkng Mateials
Production
Town                            Contradors                                                                             support
Panchayats          4              SGrsn
Grants for
Sanitation &
Affected                    Stoves
Households_
_                ~~~P"O
Loan RepaynmersM                                                                                                                               s
kstAv43529 r



-19-
IV. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Municipal Development Component
4.01     The Town Development Fund  Board.    The  Board, conceived as a pilot
operation, has been established to assist town panchayats finance priority
projects designed to (a) meet the basic social infrastructure needs of the
urban population b)y providing improved infrastructure and municipal services;
and (b) increase the resource base in town panchayats through the financing of
productive and revenue-generating projects.   The Board would directly support
HMGN's decet;tralization policy and its Basic Needs Programme. It would be
coordinated by KHPP.
4.02     Functions.  To achieve  the  above,  the  Board would grant long-term
loans to eligible town panchayats to finance projects which are within the
framework of approved district and sectoral plans, and guidelines established
by HMGN. The Board would also make available GTZ grant funds (para. 2.09) for
the provision of technical assistance to town panchayats to help them prepare
projects, and for small  demonstration  projects  for town panchayats which do
not yet qualify for  loan  funding.    For  social infrastructure and revenue-
generating projects, town panchayats would continue to depend heavily upon the
work currently undertaken by local consulting firms hired by them, and/or
with ministries in conjunction with MSUD and government agencies responsible
for project preparation, implementation, and subsequent operation. The Board
would independently perform a technical and financial appraisal of all
projects and would be responsible for assessing carefully the solvency of all
town panchayats applying for loans (para. 4.15).
4.03     Legal Framework.  HMGN has  established the Board through a Formation
Order under the Development Board Act 2013 as a corporate body with financial
and legal autonomy. HMGN and IDA perceive the Board as a pilot operation. If
it proves successful, the Board might eventually be re-established under a
separate act, and/or be transformed/absorbed into a larger "urban development
bank" which HMGN is contemplating.
4.04     Organization and Staffing.    The  Board  will  be administered by an
Executive Committee comprising 13 members drawn from HMGN ministries and
departments concerned with urban development and finance, representatives from
the National Planning Commission, the Central Bank (Nepal Rastra Bank), a
financial institution, five mayors (one from each of the five development
regions of Nepal), and an Executive Director. The Executive Committee's main
functions and duties are to: (a) formulate and implement the General Policy
Statement and Rules and Regulations of the Board, as approved by HMGN; (b)
approve specific development plans and programs submitted by town panchayats;
and (c) manage its own affairs by formulating annual and periodic programs,
mobilizing resources, appointing staff, and forming committees and sub-
committees as necessary for the execution of the funct'ons of the Board. The
Executive Director of the Board will be responsible for the day-to-day
operations. For a complete description of the composition of the Executive
Committee and the functions and duties of the Board see HMGN's Formation Order
(Annex 2).



-20-
4.05     The  Board's  organization  plan   is  based  on  several  overriding
principles:
(a) it should be a relatively small organization, securing technical
support services from other agencies and the private sector where
practicable: administrative overhead should be minimized;
(b)  it should grow smoothly as its volume of activity increases;
(c) its clients should have easy access to the fund staff: each
client should have a single contact within the Board from whom he
can get all information about loan application status; and
(d) there should be clear demarcation of staff responsibility and
accountability for staff performance.
4.06     To  meet  these  criteria,  the  Board  has  been  organized along
functional lines, initially in  three  main  sections:    a loan section, a
technical support section, and an administrative services section, each
headed by a senior  officer  (Annex  4).    The loan unit assumes principal
responsibility for managing all loan applications, including project
appraisal and supervision and assessing town panchayats' solvency. To
carry out its functions, loan/grant officers would draw support from the
technical services unit, which would provide assistance in reviewing the
engineering and financial  aspects  of  projects.    The technical services
section would provide this assistance from its own resources, and/or
through the use of local consultants. It would gradually develop a pool of
local  consultants,  building  up   a   base   of  ready  expertise.    The
administrative services unit would be responsible for administrative
procedures of the Board (personnel, payroll, etc.) and for monitoring loan
disbursements and repayments. It will maintain the board's accounts which
would be audited by independent auditors (para. 4.34).



-21-
4.07      The staffing of the Board and timing of staff recruitment would be
as follows:
Unit                  Position                      Appointment
Manager             - Executive Director        As a condition of effectiveness
Loan Unit           - Ist Loan/Grant Officer    As a condition of effectiveness
- 2nd Loan/Grant Officer    When activity increases
Tech. Services      - Engineer                  As a condition of effectiveness
Unit
- Finance Specialist        When activity increases
- Programmer Analyst        When activity Increases
- Assistant Engineer        When activity increases
Administrative      - Chief Accountant          As a condition of effectiveness
Services Unit     - Bookkeeper                 As a condition of effectiveness
- Admin. Assistant          As a condition of effectiveness
- Support Staff             As a condition of effectiveness
Secretary (2)             As a condition of effectiveness
Driver (2)                As a condition of effectiveness
Guard (2)                 As a condition of effectiveness
Maintenance personnel (1)   As a condition of effectiveness
4.08      During the first three years, the  Board would be supported by (a)
IDA which would finance its establishment and management costs (para.
2.07); and (b) a UNDP-financed project providing technical assistance and
training (para. 2.11).
4.09      Policies and Procedures.        HMGN  will,  as  a condition of credit
effectiveness (see para. 2.05), approve the General Policy Statement, Rules
and Regulations of the Board (Annex 3). This statement covers the general
goals of the Board, its management, and its loan, financial, and outreach
policies.
4.10      Project Eligibility Criteria have  been developed which define the
technical  restrictions,    standards,    general   and   specific  financial
conditions, and the documents to be provided by town panchayats with their
loan applications. They have been distributed to town panchayats to serve
as guidelines for project identification and preparation. At negotiations,
agreement was reached that HMGN/the Board will not alter the General Policy
Statement, the Rules and Regulations and Project Eligibility Criteria
without the prior agreement of IDA.
4.11      Operations and Finances.  The principles and procedures concerning
the Board's operations were discussed extensively between HMGN and IDA
during pre-appraisal and appraisal.    It  was  agreed that the Board should
become the main institution for long-term financing available for municipal



-22-
development projects to all eligible town panchayats. To enable the fund
to grow, become self-sustaining, and minimize pressure on the budget, it
should revolve, so that repayments from town panchayats would be reinvested
to expand the program. HMGN has directed that the Board shall endeavor to
maintain at least a positive spread of two percentage points between the
return on its outstanding loan portfolio and the net cost of its resources
plus operating costs.    To  do  so,  the  Board  would  require an initial
injection of funds from  HMGN.    As  a  condition of credit effectiveness,
HMGN will make an initial cash contribution to the Board of at least NRs
5.0 million. Agreement was reached at negotiations also that HMGN will
provide annually, and in a timely manner, counterpart funding to be agreed
with IDA for the Board's capital account.
4.12     Agreement was reached at  negotiations  that HMGN, when paying its
initial contribution to the Board, will cause the Board to open a separate
Capital  Account  in  the  Board's  name   at  the  NRE,  into  which  this
contribution of HMGN would be paid.
4.13     Annex 5 indicates the funds flow  for the Board based on projected
activity under the project, as well as its proforma financial statements
(balance sheet, income statement, and sources and uses of funds).
4.14     Identification  and   Preparation.         Under   the  decentralized
procedures the identification of investments is the responsibility of town
panchayats; they would be responsible, also, for the preparation of
feasibility studies and surveys for all investments. Town panchayats would
be able to retain, through the grant or loan portion of the Board, and/or
their own resources, local consultants for the more complicated feasibility
studies for this work.
4.15     Appraisal.   The  Board  would  appraise  the technical, economic,
financial, environmental, and social justification of all projects. Cost
effectiveness and appropriate cost recovery will be the main criteria for
social  infrastructure  projects:    financial  profitability  for revenue-
generating projects.    In  appraising  projects,  the  Board  would  use a
standard "Appraisal Form," agreed with IDA, which includes a review of the
finances of the town panchayat, a detailed project description and costilng,
information about project implementation, and an economic and financial
justification. For revenue-generating projects, the Board would review the
estimated income and projected cash flow, and a calculation of the internal
financial rate of return.
4.16     Investment  Projects.    Projects  worth  about  US$15.0  million,
including  contingencies,  have   been   identified   and   brought  up  to
preliminary, and in some cases, detailed engineering design stage for the
town  panchayats.    Ten  town  panchayats  presently  meet  the  financial
eligibility criteria to qualify for loans from the Board. The eligible
town panchayats  are:    Biratnagar,  Birgunj,  Butwal,  Hetauda, Janakpur,
Kathmandu,  Lalitpur,  Nepal-  gunj,  Pokhara  and  Siddharthanagar.    The
approximate ratio of social infrastructure to revenue-generating projects
is 85:15, with implementation projected over six years. As and when other
town panchayats improve their financial performance and become eligible to
participate in the loan facility of the Board, they may also apply for
loans. This could take place, at the earliest, from the third year of the
project, based on financial data available from MSTP.



-23-
4.17     The  Board  would  pay   particular  attention  to  appraising  an
applicant's financial  situation.    This  appraisal  would  be  based on a
solvency test, which ensures first, that the town panchayat's accounts
balance. Projections of revenues available for non-recurrent expenditures
are then calculated and compared to the sum of the debt burden on
outstanding loans, if any, plus planned capital expenditures from its own
(non-loan) resources. The result is an estimate of the town panchayat's
capacity to  secure  new  debt.    However,  only  752  of such uncommitted
revenues would be  earmarked  for  down  payments  and  debt service of new
loans. This test would help ensure that town panchayats do not incur debt
incompatible with their resources, and would also allow the Board to advise
them on improving their financial management. Annex 6 provides examples of
solvency tests for two town panchayats:   Birgunj, the best performing town
panchayat to date; and Nepalgunj, an average performer.
4.18     Loan Approval.    Before  projects  are  submitted  to the Board's
Executive Committee, they would be reviewed by the Loan Committee,
consisting of the Director, the Loan/Grant Officer, and the Hlead of the
Technical Services Unit.   If  warranted,  loan  applications would be sent
back to the town panchayats for further analysis, or refused at this stage.
Once cleared by the Loan Committee, all loans would be presented for
approval to the Executive Committee.
4.19     Review of Subprojects.  The free limit for sub-project submissions
would be US$150,000 equivalent, above which the Board would submit, for IDA
review, appraisals which it recommends for loan financing, prior to a loan
being granted.   Since,  however,  the  Board  has  not yet established its
appraisal capacity, and its operational procedures and policies are as yet
untested, assurances were obtained at negotiations that the Board will
submit, for IDA review, the first six subproject appraisals recommended for
loan financing. Based on the projected subproject pipeline (para. 4.16),
it is anticipated that, over the next five years, the Board would process
about 30 subprojects with an average size of US$275,000. IDA would expect
to review about 15 appraisals, or 60% of the projected total.
4.20     Supervision.  Construction  supervision  of  all projects would be
entrusted mainly to the appropriate technical agencies and ministries and
their representatives at  the  local  level.   However, because supervision
capacity is still rather limited at the local level, the Board would
require that town panchayats make special arrangements, including hiring
local consultants, to  ensure  proper  supervision.    The Board would also
provide minimum control, including reviewing final designs before tender,
presence at bid opening, and inspection of works during site visits. The
Board might employ consultants to carry out these tasks. The Board would
also be present at the final acceptance inspection.
4.21     Follow-Up and Monitoring.   The  MSUD  would, inter alia, continue
the functions performed by the MSTP (para. 2.12), namely to monitor the
financial performance of all town panchayats against agreed targets to be
discussed at the beginning of each fiscal year. Monitoring and follow-up
of each town panchayat's financial situation would be carried out on a six-
month basis.    In  addition,  MSUD  would  help  town  panchayats with the
management of their revenue-generating projects after completion to ensure
that project outputs are priced so as to generate adequate returns. Town



-24-
panchayats would also prepare a project completion report for each such
project not earlier than two years after final acceptance of civil works,
or such other  period  as  may  be  appropriate.    These  reports would be
submitted to the Board's Executive Committee.
4.22     Board  Loan  Disbursements.    On   receipt  of  bills  for  works
performed, invoices for equipment and materials, and fee statements for
technical assistance, town panchayats would submit them to the Board for
payment. The Board would arrange to pay the contractors, suppliers and
consultants from its Capital Account and IDA's Special Account (para.
4.32), charging the loan account of the relevant town panchayat. These
procedures are satisfactory to IDA.
B. Earthquake Emergency Housing Reconstruction Component
4.23     Ministry  of  Housing  and  Physical  Planning  has  been assigned
overall  responsibility  for  coordinating  HMGN's  reconstruction  efforts
following the August 1988 earthquake. Through a unit established under the
EAARRP, it would implement all components of the project except: (a)
disaster management; (b) epicentral and seismic mapping; and (c) house
reconstruction loans.    Disaster  management,  and  epicentral and seismic
mapping would be implemented by the Ministry of Home, and the Department of
Mines and Geology, respectively (para. 2.23), coordinated by MHPP, while
house reconstruction loans would be implemented by the NBL, RBB and ADB
(2.17). The managerial and financial performance of these banks is being
improved under the Second Cottage and Small Industries Project (CSI II-
Credit 1696-NEP), and to be addressed further under the proposed FY90
projects -- SAL II and Industrial Finance.   In line with the conditions of
CSI II, appropriate action would be taken to monitor the appraisal and
collection performance of these banks and their branches lending for
housing reconstruction loans.
4.24     Organization and Staffing.   Under  the EAARRP, the Government has
already contracted 28 engineers and 272 overseers (technical officers) to
implement the housing reconstruction program in the affected districts.
These personnel have been given an initial crash program of training in
elementary earthquake resistant techniques.         This  would be followed by
skills upgrading in the field on a rolling basis to be provided by experts
retained by MHPP.   The  contract  staff  are: (a) responsible for advising
affected households how to incorporate elementary earthquake resistant
features when rebuilding their homes (in District Headquarters and urban
areas, the incorporation of such features would be mandatory); and (b)
training 1,200 rural workers to promote low cost sanitation and smokeless
stoves.
4.25     Policies and  Procedures.    A  committee  in  each  Ilaka (a sub-
district of which there are nine in each district) comprising the mayor
(Pradan Pancha), a representative of the Chief District Officer and the
overseer, screen prospective households, refer eligible affected households
to the banks for loans, administer building materials, monitor construction
and assist the banks in securing repayment of loans. HMGN and the banks
have agreed that land and improvements are to be used as collateral for
lending by banks. All landowners, except some in the Hilly regions, have
been issued with Land Entitlement Certificates, according to HMGN. Some



-25-
people in Hilly regions have only the Land Revenue Tax Payment Slip to
prove ownership. The banks would, however, apply appropriate criteria to
assess affordability of beneficiaries.   Given the nature of the emergency,
it is also likely that loans would not necessarily be consistent with the
collateral provided or the ability of the beneficiary to service the loan.
The risk of default cannot, therefore, be minimized. HMGN would create a
reserve to cover possible default on the loans made (para. 3.05).
4.26     House Reconstruction Loans Review.  There would be no prior review
by IDA of house reconstruction loans as the maximum size of loan is small
(NRs 50,000 or US$2,050 equivalent) although supervision missions would
have access to loan records on a spot check basis. Of the 66,000 affected
households, about 2,340 households (4Z), would be eligible for the maximum
loan amount.   Other  loan  limits  are  US$820  equivalent (1Z) and US$410
equivalent (95Z) for District Headquarters and rural areas, respectively.
4.27     The UNDP-financed  technical  assistance  and  training activities
(para. 2.23) would assist MHPP address the longer term issues of mitigating
the effects of earthquake and other natural disasters, developing a housing
strategy, and arresting the adverse environmental impact of the excessive
use of timber in cooking and building materials production and manufacture.
C. Procurement
4.28     Procurement of goods and works  would  be in accordance with World
Bank Guidelines. Under the MDC, automotive equipment and machinery, e.g.,
tipper trucks, etc., for solid waste collection and disposal, would be
procured through international shopping, whereby town panchayats, to ensure
competitive prices, would be required to obtain at least three quotations
from either the local agents of foreign suppliers, or the foreign suppliers
themselves. To the extent that town panchayats intend to procure like
pieces of machinery or equipment more or less at the same time, they could
use the services of the Board to procure in bulk to achieve lower unit
costs and improved after-sales  services.    Contracts  for goods and works
estimated  to  cost  more  than  US$200,000  would  be  procured  following
international  competitive  bidding   procedures.         Other  equipment  and
materials would be procured on the basis of local competitive bidding (LCB)
procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. In view of the relativel, small
size  and  scattered   nature   of   proposed  civil  works,  international
contractors are not likely to be interested in bidding, although they would
not be precluded from  doing  so.    Civil  works  to be financed under the
project costing US$200,000 and under would therefore be procured by town
panchayats under LCB procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA.
4.29     For EEHRC, procurement  procedures  would  expedite, to the extent
possible, a speedy response to meet the emergency. MHPP would procure the
required training supplies, equipment for building materials production,
office supplies, vehicles (cars, pickups and trucks of 3T capacity) and
furniture, through prudent shopping by obtaining quotations from at least
three suppliers. No procurement procedures would apply against the loans
made by NBL, RBB and ADB; householders are expected to use the proceeds of
their loans judiciously, and would be subject to spot checks by MHPP staff.



-26-
Demonstration housing units would be procured following HMGN's local
procurement procedures. The longer term technical assistance needs would
be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants.
4.30     All bidding packages for civil  works estimated to cost US$200,000
or more, and all bidding packages for equipment and materials estimated to
cost US$50,000 or more, would be subject to IDA's prior review. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that the above limits will be adhered to.
D. Implementation and Disbursements
4.31     The Municipal Development  Component  would  be implemented within
seven years, based on the regional profile for urban development projects.
The final date for submission of subprojects to IDA for Board financing
will be December 31, 1994. The Earthquake Emergency Housing Reconstruction
Component is expected  to  take  three  years  to  complete.   However, the
housing loans (which will account for about 80Z of the component) are
expected to be disbursed within one year due to the simplified loan
administration procedures adopted.   The  proceeds  of  the credit would be
disbursed against  eligible  expenditures  as  follows:    100%  of foreign
expenditures on directly imported equipment and materials, or 100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory cost) of equipment and materials procured by
international shopping, or 702 on other locally procured equipment and
materials; 90% of expenditures for civil works for demonstration housing
and 80X of expenditures for other civil works; 85% of loans disbursed to
affected householders; and 100% of expenditures on: (a) the establishment
and management of the Board for the first three years of its operations;
(b) training for reconstruction; (c) support for NGOs; (d) grants for
sanitation  and  stoves;   and   (e)   EEHRC   project  management.    Full
documentation would be required by IDA to support withdrawal applications
for expenditures against civil works contracts above US$200,000, equipment
and  materials  contracts  above  US$50,000.         Certified  statements  of
expenditure (SOEs) would be used for all civil works contracts less than
US$200,000, equipment and materials contracts less than US$50,000, and all
expenditures relating to the establishment and management costs of the
Board, training for reconstruction, house reconstruction loans, support for
NGOs, grants for sanitation and stoves and EEHRC project management costs.
The accounts and documentation in support of SOEs would be retained by the
Board and MHPP and made available to IDA supervision missions on request.
This documentation will be subject to audit (para. 4.34). To the extent
possible, all withdrawal applications should be consolidated into amounts
totalling US$50,000 or more prior to submission to IDA. Disbursement of
the credit would extend one year longer than implementation i.e. eight
years for MDC,  and  four  years  for  EEHRC.    The estimated disbursement
schedule is given in Annex 7. The closing date will be June 30, 1996.
4.32     Special Accounts.  A  Special  Account with two sub-accounts would
be established at NRB. One sub-account of US$500,000 would be established
for MDC.   This  amount  corresponds  to  about four months' disbursements.
HMGN would authorize the Board to draw on this account to facilitate
payment of eligible expenditures.    For  EEHRC,  a separate sub-account of



-27-
US$8.5 million, equivalent to about four months disbursements of house
reconstruction loans, would be established to facilitate payment of
eligible expenditures.   The  Special  Account  would  be  subject to audit
(para. 4.34).
E. Accounts and Audit.
4.33     Accounts.  The Board  would  maintain  its  accounts on an accrual
basis (commercial accounting) which would record loans and grants received
from HMGN,  and  loans  and  grants  made  to  town  p-nchayats.   The town
panchayats  would  record   their   transactions   following  the  standard
government accounting system and practices.    MHPP, NBL, RBB and ADB would
maintain separate project accounts for EEHRC.
4.34     Audit.  For MDC, IDA  would  require  the operations of the Board,
the accounts sopporting SOEs, and activity in the Special Account, to be
audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Agreement was
reached at negotiations that HMGN would take steps to have a competent
commercial auditing firm audit the accounts and financial statements of the
Board including (a) the accounts and documentation supporting SOEs (para.
4.31); and (b) the Special  Account  (para.  4.32).   A copy of each annual
audit report together with certified copies of the financial statements of
the Board woula be required to be submitted to IDA within 12 months of the
close of each fiscal year.    However,  pending  receipt of the final audit
report, IDA would require an unofficial copy of the audit report, an
unaudited copy of the annual financial statements, and a copy of the
auditor's management letter to the Board advising of any deficiencies or
weaknesses in the accounting and management information systems and
internal controls, and recommendations for improvements, within six months
of the end of each fiscal year.   The project accounts of MHPP under EEHRC,
loans made by NBL, RBB and ADB, the Special Account, and the accounts and
records supporting SOEs, would also be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. For EEHRC, a copy of each annual audit report would be
required to be submitted to IDA within 12 months of the close of each
fiscal year. However, pending receipt of the final audit report, IDA would
require an unofficial copy of the audit report within six months of the end
of each fiscal year.    Assurances  were  given  at negotiations that these
audit practices would be followed.
F. Monitoring and Supervision
4.35     Monitoring.  IDA  would  monitor  the  progress  of  MDC and EEHRC
through quarterly  reports  prepared  by  the  Board  and  MHPP, and during
supervision missions (para. 4.36).   In  addition, the Board and MHPP would
prepare progress reports for UNDP purposes. Progress reports would, inter
alia, include updating of the pipeline of projects for the Board, status of
implementation of projects and disbursements, loan activity under EEHRC,
and  implementation  of   technical   assistance  activities  and  training
programs. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the Board and
MHPP will send their reports to IDA not later than two months after the end
of each fiscal quarter. The Board and MHPP would also be responsible for
preparing draft Project Completion Reports, the formats of which would be
discussed with IDA.



-28-
4.36     Supervision.    Overall,  the   project  will  require  about  170
staffweeks of supervision over the life of the project. Because of the
technical assistance and training to be provided to the Board, MPLD, MHPP
and the town panchayats, the MDC will require no more than the average
supervision effort for urban development projects over the estimated seven-
year implementation period, notwithstanding its pilot nature. The regional
average for urban project supervision is about 15 staff weeks. Supervision
staff  will  include  a  financial   analyst  and/or  a  municipal  finance
specialist, and a municipal  engineer/planner.   Supervision of EEHRC would
require about 12 staff weeks per year.
V. BENEFITS AND RISKS
5.01     Municipal Development Component.   The  major  benefit will be the
gradual development of an institutional and financial capability to assist
town   panchayats   in   financing   and   implementing   priority   social
infrastructure and revenue-generating projects through the setting up of
the Town Development Fund  Board.    Although  the  Board will lend to town
panchayats, the ultimate beneficiaries will be the residents of those
communities whose projects would be financed by the Board. Projects will
directly improve their standard of living and environmental conditions
through better public facilities and provision of basic infrastructure.
The component will also support and develop local consultants' capability
in urban development.    Town  panchayats  and  the  central ministries are
likely to make increasing use of local consultants, especially after the
termination of MSUD.
5.02     The   MDC   will   also   contribute   further   to  strengthening
administrative and financial management at  the  local level.  In line with
HMGN's decentralization policy, the MDC places emphasis on investment
planning and implementation at the local level. The appraisal of each town
panchayat's financial situation through the systematic application of a
solvency test (para. 4.17) will contribute to more rational and realistic
investment planning, and will foster better management of resources by
helping town panchayats to generate increased revenues and invest them more
efficiently. While this will be a long-term process, it will contribute to
the improvement of resource mobilization at the local level and the
strengthening of institution-building of town panchayats.
5.03     Because the timing of subprojects  in the pipeline is not precise,
it would be difficult to calculate a meaningful economic rate of return
(ERR) on subprojects, or on the project as a whole. Experience with
similar municipal projects elsewhere in the Region, however, indicates that
ERRs of about 242 can be estimated for road improvements, based on reduced
vehicle and road maintenance costs, and time savings, and 18% for drainage
improvements based on reduced maintenance costs and flood loss. Financial
rates of return will be calculated for all revenue-generating subprojects,
and the Board's eligibility criteria require that the town panchayats
should recover  at  least  the  capital  and  operating  costs.   For other
subprojects for which benefits cannot be easily quantified, and the
economic rate of return cannot be properly calculated, the Board would
insist on least cost solutions and maximum cost recovery from immediate
beneficiaries, where feasible, to ensure that subprojects are justified.



-29-
5.04     There are two major risks associated with the MDC.  The first risk
relates to sustained HMGN political commitment to pursuing the performance-
oriented strategy implicit in  the  project.    If  this lags, adherence to
fiscal and administrative discipline could be jeopardized by ad-hoc
decisions imposed from above. This risk will be minimized by establishing
a  strict  and  continuous   linkage   between  the  financing  of  capital
investments and demonstrated evidence by town panchayats of adherence to
prescribed performance criteria through application of the solvency test
and continuous monitoring of the town panchayats' financial situation.
Also, the careful establishment, in each subsector, of eligibility and
appraisal criteria  -nd  guidelines  for  project  financing, together with
supervision by IDA,  would  provide  additional  safeguards  to achieve MDC
objectives.
5.05     The second risk pertains to  the inherent complexity of setting up
and developing the Board in the light of the pervasive difficulty of
recruiting and retaining qualified staff  in  Nepal.   To address this, the
MDC would finance the first three years of operations of the Board.
Additionally, the Board would have to be strengthened to enable it to
appraise town  panchayats'  projects  adequately.    This  will be achieved
through technical assistance and staff training, implementation of the
policy statement, rules and regulations and appraisal and follow-up
techniques. As these institutional improvements are put in place, the
Board will gradually play a greater role in providing financial assistance
to  town  panchayats,  and   could   evolve   into  an  effective  national
organization capable of reaching a greater number of communities throughout
the country.
5.06     The Earthquake  Emergency  Housing  Reconstruction  Component will
help affected householders  to  reconstruct/rehabilitate  their homes.  The
loan component, amounting to about 80% of component costs, is expected to
benefit directly about 460,000 persons, of whom about 370,000 or 802 are
classified as poor. The remaining components will confer also, indirectly,
some benefits to the poor. The EEHRC will also help HMGN addresses longer
term  shelter  sector   and   disaster-relatpd   issues  through  technical
assistance and training in: (a)   disaster management; (b) preparation of a
national building code; (c) epicentral and seismic mapping; (d) new
building products development; and (e) alternatives to timber in buildings,
building  products   manufacture   and   domestic   use   towards  reducing
deforestation, thus  improving  the  environment.    The economic benefits,
although not calculated, are likely to be substantial.
5.07     The main risk is the potential  for default on repayment of loans,
especially to poor rural households, which cannot be minimized. HMGN would
set up a reserve to cover possible defaults on these loans.
VI. ASSURANCES, AGREEMENTS, AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01     The  following  agreements   and   assurances   were  received  at
negotiatiens:
(a)  UNDP-funded Technical Assistance:   Confirmation  by HMGN that its



-30-
obligations to carry out the project will not be limited,
restricted, or waived by the fact that the World Bank will be the
Executing Agency (paras. 2.12 and 2.23);
(b) Technical Assistance to Town Panchayats: HMGN to ensure that line
ministries will continue to provide technial assistance to the
town panchayats after termination of the UNDP-funded technical
assistance (para. 2.14);
(c) Interest Rates: HMGN, IDA and the Board to review annually the
onlending rates of the Board to ensure they remain positive in
real terms (para. 3.04);
(d)  General Policy Statement and Regulations:   HMGN/ the Board not to
alter the General Policy Statement, Rules and Regulations and
Project Eligibility Criteria without the prior agreement of IDA
(para. 4.10);
(e) Counterpart Funding: HMGN, the Board and IDA to agree annually on
HMGN's contribution to the Board (para. 4.11);
(f)  Capital Account:   HMGN  to  cause  the  Board  to  open a Capital
Account at NRB (para. 4.12);
(g) Review of Subprojects: The Board to forward, for IDA review, the
first six subproject appraisals it recommends for loan financing,
thereafter all subproject appraisals over US$150,000 equivalent
which it recommends for financing, prior to a loan being granted
(para. 4.19);
(h)  Procurement:  All bidding  packages  for  civil works estimated to
cost US$200,000 or more, and all bidding packages for equipment
and mater'als costing US$50,000 or more, to be subject to prior
review by IDA (para. 4.30);
(i) Audits: The Board to have its accounts and financial statements
audited each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA. HMGN to approach the Auditor General to appoint a competent
commercial auditing firm to perform the task, including audit of
SOEs and the  Special  Account.    The  project accounts of EEHRC,
loans made to affected householders by NBL, RBB and ADB, the
Special Account and the accounts and records supporting SOEs would
be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA. The audit
reports are to be submitted to IDA within 12 months of the end of
each fiscal year, with an unofficial copy of the audit within six
months of the end of each fiscal year (para. 4.34); and
(J)  Progress  Reports:    The  Board  and  MHPP  to  forward quarterly
progress reports to  IDA  within  two  months  of  the end of each
fiscal quarter (para. 4.35).
6.02     The following will be conditions of credit effectiveness:



-31-
(a)  General Policy Statement and  Rules  and Regulations:  Approval of
the Board's General Policy Statement  and Rules and Regulations by
HMGN (para. 2.05(a));
(b)  Appointment  of  an  Executive  Director:    H14GN  to  appoint  an
Executive  Director  of   the   Board,  whose  qualifications  and
experience are to be satisfactory to IDA (para. 2.05(b));
(c)  Board Staff:  HMGN to  appoint  a  cadre of qualified staff of the
Board (para. 2.05(c));
(d)  GTZ Agreement:  Effectiveness of the GTZ Agreement (para. 2.09);
(e)  Technical Assistance and Training  under  MDC: (i) Signing of UNDP
Project Documents; and (ii) retention of the relative consultants
(para. 2.13);
(f)  Technical Assistance and Training  under  EEHRC:   Signing of UNDP
Project Documents (para. 2.23);
(g)  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement:    Execution  of  a  subsidiary  loan
agreement between HMGN and the Board (para. 3.04);
(h)  Financial Agreements:   HMGN  to  enter  into financial agreements
with NBL, RBB and ADB for onlending IDA proceeds for the housing
loan program (para. 3.05);
(i)  Equity Contribution:  HMGN to  make  an equity contribution to the
Board of not less than NRs 5 million (para. 4.11);
6.03     On the basis of the  above  conditions and agreements, the project
is suitable for an IDA credit of US$41.5 million equivalent to the Kingdom
of Nepal, at standard terms with 40 years' maturity.



-32-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 9
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Municipal Financial System in Nepal
THE CONTEXT
1.       Effective local  resource  mobilization  in  the  majority of town
panchayats in Nepal has been constrained by:
(a) the inabiiity of town panchayats to exercise all their legal
authorities for mobilizing local resources; and
(b) the inadequate provisions for, and clarification of, the revenue
raising authority of town panchayats in the existing legislation.
THE PRESENT SYSTEM
2.       The financial situation of  town  panchayats in Nepal is generally
poor. There is tremendous variation among the towns in the raising of
local revenues, due both to differences in local economic bases and to
differences in local  tax  efforts.    Furthermore,  the central government
grants to the towns are, on average, quite small when compared with most
cities  throughout  the  world.    Town  panchayats  exert  low  levels  of
enforcement of their current taxes with the result that the level of
compliance with local taxes is extremely low.
3.       Tax rates are controlled  by  the central government, although the
towns do have some discretion in selecting rates within prescribed ranges
for some types of taxes.  The central government has not revised these rate
schedules for periods ranging up to 20 years, depending on the tax.
Consequently, some taxes are capable of only low yields at current rates.
4.       There is some degree  of  confusion  about the taxing authority of
the town panchayats due to lack of precision in the existing legislation.
Furthermore, the fact that the revenue-raising authority of the town
panchayats is treated in several separate pieces of legislation has added
some inconsistencies to the body of law. In addition, some town panchayats
have used the ambiguity in the existing legislation to impose taxes that
are clearly not intended to be  locally  raised.   The fact that rates have
not been revised for up to 20 years has left some taxes with such low
yields that they now cost more to administer than can be collected. This
means that some mechanism needs to be set up to ensure that tax rates are
reviewed periodically and revised accordingly.



-33-
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 9
5.       While town panchayats raise  a  large percentage of their revenues
from own sources (about 80% in 1987/88), the revenues that are mobilized
locally are predominately in the form of indirect taxes, primarily the
trade tax which is usually collected as 'octroi".
6.       Even though indirect taxes are  less  obvious to the taxpayer, and
tnerefore, are politically more palatable, the overall level of revenue
effort is quite low.    The  almost  exclusive  reliance on indirect taxes,
namely, the trade tax, has left most towns with little revenue from direct
taxes (such as property taxes) or benefit-based taxes and fees (such as
charges to landowners for street  paving).   The reliance on indirect taxes
has several adverse consequences:
(a) It creates great inequalities in revenues among towns, causing the
poorer towns to seek increasing amounts of assistance from the
central government to make up the difference (which the central
government cannot afford);
(b)  The use  of  an  indirect  ttix  "hides"  the  tax  burden from the
citizens and  obscures  the  accountability  that  local officials
should have toward their taxpayers; and
(c) Services financed by indirect taxes are often seen to be "free" by
citizens who may waste or abuse them.
Trade Tax
7.       The authority to  levy  the  trade  tax  is  included  in the Town
Panchayat Act (1962) which  specifies  that  the town panchayat can collect
the tax from businessmen of the area selling goods and commodities within
the town area. The tax rate is set at NRs 0.50 per NRs 100.00 worth of
goods. In addition to the basic trade tax charge, some towns have added
surcharges to the basic rate, ostensibly to cover the provision of town
services such as street lighting, school construction and fire brigades.
The imposition of the surcharge is justified under the Act that allows town
panchayats to collect fees for town services directly from beneficiaries.
Clearly, the use of a surcharge on trade tax is a misapplication of the
authority to levy direct fees for services.
8.       Besides  the  problems   of   improper  administration  practices,
inconsistent application in different towns, and tendency to add illegal
surcharges, the trade tax  is  coming  under  increasing criticism from the
private business sector.    In  the  long  run,  such criticism will likely
translate into political pressure to revoke the trade tax altogether as has
happened in other countries  in  the  region.    As  trade tax is the major
revenue source for almost all the town panchayats, it is obviously not
feasible to abandon it immediately.    In  order  to shift from reliance on
indirect  taxes,  town  panchayats  will   need  to  strengthen  first  the
performance of the direct taxes, most importantly the property-based taxes,
business taxes and vehicle taxes.



-34-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 9
Property-Based Taxes
9.       At  present,  there  are  four  separate  taxes  on  property, two
collected by the town panchayats, and two by the central government:
(a) Roof top tax to be collected on every housing unit (town panchayat
tax);
(b) House rent tax to be collected as a percentage on rental receipts
(town panchayat tax);
(c)  Land tax (central government tax); and
(d)  Urban house and compound tax (ceptral government tax).
10.      Having four different  taxes  on  the  same  tax  base not only is
inefficient and increases administrative costs, but also does not encourage
either the central government or the towns to seriously pursue collection
as the rates for each of the four taxes are generally low. The current
situation in Nepal is quite different from that found in most other
countries where the local property tax is usually one of major sources of
town government revenue. Although property taxes have several flaws that
have drawn criticism, they remain the local revenue source of preference
for many reasons:
(a) real property is easy to identify and measure;
(b)  the value  of  property  is  generally  associated  with  level of
income, so  property  tax  is  usually  considered  equitable from
ability to pay standpoint; and
(c) local public investments (such as roads) usually are reflected in
property values. This allows town governments to recover some of
these investments from the property owners who benefit from the
value created.
11.      For the above reasons,  HMGN  is considering reforming the current
property tax system and transferring it to the town panchayats. Thus, a
revised property tax system could become the centerpiece of the town
panchayats' efforts to greatly increase direct tax yields.
Professional Business Tax
12.      Currently, yield from this  revenue  source  is  low among all the
town  panchayats  mainly   because   this   tax   is   levied  on  business
estalblishments as a license fee which is a flat levy depending on the type
of business. Although this business license fee is not progressive, it
represents a starting point in the taxation of local businesses. Over
time, the central government is considering making the local business taxes



-35-
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 9
evolve into a tax on business volume which will be a more buoyant tax
source. However, in the meantime, the HMGN is considering increasing the
yield of local business license fees significantly by building some
differentiation based on the size of the business.
Vehicle and Transportation Taxes
13.      Vehicle taxes are  considered  "good"  taxes  from both equity and
yield standpoint as vehicles use up local roads and parking areas,
requiring increased local expenditures.   Vehicle owners are also more able
to pay than those who do not own vehicles. Nevertheless, current vehicle
tax yields in the town panchayats are low, and also, there is room for
improvement in the collection efficiency.
Benefit-Based Levies
14.      As already noted, town panchayats  raise little or no revenue from
benefit-based levies - charges levied directly on the beneficiaries of town
services. Only a few towns have instituted cost sharing with beneficiaries
for meeting the construction costs of projects (e.g., road extension,
street paving and drainage ditches) or operating costs of services (e.g.,
connection to  the  central  drainage  system).    The  occurre! e  of such
programs in Nepalese towns, although presently only in a handful of towns,
indicates that the principle is workable and can be used much more
extensively.
Collection Efficiency
15.      One of the major  obstacles  to increasing collections from direct
taxes and benefit levies is the lack of penalties for nonpayment. This
problem has both legal  and  social  aspects.    Legally, towns have little
enforcement power, relying on the central government officials (the Chief
District Officer) to collect  any  arrears.    Town panchayat officials are
often reluctant to  press  for  payment  of  local  taxes.   Thus local tax
payment is mainly a voluntary exercise with little pressure to comply.
PROPOSED CHANGES
16.      The Tonm Panchayat Act, the  legislation that governs, inter alia,
the taxing authorities of town panchayats, has recently been amended
following recommendations made by a team studying the structure of town
panchayat finance. In making its recommendations the team was guided by
the following principles:
(a) revenue instruments should interfere as little as possible with
economic choices and should not retard private sector initiatives;
(b) the burden of revenues should be as equitable as possible: the
differential abilities of different groups to pay should be
recognized and, to the extent feasible, those deriving greater
benefits from public services should pay more;



-36-
ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 9
(c) revenue instruments chosen should provide an adequate level of
funding and should be structured to yield increasing revenues in
response to local increases in population, prices and incomes; and
(d) the revenue instruments should be capable of being administered at
relatively low cost.
17.      The proposed amendments were  presented  to the Rastriya Panchayat
(the National Assembly) by the Minister of Panchayat and Local Development
in August, 1987 after which the Rastriya Panchayat endorsed the proposed
amendments. Following the endorsement, His Majesty the King approved the
proposed amendments  on  October  8,  1987.    The  revised  legislation is
intended to promote increased local self-reliance to finance local public
services by (a) increasing local tax yields and reducing administrative
costs; (b) shifting from reliance on indirect taxes to greater reliance on
direct taxes; (c) introducing benefit-based levies for town panchayats for
recovering both capital and operating costs of services that benefit
individual households; and (d) strengthening penalties for tax avoidance.
18.      The Town Panchayat Rules, which will elaborate on, or specify, the
provisions in the Act (e.g. tax and fee rates) are presently being drafted.
19.      The approved amendments to  the  Town Panchayat Act are summarized
below:
A. Trade Tax
20.      The revised legislation has  authorized town panchayats to collect
trade tax (octroi) at the rate of Rs 1 per Rs 100 worth of goods. However,
this revised rate will be valid only until FY1992/93 after which the
existing rate of Rs 0.50 per Rs 100 valuation will be resumed. The Act
also explicitly prohibits imposition of any other tax, fees, surcharges,
etc., other than the specified rate of octroi on the goods brought into the
town area.  Thus, increasing the rate  of octroi for the next few years has
been considered as a compensation for the loss of such surcharge revenues.
The reversion to existing octroi rates after the specified period points to
a gradual phasing out of "octroi."
21.      In addition  to  these  major  amendments,  there  have been other
revisions in the context of trade tax imposition that facilitate efficient
collection by the towns, enforce proper administration of the tax, and
clarify confusion and ambiguity in the various aspects of the tax,
including valuation of the tax base.
B. Property-Based Tax
22.      The revised Act authorizes town panchayats to collect roof top tax
on each house located in the town area on the basis of the design, type,
and location of the house.   The  tax  rates  will be specified in the Town



-37-
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 9
Panchayat Rules - to be  drafted  in  the  near  future.   The Act has also
increased the House Rent Tax from 22 to 5% of the rent amount received by
landlords. The above are considered short-term measures.
23.      In  the  long  term,  the  Act  envisages  combining  the  various
property-based taxes and for there is a provision stating that the central
government can delegate authority to the town panchayats to collect house
and land tax in their respective areas according to the House and Land Tax
Act 2019. However, if the town panchayats obtain authority to collect
House and Land Tax, they cannot impose and collect roof top tax.
C. Professional Tax
24.      The proposal of gradually phasing  out the trade tax and replacing
it by local business taxes that are based on business revenues is reflected
in the provision of the revised Act which authorizes town panchayats to
'mpose and collect Business and  Professional  Tax  on the basis of capital
investment and  financial  transactions.         However,  the  rates  will be
specified in the Town Panchayat Rules.    In addition to this revision, the
Act tequires town panchiayats to keep proper records of all the taxes, fees,
charges, etc., collected.
D. Vehicle and Transportation Tax
25.      The   revised   Act    now    provides    for   two   classes   of
vehicle/transportation tax - vehicle tax (registration fee for vehicles
registered in the town area), and transportation tax (entry fee for non-
registered vehicles), and has empowered towns to impose both taxes. The
rates will be specified in the Town Panchayat Rules.   In addition to these
levies, towns panchayats have also been authorized to collect parking
charges on all vehicles parked in the parking lots managed by the town
panchayats.
E. Betterment Taxes
26.      In line with  the  recommendations  regarding  betterment taxes or
cost-sharing schemes, the revised Act has obligated the town panchayats to
provide necessary advice and bear 50X (minimum) of capital construction
projects like streets, footpaths, drainage, etc., if two-thirds of the
residents of certain wards or toles request the town panchayat for such
projects. Concomitantly, the town panchayats have been empowered to raise
the remaining 50% of such investments from the beneficiaries of such
projects, in cash or  voluntary  labor.    Furthermore, the town panchayats
have been authorized to impose a surcharge not exceeding 50% of the roof
top tax from residents benefiting from capital construction projects
undertaken by the town panchayat.
F. Direct Charges for Services
27.      Town panchayats have been empowered  by the revised Act to collect
fees from persons using capital facilities operated/constructed by the town
panchayats.



-38-
ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 9
Tax Collection
28.      Increased tax rates and legal  enforcement ot tax collection alone
will not guarantee increased revenue  yields  in  the town panchayats.  The
revised   Act,   therefore,   has   made   provisions   for  institutional,
administrative and management support which are, in fact, the essential
vehicles to implement the quantitative revisions in the legislation. Some
of the major structural arrangements provided in the revised legislation
are as follows:
(a) penalty system for those who avoid town panchayat taxes and levies
(b) formulation of relevant committees:
(i) Administrative Committee
(ii) Value Determination Committee
(iii) Tax Review Committee
(iv) Nomination of a Mediator; and
(c) record keeping of taxes, fees, etc.
Penalty System
29.      One of the major reasons behind the  low yields of any type of tax
or fee in the town panchayats is that the existing penalty system is too
weak and not enforced.   While  an  enforced penalty system should exist to
goad the taxpayers to pay their dues on ti.me, it should not be the only way
to collect the local taxes efficiently.
30.      The revised Act has  made  provisions  for town panchayats to take
the following actions against those who do not pay taxes, fees, levies,
etc., imposed by the town panchayats:
(a) publish their names in notice bulletins or local newspapers;
(b)  suspend or cut off the  facilities provided by the town panchayats
to those persons;
(c) issue certificates/recommendations by the town panchayat only for
those who clear their tax dues; and
(d) after the expiry date, town panchayats may collect tax dues along
with fines by seizing, confiscating or auctioning the persons'
movable/immovable assets.



-39-
ANNEX 1
Page 8 of 9
G. Formation of Committees
31.      One of the traits  of  good  management practices in organizations
like the town panchayats is the delegation of authority/responsibility -
i.e.,  establishing   committees   to   take   responsibility  for  certain
tasks/issues. The revised Act has made provisions for town panchayats to
form the following committees which are vital to implement the amendments
(discussed earlier) and strengthen resource mobilization in the town
panchayats.
Conmiittee                            Function
(a)  Administrative Committee:         Resource    mobilization,   budget
formulation, financial management
and general administration.
(b)  Value Determination Committee:  Determine  the   value   of  goods
subject  to  Trade   Tax  in  case
proper  bills/documents   are  not
available or are suspected to be
false.
(c)  Tax Review Committee:             Formed by HMGN  to review annually
the rates of taxes/fees and submit
a report co HMGN.
(d)  Mediator:                         Nominated  by  HMGN  to  deal with
complaints/issues of any person
not   satisfied   with  taxes/fees
imposed by the town panchayats.
H. Record Keeping
32.      One  of  the  major  elements   that  could  improve  the  revenue
collection efficiency of town panchayats is an up-to-date record keeping
system, which the majority of the town panchayats lack. A reliable record-
keeping system is especially vital for taxes like roof top tax, vehicle
tax, professional tax, etc.
33.      Thus, the revised Act explicitly states that town panchayats
should keep up-to-date records of all the imposed/collected taxes/fees in
prescribed form.   For  accomplishing  this  task,  the town panchayats may
require assistance from any HMGN office, panchayat or potential taxpayers.
34.      The above is a brief summary  of  the major amendments in the Town
Panchayat Act pertaining to resource mobilization at the local level.
There have been other amendments in the Act regarding other minor revenue
sources of the town panchayats, town panchayat administration, functions
and authorities of town panchayats, etc., which have direct and indirect
bearing on strengthening the financial condition of the town panchayats.



-40-
ANNEX 1
Page 9 of 9
The revised Act reflects most of the recommendations proposed by a study
team,  although  certain  details  (such   as   the  roof  top  tax  rates,
professional tax rates, etc.) a;ce to be worked out when the Town Panchayats
Rules are drafted.   Nevertheless,  the  revised  Act envisages leading the
town panchayats to a path of financial self-reliance which was the
underlying objective of the study team.   Also, the amendments are explicit
in shifting the reliance of town  panchayat finances from indirect taxes to
greater reliance on direct taxes/fees.



-41-                         Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
TOWN DEVELOPMENT FUND BOARD
(Formation Order, 2045)
His Majesty's Government, with the authority provided in section 3
of the Development Board Act, 2013, has issued an order as follows:
1. Short Title and Commencement
1.1   This Order shall be known as the Town Development Fund Board
(Formation) Order, 2045.
1.2   It shall come into force at once.
2. Definitions
2.1   Unless otherwise meant with reference to the subject or context, in
this Order,
2.1.1 "Board" means the Town Development Fund Board formed under
Section 3.
2.1.2 "Executive Committee" means the policy and decision making body
of the Board.
2.1.3 "Fuad" means the equity, grants, loans and other resources of
the Board.
2.1.4 "Committee" and "Sub-Committee" mean the various committees and
subcommittees formed by the Executive Committee for the
operation of the Board.
2.1.5 "Prescribed" or "as Prescribed" means prescribed or as
prescribed in the General Policy Statement and Rules and
Regulations adopted under this OrdeL.
3. Formation of the Board
3.1   A Board known as the Town Development Fund Board has been constituted
as a corporate body for the purpose of providing financial and
technical assistance to town panchayats for their development.
3.2   The Executive Committee shall consist of the following members:
3.2.1 Secretary, Ministry of Housing and Physical
Planning ...................................  Chairman
3.2.2  Additional Secretary, Ministry of Panchayat
and Local, Development ......................  Member



-42-
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
3.2.3 Joint Secretary, Ministry of F.nance
(Foreign Aid Coordination Division) ........  Member
3.2.4  Representative, National Planning
Commission Secretariat .....................  Member
3.2.5  Director General, Department of Housing
and Urban Development ....................    Member
3.2.6  Representative, Nepal Rastra Bank ..........  Member
3.2.7  Five Pradhan Panchas designated by His
Majesty's Government from among Pradhan
Panchas of Town Panchayats so as to
represent all Development Regions ..........  Member
3.2.8  Representative from a financial institution
nominated by Nepal Rastra Bank .............  Member
3.2.9  Executive Director of the Board ............  Member-Secretary
3.3   His Majesty's Government may, by notification in Nepal Gazettee,
alter or change the members of the Executive Committee.
3.4   The terms of office of the members pursuant to sub-section 3.2.7
sh&ll be of four years.
3.5   Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section 3.4, His Majesty's
Government may, if it deems necessary, terminate members pursuant to
sub-section 3.2.7 before the expiry of their specified terms and may
designate other persons as member for the remaining period.
4.  Functicns, Duties and Powers of the Executive Committee
4.1   The duty of the Executive Committee shall be to operate the Board in
an effective and systematic manner for the purpose of implementation
of different development plans of the Town Panchayats.
4.2   The Executive Committee shall perform the following functions in
order to fulfill the duty mentioned in Sub-section 4.1:
4.2.1  To formulate the annual and periodic programmes of the Board.
4.2.2  To arrange necessary annual budgets for the Board.
4.2.3  To mobilize necessary resources for the Board.
4.2.4  To approve grants and loans for technical and financial
assistance to implement specific development plans and
programmes submitted by Town Panchayats.



-43-
Annex 2
Page 3 of 4
4.2.5 To support supervision and evaluation of plans and programmes
implemented by Town Panchayats through the assistance of the
Board.
4.2.6 To perform according to agreements entered into between His
Majesty's Government and foreign governments or international
organizations and institutions relating to the Board.
4.2.7 To appoint employees, experts and advisors according to the
need of the Board. The Executive Committee may delegate this
function to the Executive Director.
4.2.8  To form committees and sub-committees (if and when necessary)
for the execution of the functions of the Board.
4.2.9 To formulate and implement the General Policy Statement and
Rules and Regulations for the operation and management of the
Board, as approved by His Majesty's Government.
4.2.10 To appro.re the annual reports presented by the Executive
Director and arrange for their submission to his Majesty's
Government.
4.2.11 To make other necessary arrangements to further the objectives
of the Board.
5. Meetings and Decisions of the Executive Committee
5.1   Meetings of the Executive Committee shall be held as and when fixed
by the Chairman. Meetings of the Executive Committee shall be held
at leact every four months.
5.2   The quorum cf any meetings of the Executive Committee shall be at
least fifty percent of the total members of the Executive Committee.
5.3   Meetings of the Executive Committee shall be presided over by the
Chairman.
5.4   The opinion of the majority shall be binding at meetings of the
Board.  In the event of a tie, the Chairman shall exercise a casting
vote.
6. Functions of the Executive Director
6.1   His Majesty's Government may appoint or designate a person in the
post of Executive Director. The Executive Director shall be charged
with the responsibility of the day-to-day operation of the Board, and
any other functions as the Executive Committee may entrust to him.
His terms of office shall be of 4 years. His Majesty's Government
may extend his tenure to another 4 years period in maximum.



-44-
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
6.2   Notwithstanding anything contained in Sub-Section 6.1, His Majesty's
Government may, if deemed necessary, terminate the Executive Director
of the Board from his post before the expiry of his term.
6.3   The remuneration, conditions of service and facilities of the
Executive Director shall be as prescribed.
7. Resources of the Board
7.1   The following shall constitute the resources of the Boara:
7.1.1  Resources made available by His Majesty's Government or any
private individual.
7.1.2  Loans and grants provided through His Majesty's Government by an-
foreign government, international organization and institutton.
7.1.3  Any other resources, including income generated from its loan
operations.
7.1.4  All expenses of the Board shall be met from its own operations.
8. Accounts and Audit
8.1   The accounts and financial statements of the Board shall be
maintained in accordance with the prevailing laws of His Majesty's
Government.
8.2   The internal and final audit of the Board shall be conducted in
accordance with the prevailing laws of His Majesty's Government.
8.3   The Executive Committee shall submit its audited annual report to His
Majesty's Government six months after the expiry of the fiscal year.
9. Delegation of Authority
9.1   The Executive Committee may delegate some or all of its powers to the
Executive Director, or to any committee or sub-committee established
by the Executive Committee.
10.  Contact with IMGN
10.1 The Board may contact HMGN through the Ministry of Housing and
Physical Planning.
11. Office of the Board
11.1 The Head Office of the Board shall be located at Kathmandu Valley.
11.2 The offices under the Board may be located at any place of the
Kingdom of Nepal as necessary.



-45-                        Annex 3
Page 1 of 13
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
TOWN DEVELOPMENT FUND BOARD
GENERAL POLICY STATEMENT
AND
RULES AND REGULATIONS
CHAPTER I
OBJECTIVES AND ORGANIZATION
1. Objectives of the Town Development Fund Board
The Town Development Fund board (the Board) was established under
His Majesty's Government Order issued in accordance with the Development
Board Act 2013 as a corporate body with financial and administratisle
autonomy. The Board shall provide appropriate technical, financial and
institutional development to the Town Panchayats in order to support their
development in accordance with the policy of decentralization and the Basic
Needs Pro-,ramme of His Majesty's Government. A key objective is to
strengthen the financial and managerial capacity of Town Panchayats for the
formulation, implementation and evaluation of development plans and
programmes. The Board is located in Kathmandu.
2. Goals of the Town Development Fund Board
The purpose of the Board is to provide financial resources to the
Town Panchayats for development activities leading to improved public
services and economic growth. Major emphasis of Board support is on:
(a) upgrading and maintaining essential infrastructure;
(b) investment in new and/or expansion of existing infrastructure;
(c) investment in revenue generating projects to stimulate economic
growth;
(d) imp2oved planning/programming activities of the town panchayats;
(e) improved municipal management;
(f) improved public education and community participation; and
(g) provision of technical assistance to Town Panchayats in
identifying, preparing and implementing technically and
financially sound projects.



Annex 3
-46-                          Page 2 of 13
3. Organization of the Town Development Fund Board
The Board is operated by an Executive Committee which is composed
of 13 members drawn from His Majesty's Government of Nepal (HMGN)
ministries concerned with town development and finance, the National
Planning Commission, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the
Nepal Rastra Bank, representatives from five Town Panchayats, the Executive
Director (Member-Secretary), and a representative from a financial
institution nominated by the Nepal Rastra Bank. Executing the policies of
the Executive Committee and managing the day-to-day operations of the Board
is the Executive Director with a full-time staff. HMGN appoints the
Executive Director who serves as member-secretary.
4. Authority of the Executive Committee and Executive Director
The Executive Committee serves as the policy and decision-making
body and the central point of contact with HMGN. The Executive Committee
is responsible for (a) implementing this General Policy Statement and Rules
and Regulations; (b) employing the staff, experts, and advisors needed for
the operation of the Board; (c) insuring that the Board is operated in a
financially and administratively sound manner, and in compliance with the
Formation Order and His Majesty's Laws and Regulations. The Executive
Committee, though its power to delegate functions and authority, will
charge the Executive Director with managing the day-to-day operations of
the Board.
The Executive Director is charged with the management of the Board
according to the Executive Committee's instructions and this General Policy
Statement Rules and Regulations.
The Executive Committee may delegate some of its functions to the
Executive Director, or to committees and/or sub-committees comprised of at
least one member of the Executive Committee, and necessary Board staff.
CHAPTER II
BOARD ACTIVITIES
5.  Town Development Fund Board Activities
In general, the Board shall support the following types of
projects financed through grants:
(a) Planning and implementation of demonstration projects:
(i) new projects or improvement of existing projects which
enhance a Town Panchayat's revenue base, such as arrangement
of market places, construction of shopping arcades, and
construction and improvement of bus parks, promotion of
tourism;
(ii) Town Panchayat extension schemes for planned development of
housing, industrial or commercial areas; and



-47                           Annex 3
Page 3 of 13
(iii) extension and upgrading of physical infrastructure in Town
Panchayats.
(b) Preparation of plans or feasibility studies for development
schemes:
(i) Town Panchayat extension schemes for planned development of
housing, industrial or commercial areas; and
(ii) extension and upgrading of physical infrastructure.
(c) Implementation of health education programmes to increase public
awareness and commitment to health and hygiene:
(i) to run campaign activities through public and school
education programmes on the importance of cleanliness,
mitigation of health hazards, and the proper use of materials
and available resources; and
(ii) to operate model community environmental improvement
programmes including private and public toilet construction.
(d)  To develop a tax record system in Town Panchayats.
In general, the Executive Committee shall support the following
types of eligible projects financed through loans:
Social Infrastructure Projects:
(i) roads and bridges;
(ii)  drainage systems;
(iii)  footpaths and sidewalks;
(iv)  public parks and recreation areas;
(v) solid waste collection equipment;
(vi)  street lighting;
(vii)  civil works equipment;
(viii) sewer systems;
(ix)  public latrines;
(xi)  local Council buildings and public libraries; and
(xii)  other social infrastructure projects.



-48-                           Annex 3
Page 4 of 13
Revenue Generating Projects:
(i) public markets (retail and wholesale);
(ii) slaughterhouses;
(iii) commercial centers and stores;
(iv) offices;
(v)  potable water systems;
(vi) trade centers and workshops; and
(vii) bus and truck parks.
CHAPTER III
BOARD GRANT POLICY
6. Determination of Grant Amount of Financing
Grants are made available to Town Panchayats on a matching basis.
The maximum grant amount to one Town Panchayat is limited to one tenth
(1/10) of the total grant resources of the Board. The number of projects
for which a Town Panchayat can apply is not limited, but total costs of a
separate project should not be less than NRs. 10,000, except for projects
to improve the tax record system.
The different projects that will be approved for grant assistance
by the Executive Comnmittee shall be on the basis of the following maximum
percentage of total cost and grant amount:
Maximum
Grant            Grant
Activities                 in Z           in NRs.
Planning and implementation          50X            500,000
of demonstration projects.
Preparation of plans or              702            140,000
feasibility studies of
development works.
Operation of health                  602             90,000
education programme.
Tax Record System                    70%             15,000



-49-                   ~~~~~Annex 3
Page 5 of 13
The Town Panchayats could request grant assistance from the Board
in preparing the applications if there is no qualified technical staff
available in the towns or they cannot get assistance from the district
technical branch in time.
Grant financi:.g of demonstration projects shall be made available
in priority to Town Panchayats which do not yet qualify for loan financing
from the Board.
7. Procedures for Grant Assistance
The Tcwn Panchayats shall identify projects from the activities
mentioned in Section 5(a) - (d) and apply for necessary grant assistance to
the Board using the forms issued for such purposes by the Board.
Executive Committee decisions shall be taken on the applications
within four months from the date of receipt of the application in the
Board.
The applications will be appraised on the following criteria:
(a) consistency with overall local development aims;
(b)  technical, environmental, and financial feasibility;
(c) contribution to town's revenue base;
(d) target group: low income, backward class, women in development;
(e) evidence of a model character to provide solutions for similar
problems and examples for the development of training materials;
(f) projects which are directed towards the fulfillment of the Basic
Needs Programme; and
(g) availability of matching funds from the Town Panchayat.
The applications received by the Board shall be presented by the
Executive Director to the Executive Committee after necessary analysis
together with his recommendation for decision by the Executive Committee.
8. Disbursements of Grants
The Town Panchayat shall make available its matching funds for
commencement of the project.
Grants will be disbursed in accordance with the progress of work.
One third (1/3) of the grant will be paid out after the start of the
project, another one third (1/3) will be disbursed on the basis of work
progress. The last third (1/3) will be paid to complete the work. For
small grants up to NRs. 50,000, the disbursement can be made in one
installment.



-50-                            Annex 3
Page 6 of 13
Acceptable matching funds of the Town Panchayats' own resources,
are: cash contributions, labour force, materials, and equipment. In case
of town extension schemes, land acquired by the towns will also be
considered as matching funds.
If projects are not started within three months after approval by
the Executive Committee, and unless the Town Panchayat has, within this
period of time, submitted an explanation for the delay together with a new
timetable for project implementation, grant assistance will be cancelled,
and any funds disbursed should be immediately refunded to the Board. The
Executive Director shall notify the Town Panchayat accordingly within
thirty days.
The Town Panchayats shall keep separate project accounts which
record amounts disbursed and invested from grant assistance including local
matching funds.
9. Reporting Requirements for Grant Assistance
For each project approved, project progress reports indicating
physical implementation and utilization of funds shall be prepared by Town
Panchayats and submitted to the Board every four months.
For each project approved, Town Panchayats shall prepare a
financial statement indicating total grant amount received and funds
utilized including the local matching funds. This statement shall be
prepared every four months and shall be submitted to the Board together
with the project progress report.
A project completion report together with a final financial
statement of the cost of the project shall be submitted to the Board by the
Town Panchayat not later than forty-five (45) days after completion of the
work.
CHAPTER IV
BOARD LOAN POLICY
10.      The Board shall make loans to Town Panchayats on the basis of
feasibility studies prepared and presented by Town Panchayats.
11.      Loan Operation Procedures
The following procedures apply for loan application:
(a) The Pradhan Pancha (Mayor) shall submit a request to the Board for
financing a project together with an appraisal report. The Board,
after determining the financial/bcrrowing capacity of the Town
Panchayat, and the validity of the report, shall send within 30
days of the date of the request a technical team, for technical
discussions and evaluation.



-51-                              Annex 3
Page 7 of 13
(b) Once the proposed project has been appraised by Board staff, the
loan request together with the Executive Director's assessment
shall be presented to the Executive Committee (or loan committee
or sub-committee) for decision.
12. Loan Agreement
Upon approval of the loan by the Executive Committee (or loan
committee or sub-committee), a loan agreement is signed by the Pradhan
Pancha on behalf of the Town Panchayat (Borrower) and by the Executive
Director on behalf of the Board.
13. Eligibility for Loan Financing
Town Panchayat eligibility to apply for a loan from the Board:
Only Town Panchayats which have demonstrated a capacity to manage their
finances and generate sufficient net income to service debt as indicated
below will be qualified for loans from the Board:
(a) have a positive "current account surplus" in the most recent two
fiscal years, defined as locally collected revenues minus current
operating expenditures minus committed capital investment and debt
service; and
(b) have a projected "current account surplus" based on past three
year trends to service the minimum size project loan.
14. Individual Loan Eligibility Criteria
Each proposed project will be subjected to detailed financial,
environmental, and technical criteria which will be used in conducting the
appraisal for each loan request. The criteria, which may be amended from
time-to-time by the Executive Committee shall be provided to Town
Panchayats upon request.
15. Loan Terms and Conditions
Maturity
including       Maximum
Project            Interest               Grace           Grace
Category              Rate                 Period          Period
Social Infrastructure       8Z                   18 yrs.          3 yrs.
Revenue Generating         12Z                   12 yrs.          2 yrs.
Loan terms and conditions may be revised by the Executive Committee from
time-to-time.



Annex 3
-52-                            Page 8 of 13
16. Grace Period and Loan Repayment
The Grace Period is defined as the period during which the Town
Panchayat/Borrower may defer repayment of loan principal. The maximum
grace period applicable to Board loans is shown in paragraph 15. The Grace
Period is counted from the date of signing of the loan agreement to the
date when the first payment of principal and interest is due. Interest
shall be computed daily on a thirty day month, 360 days year on the
outstanding balance of the loan. Payments of p-incipal and interest are
due in accordance with the amortization schedule contained in the Loan
Agreement.
17. Projects Description
Each loan appiication must contain a detailed description of the
project for which loan financing is sought. The project description, which
will become part of the Loan Agreement shall include all plans, written
descriptions, item listings and costs estimates necessary to define
unequivocally the project. The Board will disburse funds only for eligible
items included in the project description for which a loan has been made.
18. Limits on Loan Amounts
(a) Minimum loan amount is NRs. 250,000 per project.
(b) Maximum aggregate amount to be lent to any one Town Panchayat is
governed by such Town Panchayat Financial Solvency Test described
in paragraph 19, but in any event shall not exceed NRs. 20.0
million.
(c)  Board loan proceeds shall finance a maximum of 902 of the total
cost of a project in a Town Panchayat, excluding the cost of land.
(d) Each Town Panchayat shall finance out of local matching funds from
Town Panchayat's own resources at least 10% of the total cost of a
project, excluding the cost of land acquisition; and the Toxm
Panchayat must satisfy the Board that its contribution is assigned
to the project prior to any Board loan disbursement. For this
purpose, local matching funds are cash contributions, labour,
materials, and equipment.
(e) Board loan proceeds shall not finance cost of land acquisition.
(f) The Executive Committee may from time-to-time change the above
limits.
19. Town Panchayat Financial Solvency Test
For each Town Panchayat, the Board will maintain a current
estimate of the debt carrying capacity of the Town Panchayat, based on
current financial data maintained by the Towqn Panchayat.



Annex 3
-53-                               Page 9 of 13
The debt c&rrying capacity of the Town Panchayat is defined as the
amount of revenue available to service new future debt. The debt carrying
capacity shall be estimated according to two different techniques as
described below, with the more conservative estimate used as the
determining figure:
(a) The first technique computes the "current account surplus" for the
current year and forecasts Lne growth in that surplus for future
years based on the projected inflation rates for those years.
(b) The second technique forecasts the "current account surplus" from
independent estimates of (i) locally collected revenues and (ii)
current expenditures and committed capital investments using the
most recent three years' data and includes as an expenditure item
any future debt service payments based on actual payment schedules
of loans already incurred.
The Board shall not approve loans to a Town Panchayat if the aggregate of
its debt service burden exceeds 75X of its "current account surplus" as
defined above.
20. Use of Loan Proceeds
The loan proceeds for each project must be used in accordance with
the Loan Agreement and only for the project described in said agreement.
Requests for disbursements for items not included in the project
description or items in excess of the number mentioned in the project
description shall not be approved. If the Town Panchayat insists on
modifying or increasing the project substantially without authorization
from the Board, further disbursements will be halted pending resolution
within 60 days, after which period of time, the Board may apply the
provisions of paragraph 27 if no agreement has been reached for the new
description of the project, and the Town Panchayat refuses to carry out the
project as approved.
The Board shall monitor the project implementation to insure that the loan
proceeds are being used in accordance with the Loan Agreement. Upon
completion of the project, the Town Panchayat shall prepare a Project
Completion Report which includes a summary of all project expenditures and
certification of compliance with the Loan Agreement.
21. Loan Residuals
After completion of all project activities and all disbursements
of the loan have been made, residual loan amounts will be cancelled within
thirty (30) days. All unutilized disbursed loan proceeds shall be returned
to the Board with interest within thirty (30) days of notice thereof, and
cannot be used for other purposes or projects of the Town Panchayat unless
approved as a new loan following the procedures mentioned above.



-54-                           Annex 3
Page 10 of 13
22.      Disbursement Methods
(a)  The Town Panchayat shall apply in writing to the Board for payment
of its due bills relating to a project approved by the Board. A
copy of each such bill shall be attached to the application for
payment.
(b) Upon approval of the Town Panchayat's applications, the board
shall arrange for payment from the resources available to it.
23. Cancellation of Loan Approvals
Loans approved by the Executive Committee may be cancelled by the
Executive Director with notice to the Executive Committee, if the Town
Panchayat fails to sign a Loan Agreement within three months of the
notification of the loan approval. The Town Panchayat/Borrower shall be
reminded in writing, one and two months after loan approval date, to sign
an Agreement. If no action is taken, the Town Panchayat/Borrower shall be
notified in writing of the cancellation.
24. Cancellation of Loan Agreements
Loans for which an Agreement was signed may be cancelled by the
Executive Director, with concurrence from the Executive Committee, if the
Town Panchayat/Borrower fails to make any disbursement within one year of
the date of signature of the Loan Agreement. The Town Panchayat/Borrower
shall be invited twice in writing to start disbursement and to speed up
project implementation apprcximately six and nine months after Loan
Agreement signing. If no action is taken, the Town Panchayat/Borrower
shall be notified in writing of the cancellation.
25. Loan Rescheduling
Rescheduling of Town Panchayat debt will only be permitted by
action of the Executive Committee upon written recomm~ndation of the
Executive Director. In his recommendation, the Executive Director must
explain the special circumstances requiring the rescheduling and include a
re-appraisal of the Town Panchayat's financial condition.
Rescheduling will be considered upon written request from a
Pradhan Pancha accompanied by minutes of the Town Panchayat decision
supporting the request.
The maximum amount of rescheduled loans should not exceed the
outstanding balances of Board loans to the Town Panchayat.
The interest rate on each rescheduled loan shall be set at one
annual percentage point above the original annual rate charged en the loan
to be rescheduled. Terms of rescheduling loan maturities will be decided
by the Executive Committee upon recommendations of the Executive Director,
but will not exceed ten years.



Annex 3
-.55-                           Page 11 of 13
26. Guarantees for Town Panchayat Borrowing
(a) As long as a Town Panchayat has an outstanding debt to the Board,
it may not secure a loan from any source without obtaining written
approval from the Executive Director, who in consultation with the
Executive Committee, will furnish Board consent, and may require a
similar collateral for securing the loan of the Board.
(b) To secure the approval referenced in (a) above, the Pradhan Pancha
must submit in writing to the Executive Director a request which
contains:
(i) minutes of the Town Panchayat supporting the request; and
(ii) all documents needed to justify the investment project for
which the loan to be secured is sought and any additional
information that the Executive Director may reasonably
request.
27. Remedies
Upon failura by the Town Panchdyat to meet any of its obligations
under the Loan Agreement, including repayment of the loan to the Board, or
to successfully secure a rescheduling of the debt, the Board may declare
the Town Panchayat in default and seek to impose penalties, realise
collateral and securities, if any, and take all necessary measures to
recover the loan.
CHAPTER V
FINANCIAL POLICY
28.      General
(a) The Board shall endeavor to maintain a stable positive spread of
two percentage points between the return on its outstanding loan
portfolio and the net cost of its resources plus operating costs.
(b) Prudent financial management dictates that the debt-service ratio
of interest plus principal repayment by Board Borrowers and the
debt-service ratio due to lenders should exceed 1.5:1 over the
first five years of operations of the Board. After this initial
period, the Board may adjust the said ratio.
(c) The funds for loans and grants shall he kept in separate accounts.
At the beginning of each fiscal year, the general administrative
costs of operating the Board shall be apportioned to the grant and
loan components in the Annual Budget on a pro-rata basis.



Annex 3
-56-                              Page 12 of 13
29.  Boaru Annual Plan and Budget
The Executive Committee shall review and approve an Annual Plan
and Budget p:epared by the Executive Director during the fourth quarter of
each fiscal year (with the Board fiscal year being the same as the HMGN
fiscal year). The Annual Plan and Budget shall include projected levels of
activity including revenue and expenditures for a two year period, updated
annually.
30.      Reporting Requirements
(a) The Excutive Director shell provide to the members of the
Executive Committee, and at their request, the major donors, semi-
annual progress reports. These reports shall include the
appropriate narrative, statistical information and financial
statements describing the activities of the Board. The reports
shall also describe and justify any substantial deviation from the
Annual Plan and Budget.
(b) The Board staff is responsible for monitoring project
implementation in the Towns Panchayats, monitoring loan repayments
and certifying project completion in the Project Completion
Reports.
(c) The Town Panchayats are responsible for submitting physical and
financial progress reports to the Board in accordance with the
terms of the individual Loan Agreements.
31.      Audit
(a) Within four months of the close of each fiscal year, the Board
shall have its accounts and financial statements audited by
independent auditors. The auditors shall also provide a detailed
management letter covering accounting systems, compliance with
internal policies and external regulations and any other matters
that are deemed to materially affect the operations of the Board.
(b) For projects of less than one year implementation, Town Panchayats
shall provide the Board with independently audited statements of
project accounts within four months after the close of project
activities. For projects for which the implementation period is
longer than one year, implementation, the Town Panchayats shall
provide the Board with independently audited annual financial
statements of project accounts within four months of the close of
the fiscal year.
32. Board Outreach Activities
To promote the development of the Town Panchayats, the Board will:
(a) Assist Town Panchayats upgrade overall management and financial
capability.



-57-                           Annex 3
Page 13 of 13
(b) Build up project management capacity of the Town Panchayats,
especially in designing, construction supervision, and direct cost
recovery.
(c) Review and evaluate performance of Town Panchayats regarding
financial management and project implementation.
(d) Assist the Town Panchayats in acquiring competent technical
assistance from local private firms in proiect design,
construction, management and financial matters.
33. Revision of General Policy Statement and Rules and Regulations
Any modification to the General Policy Statement and Rules and
Regulations of the Board shall be reviewed and approved by the Executive
Committee. As may be required in any specific Loan Agreement with a donor
agency, such donor shall be given adequate opportunity to review and
comment on the proposed revisions.



-58-
ANNEX 4
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Town Development Fund Board
Organization Chart
EXECUTIVE
COMMITTEE
|EXEC UTIVEC
DIRECTOR
CLIENTS
(TOWN PANCHAYATS)
LOAN
UNIT                  TECHNICAL SERVICES                ADMINISTRATIVE
_                    ~~~~~~UNIT                  SERVICES UNIT
-LOAN/GRANT
OFFICER (2)              -ENGINEER (1)                      -ADMINISTRATIVE
-FINANCE                           ASSISTANT (1)
SPECIALIST (1)                   -CHIEF
-PROGRAMMER                        ACCOUNTANT (1)
ANALYST (1)                      -BOOK KEEPER (1)
-ASSISTANT                        -SECRETARY (2)
ENGINEER (1)                     -DRIVER (2)
-MAINTENANCE (1)
-GUARD (2)



NEPAL
MIJNICIPAL DEVELOPMEJT COMPONENT
PROJECT LOAN DISBURSBEWT / DEBT SRVICE SCHEXULE
ON-LEDINC NY WHN TO TPDF8
N. RUPE0
1988/89      1989/90       1990/91       1991/92       1992/93      1993/94       1994/95       1995/96
D1EtT                                      3.0%
CWIITiNT FEE                              0.00%
S CO94ITTED OF TOTAL LOAN                    0%           13S          2S1           201           13S           135           15%          1001
CwDOITmB4rS                            878,400    32,647,200    60,878,000    48.S07,200    32.134,800    32,7 44,800    36,209,600   244,000,000
S OF TOTAL CWIrrMENTS DIS8LRSED            0.41         13.4S         25.0T        19.9s         13.21         13.45         14.38         0.0%
FItAKtCl  SOLRCES
MA CFIT                          244,000,000
HSC CONTRIBUTIDNS                  27,100,000
OTH  DSINOR AGC6IES
TDTAL FINANCINO SOURCES            271,100,000
DISBURETS IDA                          878,400    32,647,200    60,878,000    48,507.200    32,134,800    32.744 800    36,209.600
DISBURSE88(TS HQC                    5,000,000     3,700,000     3,700,000     3,700.000     3,700,000    3,700,000     3,600.000            0
DISBAEBtTS TOTAL                     5,878,400    36,347,200    64,578.000    52,207,200    35,834,800    36,444,800    39,809,600           0
DISBUlRSEMS1TS, ACCQ4JLATED          5,878,400    42,225,600    106,803,600   159,010,800   194,845,600   231,290,400   271,100.000   271,100,000
UNDISBLRSED LOAN BALANCE           265,221,600   228,874,400   164,296,400   112,089,200    76,254,400    39,809,600           0             0
ADOTIZATrON                                  0            0             0             0             0     9.742,280    11,660,427    14,413,310
8BEINNINC BALANCE                            0     b,878,400    42.225.600   106,803,600   159,010,800   194.845,600   221,548. 120   259,439,573
YEAR ED BALANCE                      5,878,400    42.225,600   106,803.600   159,010,800   194.845,600   221,548.120   259,439,573   256,686,690
AVERACE LOAN BALANCE                 2,939,200    24,052,000    74,514,600   132,907,200   176,928,200   208,196,860   240,493,846   258,063.132
ETREST                                  88,176       721.560     2,235.438    3,987,216     5.307,846     6,245,906     7,214,815     7,741,894
C0aT>BTKENt FEE0                                                        0             0             0            0             0
TOTAL DffEREST & FE                     88,176       721,560     2,235,438     3,987,216    5,307,846     6,245,906     7,214,815     7,741,894
SUM?VRY OF LOAN DISBURSENTS A DE6T SCEULE
AMRrZATION                                  0             0             0             0             0     9,742,280    11,660,427    14,413.310
INE1        & FEE                       88.176       721,,560    2,235.438    3,987,216     5,307,846     6,245,906     7,214,815     7.741,894                        lb
TOTAL DEOWT SERVICE                     88,176        21,560     2,235,438     3,987.216    5,307,646    15,988,18     18,875,243    22.155,204                           . X
,-, -Ln



NEA-L
KU%ICIPAL DEvELoPeNT CDOINT
PROJECT LOAN DISBURE5S9T 8ASO ON ENCINEIN  COSTS 8 OCTO8ER 1988 RUPE
N. RUJPE
1988/89      1989/90       1990/91       1991/92       1992/93       1993/94       1994/95                   TOTAL    X Dist,ibutio
SOCI4L D 71AST8UTrL  PROJECTS                0    27.669,600    51,630,400    41.138.400    27,254,800    27,767,200    30,719,600                 206,180.000         84. 5O
REE?U4E CENtATrNC PROJETS               878.400     4,977.600     9,247,600    7,368.o00     4,880,000     4,977,600     5,490.000                  37.820 000         15.506
TOTAL lDJTS                             878. 400    32,647.200    60.878,000    48,507,200    32,134.800    32,744,800    3S,209.600               244 000.000        100.006
COiUT6IAff SEDULE                         0.3S6        13.38S        24.951        19.881        13.17#        13.421        14.84%                     100 001
ACW.AAT)D COMMITMENT S5E.LE               0.361        13.74S        38.69;        58.571        71.741        85.16S       100.00O
DISaURSET SHEDUIE 1                      100.OOS        0.00         0.001%
1989                  878.400            0             0                                                                                           878,400
1990                             32,647.200            0             0                                                                          32,647.200
1991                                           60.878,000            0             0                                                            60,878,000
1992                                                         48,507.200            0             0                                              48.507.200
199                                                                        32.134.800            0             0                                32.*134.800
1994                                                                                     32,744,800            0                                32,744,800
1995                                                                                                  36.209.600                                36.209,600
TOTAL DXSLtSIT  SO88LLE IN RS.          878,400    32,647,200    60,878,000    48,507,200    32,134.800    32,744,800    36.209. 600                             244.000,000
I. 1DISBURONT FtlR SOCIAL   1      1RSTUn    PROJECTS 
1989                       0             0             0                                                                                                 0
1990                             27,669.600            0             0                                                                          27.669,600
1991                                           51.630,400            0             0                                                            51.630,400
1992                                                         41,138,400            0             0                                              41,138.400
1993                                                                       27.254,800            0             0                                27.254,800
1994                                                                                    27,767,200             0                                27.767.200
1995                                                                                                  30.719,600                                30,719,600
TOTAL DIs81*SaEMT SOCsDLE IN RSi.            0    27.669,600    51.630.400    41,138,400    27,254.800    27,767,200    30,719,600                               206.180,000
II. DISBiR8ET5 FOR REVNJE CBiRATIiC PROJECTS
1989                  878,400            0             0                                                                                           878,400
1990                              4,977,600            0             0                                                                           4.977, 600
1991                                            9,247,600            0             0                                                             9,247.600
1992                                                          7,368,800            0             0                                               7.368.800
1993                                                                       4,880,000             0             0                                 4.880,000
1994                                                                                     4.977.600             0                                 4,977,600
1995                                                                                                   5,490.000                                 5.490.000
TOTAL DIS_6158ENT SCH8LIE IN RS.        878,400     4,977,600     9,247.600    7,368.800     4.880,000     4,977,600     5,490.000                                37.820,000
cra rb
(DX
m n



NEPAL
1JNICIPAL DEVELOPMET COMENT
PROJrT LOAN DISBtRS8JENTfOET SERVICE SOEMUE
-------_-_- -------- -_ -__________________________
ON-LENDINC BY TPDF8 TO TOWN PANiAYATS:SOCIAL INF5TRUCrURE
N. RPEES
1988/89      1989/90        1990/91       1991/92       199q2,"^      1993/94       1994/95       1995/96
INTEREST RATE                               8.07
CDW4rrBT FEE                               0.008
FIWACI?G SOURCE
IDA CtEDIT                        206.180,000
MMC co0NlmRImroN                   22,90S,S89
OTHER DON6  AGECIE                          0
TuTAL FINlCINC SOAC6                229,068,889
DISLJtSETS IDA                                0    27.669,600    51,630,400    41.138,400    27.254,800    27,767,200    30,7:9,600
DIS0BtEWENTS I9M                              0     3,074.400     5.736,711     4,570,933     3.028,311      3,085,244     3.413.289            0
DISBURSEMENTS TOTAL                           0    30.744,000    57,367,111    45.709,333    30,283,111    30,852.444    34,132.8S9             0
DISRBtENTS, ACCUMULATED                       0    30,744,000    88.111.111   133.820,444   164.103.556   194.956.000   229.088,889   229.088.889
LU DISUtE LOAN BALANCE              229,088,889   198.344.689    140,977,778    95,268.444    64.985,333    34,132.689           (0)           (0)
AM4ORTIZATION TPDFB                           0             0             0     5.874,074     9,139.026    11,468,497    14.039,534    17.142.523
BlINNINC BALANCE                              0             0    30,744,000    88,111.111   127.946,370   149,090,455   168.474,403   188,567.758
YEAR END BALANCE                              0    30.744,000    88.111,111    127,946,370   149,090,455    168.474.403   188.567,758   171,425,235
AVBA0E LOAN BALNCE                           0    15.372,000    59,427,556   108,028,741    138.518.413   158.782.429   178,521.081   179,996.497
INTERBT                                       0     1.229.760     4,754,204     8,642,299    11.081,473    12,702,594    14.251.686    14,399.720
COt741TET FEE                                 0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0
TOTAL INTR  & EE                              0     1.229,760     4,754,204     8,642,299     11,081,473    12,702.594    14,281,686    14.399.720
sWuARY OF LOAN DIs8uRs5BIrsJ DE0T ScHaDULE
AIMZIZATION TPDFB                             0             0             0     5,874,074     9,139,026    11,468.497    14,039.534    17.142.523
NTrST a FEE                                  0      1,229,760     4,754,204     8,642,299    11,081.473    12,702.594    14.281.686    14.399.720
TOTAL DE0r SERVICE                            0     1,229.760     4.754,204    14.516,373    20,220,499    24,171,091    28,321.220    31.542.243
. .
I03 5



NEPAL
P4*NICIPAL DEVELOPIENT COMPONENT
PROJECT LOAN DIS8URSEOlST/DET SERVICE SCHEDULE
:---      - - -----_-- ---__ __---------------------------- __ 
O-LENDINC 8Y TPDF8 TO TOWN PANCHAYATS:REVENJE CENERATINC PROJECTS
N. RUPEES
1988/89       1989/90       1990/91       1991/92       1992/93       1993/04       1994/95       1995/96
INTEREST RATE                              12.0O
COWTMENr FEE                               0.00%
FINANCINC SOLRCES
IDA CREDIT                         37,820,000
MC CONTRI8UTION                     4,202.222
OTHEB DONOR AGENCIES                        0
TOTAL FINANCINC SOURCES              42,022,222
DISEURSEejTS IDA                        878,400     4,977.600     9.247,600     7,368,800     4,880,000      4,977,600     5,490,000
DISBURS8SBeTS HMC                        97.600       553,067     1.027,511       818,756       542.222       553.067       610.000             0
DIS56RSEMNOTS TOTAL                     976.000     5,530,667    10,275,111     8,187.S56     5,422,222     5.530,667      6,100.000            0
DISBURSEMENTS, ACCUMJLATED              976,000     6,506.667    16.781,778    24.969,333    30,391,556    35,922,222    42,022,2       42.022,222
LCISBURSED LOAN BALANCE              41,046,222    35,515.556    25.240,444     17.052,889    11,630.667    6.100.000             0             0
AMORTIZATION TPDF8                           0              0       650,667     1,792,346     2,815,790     3,590.393     4,512,171     5,732.171
BE:lNNING BALANCE                            0        976,000     6.506,667    16,131.111    22,526.321    25.132,753    27,073.026    28,660,855
YEAR BC BALANCE                         976,000     6,506,667    16,131,111    22,526,321    25.132.753    27,073,026    28,660,855    22.928,684
AVERAGE LOAN BALANCE                    488,000     3,741,333    11.318,889    19,328,716    23,829.537    26,102,890    27.866,941    25,794,770
INTEST                                   58,560       448,960     1.358,267     2.319.446     2,859.544     3,132,347     3,344,033     3,095,372
CrrMrTBEJTrEE                                 0             0             0             0             0             0             0             0
TOTAL INTBREST A FEE                     58,560       448,960     1.358,267     2.319.446     2,859,544     3.132.347     3,344,033     3,095,372
SLW4ARY OF LOAN DISBlRSEMENTS & DEBT SCHEDULE
AMORTIZATION TPDFB                            0             0       650,667     1.792,346     2.815.790     3,590.393     4,512,171     5,732,171
INTEREST A FEE                           58,560       448,960     1,358,267     2,319,446     2,859,544     3.132,347     3.344,033     3,095,372
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                       58.560       448,960     2,008.933     4,111,792     5,675,335     6,722.740     7,856.204     8,827.543
a, 0J
Ij VjD
SLn



NEPAL
MIUNICIPAL DEVEL.OP9eT COMPONENT
FLOW OF  -*-S AND ACCRUED INCO-E PER INSTITUTION
N. RREES
<   --   --  -   -------   -  --  -  -  ---------   --- -   YEAR5   _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ ------------------------------_  _  _  _  _  _  _  _>
FLOW OF FUNDS                                                                          ---8/8 - 1989/90      1990/91        1991/92       1992/93        1993/94       1994/95        1995/96
'I
INCOME
PRICIIPAL                              0              0             0              0             0      9.742.280    1l,t60,427      14,413,310
INI5OT.         3.00%                INT5EST                            88.176        721,560     2.235.438      3,987,216     5,307,846      6.245.906     7,21',E1S      7,741,894
COIIT4JT:         0 00S              TOTAL INCWt1                         88,178        721,580     2.235,438      3,987,218      3,307,846    15,988,186     18.875.243    22,133,204
P9IOD:   20 YEARS                 D(PS%VITLME:
CF'ACE:    5 YEARS                 PRINCIPAL                              0              0             0              0             0              0              0             0
INTFREST                           3,294        129,015       479,735        889,929      1,192,337     1,435,635      1.694,214     1,830,000
TOT AL EXPENDITIFE                   3, 294       129, 013       479,.735      889, 929     1.1 92. 337   1, 435, 635    1.8694. 214   1,8630, 000
SAP.PLUS/08F1C11'                   84,882        592,545      1,.753,704    3.097.287      4,115.510    14,532,551     17,181.029    20,325,204
WOB
|   TPDF8     0                   ~~~~~~~I. INFRAS7RUCTREE PROJECTS
INCOME                                                                                                                                                  W
PRINCIPAL                              0              0             0      5,874,074      9.139,026    11,40,497       14,039,534   17,142,5233
ZNFRASTRIJTIR PROJECTS
--------------------- 30INrEREST                                             0      1,229,760     4,74,204       8,6842,299    11.081.473    12,702.594    14.281,686     14,399.720
INTEEST 8 OO              ---------------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- ---  --------- 87523 22520
SUB TOTAL I                              0      1.229,760      4.754,204    14,516,373     20.220,499    24,171,091     28.321,220    31,542,243
C091r7MENT.  O . OOSII . RE.VW4JE CENcRATINC PROJECTS
PERIOD:    15 YEARS               INCOME
CRACE:    3 YEARS
PRINCIPAL                              0              0       650.667      1,792,346      2,815,790     3,590,393     4,512,171      5,732,17;
INTEEST                           58,560         448,960     1.358,267     2,319,446     2.839.54.4     3,132,347     3,34.4,033     3,095,372
SUBTOTAL  II                        58,580        448,8 i0     2,00.933      4,7111 ,792    5,1675,335    6,723,5740     7,856,204     8,827,.543
REVE4AE CENERATINC  PROJECTS
______  _ ____ _ __  _-  ----  -TOTAL INCOME                     58, 580     1, 678, 720   6, 763 .138   18, 628,1865    25, 895, 834  30, 893, 831  36,.177, 424  40, 369, 787
Il'T59EST      12.0OOS
6XPsf)NDIE9E
COWIITiEfT        0.OOS
PRINCIPAL                              0              0             0             0             0       9.742.280      11,660,427   14,413,310
P59100    10 YEARS
INTEREST                          88,176        721.560     2,235,438      3,987,216      5,307.846     6,245,906         7,214,815  7,741.894
1CTRAES'    2 YE00S               ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
TOTAL EXPEhD.TLRE                   88.176        721,560      2,235,438     3,087,216      5,307.848    1S,988,186     18.875,243    23,155.204
INCOME 8590998 CLRR4T COSTS:       (29,616)       937,160     4.527,700     14,640,949    20.587.988     14,905,645     17,302,181    16.214.523
V                                    0.5984l   COSTS. 1/               2,488,000      2,684,633     2,894,648      3,123,372     3,372.722      3,575,085     3.789.590      4.016.966
TOWN PANCRAYAT5     3 YARPRISNPICT                                            (29,816)       957,160     4,527,700     11,517.577    17,215,266     11,330,560    13.512,591     14,197,617    ,  D
ACCIJJLATED SURPLUStDEFICIT 2/      (29,616)      927,544     5,455,244     16,972,821    34,188,087     42,657,447    53.082,709     63,951,481 2,861,200  3,08,032  3,328,852
--------------------------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -------------------------------------
1j Current operatingenopand.tures for first three years would be f,nncand under IDA loan  This would amount to US3 .3 clI  lon.
2/. IDA f.nanc,ng of current coats amortized frea 1993/94 - 1995/98



hEPAL
KJNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COffP:DNENT
PROFORM.A INCOFE STATE!MENT OF TPDFB
N. RUPE
1988/89       1989/90        1990/91        1991/92        1992/93       1993/94        1994/95        1995/96               REMIARS
REVENUES
INTEST EARNED ON                                                                                                                                          Ihte,est ea-ad or loan  not p.nciplo
SOCIAL INFASTRCTURE PROJECTS                0      1,229.760      4.754.204     8,642,299     11,061,473     12.702.594     14,281,686    14,399.720     preyftenst  ir the  louaco of  prenues
REVENUe CBMATINC PROJECTS              58.560        448.960      1.358.267     2.319.446      2.859.544      3,132,347      3.344.033     3.095.372
FINANCIAL INCOME                                       124,624       352,066      1,019.756      2,545,112      4.919,586      6.554.658     9,182,525    12.51  -rng. fro. .n-setaent in
marketvble 5scu,.tses
OThER REVENLUES                       2,488.000      2,684,633     2,894,648                                                                              IDA f-nonen-  to bear costs of
---------     ---------      ---------     ----------     ----------     --~-------    ----------     ----------   ope,atio,  end  deprac.ati n    for  the
TOTAL REVENUES                      2.546.560      4,487,977      9.359.185     11.981.502    16,4S6,130     20,754,527     24.180,378    26,677,617    first three ye*ra
OPERATINCi COSTS                                                                                                                                           Se Ree,rr.nt 8udg.t in Techn-cl Support
_______________                                                                                                                                             and Trai-ing to TPDPd   Costs adjusted for
P     L                               1,060.800      1.167.982      1,286.998     1,419,261      1.566.365      1,707.338      1.860,998     2,028.488    -nflat,on
OPERATION AND KAINTENANCE               534.982        569.664       603.844        640.077        678,480        719.189       762.340        808,0dl
TRAVE                                   255,719        272.297        288.636       305,953        324,311        343.770        364,396       386,260
TOTAL OPERATINC COSTS               1.851.501      2.009,943      2.179.478     2,365.291      2,569,156      2,770.296      2,987.734     3.222,28 
CROSS OPEATINC PROFIT                     695.059      2.478,034     7,179,707      9.616,211     13,916,974     17.984,231     21.192.643    23,454.789
leav DEPRECIATION                         636.500       674.690        715,171        758,081        803.566       851,780        636,500        674,690    See Recu.-ent Budget
PROFIT BE1OR  INTEREST                     58.559      1,803.344     6,464,536     .8858,130      13,113,408     17,132,451    20.556,143     22.780,099
INTERE5T PAYMEfT ON HHON LOAN              88,176       721.560      2.235.438      3,987.216      5,307.846      9,107,106    10.302,143     11.070,739    Only -nterst. not asortization, has been
taken froe Debt Schedule of TPDF8.
Asortizatorn of IDA financ,no aith inter..
NEr PROFIT                                (29,617)     1.081.784      4.229,098     4,870.914      7,80'.562      8,025,345     10.254,000    11,709,359    .n 1993/94, 1994/95 end 1995/96
ACCUNLLATED PROFIT                        (29.617)     1.052,167     5,281,266     10.152,179     17.957,741     25.983,086    36,237,086     47,946,446
M x
Y LA



NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
PRO FOMA BALANCE SHEE DF TPDFB
N. RUPEE
1988/69        1989/90        1990/91        1991/92        1992/93         1993/94        1994/95        199S/96                 REMARKS
ASSETS
LOANS TO TPs                               976,000     37,250,667    104,242.222    150,472,691    174,223,208    195,547,429    217,228.614    194,353,919    Y.a  End ftl-nc. of loan. to rPs ha.e
GRANTS TO TPD                            10.400.000     10.400,000     10,400.000     10,400,000                                                                 bo-n takon  So. efFect of awootzat.on of
FIXED ASSETS (NON EXPENABLE)             4.560,000      3.923,500       3.248.810      2,533.639      1,775.586         971,992      4,5600000      3,923,500    lo- by TP. - c-alIc
los  DEPRErIATION                          636.500        674,690         715,171        758.081        803,566        851.780         636,500        674,690
NET FIXED ASSETS                         3,923,500       3.248,810      2.533,639      1,775,558        971,992         120,212      3,923,500      3,248,810
OFFICE SU1PPLIES (EXPEIVALE)                 10,000D        10,000         :0.000         10,000         10.000          10,000         10,000         10,000    End,ng  -elto'y fo.' ne.t yoal'. op..,aticn
MECRITIES                       996,996      2,816,528      8.158,051      20,360,900     39,356,688     52.437.265      73.460.198    103,657,568
CASH/BANK                                   50,000          50.000         80,000         50.000         50.000          60.000         50.000         50,000    End-9, bmlmnc, of cash .oq;,,, nd fon fist
----------     ----------    -----------    -----------     -----------    -----------    -----------     -----------   o nth    of   n. t     y -ar
TOTAL ASSETS                            16.356,496     53.776,005    125,393.912    183,069,149    214,611,888    248.164.907    294,672.312    301.320.297
LIA8ILITIE5
4CN LOAi                                  5,678,400     42,225,600    106,803.600    159,010.800    194.845.600    221.548,120    259,439,S73    256,686,690    YesO  End 5410nc- of loan f.'o 'CN  has
CTZ GRANTS                               10,400,000     10,400,000     10.400,000     10,400.000                                                                 ben tbk-
CAPITAL (HHCN)                              62,904         594,321      5,519.680      8,552,259     10,757,418      13.595,244     17,084.196     20.630,384    50T of Not P,.f t cap.talzea f1`o, the
BILLS PAYABLE (CR;ITTORS)                   30,000         30,000          30,000         30.000         30,000          30.000         30,000         30,000
RETAINE  EARNINM (ACCUK4JLATED)             (14,809)       526,084      2,640,633      5,076,090      8,978,871      12,991.543     18,118.543     23.973.223    502 of Net P.oft ret-aned  n Rtta-ned
--------     -  ----- ----  ----------- -----------  ---- ------  --------- -  -----------  -- --n-----  Em - -ga   - 1the     f -vt    y ap,
TOTAL LIA3ILITIES                       16,356.496     53.776.005    1.25393.912    183,069.149    214,611,888    248,164.907    294.672.312    301,320,297
I F ¢
f X
-_ Ln



rNEAL
P4iICIPAL DEVELOPMET COMPONENT
S01RCE AND USES OF RFS ANALYSrS CFUW  FLOW] OF TPDF8
*wo----*--w@*----w...-**--...*** .......--*......
N.RU,
19g8/89      1989/10       19i/91        1991/92       1992/93       1993/94       1994/95       1995/9S
rMEAS3 IN H1>N LOAN                   5.878.400    36,347,200    64,578,000    52,207.200    35,834,800    26,702,520    37,691,453
crz aCAx.r                           10.400,000    10.400,000    10,400.000    10.400.000
r=ASE IN CAP;TAL                        62.904       531,417      4.925,358     3.032.560     2,205.158    2,837.826     3,488,952     3,546.1S8
INCRIAGE IN RLTAIND EAMNINCS           (14.609)       540.892    2.114,549      2,435.457     3.902.781    4,012.673     5,127.000     5.854,680
DILLZ PAYAELM (CRDT0-)                   30.000
03R;3IATItl                             635.500       671,690       715,171       758.081       803.566       851,780      636,500       674,690
0;5LRASE IN LOA.IS TO TP                                                                                                               22,874. 695
TOTAL SOaZt  07 RFNS               15,3392. 3    48,4W4. 19    82.733.078    63.833,318    42.746.305    34,404 799    47.143.9DS    32.950.252
-~         ~ -                           - ==                                                                                      0
APPLICA'IGN
I%l7AZ3 IN LOXA.' '0 TPo                97S,OOC    3S.274.6S7    68.3;:.556    46,230.469    23.750.517    21.324.221    21.681,164
5RS,7I TD TPo                        10.400.00C    1C.400.000    l0.400.000    : .400.CmO
EAZ: CG. YkAZA-LE S aPITI5.             qs.q7s      1.S19,533     5.341.523     2.202.848    18.995.783    13.D--.,77    21,022,32    30.197.370
F.4Z C, Czl)C:D ASE0                  4, S60.OX                                                                          4.439,78S
G--TCE ;>LPIIF                             . :030C
5C. DOO
ClcAiE IN -4C4 LOAN rT3 7F07;                                                                                                          2,752,832
TrtA. &~'.CA-:I.N C FUDS           1C. qlS,C95   4S.4C4., 3    G2273.D  0. E3.,63.31E    4.,746.305      3.4044,79     47,143,9^S    32.950,252
fD 
M Li



- 67 -                                Annex 6A
TaMle 1
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Solvency Test - Birguni Town Panchayat
1'988/89     !989/90       1991/91       !991J92       1992/93
CURRENT REVENUES                              19,423,094    21, 68,395    5J, 020,488    28,997,943    33,632∞297
XlRRENT EXPENDITTRES                           0. 977,718   12,993,696    15,732,684    19,1445,149   23,41o0141
CURRENT ACCCUNT SURPLUS                        8,635,376     8.664,69?      9,287,804    9,852,784    10,2221,.'
AVAILABLE FOR INVESTMENT
COMMIT TED INVESTMENTS
SOCIAL PROGRA S                                    0             0             0             0             0
ORDlINARY rArITAL                             57,553        71,941        89,927        112,408      140.515
---------------------                                   ------- Ö -                            --------Ö
TOTAL COITTED INVESTMENTS                         57,5553       71,941        39,927       112,408       140,511
SURPLUS / DEFICIT                              7,8S8,209     7,870,699     8,423,894     8,919,310     9,229,800
SUPLUS AYAVILABLE FOR
CAPIlTAL .NVESTMENTS (75%                       5,893,656    5,903,024     6, 317, 20    6,689,483     6,922, 350
TPDFB LrAN                                     4t4551,000    4,890,000     3t240,000     3,385,000             0
COST RECOVERY
SUBCOMPO%ENT                                       0             0             0             0             0
SUBCOPOPENT                                        0             0             0             0             0
SLUMPONENT                                         0             0             0             0             "'
--------   - -- - - - ----------                                                           -    --------
TOTAL CDST RECOVERY                                    0             0             0             0             0
TOTAL RESOtURCES                               10,348,656    10, 793, 024  9,557,920    10,074,483    6, 922, 35
PROJECT COSTS
DRAINAGE                                   7,400,000    9,780,000      6,480,000     6,770,000             0
SOLID WASTE                                 1,510,000            0             0             0             0
SUMPONENT                                          0             0             0             0             0
OPERATION a mAINTENANCE                       356.400       s91,200      259,200       270,800             0
DEPRECIATION                                       0             0             0             0             0
DEBT SERVICE                                  193,300      582,200       978,370      1,991,430    2,286,791
TOTAL PROJECT COST                              9,459,700    10,753,400    7,717,570     9,032,230     2,286.791
SURPtUS AVAILABLE FOR
ADDITIONAL CAPITAL OLUTLAYS                       388,96         39,624     1,840,350     1,042,2053    4,635,L59
Ö=-_=:__ _  _______________==______-========- Ö=______--- -     -------     - - -----=



- 68 -                                   Annex 6A
Table 2
BIR6UNJ TOWN PANDiVYAT
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATMRS
= ~~~~~-G#=_:- GX=-- -     ______X -     =      __= _  ------- _==  __ - ====_#=__ -==
1988/89       1989/90        !990/91       1991/92        199W/93
-    -       == X___=--   -     _____  --__====__-  - ---==== -     _=__==__-GG-==X-
1. current revenues I currer.t expenditures           1.80          1.67           1.59           I.51          1.44
2. debt service I current revenues                    0.01          0.03           0.04           0.07          0.07
3. debt service / current expenditures                0. 02         0.04           0.06          0.10           0.10
4. total comitted imv. / current rev.                 0.00          0.00           0.00           0.00          0.00
5. total capital inv. / current rev.                  0.46          0.45           0.26           0.24          0.00
6. personnel exp. / current exp.                      0.57          0.60           0.63           0.65          0.68
7. cost recovery / investeent cost                    0.00          0.00           0.00          0.00           0.00



Annex 6A
- 69  -                                    Table  3
PROJECT COSTS / TPDFB FIW CING / TOdN FflNdCING
(In Nillion Rupees)
1988/89     1989/90     1990/91      1991/9,'    1992/93      TOTAL  Di.tribution
SOCIAL IW(RASTRUCTURE PROJECTS/COSTS
DRAIENA6E                                  7400000     9780000      6480000     6770K00                 3043000
SIICOET                                                                                                        0
SUBCIENT                                                                                                       0
SUBTOTAL                                   7400000     97800        648 0       6770000            0    304300(0       95. 27%
RFEtaE GEtER5TING PROJECTS/COSTS
SOLID WASTE                                1510000                                                       151(00
SUCOWONENT                                                                                                     0
S9J ENT                                                                                                        0
SUBTOTAL                                   1510000           0                  0                 0      151000         4.73%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            8910000     9780         6480000     677000             0    31940000      100.00%
TPDFB LEVERAGE                                   50.00%
TPDFB FINANCING
SOCIAL IFRASTRUCTURE                         37(00       4890(0       3240000     3385000           0    152215000
REVEMIE GENERATING                            755000           0            0           0           0       7550
TOTAL TPDFB FINUICNG                           4455000     4890000      3240000     3380               0    15970(K0
TOWN FIICING                                   4450        489D0000     34000       338500             0    15970000
TOTAL FINACING                                 8910000     978000       6400000     67700             0    3194000



Annex  6A
-  70  -                                      Table  4
LOAN DiSBURSE1ENT AND DEBT SERVICE SCWECDLE
SOCIAL IWFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
1988/89     1989/%0      1990/9!     1991/K9      19921'93    1993194      1994/95
INTEREST RATE                                      8.00%
COMITtENT FEE                                      0. (00
DISBURSEMENTS TPDFB                             3700000     4890000      3240000      3385000           0
DISBURSEMENTS, ACCUPULATED                      3700(00     8590(Ki0    118300K0i    1021500I           0
UNDISBURSED LOAN BALANCE                       11515000     66250"0      3385000            0           0
APORTIZATION TPDFB                                    0            0           0       788667     1030452      1030452     1030452'
[EGI6NNING BALANCE                                    0     370000i    8590000    11830000    14426333    13395881   12365429
YEAR END BAlJWCE                                37(K0K00    8590000O   118300K0   14496333    1339 8f81    12365429    11334976
AVERAGE LOQN BALANCE                            18500K)    6145(K0)    !!(2K0000    13128167    13911107    12880655    11850202
INTEREST                                         1480        49160        816800     1050253      1112889      1030452      948016
CUMNITENT FEE                                         0            0           0            0           0            0           0
TOTAL INTEREST A FEE                             14800       491600       316800      1050253     1112889      1030452      948016
SUMMARY OF DEBT SCHEDULE
AMORTIZATION TPDF                                     0            0           0       78667      1030452      103042      1030452
INTEREST A FEE                                   14800       491600       816810      1050253     1112889      1030452      948016
TOTAL  DEBT SERVICE                              148(00      491600       31680       18389200    2143341      2060905     1978469
Ö===    _             =_===_===_=== ========= =_==__  _=====-====-==== ===-= = = _ = = = = = = --



-  71 -                                    Annex  6A
Table 5
LOAN DISBURSEMENT AND DEBT SERVICE SCNEDlLE
REM    GENERATING PROJECTS
1988/89     1989/90     1990/91     199193/9    1992/93      1993/94     1994/95
INTEREST RATE                                   12.00%
CWOWITPNT FEE                                    O.00%
DISBIJRSEIENTS TPDFB                           755000            0           0           0           0
DISBURSE£NTS, ACCUNLATED                       755(VKt           0           0           (0          0
UNDiSBURSED LWO  BIALlE                             0            0           t0          0           0
AMORTIZATION TPDFB                                  0            0       75500       75500       75500       75500       75500
BEGINNING BlYJNCE                                   0       75500)      755"0       6795W       604000      5i28500     45300
YEAR END B$LMUCE                               755000      75500        67950       60(14000    528500      453000      377500
AVERAGE LOAN BWLJ4CE                           377500       755000      717250      64175O      566250      490750      415e25
INTEREST                                        4530    0   90           6170        77010       67950       58890       49830
COITENT FEE                                         0            0           0           0                      0           0
TOTAL INTEREST I FEE                            4530(       90600        86070       77010       67950       58890       49830
SURRY OF DEBT SCHEDULE
PAORTIZATION                                        0            0       75500       75500       75500       75500       75500
INTEREST I FEE                                  4530('      90600       86070        77010       67950       58890       49830
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                              45300       90600       161570      152510      143450      134390      125330



- 72 -                                  Annex 6A
Table 6
BIRGUNJ TOIM4 P   YAT
PROJECTION ON EXISTING OPERATION (MULTIPLE RATE)
FY44/45       FY45/46       FY46/47       FY47/48       FY48/49       FY49/50
(1987/88)     (1988/89)     (1989/90)     (1990/91)     (I991 /9)     (1992/93)
CURRENT REEMES                     14666091      19423094      i 165K}5       25020488     208997943      3363297
BALANCE FORWIARD                    62915        471&824       719615         722058        773984        82L1065
01*4 SOURCES                     14237308      18M77913       00557849      23909626      27826974      32405743
TRAME TAX                      12900226      17157301      19044604      22293613        M96904       30549035
VEHICLE TAX                      52O;z;        525022        525022        525022        525022         525022
PROFESSIONRL TAX                  23837         252036        26717          28285         29946         31704
OTHER TAXES                      250201        267715        2864'5         3(0657        327963        35B020
FEES AND FINES                   111072        1205512        141828        160266        181100        204643
PROPERTY RENTALS                 374175        419076        469365         52'5689       588772        u59425
OTHER REVENUES                    52775         58052         63857          70243         77267         84994
MISCELLANEOUS INCOMES              180616        180616         180616        180616        180616        180616
H14/ADMINISTRATIVE GRANTS          185453        192741        200316         208188        216370        22U4873
INTERFUND LORNS                         0             0             0             0              0             0
CPITAL REVENUES                           0             0              0             0             0             0
CAPITAL GRANTS                          0             0             0              0             0             0
LOANS                                   0             0             0              0             0             0
TOTAL REVENUES                     1466629l      19423094      21658395       250wO0488     208997943     33632297
=!3=_____________~ --- __ -- _____==-w a=-===-w===--cw - ------
CURRENT EXPENDITURES                9004406      10787718       12993696      15732684      19145159      23410141
SAL-ARIES                         4174509       5369253       6905933       8892411       11424558      14694'66
ALLOSFNCES                         520971        562649        607661         656274        708776        765478
OTHER PERSONNEL EXP.               2111122       240046        27,2932        310324        352J838       401177
OFFICE SUPPLIES                    375025        450030         540036        648044        777652        933183
OPERATION AND MAINTe?d             70(834        84200         1017840      121408        1465690       1758828
FINANCIAL ASSISSTANCE              570632        627695        690464         759511        835462        919008
CONTINGENCIES                     2445313       2689845       2958829        3254712       3580193       3938201
DEBT PAYET                              0             0             0              0             0             0
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                  46043         57553          71941         89927        112408        140511
SOCIAL PROGRANS                         0             0             0              0             0             0
ORDINARY CAPITAL                    46043         57553         71941          89927        112408        140511
CAPITAL INVEST)ENT                      0             0             0              0             0             0
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                  9050448      10845271       13065638      15822610      19257567      23550652
CURRENT ACCOT   SURPLUS             5661886       8635376       8664699        9287804       9852784      10222156
ACDILATED CURRENT ACCOUNT           5661886      14297262      2296191        32249765      4210k549      52324706
SURPLUS/DEFICIT                     5615843       8577823       8592757        9197878       9740376      10081646
PROVISION NORKINS CAPITAL            471824        719615         7,2208        773984        82106         851846
NT SlUPLUS FOR CAPITAL OUTLAY       5144019       7858209        7870699       8423894       8919310       9229800
ACCUTED SURPLUS                     5144019      1300,2228     20872927       29296821      38216131      47445931



- 73  -                                 Annex 6A
Table 7
ASSUMPTIONS:
COMPOUND   SIMPLE MINIMUM      mASE           SELECTED GROWTH RATES I
AVERAGE  AVERGE POSITIVE     LINE  FY44/45 FY45/46 FY46147  FY47148  FY48/49 FY49/50
REVENUE ITEMS      GROWTH  GROWTH   GROWTH    YEAR 41987/88) (1988/89) (1989/90) (1990/91) (1991/92) (1992/93)
TRADE TAX            14.71%   17.06%    1.81% 9555723    3i. 00%   33.00%   11.00%   17.06%   17.06%   17.06%
VEHICLE TAX          4.98%    6.04%   8.95% 669585  -21.59%   0.00%    0.00%    0.00%    0.00%   0.00%
PROFESSIONAL TAX    -0.99%    5.87%   12.94%  22-515    5.87%   5.87%   5.87%    5.87%    5.87%   5.87%
OTHER TAXES          76.15%  208.31%    6.66% 233833      7.00%    7.00%    7.00%    7.00%    7.00%    7.00%
FEES AND FINES       13.36%   17.13%   13.02%   98294    13.00%   13.00%   13.00%   13.00%   13.00%   13.00%
PROPERTY RENTALS     I1.52%   14.64%   12.59%  334095    12.00%   12.00%   '2.00%   12.00%   12.00O   12.00%
OTHER REU£NUES      27.64%   64.31%  68.15%   47977    10.00%   10.00%   10.00%   10.00%   10.00%   10.00%
MISC. INC£0ES       23.62%  311.22% 1662.01%  180616    0.00%   0.00%   0.00%    0.00%    0.00%    0.00%
HM6/ADKN. GRANTS    12.28%   33.8X%   3.93%  178440       3.93%    3.93%    3.93%   3.93%    3.93%   3.93%
ASSUMPTIONS:
COMPOUND   SIMPFLE  MINIMUM    BASE          ( SELECTED GROWTH RATES )
AVERAGE AVERAGE POSITIVE     LINE  FY44/145  FY45/46  FY46J47  FY47/48 FY48/49  FY49/50
EXPENDITURE ITEMS  GROWTH  GROWTH  SROWTH    YEAR 11987/88) 41988/69) (1989/90) (199/91) (1991/92) (1992/93)
SALARIES            28. 6O%  32.86%    9.93% 3245614    28.62∞%  28.6,%  28.620%  28. 6O%  28.6X%  28.62%
ALLOWANCES            2.74%   18.72%  50.01% 482381      8.00%   8.00%   8.00%    8.00%   8.00%   8.00%
OTHER PERSONNEL       3.91%   13.70%   25.30%  140748    50.00%   13.70%   13.70%   13.70%   13.70%   13.70%
OFFICE SUPPLIES      19.05%  44.80%   87.60%  312521    20.00%   20.00%  20.00%  20.00%  20.00%  20.00%
OPER. AND MAIN.      14.20%   19.74%   8.31%  58902∞8   20.00%   20.00%  20.00%   20.00%   20.00%   20.00%
FIN. ASSISTANCE      19.28%  28.41%   47.40%  518756    10.00%   10.00%   10.00%   10.00%   10.00%  10.00%
CONTINGENCIES       70.79%  155.66%   10.42% 2x53012    10.00%   10.00%   10.00%   10.00%   10.00%  10.00%
SOCIAL PROGRAS       0.00%    0. 0O%*'*ff*e*       0     0.00%    0.00%    0. 00%    0.00%   0.00%    0.00%
ORDINARY Cl          -8.79% 228.46%  536.92%   36834    25.00%   25.00%  25.00%  25.00%  25.00%   25.00%



-  74 -                                   Annex  6A
Table  8
BIRGUNJ TOWN PACMHAYRT
MAJOR REVENUE AND EXPENDITURE ITEMS
=_-     _ - -    -=C.-=====_===-=--C-=-C-==== -  ==-_=-=-======C=--==C===
FY38/39       FY39/40       FY40/41        FY41/42       FY42/43        FY43/44
CURRENT REVENUES                     5663413       9838246       8164426       10301938      10937772       1145E'25,
BALMNCE FORWARD                    -133582       1161879        572899         973881          4611          31457
OWN SOURCES                        5634438       725659A5      6227048        8191372       8474161       10962,012
TRADE TAX                       4811544        6394579        171326       7279798       7411724       9555723
VEHICLE TAX                       52563         463116        53JC573        481710        6145%0        66958J5
PROFESSIONAL TAX                   23669         26731         42592          48944         45190         22515
OTHER TAXES                        13786         28033         29899          11359         23753        233833
FEES AND FINES                     52509         41066         38453          58510         66127         98294
PROPERTY RENTALS                  193707        267601        395517         301496        296740        334085
OTHER REVENUES                     14160         35469         16688           9555         16067         47977
MISCELLANEOUS INCOXES                62-557      1114772       1084479         845685        27000          180616
HKG/ADMINISTRATIVE GRANTS           100000        305000        28000f0        291000        335000         178440
INTERFUND LOANS                         0              0             0              0       1854000        100000
CAPITAL REVENUES                           0             0             0              0             0        l000oo
CAPITAL GRANTS                           0             0             0              0             0        20000
LOANS                                    0             0             0              0             0             0
TOTAL REVENUES                      5663413        9838246       8164426       10301938      10937772      11652525
Ö- Ö - - ÖÖÖÖ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                         - -- --   ---- -              -----
CURRENT EXPENDITURES                 2516542       3433985       4450358        4919264       7986465        760k2060
SALARIES                            9221(02      1462383       1286566        2330041       2561332       3245614
ALLOWAMCES                          421495        632297       1027134         690934       1200132        482381
OTHER PERSONNEL EXP.                116202        149359         187142        131700        246534         140748
OFFICE SUPPLIES                     130667        285?73        141379         265223        564553        312521
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE           303223        420414        71864W1        826820        895552        589028
FINRNCIAL ASSISSTRACE               214853        143364        211322         371380        305166        518756
CONTINGENCIES                       153000        246895        325638         252577       2013196       2223012
DEBT PAYMNT                        255000          93500        552537          50589        200000         9O000
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                 1384932       5831362       2740187        5378063       2857460        3987S55
SOCIAL PROGRAMS                          0             0             0              0             0             0
ORDINARY COPITAL                    58337         479147          7000           5791         36884         36834
CAPITAL INVESTIENT                 19266&5       5352 215      2733187        5378272       2L20576        3950716
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                  4501534        9265347       7190545       10297327      10843925      11589610
CURRENT WCOT SURPLUS                 3146871       6404261       3714068        538674        2951307        3850465
AClXWLqATED CURRENT AlCCONT          3146871       9551132      13265200       187874        21599181      25449646
SURPLUS/DEFICIT                      1161879        572899        973881           4611         93847          215
rs~~~~~=:==--------~=a==_  a=c&caz~~_f5= __: -=- ~~~r=z:=r_rre-=r-==:--r=_ar- Ös



- 75 -                                 Annex 6B
Table 1
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT COMPONENT
Solvency Test - Nepalgunj Town Panchayat
1988/89       !989?J         19?0J91       1991/92        1992193
CURRENT REVENUES                                    7768885      10281138       11529477      12412096       13363220
CURRENT EXPENDITURES                                4092437       4878172        5953357       7414788        9795633
CLURRENT ACCOUNT SURFLUS                            3686449       5402966        5576120       4997308        3567587
AVAILABLE 'OR INVESTMENT
COMMITTED INVESTMENTS
SOCIAL PRO6RMS                                  267503         294254         338392        378999         424479
ORDINARY CAPITAL                                  58168         63?985         70383         77422          85164
---         ~--~-           r-----  --__                                       __     __-_r___
TOTAL COMMITTED INVESTMENTS                          325871        358238         408775        456420         509642
SUPLUS AVAILABLE FOR
CAPSITAL INVESTMENTS (75%)                          2520583       3783546        3875509       3405666        2293459
TPDFB LOD4                                          4477949       5128.∞00             0             0              0
COST RECOVERY
DRAINAGE                                              0             0              0             C              O
SOLID WASTE                                      309546        371455         412728        552734         552734
DUSPARK                                               0             0         998000       1226000        1318000
--~~~-- ~ ~~~-- -~~ -- -------_                                                                     _ 
TOTAL COST RECOVERY                                  309546        371455        1410728       1778734        l870734
TOTAL RESOURCES                                     7308078       9283201        52862037      5184400        4164193
PROJECT COSTS
D, .. .!.m                                     30SO30         5090000              0             0              0
SOLID WASTE                                     1071070             0              0             0              0
BUS PARK                                       2236000        2236000              0             0              0
OPERATION I MAINTE?aCE                          255883         293040              0             0              0
DEPRECIATION                                          0        107107         330107        330107         330107
DEBT SERVICE                                    225417         6872,6        1288432       1608334        1531234
TOTAL PROJECT COST                                  6878370       8413413        1618539       1938441        1861341
SURFUJ. 'VAILABLE FOR
RDDITIOTAL CRPITAL OUTLAYS                           429708        869788        3667698       324598         2302852



- 76 -
Annex 6B
NEPALGUNJ TOMt PANCHAYAT                                                                         Table  2
FINPNCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
1988/89       19 J9190      1990/91        1991/2        1992/93
1. current revenues I current expenditures           1.90          2.11           1.94          1.67           1.36
2. debt service / current reverues                   0.03          0.07           0.11          0.13           0.11
3. debt service . current expenditures               0.06          0.14           0.22          0.22           0.16
4. total ccomitted imv. I current rev.               0.04           0.03          0.04          0.04           1.04
5. total capital inv. / current rev.                 0.87          0.75           0.04          0.04           0.04
6. personnel exp. / current exp.                     0.65          0.65           0.66          0.69           0.73
7. cost recovery I investment cost                   0.05          0.04           0.87          0.92           1.01



Annex 6B
-  77 -                                   Table 3
PROJECT COSTS / TPDFB FIMNdCING / TOWN FINACING
(In Nillion Rupees)
1988/89     1989Y90     1990/91      1991/92     1992/93      TOTAL  Distrabutiorf
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS/COSTS
DRAINAGE                                   3090000     5090000                                           8180000
SUBCO<NENT                                                                                                     0
SURCO1PtOENT                                                                                                  -0
SUBTOTAL                                   3090000     5090000            0           0            0     8180000       59.61%
REVENUE GENERATING PROJECTS/COSTS
SOLID WASTE                                1071070                                                       1071070
BUSPARK                                    2236000     2236000                                           4472000
SUBCOEPONENT                                                                                                   0
SIUBTOTAL                                  3307070     2236000            0           0           0      5543070       40.39%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            6397070     7326MM0            0           0            0    13723070      100.00%
T1PDFB LEVERAGE                                  70.00%
TPDFB FINANCING
SOCIAL INFRASTRUCTURE                        216300K0    3563000(           0           0            0     5726000
REVENUE GENERATING                           2314949      1565200           0           0           0      3880149
TOTAL TPDFB FINANCING                          4477949     51282000           0           0            0     9606149
TOMI FINANCING                                 1919121     219.'1800          0           0           0      4116921I
TOTAL FINANCING                                6397070     7326000            0           0            0    13723070



-  78 -                                 Annex 6B
Table 4
NEPALGUNU T0MN PFH4CHAYAT
PROJECTION ON EXISTING OPERATION (MULTIPLE RATE)
FY44/45       FY45/46       FY46/47        FY47/48       FY48/49        FY49/50
41987/88)     (1988/89)     (1989/90)      (1990/91)     (1991/92)      (1992,'93)
CURRENT REVENUES                     6549470       7768885       10281138      11529477      12412096       13363220
B%ALACE FORWARD                    834374         233819        280            400394        4X0612         378407
014Y SOURCES                       5513615       7333585       9782885       108908%       11744917       12728030
TRAEE TAX                       5019268        6776012       9147616       10153854      108646524      11625147
VEHICLE TAX                       356214        407616        472435         560182        688157        894103
PROFESSIONAL TAX                   50001         55002         60502          66552         73207         80528
MThER TAXES                       44111          47199         50502          54038         57820         61968
FEES AND FINES                     41520         45257         49330          53770         58609          63884
PROPERTY RENTALS                       0             0             0              0             0              0
OTHER REYENUES                      2500          2500          250(t           500          25010         25Q0
MISCELLANEOUS INCOMES                34404         34404         34404          34404         34404          34404
HMG/ADNINISTRATIVE GRANTS           167077        167077        183784         183784       2.0163         2220379
INTERFUND LOaNS                         0              0             0              0             0             0
CAPITAL REVENES                            Q             0              0             0             0              0
CAPITAL GRRNTS                           0             0              0             0             0              0
LOWNS                                                  0              0             0             0              0
TOTAL REVENIUES                     6549470        7768885      10281138       11529477      1241200%       13363220
CURRE; EXPENDITURES                  3458148       4(0&437       4878172        5953357       7414788        9795633
SALRIES                           169I5619       2049596       2520256        31624         42E57527      6113161
ALLOWANCES                          379716        419016        46672,1        528784        615835         748910
OTHER PERSONEL EXP.                 157677        170651         18607         205771        232701        272677
OFFICE SJPPLIES                     357652        429182        515018         6182          741626         88995s2
OPERATION AND PA AINE E             597331        716797        860157        1032188       1135407        1248948
FINANCIAL ASSISSTANCE                97641        106827         1178i3        132132        151305         181742
CONTINGENCIES                       172512        190367        212040         240237        279786         340244
DEBT PAYENT                              0             0             0              0             0              0
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                  285492        325671         358238        408775        456420         509642
SOCIAL PROGRRAS                     232612        267503        294254         338332        378999        424479
ORDINARY CAPITAL                     52880         58168         63985          70383         774202         85164
CAPITAL INVESTNENT                       0             0              0             0             0              0
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                   3743639       4408108       5236410        6362132       7871208       10305275
CURRENT ACCOUNT SURPLUS              3091322       3686449       5402366        5576120       4997308        3567587
ACCU)NLATED CURRENT ACCOUNT          3091322       6777771       12180737      17756857      22754165       26321752
SURPLUS/DEFICIT                      2805830       3360777       5044728        5167345       4540887        3057345
PROVISION WORKIN6 CAPITAL             233819        280065        420394         43Q612        378407         254829
NET SUIPLUS FOR CWPITAL OUTLAY       2572011       3080712       4624334        4736733       41622480       2803116
ACMR UTED SURPLUS                    2572011       5652724       102077058     15013791      191762∞71      21979387



Annex 6B
- 79 -                                  Table 5
ASSUNPTINS:
COMOPUND   SIMPLE MINIMUM      BASE            SELECTED GROWTH RATES I
AVERAGE  AVERAGE PMSITIVE     LINE  FY44/45 FY45/46  FY46/47 FY47/48  FY48149 FY49/5O
REVENUE ITEMS       GROWTH  GROWTH   GROWTH    YEAR (1987/88)198/89(l1989/90)(1990/91)(1991/92)(1993J/93)
TRADE TAX           28.09%   32.94%    7.22X 3225965    54.00%   35.00%   35.00%   11.0O%    7.0O%    7.00%
VEHICLE TAX          14.43%   30.21%   37.67%  213302    67.00%   14.43%   15.90%   18.57%  22.85%   29.93%
PROFESSIONAL TAX    -33.65%    5.17%   64.33%    4794   943.00%    O.00%   10.l00%   10.00%   10.00%   10.00%
OTHER TAXES           5.79%    7.14%   21.46%   41225     7.00%    7.00%    7.00%    7.00%    7.00%    7.00%
FEES AND FINES        4.16X   8.47%    0.96%   38092    9.00%    9.00%   9.00%    9.00%    9.00%    9.(0%
PROPERTY RENTALS      O.(0%    0.00%*********       0    0.00%    0.00%    0.00%    0.00%    0.(06%    0.00%
OTHER REVENUES      -31.24%   -3.72%   68.77%    2500    0.00% (O.00%    0.00%    0.00%    0.00%    0.00%
MISC. INCOMES       12.08%   99.54% 604.70%   34404       0.00%    0.00%    0.00%    O.O0%    0.00%    0.00%
H?G/ADMN. GRANTS    -5.16%   75.05%   62.32%  151898    10.00%    0.00%   10.00%    0.00%   10.00%   10.00%
ASSUMITIONS:
COMFOUND   SIMPLE  MINIMUM     BASE            SELECTED GROWTH RATES
AVERAGE AVERAGE POSITIVE      LINE  FY44/45 FY45/46 FY46/47 FY47/48 FY48/49 FY49/50
EXPENDITURE ITEMS   GROWTH   GROWTH   GROWTH    YEAR (1987/88fl988/89)(1989/90H1930/91)U991/92)(1992!93)
__________________    -------  -------  _r____   -------   --- ___   - ----   ------__   _-_---- _  _ _
SALARIES             17.79%  20.17%    4.65% 1411017   20.17%   20.88%   22.96%   26.82%   33.20%  43.58%
ALLOWANES             9.78%   18.29%   13.67%  345196    10.00%   10.35%   11.39%   13.30%   16.46%   21.61%
OTHER PERSONNEL       7.95%   12.59%   12.44%  1460       7.95%   8.233%   9.05%   10.57%   13.09%   17. 18%
OFFICE SUPPLIES     24.78%   29.81%    5.40%  2198043   20.00%   20.00%   20.00%   20.00%   20.00%   20.00%
OPER. AND MAIN.      20.62%   S0.58%    9.89%  497776   20.00%   20.00%   20.00%   P" 00%   10.00%   10.00%
FIN. ASSISTANCE      -4.60%    9.09%    6.19%   895J05    9.09%    9.41%   1O. 35%   12.09%   14.96%   19.64%
CONTINGENCIES       111.11    17.89%    A15%  156829    1000%   10.35%  11.39%   13.30%   16.46%   ,1.61X
SOCIAL PROGRAMS      19.70%   49.P      .84%  193843   2?. 00%   15.00%   10. 0%   15.00%   12.00%   12.00%
CRjiNARY Cl           0.00%    0.00r.***t*m*    52880    0.00%   10.00%   1O.00%   10.00%   10.00%   10.00%



- 80 -
Annex 6B
Tpble 6
NEP*qLGUNj TOM  PANCAYAT
MAJOR REVENUE AND EYPENDITURE ITENS
FY38/39       FY39/40        FY40/41       FY41/42        FY42J43        FY43J44
CURRENT REVENUES                     1968598        -916641       r2508007       2351133        3492480       4699210
BALANCE FORWARD                     581415          42954        50334O         558218         376567        953740
OWN SOURCES                        1169730        1828018        1948415       lb7J634       2883J577       3559178
TME TAX                           945306        15K2301       1696481        1452880       2608056        3259265
VEHICLE TAX                       108702         100189        154131          69754         154942        213302
PROFESSIONAL TAX                   37271          61247         32872          78376          46276          4794
OTHR TAXES                         31113          41759         3913J         37273          33w4          41225
FEES AND FINES                     31073          39710         23916          34271          34601         38092
PROFERTY RENTALS                       0              0              0             0              0             Q
OTHER REVENUES                     16265           2812           1825r$        3080           5762         2O00
MISCELLANEOUS INCMES                 19453          16057          1(1871        10430          73CKKi        34404
HOG/AMINISTRATIVE GRANTS            1989'          78381           4539i         97851         158836        15188
INTERFIIO LOANS                          0        245731              0           900o              0             0
CAITAL REVENUES                            0              0         30000         366377         25s900        500000
CAPITAL GRANTS                           (                        30000(K       249000         290(0         5m00O
LOA4S                                    0              0              0        117377              0             0
~~~~~~~-    ------- - -- - ------ - - -- _-- ------------------ -  - -r_- -r- -
TOTAL REVENLES                       196898         2916641       28(7           2717510        3751480      S51m1O
CURRENT EXFPNDITURES                 1437879        1698635        1643850       1873263        2026232       2944431
SALARIES                            622386         651346        604835         977584        1053355       1411017
ALLOWANCS                           216503         363141        417119         20904          303685        34516%
OTHER FfERSOL EXP.                   9s962         112018         103429         70(355        113899        146065
OFFICE SIMIES                        98518         12166j         18233         IE5J444        143145        29043
OPERATION AD  MINTENANCE            194967         214 248        19458         231971         202654        497776
FINACIAL ASSISSTANCE                113282         10386          110289        179614          53913         8%905
04TINGENCIES                         9260I         13235          85359          83791         150581        156829
DEBT FAYMENT                             0              0              0      0                     0             0
CAPITAL EXPENDITURES                  487765         X       4666   6059ViO       193448         771 509       1420(1405
SOCIAL PROGRMS                       78            1039%          331043        148?70         105838        19384.3
ORDINARY CAPITAL                         0              0              0             0              0         52880
CAPITAL lNESTMENT                   4083           610670        274896          44740          65621       117363.
TOTAL EXPFODITURES                  1I9.%4 4        241 33Q1       249783        2071711        279,7741      4364836
CURRENT  CUCiT SURPLUS                530719        1218006         864157        47L287('      1466248        1754779
iRA ATED CURRENT ACCOLQT              530719        17487Z=j      61.233;       3085752        4552?(l0      6306779
SURPLUS/DEFICIT                        4254          503340         558, 1 8      645799         953739        834374
-= =Z=  ==                   .=_ _-- -



Annex 6B
-81 -                                     Table 7
LOAN DISBURSEMENT AND DEBT SERVICE SDIEDULE
SOCIAL ItFRASTRUCTURE PROJECTS
1988/R9     1989/90      199/91      1991/92      1992/93     1993/94      1994/95
INTERFST RATE                                      8.00%
COITMEN  FE                                        0.00%
DISBURSEMENS TPDFB                              2163000     3S63000            0            0           0
DISBURSEMNTS, ACCJU..ATED                       21634       572000             0            0           0
UNDISSURSED LOiN BALANCE                        3563000            0           0            0           0
AMORTIZATION TPDFB                                    0            0           0       381733      381733       381733      381733
BEGINNIN3G BALANCE                                    0     2163000      57200W0     5726000      5344267      42533       4580
YEAR END BALANCE                                2163000     5?26000      5726000     5344267      496233       4580800     4199067
AVERAGE LOAN BALWiCE                            1081500     3944500      5?a700       J535t33     5153400      4771667     4389933
INTEREST                                          86520      31550        458080      442811       412272      381733       351195
COOITMENT FEE                                         0            0           0            0           0            0           0
TOTAL INTEREST I FEE                              86520t     315560       4588        442811       412272       381733      35 19I
SRWARY OF DEBT SCEDLLE
AMORTIZATION TPDF,                                    0            (           0       381733      381733       381733      381733
INTEREST I FEE                                    8652('     315560       4580        442811       4121272'     381733      351195
TOTAL DEBT SERVICE                               98520       315560       458080       824544      794(00L5     763467      7320928
Ö_=_::=:z=:=====S:_==a-:=;=:__    ===^====-::2=--==::_=:=::=:=::  ===



- 82 -                                    Annex 6B
Table 8
LOAN DISBURSEMENT AND DEBT SERVICE SCD£DULE
REVEME GENRATING PROJECTS
1988/89     1989/90      1990/91      1991/92     1992/93      1993/94      1994/95,
INTEREST RATE                                      12.00%
COMMITMENT FEE                                      0.00%
DISBURSEMENTS TPDFB                             2314949      1565200            0            0            O
DISBURSEMENTS, ACCUMULATED                      2314949      3880149            0            0            0
UNDiSBURSED LOAN BRLANCE                         1565200            0           0            0            0
AMORTIZATION TPDFB                                     0            0      388015       388015      388015       388015       388015
BEGINNING BALANCE                                      0     2314949      3880149      3492134     3104119      2716104      2328089
YEAR END BALANCE                                2314949      3880149      3499134      3104119     2716104      9328089      1940075
AVERAGE LOAN BALANCE                             1157475    3097549      3686142      3298127     2910112      F2522097     2034082
INTEREST                                         138897       371706       442337       395775'     349213       302652       256090
COMITMENT FEE                                          0           0            0            0            0           0            0
TOTAL INTEREST A FEE                             138897       371706       442337       39'5775     349213       302652       256090
SUJKRRY OF DEBT SCHEDULE
AMORTIZATION                                           0           0       388015       388015      388015       388015       388015
INTEREST I FEE                                   138897       371706       442337      395775       349213       302652       256090
7OTAL DEBT SERVICE                               138897       371706       83035,2      783790      737228       69066'       644105



-83-
ANNEX 7
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND EARTHQUAKE
EMERGENCY HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Disbursement Schedule
IDA                                             Cumulative
Fiscal       Quarter Ending       Disbursement   Disbursement  Annual  Quarter
Year                             (US$ Million)   (US$ Million)   %
1989      March 31, 1989               0.00            0.00          0         1
June 30, 1989               0.00            0.00          0         2
1990       September 30, 1989          4.00            4.00         10         3
December 31, 1989          15.00           19.00         46         4
March 31, 1990              8.00           27.00         65         5
June 30, 1990               3.30           30.30         73         6
1991       September 30, 1990          0.50           30.80         74         7
December 31, 1990           0.60           31.40         76         8
March 31, 1991              0.70           32.10         77         9
June 30, 1991               0.80           32.90         79        10
1992       September 30, 1991          0.70           33.60         81        11
December 31, 1991           0.70           34.30         83        12
March 31, 1992              0.40           34.70         84        13
June 30, 1992               0.40           35.10         85        14
1993       September 30, 1992          0.40           35.50         86        15
December 31, 1992           0.40           35.90         87        16
March 31, 1993              0.40           36.30         88        17
June 30, 1993               0.40           36.70         89        18
1994       September 30, 1993          0.50           37.20         90        19
December 31, 1993           0.45           37.70         91        20
March 31, 1994              0.45           38.20         93        21
June 30, 1994               0.40           38.70         94        22
1995       September 30, 1994          0.50           39.20         95        23
December 31, 1994           0.50           39.65         96        24
March 31, 1995              0.50           40.10         97        25
June 30, 1995               0.50           40.50         98        26
1996       September 30, 1995          0.40           40.90         99        27
December 31, 1995           0.30           41.20         99        28
March 31, 1996              0.20           41.40         99        29
June 30, 1996               0.10           41.50        1O0        30



Annex 8
-84-                         Page 1 of 3
NEPAL
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND EARTHQUAKE
EMERGENCY HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in the
Project File
1. The Seventh Plan 1985-1990 (A Summary) Part 1: June 1985
2. Nepal's Development Strategy and External Assistance Needs, Vols.
I & II: December 1985
3. Town Panchayat Act 1962 and Amendment
4. Town Panchayat Act (Working Arrangement) Rules 1988
5. Development Board Act 1956; Corporation Act 1964
6. Solid Waste Management and Resource Mobilization Act No. 23
7. Town Panchayat Finance Legislation Study - Draft Report, by MSTP:
April 1986
8. Institutional Framework of Local Government, ii Nepal: February
1988
9. Urban Policy Issues - Nepal: 1987
10. Urban Development in Nepal: Strategic Issues and Opportunities -
A Draft Paper
11. Institutional Development for Local Authorities - Financial
Management Consultants Report, by RTI: November 1984
12. Town Panchayats' Finances: Current Situation and Policy
Proposals, Vol. I, sponsored by GTZ: August 1985
13. Inception Report, by MSTP: November 1985
14. Management Support for Town Panchayats Project, Pilot Phase, Final
Report, by RTI: October 1986
15. Model Tax Record System Report. by RTI: January 1986
16. Financial Analysis Monitoring and Project Impact Analysis
Framework, by RTI: August 1987



-85-                         Annex 8
Page 2 of 3
17. Strengthening Town Government Finance in Nepal: November 1987
18. Working Paper: Cost Recovery and Revenue Generation from Urban
Infrastructure Investment, by MSTP: December 1987
19. Financial Assessment Report: Birgunj Town Panchayat by MSTP:
January 1987
20. Biratnagar Town Panchayat: Management and Finance Plan
21. Financial Assessment Report: Lalitpur Town Panchayat, by MSTP
22. Management and Finance Plan: Pokhara Town Panchayat, by MSTP
23. Summary of Financial Performance of 29 Panchayats: FY41/42 -
FY43/44
24. Development Grants to Town Panchayats: FY38/39 - FY43/44
25. Summary: Analysis of Municipal Service Standards in Eight Town
Panchayats, by PADCO: April 1986
26. Clarification of Issues Regarding Proposed Kathmandu Valley
Development Authority, by MSTP: July 1987
27. Biratnagar Nagar Panchayat Infrastructure Assessment Report, by
MSTP: December 1987
28. Birgunj Nagar Panchayat Infrastructure Assessment Report, by MSTP:
December 1987
29. Dharan Nagar Panchayat Infrastructure Assessment Report, by MSTP:
December 1987
30. Janakpur Nagar Panchayat Infrastructure Assessment Report, by
MSTP: December 1987
31. Pokhara Nagar Panchayat Infrastructure Assessment Report, by MSTP:
December 1987
32. Siddharthanagar Nagar Panchayat Infrastructure Assessment Report,
by MSTP: December 1987
33. Draft Structure Plans for Birgunj and Janakpur, by MSTP: July 1987
34. Birgunj Nagar Panchayat Structure Plan, by MSTP: 1987-2002
35. Training Needs Assessment for Physical Planning Department
36. UNDP/MSTP Tripartite Review Meeting Report



-86-
Annex 8
Page 3 of 3
37. Brief Introduction of Activities of MSTP Project for Town
Panchayats of Nepal: April 1988
38. Proposal for Town Panchayat Development Fund (TDF), by Urban
Devel.opment Division Working Group on Financial Funds:
March 19, 1987
39. MSTP Project - TDF Loan and Urban Infrastructure Services
Investment, by PADCO: April 1988
40. MSTP - Financial Appraisal Methodology for Town Panchayats'
Capital Investment Programs
41. Project Impact Analysis of Napalgunj, Biratnagar and Birgunj
42. TPDFB Loan Appraisal Form; Project Eligibility Criteria
43. TPDFB Loan Preliminary Projects based on December 1988 Prices
44. GTZ - Recommended List of Projects
45. Feasibility Studies on Bus Terminal and Solid Waste in Nepalgunj
46. Equipment for TPDFE
47. Technical Sttpport and Training to TPDFB/includes Recurrent
Budget - 1989-1993)
48. Monitoring Aggregate Financial Performance of Town Panchayats.
49. Report on 'Earthquake Affected Areas Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation Program (EAARRP)", by Mr. B.N. Singh (World Bank
Consultant): October 1988
50. Guidelines for Earthquake Resistant Non-Engineered Construction,
by International Association for Earthquake Engineering: February
1986
51. Ministry of Water Resources Water and Energy Commission: Report
on the Inspection about the Damages Caused by the Earthquake of
August 21, 1988 in Nepal. Report No. 4/4/130988/2/1, Seq. No. 314
52. UNDRO Mission Report, September 22-27, 1988 by Mr. N. Russell.
53. Asian Disaster Preparedness Centre Mission Report, by Prof. Dr.
S.P. Gupta
54. Earth Affected Areas Reconstructed and Rehabilitation Plan by
MHPP: October 1988
55. Sample loan application forms for earthquake emergency housing
loans



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20783R
k    BO∞                                                                              82-                                                                             i4-                                                                              i68                                    N    E  P  A    LEPA
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT AND EARTHQUAKE EMERGENCY
HOUSING RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
'1 J -  (' t-                                                                                                                                                                            I   1C  1F 1 A Toe, Ponehoylol Undp,rFST P-1, ..,.
I           N    D  I A                     y                                                                        CHINA                                                                                                            80b,00   F., Wheeh S.bloe,-ce Have BeH   n  e- Pleeod        Dl..d                   Bo-ndo.,-e
30-                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         l t _ - d- _ | W,is;  F., Wh.,h 5vbpo.c,s  b.e ld be Ido,llfled              Z... B,d.IlxdreS                        30
/     )    ~~~~~~~  \_                          \       V <~~~~011,                                                                                                                                  Rood,                                                                Oeeeleepeeenl Reg,en Boondonie,
) ~           _J     (                                                                                                               - )   )                                                                           ,_nonmoy All Woeohen H,ghnno0,.                                    Inlornnobonol BoeenJeen,ee
Q / /   I   t   g~    _<  &       1                                                                                                                                 Gnonellnd/Eeenlhtne aRod,
_-/ ) <_ / Rondo Under Ceenel,eeeb,on                                                                                                                                                            OlelnInhl Alled 10 FnRl hqukle eF
~~~  Mt~~~~~ee~~~~~.ee,                                                                                 Anponl,                                                       C       Beeneolen Udonee,,)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~pk.,, Ud 
/ X  5nl~                           /,   ,                                             ' C                                                                                                     ,. *    lnternolonol                            ¢                           WenDl  AlW-lAed loon,
(fi   I   g   9   /    >ß                          \T\                                                                                                   O    Toon Po-nho.oys
1ODod,l,e~ld                DSl1ndln, >                            ) nomlo           -->'~       (                                             eo.--1> _                                                                     m     Zone l-eodq,onlen,
r   <     lee 8 Dlp)yn                                                      0> /                                                                                                                                                *1    Naol,neel Copltol
/dlnBen                    0       -       ,                            a                         v) COO
<_,o-\ 8.I J                                                                                                                                                                                       H..dq
U ?  hongedhi         \              I                                                                                                            '$1,, 
re~ s                                                                                           /m                                                                                                                                                          Cs   Henp  m K I    N D IA A:.P(RN   A  P
Ne>  18001                                               nonohe, m r.01                                                                                                                                                                                                                 28',^  I   I   I   I   a8
0I r nSgmef l m  4 1eS 5fwj1Ss  20   0           120  BO         160    MILES          \                                                                                ,
¢semen:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oR eeMlc O 
0  20  10                       810          100   MILES~~0Uldloinod                                                                                 (    5'~ 
82'                                                                                84-,6 \                                                                            85-                                                                             |   B8-                 2
NOVEMBER 1988



