Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1988 NEP
          (Municipal Development and Earthquake Emergency
                  Housing Reconstruction Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
                    TOWN DEVELOPMENT FUND BOARD
                        Dated April 7, 1989
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated  April  7,  1989  between  the INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and the TOWN DEVELOPMENT
FUND BOARD (the Board).
     WHEREAS (A) by the Development  Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between  the  Kingdom  of  Nepal  (the  Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various  currencies  equivalent  to  thirty million nine
hundred thousand Special  Drawing  Rights  (SDR 30,900,000) on the
terms  and  conditions  set   forth   in  the  Development  Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that the Board agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association  as  are set forth in this
Agreement; and
     (B)  by  a  subsidiary  loan  agreement  to  be  entered into
between the Borrower and the  Board,  part  of the proceeds of the
Credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be
made available to the Board  on  terms and conditions set forth in
said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
Page  2
     WHEREAS the  Board,  in  consideration  of  the Association's
entering into the Development  Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has  agreed  to  undertake  the  obligations  set  forth  in  this
Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
     Section 1.01.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined  in  the  Development  Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement  and  in  the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project;
              Management and Operations of the Board
     Section  2.01.  The  Board  declares  its  commitment  to the
objectives of the Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule  2 to the
Development Credit Agreement, and,  to  this  end, shall carry out
Part A of the Project  and  conduct its operations and affairs, in
accordance  with   sound   financial,   administrative,  economic,
technical, social and environmental  standards and practices, with
qualified and experienced management  and staff, and in accordance
with its General Policy Statement and Rules and Regulations.
     Section 2.02.  (a)  The  Board  undertakes  that,  unless the
Association  shall  otherwise  agree,   Loans   will  be  made  in
accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set
forth or referred to in Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Board shall exercise its  rights in relation to each
Investment Project in such manner as to: (i) protect the interests
of the Association and the Board; (ii) comply with its obligations
under this Agreement and the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and (iii)
achieve the purposes of the Project.
     Section  2.03.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of consultants'  services  for the carrying out
of Parts A (iii) and A  (iv)  of  the Project shall be governed by
the provisions of Section II (b) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.04. The Board  shall  carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.03,  9.04,  9.05,  9.06,  9.07 and 9.08 of the
General  Conditions  (relating  to  insurance,  use  of  goods and
services, plans and  schedules,  records  and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition) in respect of Part A of the Project.
     Section  2.05.  The   Board   shall   duly  perform  all  its
obligations under the  Subsidiary  Loan  Agreement.  Except as the
Association shall otherwise  agree,  the  Board  shall not take or
concur in any action  which  would  have  the effect of assigning,
amending, abrogating or waiving  the  Subsidiary Loan Agreement or
any provision thereof.
     Section 2.06. (a)  The  Board  shall,  at  the request of the
Association, exchange views  with  the  Association with regard to
the progress of Part  A  of  the  Project,  the performance of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and  other  matters  relating  to  the  purposes of the
Credit.
     (b)  The Board shall promptly  inform  the Association of any
condition which  interferes  or  threatens  to  interfere with the
progress of Part  A  of  the  Project,  the  accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit,  or  the  performance  by the Board of its
obligations under this  Agreement  and  under  the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Page  3
     Section 2.07. On March 1 of each year, commencing on March 1,
1990 and thereafter, the  Board  shall  prepare and furnish to the
Borrower and the Association  for  their  review and comments, its
proposed Annual Plan, and  Budget  and  Operating Expenses for the
forthcoming fiscal year, and,  thereafter, taking into account the
Borrower's and the  Association's  comments,  if  any, approve and
implement such Annual Plan, and Budget and Operating Expenses.
                            Article III
                        Financial Covenants
     Section  3.01.  (a)  The  Board  shall  maintain  records and
accounts adequate to monitor and record  the progress of Part A of
the Project (including its  cost  and  the  benefits to be derived
from it) and to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the  operations and financial condition
of the Board.
     (b)  The Board shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   for  each  fiscal  year
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as  soon as available
               but in any case not  later than twelve months after
               the end of each such  year: (A) certified copies of
               its  financial  statements  for  such  year  as  so
               audited; and (B) the  report  of such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Association shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning  said  records,  accounts  and financial
               statements as  well  as  the  audit  thereof as the
               Association  shall  from  time  to  time reasonably
               request,  including   without   limitation  on  the
               foregoing unaudited Project  accounts and financial
               statements for each  fiscal  year,  certified as to
               their accuracy and  authenticity  by an independent
               auditor acceptable to  the  Association, as soon as
               available, but not later  than six months after the
               end of each such year.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Board shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until one  year  after  the Association has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last disbursement from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
Page  4
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                            ARTICLE IV
                    Effective Date; Termination
                    Cancellation and Suspension
     Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon  which  the  Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
     Section 4.02. (a) This  Agreement  and all obligations of the
Association and of  the  Board  thereunder  shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
         (i)   the date on which  the Development Credit Agreement
               shall terminate; or
        (ii)   a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
     (b)  If the  Development  Credit  Agreement terminates before
the date specified  in  paragraph  (a)  (ii)  of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify the Board of this event.
     Section 4.03.  All  the  provisions  of  this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE V
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
     Section 5.01. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made  under  this  Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement  shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall  be  delivered  by  hand  or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the  party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or  made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at  such  other  addresses  as  such party shall have
designated by notice to  the  party  giving  such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
     For the Association:
           International Development Association
           1818 H Street, N.W.
           Washington, D.C. 20433
           United States of America
           Cable address:                   Telex:
                INDEVAS                        440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.               248423 (RCA) or
                                                64145 (WUI)
     For the Board:
         Secretary, Ministry of Housing
           and Physical Planning
         His Majesty's Government
         Singhadurbar
         Kathmandu, Nepal
           Cable address                    Telex:
                ARTHA                          2249-NEP
                Kathmandu, Nepal
Page  5
     Section 5.02. Any action  required  or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of the Board or  by the Board on behalf of the
Borrower under the Development  Credit  Agreement, may be taken or
executed by its Executive  Director,  or  by  such other person or
persons as the Board  shall  designate  in  writing, and the Board
shall  furnish  to  the  Association  sufficient  evidence  of the
authority and the  authenticated  specimen  signature of each such
person.
     Section 5.03.  This  Agreement  may  be  executed  in several
counterparts,  each  of  which  shall  be  an  original,  and  all
collectively but one instrument.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                        By /s/ Attila Karaosmanoglu
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                        TOWN DEVELOPMENT FUND BOARD
                        By /s/ Mohan Man Sainju
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
                   Terms and Conditions of Loans
1.   The Board shall  make  Loans  exclusively  to Town Panchayats
eligible under, and to  finance  Investment Projects that meet the
criteria set forth, in the  General Policy Statement and Rules and
Regulations. Except as the Borrower, the Association and the Board
may otherwise  agree,  Loans  for  financing social infrastructure
projects shall include an  interest  rate  not to exceed 8 percent
per annum and a maximum repayment  period of 18 years, including a
grace  period  of  3  years,   and  Loans  for  financing  revenue
generating projects shall include  an  interest rate not to exceed
12%  per  annum  and  a  maximum  repayment  period  of  12 years,
including a grace period of 2 years.
2.   No expenditures for goods, works  or services required for an
Investment Project shall  be  eligible  for  financing  out of the
proceeds of the Credit unless:
     (a)  the Investment Project shall  have  been approved by the
Association and such expenditures shall have been made not earlier
than ninety days prior to the  date on which the Association shall
have  received  the  application  and  information  required under
paragraph 3 (a) of  this  Schedule  in  respect of such Investment
Project; or
     (b)  the Investment Project shall be financed by a free-limit
Loan for which the Association has authorized withdrawals from the
Credit Account and  such  expenditures  shall  have  been made not
earlier  than  ninety  days  prior   to  the  date  on  which  the
Association  shall  have  received  the  request  and  information
required under paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule in respect of such
Page  6
free-limit Loan and Investment  Project.  For  the purposes of the
Development Credit Agreement and this Agreement, a free-limit Loan
shall be  a  Loan  for  an  Investment  Project,  which Investment
Project shall not exceed the sum of $150,000 equivalent; provided,
however, that the foregoing amount  is subject to change from time
to time as determined by  the Association in consultation with the
Borrower and the Board.
3.   (a)  When presenting  an  Investment  Project  (other than an
Investment  Project  financed  by   a   free-limit  Loan)  to  the
Association  for  approval,  the   Board   shall  furnish  to  the
Association  an  application,  in   a  form  satisfactory  to  the
Association, together with (i) a description of the Town Panchayat
and  an  appraisal   of   the   Investment  Project,  including  a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit; (ii)  the proposed terms and conditions of
the Loan, including the schedule  of amortization of the Loan; and
(iii) such other information  as  the Association shall reasonably
request.
     (b)  Each request  by  the  Board  for  authorization to make
withdrawals from the Credit  Account  in  respect of an Investment
Project financed by a free-limit Loan shall contain: (i) a summary
description of  the  Town  Panchayat  and  the Investment Project,
including  a  description  of  the  expenditures  proposed  to  be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and (ii) the terms and
conditions of the  Loan,  including  the  schedule of amortization
therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Association on or before December 31, 1994.
4.   Loans shall be made on  terms whereby the Board shall obtain,
by written contract  with  the  Town  Panchayat  or by other legal
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Association
and the Board, including the right to:
     (a)  require the Town Panchayat to  carry out and operate the
Investment  Project  with  due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in
accordance with sound  technical, financial, economic, managerial,
social  and  environmental  standards  and  to  maintain  adequate
records and accounts;
     (b)  require that: (i) the  goods,  works  and services to be
financed shall be procured  in  accordance  with the provisions of
Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement;  and  (ii)  such  goods, works and
services shall be  used  exclusively  in  the  carrying out of the
Investment Project;
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Association, if the Association  shall so request, such goods,
works,  services,  plants   and   construction   included  in  the
Investment  Project,  the  operation  thereof,  and  any  relevant
records and documents;
     (d)  require that: (i) the Town  Panchayat shall take out and
maintain with responsible  insurers  such  insurance, against such
risks and in  such  amounts,  as  shall  be  consistent with sound
business  practice;  and  (ii)  without  any  limitation  upon the
foregoing, such  insurance  shall  cover  hazards  incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery  of goods financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit  to  the  place of use or installation,
any indemnity thereunder to be  made  payable in a currency freely
usable by the Town Panchayat to replace or repair such goods;
     (e)  obtain all such  information  as  the Association or the
Board shall reasonably request  relating  to  the foregoing and to
the administration, operations and financial condition of the Town
Panchayat and to the  benefits  to  be derived from the Investment
Project; and
Page  7
     (f)  suspend or terminate the right  of the Town Panchayat to
the use of the proceeds  of  the  Credit upon failure by such Town
Panchayat to perform its  obligations  under its contract with the
Board.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                            Procurement
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in Nepal may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts  for  civil   works   estimated  to  cost  $200,000
equivalent or less shall  be  awarded  on the basis of competitive
bidding,  advertised  locally,   in   accordance  with  procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Goods estimated to cost $200,000  equivalent or less shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in  accordance with procedures satis-
factory to  the  Association;  provided,  however, that automotive
equipment and machinery  may  be  procured under contracts awarded
through limited international bidding  procedures  on the basis of
evaluation and comparison of bids invited  from a list of at least
three qualified suppliers  eligible  under  the  Guidelines and in
accordance with the procedures set  forth  in  Section I and II of
the Guidelines  (excluding  paragraphs  2.8,  2.9,  2.55  and 2.56
thereof).
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each  contract for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $200,000  or more, and for each contract
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraph  2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two  conformed  copies of the contract required
to be furnished to  the  Association  pursuant to said paragraph 2
(d) shall be furnished to  the  Association prior to the making of
the first payment out of  the  Special  Account in respect of such
contract.
Page  8
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraph 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to  be  furnished  to  the  Association  pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished  to  the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b)  shall  not  apply  to  contracts  on  account  of  which  the
Association has authorized withdrawals  from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements  of  expenditure.  Such contracts shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section   4.01  (a)  (ii)  of  the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
     (a)  In order to assist  the  Town Panchayats in carrying out
Investment  Projects,  the  Town  Panchayats  shall,  as  and when
needed, employ  consultants  whose  qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory  to  the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the  Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World  Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
     (b)  In order to assist  the  Board  in  carrying out Parts A
(iii) and A (iv) of  the  Project,  the Board shall employ consul-
tants whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
