FILE COPY'
DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMEN'-
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
Report No. 86a--A
APPRAISAL OF
KAFUE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)
ZAMBIA
May 7, 1973
EAST ArRICA PROJECTS DEF.RTMENT
PUBLIC UTILITIES DIVISION
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibiUty for the
ac.uracy or completeness of the report.






CUR1OICY EQUIVALWITJ
US$ 1              =        kwacha (K) o.643
K                           100 ngwee
K 1                =          3s$ 1.v55
K 1 million        =         US$ 1.555 million
WEIGHTS AND MEA3UL'GS
1 meter (m)       2                            3 ,.28 feet
1 Iquare meter (m ) 2                         10.75 square feet
1 kilometer (km)       2                       0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km )             =        0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)                   =        35.3  cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s)    =         35.3 cubic feet per seconi
1 nillion cubic meters (Nm3)                810.7 acre ft
1 kilovolt (kV)                      =       1000 volts
1 kilowatt (kW)                      -        1000 watts
1 kilowat'. hour (kW)                =       1000 watt hours
1 megawatt (1l.:)              =              1000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GA)                 =       1 million kilowatt hours
GWSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAPC         -       Central African Power Corporation
CEC          -       Central Electricity Corporation (Zambia)
CPC          -       Copperbelt Power Company (Zambia)
Gecamines    -       Nationalized Sopper Company 'Zaire)
GRZ          -       Government of the Republic of Zambia
KNBC          -      Kariba North Bank Company (Zambia)
NESCO        -       Northern Electricity  Supply Corporation (Zambia)
SRESC        -       Couthern Rhodesia Eltctricity Supply Commission
SGECO        -       Swedish £bnsulting Group (Sweden)
UDI          -       Unilateral Declaration of Independence by Southern Rhodesia
VFEB         -       Victoria Falls Electricity Board (Zambia)
ZESCO        -       Zambia ElectricityT Frpply CorporatAon
ZAMBIA ELECTRICITY SUPPLY CORPORATION
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30



ZAMEIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KkFUS TTYDM1EL!CTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)-
Table of Contents
page
SWUM  AND CCNCLUSIONS ....................................         i - ii
I. INTRMDUCTION .............   ,               1.......
II.  Tr  POW5Z S E CTOR .................                   .       ..3
Econmic Background ..............   ....                         3
The Interconnected Power System .....................            3
Generating Capacity Avalable to CAPC  .................. 
Develo;ent Program  for the Intorconnectod System.....          5
III. THE FFDJECT ..................,, 
Description of the Project ......................... . . .
Engineering and Constructions.................... ........       7
Project Cost Estimate ..................................         7
.Axount of the Proposed L       oan . ........B...
Unit Costs                 ............... .
Procurement and Disbursement            .      .     ...... 
Ecological tapects ....           ......          ........ 
IV.  JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT ......................                  11
Growth of Market... *.*...... ... .        .. . ........ .. *00..  11
Growth in Denand and &nargy Requirament ...............         12
Least Cost Solution .................. .-..... - . .....        12
Return on Investment ...................        ......          13
V. THE POPPCIaTV ............... s .........                             14
Constitution and Powers             . . .14
ActiVities of ZESCO .......... ...*..... ,..... i4
Management and Staff ...................-----.------.1S
Tariffs . .....................    16
Accounting and Audits ...... . .......      .. . .17
VI. 7YINA1CTJILL ,SPECTS ................ . .   ....... .                 19
Past and Presernt Financial Position..                          19
Financ'ng Pler, ......................................".   21
Future Operations and Financial Position ............    22
V11. AGRUII8 RUGCHED DURING NIOTUT7CN .24



ZAIIBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KAFUE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)
List of Annexes
1        Historical Background
2        Forecast of S"stem Demand and Energy Requirements (1972-1980) -
CAPC's Interconnected Power System
3        Generating Capacity and Energy Available (1972-:980) - CAPC's
Interconnected Syst.m
4        Project Cost: Estimate
5        Estimated Schedu3e of Disbursementr.
6        Environmental Aspects of the Project
7        Return on Investment
8        Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation - Tariffs
9        Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1970-1980
10        Forecast Cash Flow, 1972-1980
11        Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1971-1980
12        Financial Assumptions
M!ap



ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF THE KAFJF. HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)
SUMVARY AND CONCLIJSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project of the Zambia Electricity Supply
Corporation (;.ESCO). The Project is the second stage of Kafue hydroelectric
development and consists of a dam at Itezhi Tezhi on the Kafue River to pro-
vide storage, installation of two additional 150-4W generating units at the
existing station located 250 km downstream of Itezhi Tezhi and a 60 km, 33D-kV
transmission line. A Bank loan of US$115 million equivalent is proposed to
finance the foreign coWLs of the Project and interest during construction
on the Bank loan. The Project is estimated to cost US$138 million excluding
interest during construction and represents the most economic method of meet-
ing the increasing requirements of the Ceatral African Power Corporation's
(CAPC) interconnected power system, of which ZESCO'3 power system forms a part.
ii.       Although this would be the first Bank loan to ZESCO, Bank lendirg 
has been a major factor in developing the interconnected system, jointly owned
by Zambia and Southern Rhodesia through loan 145RN in 1956 for the Kariba 3am,
its South Bank Power Station (Stage I) and the 330-kV power systen, and loan
392RNS in 1964 for power system extensions.  These loans were guaranteed  yv
Zambia, Southern Rhodesia and the UK.  In 1970 the Bauk made another loani
(701ZA) for the Kariba North Bank Company (KNBC) for the Kariba North -ank
Pover Station which was needed to meet requirements of the interconnec.ec
system. The loan is guaranteed by Zambia. Adequate supplies of low cost
power, which the CAP- systen provides, is vital to Zambia's economy, as its
copper industry is a \.ry large user. In spite of the Unilateral Declaration
of Independence (WDI) by Southern Rhodesia in 1965, the CAPC has continued
to function as a joint entity and the interconnected system has operated
efficiently for '.ver a decade.
iii.      ZESCO  as created in 1969 as an autonomous corporation wholly
owned by the Gov-rnment of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ) to be responsible
for all aspects o' electricity supply in Zambia other than the Kariba Project
which is managed by CAPC and the KBXC. It has acquired all such operating
electricity undertakings in Zambia and now provides power to the entire
country, except for the copper mines which are supplied by the Copperbelt
Power Company (CPC) and purchase energy directly from CA2C and the Zambian
Broken Hill Development Company. ZESCO sells the bulk of its generation to
the CAPC and purchases energy, in turn, from CAPC and CPC for most of its
retail supplies. In the year 1971/72, ZESCO generated about one-fifth of the
total electrical energy distributed by LAPC in the two countries. On comple-
tion of the Project (Kafue - Stage II), ZESCO will provide about half of
CAPC's energy requirements.
iv.       Contracts would be awarded oni the basis of international competitive
Bidding in accordance with Bank guidelines. Bid documents for the construc-
tion of the Itezhi Tezhi dam have been reviewed by the Bank and issued to
prospective tenderers. Bids were opened on January 26, 1973 and have been
evaluated.



v.        ZESCO's past fitiancial position has not been satisfactory.  This
was largely due to low tariffs both for its retail power suppAies to its
consumers a-id for its bulk supplies of power from its generatlng stations
to the CAPC and on account of liabilities inherited from predecessor companies.
The ZESCO Board has recently recommended, and the Electricity Council accepted,
a uniform tariff pattern for the country, which ,ill also increase the level
of retail tariffs by about 25%. Government have agreed to this in principle
and is expected to issue administrative orders enabling the revised tariffs
to be effective from 1st July 1973.  This action would be a condition of
effectiveness of thi3 loan.
vi.       The main source of power sold in bulk by ZESCO to CAPC is the  sfu.e
Power Station (Stage I); the tariff is determined by an agreement coanected
with Loan 7O1ZA which results in ZESCO's revenues from these sales fvlUng
below costs of supply. The tariff is currently under review by ZESCO and
CAPC and the Bank is assisting in the negotiations. The General Managers
of ZESCO and CAPC have recently agreed to a tariff pattern for ZESCO's bulk
supplies which will enable ZESCO to fully recover its costs. Consequent
readjustments required in CAPC's tariffs have been proposed 'ay the General
Manager, CAPC. These will be discussed shortly with a view to implement the
new tariffs with effect from 1st July 1978.
vii.      Pending a final decisilt on the bulk supply tariffs, financial
forecasts of ZESCO have been prepared on the basis of the revised retail
tariffs (para. v) and the prevailing bulk supply and purchase tariffs. It
is recognized thzt this represents a conservative picture and that ZESCO's
financial situation would improve considerably with the revised bulk supply
tariffs.
viii.     During negotiations ZESCO has agreed that, commencing from the
fiscal year 1974/75, it will earn an annual financial rate of return of at
least 8%. Even with the prevailing bulk supply tariffs ZESCO will meet this
requirement until 1977. ZESCO would thus contribute from its own resources
about 26% of the financing requirements of a construction program which
includes, in addition to the Iafue Stage II project, expansion of its sub-
transmission and distrib,ution facilities and the Kafue (Stage III) develop-
ment - the most economic next addition which would be needed by the inter-
connected system by the end of the decade. This financial situation is
considered satisfactory.
ix.       The Project represents the least cost solution for meeting the
electricity requirements of ZESCO and CWPC's interconnected sytLem. The
return on the investment on the Project would be at least 18%.
x.        On the basis of the agreements reached during negotiations, which
are listed in Chaoter VII, the Project is considered suitable for a Bank loan
of US$115 million equivalent to ZESCO, with the guarantee of GRZ, for a term
of 25 years, including a five and a half year grace period.



ZAMBIA
APPRAISAL OF TPa KAFUE HYDROELECTRIC PRCJECT (STAGE II)
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report covers the ippraisal of a project of the Zambia
Electricity Supply Co,poration Limited (ZESCO), an entity wholly owned bv
the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ). The Project is the second
stage of the Kafue hydroelectric development and consists of a dam at Itezlii
Tezhi on the Kafue River to provide storage, installation of two additional
150-MW generating units in the existing Kafue power station, located about
250 km downstream of Itezhi Tezhi, and a 60-km, 330-kV trar'smission line
connectlag the power station with the grid at Kafue town.
1.02      The estimated cost of the Project is equivalent to about US$138
million. The Bank has been asked by the GRZ to make a loan of U3S115 million
equivalent zo ZESCO to cover the foreign exchange costs of the Project, and
interest during construction on the Bank loan.
1.03      Production of copper dominates the economy of Zambia (para. 2.01).
Adequate supplies of low cost electric power are vital to its econom"n since
the copper industry is a very large user. Consumption in the Copper)elt
during '971/72 was about 3700 GWh, about 85% of the total consumption in
Zambia. It is expected to reach nearly 6500 GWh during 1979/80.
1.04      The Central African Power Corporation (CAPC) is a company jointly
owned and operated by Zambia and Southern Rhodesia. It supplies power in bulk
through an extensive 330-kV interconnected transmission system (see Map)
to five undertakings distributing electricity in botn countries, of which
ZESCO is one.  ZESCO distributes electricity throughont Zambia, except the
mine areas (para. 5.05).
1.05      During 1971/72, sales Lv CAPC in Zambia amounted to 4210 GWh and
in Southern Rhodesia to 3490 GWh. CAPC's main sources of power at present
are the Kariba South hydroelectrie station on the Zambesi River, which the
Bank helped to finance (loan 145RN) in 1956, thermal power stations lccated
in Southern Rhodesia, purchases from the Copperbelt Power Company "CPj. and,
recently, from ZESCO.
1.06      Until 1971, 90% of Zambia's electricity requirements were met from
power stations located in Southern Rhodesis. Concerned about the zonsequences
to its economy hy possible curtailment of power supplies from Southern
Rhodes'a, the GRZ commenced construction in 1966 of two hydroelectric stations
with a total installed capacity of 100 MW at Victoria Falls and, in 1967, of
the first stage of the Kafue hydroelectric development with an installed
capacity of 600 M%.. The Bank did not assist in financing of the Kafue Project
(Stage I) as it considered that this did not represent the least eost solution
for meeting tCe requirements of the interconnected power system, which at
that time would have been construction of the Kariba North Bank station at



-2-
Kariba (in Zambia'. The bulk of the output of the two Victoria Falls power
stations (740 GWh) and the enLire output of Kafue (Stage I) is sold to CAPC.
The firm output of Kafue (Stage I) is small (1800 GWh) because of the limited
storage and the combined total firm output of the three hydroelectric stations
will meet only half of Zambia's present requirements.
1.07      In 1969 the GRZ decided to proceed with the construcr'in of Kariba
North Bank power station, with an initial installed capacity of 600 MW. Under
aormal circumstances CAPC would have undertaken the construction of the Kariba
North Bank station and the Bank would have made a loan to assist in its fi-
nancing, but, because of the UDI in November 1965, this could not be done
and other arrangements, which included the establishment of the Kariba North
3ank Company Limited (KNBC - which is wholly owned Ty the GRZ), were worked
out. The Bank made a loan (701ZA) of US$40 million equivalent to KNBC on
July 29, 1970, to cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of the project
and interest during construction on the Barsk loan. The loan is guaranteed by
CRZ.
I.O,      The historical background and details of the arrangements referred
to above are given in Annex 1. Briefly, KNBC is to construct the project
using CAPC as its agent and the power station will be leased to and operated
by CAPC as part -7 the interconnected system. The project was scheduled to
commence operatlor in June 1974 but it will be delayed by at least a year as
the civil works contract encountered difficulties during 1972 and the Contrac-
tor went into receivershiD on January 31, 1973. In consultation with the
3ank, the KNBC have issued a letter of intent to Energoprojekt of Yugoslavia,
(one of the arigi:.al low bidders, and the contractor for the Kafue I project),
~o compiete the civil works of Kariba North Project on the basis of the
original unit price offer, adjusted to take into account the altered situa-
tion at site. Negotiations between the Consultant (Gibb) and Energoprojekt
in this regard are in progress. Energoprojekt has taken over the site and
comenced work. Costs have increased and the GRZ has requested aa amendment
to the loan to cover part of this incre ase. For a decision on the matter,
the Bank is awaiting finalization of the contract aL.d preparation of a firm
estimate of completion costs.
1.09      Additional generating capacity will be required in 1977 and the
best method of providing it is by construction of the second stage of the
.<afue hydroelectric development. ZESCO would implement the Project, which
would increase the firm energy generation of the Kafue power station by 3450
GJh and its capacity by 300 MW.  As hitherto, the power output of this station
would be purchased by CAPC and be fed into its interconnected system. Pro-
vided the Project and Kariba North Project are completed according to presont
anticipations, the interconnected system will have sufficient generating capacity
to meet requirements up to 1979, barring a period of limited energy short&ae
in 1975.
1.10      This renort is based on the findings of an appraisal mission cor,-
sisting of Messrs. E. Arnold, F. Rydell and C. White in August 1972, follow-up
missions by Messrs. C. White and C.K. Chandran in October 1972, and by C.K.
Chandran, F. Rydell and P. Jacob in January 1973, and information provided
by ZESCO and its consultants, the Swedish Consulting Group (SWECO).



-3-
iI. THE POWER SECTOR
Economic Background
2.01       Zambia is a imndlocked country with a population of 4.2 million
and an area of some 752,600 km2. Production of copper, representing one
eighth of the world's total, dominates the economy of Zambia. It accounts
for 40% of the gross domestic product, and 95% of the total exports, and is
thte reason "or che unstable nature of th'. economy. Between 1964 and 1969
whien copper prices increased, gross national income grew at an annual aver-
age rate of 17k, but tne subseqt^nt sharp fall in world copper prie;es, com.-
tlned witlh a loss in production due to flooding of the X4ufulira mine, brovght
down t%. per capita GNP from A425 in 196S to about $355 in 1971 with se'ious
repercussions on government rerer.ue and balance of p"'yments. Copper prices
are expected to remain at prevJ.AliL,L levels during the next few vears. Annual
copper production has remainec; at about 700,000 tons since independence but
mtining companies are now engaged ir. an extensive expansion program to boost
annual production to about 875,000 tons by 1976. The government, which has
a 51Z participation in the existing companies, wants to further increase
production and is endeavoring to get foreign interests to start new mininz
ventures.
2.02      GNP per capita is relatively high but there is a distinct contrast
berween the nodern sector and thi! traditional rural sector.  The modern
sector is concentrated in the Copperbelt and along the railroad which runs
irom L,vingstone in the South to the Copperbelt near the Zaire border.
:arrowing the large gap between the urban and rural sectors, raising the
-eneral level of education and developing a wide range of technical, adminis-
trative and managerial skills, are among the main goals of government policy.
The Interconnected Power System
'',03     The CUPC supplies the bulk of the power requirements of Zambia
and Southcrn Rhodesia at present. Its extensive 330-kV grid was commissioned
in 1960 a.ad covers 1900 km from Kitwe in the Copperbelt in North Zambia to
A;ulwayo in Southern Rhodesia.  In snite of the UDI, CAPC has continued
to function as a joint entity and the interconnected system has operated
efficiently for over a decade. Extensions financed by CAPC wili increase ti,z
interconnected system to nearly 2700 km by 1976.  CAPC's customers in Zambia
are thc CopperJelt Power Company (CPC) and ZESCO, and in Southern 'Rhodesia,
the Southern i'Rhodesia Electricity Supply Commission (SITSC) and the two
':unicipalities of Salisbury and Bulwayo.
2.04      CAPC's 705-MW Kariba Soutlh Bank hydroelectric station can generate
5250 GWh annually. The 600-MW Kariba North Bank ,tation, presently under
construction by KNBC, is expected to be commissioned late in 1975 and will
inicrease total energy generation at Kariba to 8500 MWh.



-4-
2.05      Thermal power stations at Lusaka and the Copperbelt in Zambia and
Salisbury, Umniati and Bulwayo in Southern Rhodesia are interconnected in
accordance with a statutory arrangement wit'i CAPC's system. Though not their
owner, CAPC directs thair operation for system purposes and bears full oper-
ating costs, including debt service. ZESCO's hydroelectric stations are
interconnected by mutual atgement, with CAPC purchasing power in bulk from
ZESCO at agreed rates.
2.06      The 220-kV power system of the Copperbelt Power Company is inter-
connected with the power system of the Nationalized Cooper Company (Gecam%nis)
in adjoining Zaire. This enables interchange of power between Zaire and
CAPC's interconnected power system.
Generating Capacity Available to CAPC
2.07      The total generating capacity presently available to CAPC is:
1884 MW comprising 705 MW at Kariba South, 108 MW at Victoria Falls, 600 MW
at Kafue (I) and 471 MW of theTnal stations.  'Until mid-1972 CAPC was able
to imnport power from Gecamines. After this date Gecamines ceased to supply
any power tv CAPC. and has indicated that from 1973 it needs 223 GWh of enerCy
from the interconnected CAPC system, increasing to 2048 GWh by 1978. It is
unlikely that surplus energy of this magnitude would be available from the
CAPC grid until 1977.
2.08      Tables showing system maximum demand and energy requirements during
the period 1971/72 through 1979/80 and the available generating capacity,
and firm energy potential and the capacity of the interconnected system
are attached as Annexes 2 and 3. Present generating capacity is adequate
to meet the maximum demand, and barring a period of limited shortage in
1975, the system would be able to meet the maximum demand until 1977, when
new capacity from Kafue Stage II Project would be needed.
2.09      Tha energy supply position would, however, be difficult until the
commissioning of Kariba North. A period of average rainfall and rehabilita-
tion of thermal stations to permit operation at full capacity would be
needed to assure that energy requirements of the interconnected syatem can be
net, even after excluding the requirements in Zaire. Load shedding may be
required if rain-all during 1973-75 is below normal.  During the negotiations,
GRZ agreed to coi:sider, among other measures, a temporary increase in the
lake level of Kafue Stage I resLzvoir by 1.2 m to tide over anticipated
shortages of energy, until the Kariba North Bank power station commcnces
operation. This is technically feasible with present works and would only
involve submergence of some marginal pasture land. From the standpoint of
firm energy resources, the Kafue Stage II Project woula be needed as early
as practicable, and it is hoped to attain partial filling of Itezhi Tezhi
reservoir in 1976.



-5-
Development Prj4ram for the Interconnected System
2.10      The present development program for the period 1972 through 1978
consists of, in addition to the Proj..ct:
(a)  the completion of the Kariba North Bank hydroeiectric
station, ex',ected to be commissioned late in 1975; and
(b) the expansion of the 330-kV transmission system in ZUmbia
and Southern Rhodesia by CAPC.
2.11      Additional facilities would be required by 1979 and these could
be provided most ecomnomically and conveniently by the third stage of Kafue
(450 MW) and further expansion of CAPC's transmission systems. The s-heme
has been investigated by ZESCO's Consultants, the Swedish Consulting Group
(SWECO), and pLeltminary project cost est1-.iates are evailable.  Plans have
not yet been finalized for the construction of the third stage of Kafue but
it is a logical sequel to ZESCO's current accivities. To have it in operation
by 1980, a decision will have to be made in 1974.



- 6 -
III. THE PROJECT
Description of the Project
3.01      The Project consists of a storage dam across the Kafue river at
Itezhi Tezhi and a 300-MW extension of the Kafue power station located 250 km
downstream. Presently the 600-MW Kafue station operates with little storage
(770 1m3) and can generate 3600 GWh annually, on average, of which 1800 GWh
is firm. This firm output would increase to 5250 GkWh on completion of the
Project and the total annual generation would increase to about 6200 GWh.
3.02      The main features of the Project are:
(i)  a rocl and earthfill dam, 1500 m in length, and 55 m maximum
height above riverbed, involving abcout 8 Mm3 of fill;
(ii) two diversion tunnels in rock, each with a cross sectional
area of 190 m2 and a length of 500 m, incorporating
regulatirng structures and gates;
(Uii) a concrete chute spillwav with tlhree radial gates;
(iv) two 150-MW generating units (numeers 5 and 6) at Kafue station
witlh ancillary civil works and switchyard extensions; and
(v)  a 330-kV single circuit transmission line, 60 km in langth,
connecting the Kafue power station to the Kafue town grid
substatiorn.
3.03      The reservoir would have a gross storage of 570G Mmt3 and a correc-
ponding live storage of 5000 Mm3, sufficient to regulate a catchment of
124,000 km2, with an average anrnual inflow of the order of 7000 Mm3. The
proposed storage ia inclusive of 750 M&13 for release of freshets in dry years
to reproduce the annual flood cycle downstream of the dam on which present
pastural development depends (see para. 3.14). There are no definite plans
at present for development of irrigated agriculture on the Kafue Flats.
The storage may have to be irzreased to meet such future requirements. The
site can easily provide the necessar5 adaitional storage and the dam is de-
sign~ed to permit a future increase in height of 8 n tc increase tthe gross
storage to about 9200 Im3. The basic approach is sound and enables progre. -
sive developnient with minimum initial investment. Regulation of river flow
provided by the Project would be useful for subsequent development of the
200 m drop downscream of the exisLing pcwer station under a third stage
(450-MW) which would provide another 3100 GWh, needed by the end of the
decade (para. 2.10).



-7-
Engineering and Construction
3.04      Feasibility studies and project preparation for the Itezhi Tezhi
reservoir development were carried out during 1967-71. SWECO, the ?roject
Consultants, associated with Messrs. Watermeyer, Legge, Piesold and Uhlman
of the UK in this work, in view of their long experience of hydroelectric
investigations in Zambia. SWECO would continue the designs of the Project
and supervise construction. This firm is acceptable to the Bank. During
negotiations assurances have been obtained that Consultants acceptable to
the Bank vould continue to be employed under t rns and copditions satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.05      The Project location and features have been chosen on the basis of
studies of all available alternatives. Geological conditions and the .ources
of construction material have been investigated by the Consultant3. During
investigations, SWECO constituted a panel of well known experts to review
foundation conditions and project designs. Plans have been based on their
recomendations. Continued use of such experts is provided for in SWECO's
contract.
3.06      The gc^logical formation at the dam site comprises granite, which
in the muin valley portion is encountered at a depth of about 100 m, overlain
by mudstone rock and then by overburden, comprising alluvium, about 10 m
thick.  Granite would not be available as a part of the immediate foundation
for the dam in the valley portion but the mudstone rock would offer adequate
support for the proposed dam. The Board of Consultants has decided that the
alluvium should be removed to the full depth under the central portion of
the dam structure. There are a few faults at the boundaries of mudstone and
granite and at other locations but the system is not regarded as constituting
an active fault pattern.  So major construction problemA are anticipated.
3.0.      Construction work on the dam is expected to comence during the
latter half of 1973. Partial filling of the reservoir is planned during 1976.
The water conductor system of the Kafue power station and the power house
excavation have been completed as part of Stage I for the proposed extensions
under the Project. The work involved now comprises mainly the steel lining
of penstocks and installation of the generating *nits. The generating units
are scheduled to be installed by the end of 1976. An assurance was obtained
during negotiation3 that, after construction, periodic inspection of the dam
and review of its .maintenance would be carried out under arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank.
Project Cost Estimate
3.08      The Project cost estimate was prepared by the ConstAtant (SWECO) in
197i and was revised in December 1972 to reflect subsequent price increases.
The firm, J.. A. Mathews of the USA, who wore appointed by the Dank tc prepare
an indepen(ent estimate of cost of the Itezhi Tezhi Dam, confirmed SWECO's
estimate. Final estimates, however, were reduced in the light of favorable
results through international competitive bidding. Provision for physical
contingencies have been made at about 15% of the cost of works. In view of
the recent experiences of substantial escalation of costs of major civil



-8-
works, Zambia and the Bank agreed that it would be prudent to provide a
large price contingency of about 40%.
3.09      The Project cost estimate is smi-arized below (for details see
Annex 4):
FoMI&n  Local  Total   Foreign  Local  Total
--(million kwacha)-   ---(million US$)----
P'.eliminary Works              0.7      2.0    2.7       1.0      3.2    4.2
Civil Works                    23.7     14.2   37.9    36.8       22.1   58.9
Equipment                      10.0       1.0   11.0    15.6       1.6   17.2
Engineering                     3.8      0.3    4.1       5.9      0.4    6.3
Site Supervision                1.8      0.9    2.7      2.8       1.3    4.1
Sub Total                   40.0      18.4   58.4    62.1       25.6   90.7
Contingencies - Physical        5.0      2.5    7.5      7.7       3.9   11.6
Contingencies - Price          17.0      5.7   22.7    26.5        8.9   35.4
Total Construction Cost        62.0     26.6   88.6    96.3       41.4  137.7
Interest during Construction
on Bank loan                  12.0                     18.7
Total, including Interesr    74.0                      115.0
Amount of the Proposed Loan
3.10      The cost of the Project is estimated at about US$138 million equiv-
alent with an estimated foreign exchange cointent of about US$96 mill'on, or
about 707 of the total cost. The proposed loan would be US$115 milUlon,
comprising tm.. expected foreign cost of the Project and Interest during con-
struction on the Bank loan.
Unit Costs
3.11      As the Project is Intended to firm up the energy potential of the
existing Kafue station, it would not be correct to consider the unit cost per
kW installed of the proposed Project by itself. Taken together with the
costs already incurred on Stage I of the Kafue Project, rhe cost per kW of
the completed 900-MW Kafue station would be US$300,'excluding interest.
Considering that the station would be operating at a very high plant factor
of about 85Z, this is a low-cost project and represents an attractive investment.



-9-
Procurement and Disbursement
3.12      All goods and services costing o;er US$20,000 would be procured
through international competitive bidding. No regional preference apply.
For construction of the Itezhi Tezhi dam, firms having adequate experience
in construction of large dams were prequalified in consultation with the Bank.
Bic invitations for construction of the main dam were issued to prospective
te.derers after review by the Bank.  Bids were opened on Januarv 26, 1973 and
are currently tuder evaluation.  They are about 25% lower than the Consultant's
estimates.  Bids for Kafue power house extensions will be invited by the end
of 1973.
3.13      The fimds of the Loan Accotmt. would finance 70% of the cost of
civil work-;, the CIF cost (port-of-en;ry Zambia) of the equipment and 100%
of the foreign cost of the engineeriag services. Daring negotiations, the
Zam.bian delegation requested that the cost of certain preliminary civil wor'ks
started during 1972 and currently under construction and estimated to involve
a foreign cost of US$1.0 million equivalent may be retroactively financed by
the Bank loan. This has been agreed. The other loan disbursement would be
for foreign costs incurred on engineering after January 1, 1973. Any loan
funds remaining undisbursed upon completion of the Project would be canceiled.
The estimated schedule of disbursemeats is given in Annex 5.
3.14      A few local firms have been engaged on transtission line wor'.  It
is likely that thev may compete for this part of the Project, with the usual
local preference. Procurement of items costing less than $20,000, and limited
to local bidders, are expected to constitute an insignificant oroportion of
the total, and, in any case, would have a very high component of imports.
Ecological Aspects
3.15      The ecological aspects of the Project have been examined in detail
and reported upon by experts. No serious problems are expected. A detailed
report is given in Annex 6. The inundation of about 370 km.2 of virtually
uninhabiteA area under the proposed reservoir is not a matter of great
concern. The growth of aquatic nuisance plants such as water ferr. and water
hyacinth will be monitozed and controlled. By far the most significant
irpact of the Project on the environment is the elimination of flooding of
the Kafue Flats below the dam during dry years, since such flooding is
resnonsible for much of the grass upon which a large number of animals
survive.  To reolace this natural flooding, the reservoir includes a volume
of 750 Nm3 additional to that required for power di3charges. This will
perm-t a discharge of 300 m3/s during March in dry years to induce a degree
of flood which is expected to maintain the natural condition.
3.16      Snail hosts of schistosomiasis and tsetse flies are conmon in
the area. These would present a health hazard to the lador force. Special



- 10 -
preventative measures will therefore be taken to prevent the start or spread
of diseas-es among workmen and the nature of these measures have been indi-
cated in the bidding document issued to prospective bidders for construction
of the Project. The contractor will be made responsible for establishing
medical facilities to screen and treat workers.



- *I1 -
IV. JUSTIFICATION OF THE PROJECT
Growth of Market
4.01      The Project is required to meet ':he needs of the interconnected
system. Sales by CAPC during the past seven years have increased from 4240
GWh in 1964/65 to 7700 GWh in 1971/72 at jan average rate of 9% per annum.
During the period, sales in Zambia increased from 2440 GWh to 4210 GWVh and
in Southern Rhodesia from 1790 GWh to 3490 GWh. The rate of increase was,
however, very uneven.
4.02      In Southern Rhodesia, the increase in sales was very seaall during
the two years following UDI in November 1965. It accelerated thereafter
resulting in an average rate of increase per annum for the past seven years
of about 10%.
4.03      In Zambia, sales to the Copperbelt Power Company in 1966/67 showed
only a 2.7% increase over tie previous year. This was due to a reduction in
mining activities because ; difficulties experienced in the transportation
of copper resulting from the UDI in Southern Rhodesia.  These difficultias
were overcome during 1967/68 and sales increased. However, during 1970/71,
the rate of increase dropped to 3% because of a die-peer at the Mufulira
mine, a major copper producer. The average rate of increase for the past
seven years in Zambia was about 7%.
4.04      Sales to the other companies in Zambia increased at the very high
average rate of 28% per annum during the past seven years. This was due to
the rapid growth of Lusaka after Zambia became independent in October 1964
and the industrial development which took place.
4.05      CAPC forecasts its total sales per annum during the period 1972/73
through 1979/80 to increase from 9600 GWh to 16,400 GWh, at an average rate
of 8% per annum. This figure excludes sales to Gecamines in Zaire, which is
doubtful 'n view of the critical energy supply position during the next few
years.
4.06      Sales in Southern Rhodesia are expected to increase during the
period from 4400 GWh in 1972/73 to 8500 GWh in 1979/80, at an average rate
of 10% per annum. In Zambia sales are expected to increase from 5000 GWh
in 1972/73 to 7900 GWh in 1979/80, at an average rate of about 7% per annum,
and are based on the ongoing program of expansion of the copper industry
(para. 2.01).
4.07      CAPC's forecast of sales has been prepared in concert with the
distribution companies and is considered acceptable. It may be on the low
side as the Zambian Government wants to increase copper production and this
could result in higher sales in Zambia.



- 12 -
Growth in Demand and Energy Requirements
4.08      During the year 1971/72, the maximum demand on the CAPC system was
1228 MW and the energy requirement, including transmission losses, was 8018
aWh. The system load factor of 74% is very high. This is due mainly to the
copper mines in Zambia which operate on a 24-hour basis and result in a load
factor of 81% on the Zambian power system, whereas that of the Southern
Rhodesian system is 64%.
4.09      During the period 1972/73 through 1979/80, system demand is expected
to increase and reach about 2460 MW in 1979/C0. Energy requirements, includ-
ing transmission losses, are expected to amount to 17,000 (oh during 1979/80.
The load factor of the interconnected system is expected to increase to about
80%.
4.10      If Kafue Stage II Project is not undertaken, there would be a deficit
in capacity of 78 M4 in 1978, increasing to 507 MW by 1980 (Annex 2). Without
the Itezhi Tezhi reservoir, the total firm hydro energy resources available to
the CAPC would be 11,000 GWh. Supplemented by the possible thermal energy
production of existing thermal stations of about 2300 %Ah, CAPC would be short
800 GWh in 1977 and this would increase to about 5000 arh in 1980.  The position
coald be worse if the forecast demand in Zambia were to be "i underestimate.
4.11      From the point of view of Zambian power market alone, the firm
hydroelectric energy resources available within the country would barely meet
the estimated requirement in 1977. Thermal generation being small and very
expensive, a new source of hydroelectric energy would have to be developtd
by 1977. The program of construction of Itezhi Tezhi dam is therefore ap-
propriate even from a solely Zambian energy viewpoint. From a demand stand
point the extension of the Kafue power staticn by 300 MW cou,.d be postponed
by about 2 years. If Zaire's indicated power requirements ars added to the
Zambian power market, however, the extension would be justified as proposed.
Least Cost Solution
4.12      Investigations carried out by CAPC recently show that the cost of
development of other hydroelectric sites on the Zambesi river would be con-
siderably higher than Kdfue II. There are two other ways of providing the
additional generating capacity needed by the interconnected system by 1977/78.
(a) the construction of a new thermal station; and
(b) the construction of the second stage of Kafue.
4.13      A thermal power station located at the Maamba Collieries in Zambia
has been investigated as a possible alternative to the second stage of Kafue.
An installation of the order of 6OO M1 would be required to provide the
correspondin, annual station output of 3450 GWh (395 MW continuous), taking



- 13 -
station auxiliary requirements and reserves into account. ZES"O's consult-
ants have estimated the cost of a complete new station employing 200 MW units
at about kwacha 200 per kilowatt, exclusive of interest during construction,
based on the price level of early 1972. This figure allows for the special
boilers required to burn coal produced at Maamba, which has a low calorific
value of about 8000 BTU/lb and a very high ash content (over 40%). Including
K 10 million fot assoclated transmission, the total investment required would
be about K 130 million (US$200 million). This is higher than the estimated
capital cost of Kafue II, excluding intere3t during construction (but provid-
ing adequately for price contingencies) of K 96 million (US$138 million).
The cost of operating a thermal plant would also be much higner. A thermal
station located at the Southern Rhodesian Collieries, where the quality of
coal is better, would involve slightly lower capital costs, but the overall
cost of generation would still be far fzom competitive with the cost of
hydroelectric power from the Kafue River. The second stage of Kafue there-
fore represents the least cost solutiDn.
Return on Tnvestment
4.14      A return on the investment for the project has been calculated and
is the discount rate at which the present worth of its associated system
c.sts, including all capital and operating costs but excluding taxes and
depreciation, is equal to the present worth of the associated system revenues
to be obtained over its lifetime, assuming this to be 40 years. Only the
costs directly associated with the second 3tage of the Project have been
taken into account, as the transmission system requires little addition to
secure the estimated benefits. Revenues have been assessed at the bulk sup-
ply points where CAPC delivers power to the Copperbelt Company, the municipal-
ities and other distributing agencies which fairly represent the prices they
are prepared to pay. These revenues have been used as a minimum value of
the associated economic benefits.
4.15      The equalizing discount rate has been established at 18% (Annex 7),
on the investment. Since the full economic benefits of the Project are not
adequately reflected by the assumed revenues alone, the return of 18% re-
presents a minimum estimate of the economic rate of return for the Project.



- 14 -
V. THE BORROWER
Constitution and Powers
5.01      ZESCO was establlshed by GRZ to take over the existing power supply
undertakings in Zambia, other than CAPC and KNBC, and to be responsible for
all aspects of the generation, transmission and supply of electr4 1ty other
than those carried out by the two above mentioned authorities. It was in-
corporated on December 3, 1969 under the Companies Ordinance of GRZ.
5.02      Shortly after ZESCO was incorporated, the government passed the
Zanibian Electricity Supply Act, 1969, which became effective in January 1970.
This Act provides for the vesting of assets, rights, liabilities and obliga-
tions of existing electricity undertakings in the Corporation by statutory
order of the Minister. It also gives the Corporation power to establish bylaws
regarding the supply of electricity and exempts the revenues of the Corporation
from income tax.
5.03      On July 1, 1970, ZESCO acquired the assets, rights, liabilities
and obligations of the Central Electricity Co-poration (CEC), which distri-
buted power in Lusaka and the surrounding areas, the Northern Electricity
Supply Corporation (NESCO), which supplied small towns and villages in
isolated areas with power generated through small hydroelectric and diesel
generating staticns, and the Victoria Falls :iectricity Board (VFEB) with
its three hydroelectric generating stati:.,s at Victoria Falls. On January 1,
1972, GRZ transferred Stage I of the 600 M Wafue hydroelectric development
to ZESCO.  On the same date ZESCO acquired the Livingstone lunicipal under-
taking whichi received power from VFEB and the Ndola City Council Electricity
undertaking. By July 1972, ZESCO had taken over five municipal electricity
undertakings in tne Copperbelt area which are each supplied in bulk by CPC.
5.04      The articles of association of ZESCO provide that there shall be
a Board of six to ten members, appointed by tne Minister responsible for
electricity, under a Chairman, also appointed by the Minister. The Board
presently consists of a Chairman and eight members of whom one is the
General Manager. The General Manager is appointed by the Board for such
period and on such terms as the Board shall think fit. The present General
Manager, appointed in January 1972, is an expatriate engineer and administra-
tor with wide experience in the electricity supply industry.
Activities of ZESCO
5.05      ZESCO is niw engaged in bulk production, transmission and retail
supply throughout Zambia, except for the Copper Mlines (supplied by CAPC)
and the Zambia Broken Hill Development Company which has a captive power
station, isolated from the grid. It transmits and sells the entire produc-
tion of Kafue station to CAPC under terms of an agreement required under
Loan 701ZA for Kariba North Bank Project. The production from Victoria
Falls hydroelectric station that is surplus to the requirements of the



- 15 -
Livingstone area is also sold to CAPC. For retail supply in its Southern
Atrea, ZESCO purchases pouer in bulk from CAPC and feeds Lusaka ard neigh-
boring areas through a .n.etwork of 88- and 33-kv lines.  In the Northern
Area it relies both on its own isolated generating stations and purchases
from tihe CPC.
5.06       ZESCO's facilities comprise 708-MW hydroelectric and 14-'fW of
thermal installations whicih are linked to the CAP(C' s interconnected system;
and small hydroelectric and diesel installations feeding about lb M3W to
isolated areas.  It has about 2500 km of transmission lines in operation
at voltages from 33 kV to 330 kV, of which 480 km are at 220 and 330 kV.
In 1971/72 it generated 1580 GWh of hydroelectric energy, of which 1470
;Wh was sold in bulk to CAPC. This represented about one fourth of the
total en_~rgy distributed lby CAPC in the two countries. On completion of
the Project (Kafue Stage II), ZESCO will provide about half of CAPC's
energy requirements. In 1971/72 ZLSCO retailed about 700 Guth to its
consumers, who numbered 24,600 on June 30, 1972.
:1anagement and Staff
5.07       ZESCO is short of experienced Zambian staff at all levels.  The
three key manaAement posts, i.e. General 'lanager, Chief Engineer and
Financial Controller, are all filled by experienced expatriates. In order
tlo ensure thiat competent management will be rtaintained during thie litL Of
t;;c ntrooosed loan, an assurance has been obtained during negotiations t.at
thie Bank will be consulted before subsequent appointments are made to thu
posts of Chief Engineer and Financial Controller.
',.dS6    Nearly all senior staff are expatriates, some of whom have been
provided by Sweden under a technical assistance proLran.  ZESCO is making
-:-tensive efforts to recruit trained staff in Zambia as well as foreign
countries.  Early in 1972, ZLSCO establishecl a personnel department under
Lhe direction of an experienced personnel manager and a comprehensive program
of recruitment and training is being carried out to strengthen ZESCO's staff
at all levels. ZESCO has close liaison with the governrnent Commnission for-
7'echnical Education and Vocational Training. At present Zambiaris account
only for 7% of ZESCO's engineers and 20%. of its managerent, professional and
technician cadres, but provide 80-10;% of its supervisory staff, clerical
and administrative personnel, craftsmen, operators and labor. Personnel
policies and training programs aim at Zambianization of all operators,
clerical and administrative ataff and craftsmen by 1976, all technicians
and engineers bv 1980 and of the mana;erfient shortly thereafter.  There is
concern, however, at the inadequate output of 4L_sineers from the University
and of technicians from the government Commission.  Because of this, ZESCO
will have to rely on expatriates to fill most senior posts for some years
to come. An assurance has been obtained during negotiations that ZESCO will
recruit experienced staff to fill vacant key positions.
.9)9     Vhen ZESCO took over NESCO and Vi5EE, only technical staff and
laborers were transferred.  because the municipalities required the serv-
ices of ciae office and administrative staff and the meter readers, these



- 16 -
employees remained with the municipalities.  It was therefore necessary for
ZESCO to enter into contracts with the municipalities to carry out the
functions of meter reading, billings and collections. These are only
temporary arrangements and ZESCO hopes to take over these functions after the
required personnel have been recruited and the necessary equipment acquired.
Tariffs
5.10      The tariff for ZSCO's bulk supplies from "'ictoria Fal's power station
to CAPC is determined by mutual agreement (para 2.05). The tariff for bulk sup-
plies from the first stage of the Kafue hydroelectric project to CAPC is govern-
ed by an agreement executed.in :970 in connection with loan 7O1ZA for the Kariba
North Bank hydroelectric project. The details of these agreements are given in
Annex 8.
5.11      The Kafue agreement was based on then anticipated interconnected
system operating conditions (assuming Kariba North Power Station in operation
in 1974, which would have resulted in partial utilization of Kafue generation)
and CP'C's limited capacity to pay (when its bulk supply tariffs to its con-
sumers was based on lower production costs of Kariba and had remained virtual-
ly unchanged over a decade). This has rebulted in ZESCO selling KLftte power
below costs. System conditions have materially altered, primatily on account
of the delay in completion of Kariba North project. CAPC now requires the
entire energv output of Kafue to reet the market demand.  In this conitext,
at ZESCO's reque,tL both the Victoria Falls and Kafue tariff agreements are
currently under review. Discussions are proce,ding amicably and the Bank is
assisting the parties concerned 'n reacliag an early settlement.
5.12      The general managers of ZESCn and CAPC have recently (April 1973)
reached agreement on an arrangement by which ZESCO would receive a fixed
annual payment from CAPC which would cover all its costs, including debt
service (see Annex 8). ZESCO would deliver the entire production of Victoria
Falls and Kafue hydroelectric stations to CAPC. Gross revenues of ZESCO from
these sales woula increase by about 60', ahove t:he present tariffs. The
General Manager, CAPC, has proposed a simultaneous change in the CAPC tariff
to its consumers, including ZESCO, which would alter both the structure
(changing from a promotional to a -tonventional arrangement) and the level
(see Annex 8).  The tariffs proposed by the General Manager, CAPC, are to be
introduced in a phased manner, over the next four years. Both tariff revi-
sions are to be considered at a meeting of the CAPC Board in May 1973 with
a view to implementation of agreed revision by July 1, 1973.
5.13      ZESCO derives the bulk of its operating revenues from its retail
tariffs.  As the prevailing tariff structure /as characterized by a great
variety of tariffs, depending or. the source, location, etc., a comprehensive
review was commhissioned by ZESCo in 1972 and carried out by SWECO.  The
recommendations have been accepted by ZESCO and forwarded to the Government
of Zambia for ratification and enforcement. The new tariff structure (given
in Annex 8) reduces the number of tariffs, removes rariations on account of



- 17 -
location and differentiates on the basis of the magnitude of consumption
rather tha.n by category. Quantitatively, there would be an overall increase
of 25% over the 1971/72 levels, although the actual incidence on different
classes of consumption would vary. During negotiations the Zambian delega-
tion informed the Bank that the new tarlf:- structure has been approved by
the Electricity Council and awaits formal. endorsement by the Minister of
Transport, Works and Power, and will be made effective from July 1, 1973.
The final action would be a condit:!on of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
5.14      The appraisal of the Proj :c: has been carried out on the basis of
Ze.sco's revised retail tariffs (para 5.13) and the existing tariffs for
ZESCO's bulk supplies to CAPC and for its purchases from CAPC. This would
present a conservative picture, as it has been estimated that the revisLtns
proposed in para. 5.12 would result in an annual increase of ZESCO's net
revenues of about K3.0 million.
Accounting and Audits
5.15       As a newly formed company ZESCO faced difficult problems of estab-
lishing proper accounting records. Each of the companies taken over by ZESCO
(para 5.03) used a different accountirg system, unorthodox and unacceptable
accounting procedures, and, in the cases of NESCO and VIFEB, improperly main-
tained books and records. For the past several years the auditors have
disclaimed any opinion concerning NESCO's financial posiCicn because of the
inability to verify many items.  One of the most serious priblems was thc
valuation of assets. Some Eixed assets were valued at original cost less
estirated depreciation to the vesting date, others were appraised at estim-
ated replacement value by the former technical staff of these organizations
and ZESCO's auditors, aind some of fixed assets in operation at VFEB had not
even been recorded.
,1.16     In 1970 ZESCO engaged the eaditing firm of Deloitte l Co., UK
Ch4arteree; Accountants, as its auditor, and this firm has also provided valuable
service by assisting ZESCO in establishing a Proper accounting system and
solving many of the problems which emanated from the consolidation of the
first three comnanies taken over.  These arrangements are satisfactory and
durinig negotiations assurances have been obtained that ZESCO will continue
to employ auditors satisfactory to the Bank.
5.17       Becatuse of the dif-ficulties involved in consolidating the financial
statements of its predecessor companies, ZESCO prepared only a preliminary
cpening balance sheet as of July 1, 1970.  Many adjustments were made during
tha year 1970/7i.  iiowever, even the financial statements as of June 30, 1971
wl1ich were sulb)ected to an audit by ZESCO's audito-s did not provide a proper
lbasls for the auditors to render an oninion about ZESCO's financial position.
Ihe auditors we re unable to verify the valuation of wo-k in progress and the
valuation of inventories. This in turn led to their inability to substantiate
the operating expenses in the Northern area and the Lusaka area.



- 18 -
5.18      Nevertheless, during 1970/71 ZESC0 did overcome many of the problems
and deficiencies in its accounting aystem. Principally, a satisfactory
standardized accounting system has been established for ZESCO's entire oper-
aticns. A standard classification of accounts has been adopted and an
accounting manual is under preparation.  A uniform schedule of depreciation
based on a schedule of estimated iife of various types of assets has be-n
put into effect. A new coding system for stores to be used on a company-wide
basis has been prepared, new stores accounting procedures have been introduced
and an experienced Stores Controller has been appointed for the Northern Area.
Effc,rts are being made to establish an internal auditing department. ZESCO
is r,ow hopeful that all these steps will remove the obstacles encount'Ared by
Delcitte & Co. so that the auditor will be able to render satisfactory
opinions on ZESCO's financial position in the futura. This audit for the
year ending June 30, 1972 is in progress and should be completed in May 1973.



VI. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Past and Present Financial Position
6.01      In making a judgment about ZESCO's financial position, specific
problems have to be taken into account which are linked to the takeover of
the operations, assets and liabilities of the predecessor companies, (NESCO,
CEC and VFEB) the takeover of the Kafua I project from the Governmi ,t and of
the municipal electricity undertakings in Livingstone and in the Copperbelt
area (para 5.03). The difficulties in consolidating the financial statements
of these entities have been described in para 5.15. As far as can be determined
from the existing records, the three predecessor companies suffersd in varying
degrees from inadequate rates and difficult operating conditions. All three
companies discontinued debt service payments on Government loans prior to being
taken over bv ZESCO. The operations of CEC, VFEB and NESCO resulted in a net
loss of K 1.3 million during the year 1970/71. In addition, the consolidation
of assets and liabilities produced a deficit of K 2.2 million representing the
excess of liabilities of NESCO over the value of assets tiansferred to ZESCO.
6.02      The preliminary operating results for 1971/72 indIcate a net income
of K 1.1 million, ard the financial position of ZESCO as of June 30, 1572
can be summarized as follows and showniin detail in Annex 9:



- 20 -
Atount (million)
Kwacha          US$ Equivalent
Assel:s
Net plant in service                      136.8                212.7
Work in progress                           10.0                 15.6
Total fixed assets                   146.8                228.3
Investments                                 0.5                  0.7
Current Assets                             11.5                 17.9
Total Assets                        158.8                 246.9
Equity and Liabilities
Equity
Government grant                           12.0                 18.6
Retained earnings c  (deficits)            1.0                  1.6
Deficit on takeover of assets              JI2_(3.4)
Total Equity                         10.8                  16.8
Liabilities
Net long-term debt                        138.0                214.6
Current liabilities                         5.2                  8.1
Contributions in aid of construction        4.8                  7.4
Total Equity and Liabilities        158.3                 246.9
6.0-i     While these preliminiay figures are useful as a slirting base for
the financial projections, they ne-vertheless require some -pecific explanations:
(i)  The com?anies taken ^ver 6-7 ZESCO were finane!ed entirely by
long-term debt and a governtmant grant   About 90% of the
long-term debt was loans :i'on the government and the balance
was sup7ted by relativ-..ly smail loans irom the Commonwealth
Development Corporatiot aind lcci1 sources.  Two of the loans
from local sources are uecured by mortgages on specific
propoerties, and it u&A agreed thAat the Bank would waive its
n,.rmal requirement of Liot having ii: ioan subordinated in
respect to these twe rl":2.
(ii)  A separate 'loan was ma   : ::r each individual project undertaken
by the thrce foner _       ...  At ti._ beginning of 1972 there
was a totnl of 148 soi 'o:ein  .uans,, carrying different
interest rates, i'nterest -     x_! e;xLLi ;.yments sch2duled at
various times througnouL Lle year, and all were secured by



- 21 -
floating charges over the assets. This situation was simplified
on February 8, 1972, when the loans were consolidated into
seven unsecured loans amounting to about K 40.2 million with
interest rates varying from 3-3/4% to 6-1/4%. Each loan
agreement includes a provision whereby the repayment will
be made on terms as directed by the Minister of Finance
after consultation with the Minister of Power, Transport
and Works, and ZESCO.
(iii) On January 1, 1972, the government transferred the Kafue
Project - Stare I to ZESCO in exchange for a K 84 million
loan. While the asset and liability have been recorded on
ZESCO's books, the transaction has nrt been finalized.
ZESCO does not yet have title to the asset and has not
signed the loan agreement. During negotiations it was agreed
that the legal transfer of title and the signing of this
loan would be made conditions of effectiveness for the
proposed Bank loan.
Financing Plan
6.04      A summary of the financing plan during the seven year period, 1972/
73 through 1978/79, as abstracted from the Forecast Cash Flow, Annex 10, i9
shown below:
Amount (millions)
Kwacha       US$         %
Equivalent
Internal cash generation                              160.9         250.2
T ss:
Increase in working capital other than cash             7.4          11.5
Interest charged to operations                         79.0         122.8
Principal pavments                                      12.6          19.6
Total                                        99.C         153.9
Funds available for investment                         61.9          96.3    26.3
Construction program including interest
during construction                                   235.9         366.8   100.0
Balance to be financed                                174.0         270.5    73.7
Financed by:
Bank loan                                            74.0         115.1    31.4
Other borrowings                                     77.0         119.7    32.6
Other sources                                        20.5          31.8      8.
Total                                       171.5         266.6    72.7
Balance - decrease in cash                              2.5            3.9     1.0
a_        __



- 22 -
6.v>      Construction expenditures including interest charged to cc;nstruction
dur'np ~t,4q seven-year period are estimated at about K 236 million, consisting
of about K 106 million for the Kafue II project and about K 130 million for
other works. For details of this construction program see Annex 12, page 8.
ZESCO is expected to generate about K 62 million which would be available
for investment in its proposed construction program, and this would represent
a contribution of about 26% towards the expansion program. This would gener-
alLy be considered a relatively small contribution, but it is reasonable in
view of ZESCO's extensive constructioa propra.  Total borrowing during thif
period amounts to about K 151 milliotu and this is about 64% of the construc-
tion program. The balance of the required funds, about K 20 million, would
be provided from contributions in aid of construction, non-operating income
and grants.
o.06      It hrs been assumed for the financial forecast that the proposed
Bank loan would be for a period of 25 years, including a 5-1/2 yeaxr grace
period and an interest rate of 7-1/4%. interest during constructioii was
included in the loan. Details of th.. other loans are shown in Annex 12,
page 9. In order to assure ZESCO has sufficient funds to carry out the
Project, it was agreed during negotiations that in the event of a shortage
of funds, the Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to
promptly provide ZESCO or cause ZESCO to be provided with such funds as are
ne2Ied to complete sle Project.  A detailed schedule of the debt service on
rhe existing and Droposed loans is provided in Annex 12, page 10. ZESCO's
constr'tiz:t schedule represents a very large expansion program and during
Lhe construction period of the Project (1972/73 to 1978/79) its gross plant
in operation plus work in progress increasa from about K 149 million to about
' 391 million.  However, the financing of this expansion program may be
coasidered firm, with the exception of the future foreign loan for the Kafue
Stage III Project, and the financial plan is reasonable.
Fucure Operations and Financial Position
6.07      Operating results for the period thrcugh 1979/80 are shown in the
Income Statements, Annex 11. Details of the annual depreciation charges are
provided in Annex 12, pages 11, 12 and 13. ZESCO is expected to earn an
annual rate of return varying between 8.1% and 9.1% during the period 1973/74
through 1979/80. The returns were based on the assumption that, retail tarif-
rs would be increased by about 25% commencing July 1, 1973 kpira 5.13). In
order for ZESCO to provide about 26% of the funds for the construction pro-
gram and a reasonable portion of the funds required for future expansion,
bulk supply tariffs and retail tariffs would have to be increased an addi-
tional 10% in 1977/78, the first full year of Kafue II's operations. This
would enable ZESCO to achieve an annual rate of return of at least 8%. Dur-
ing negotiations an assurance has been obtained from ZESCO that it would
achieve an annual rate of return on realistically valued assets of not less
tnan 8% in 1974/75 and thereafter.



- 23 -
6.08      The existing law in Zambia does not authorize parastatal companies
s'sch as ZESCO to issue stock.  The only equity consists of government grants
and a small amount of retained earnings. As a result, the debt/equitv ratio
in June 1972 was 93/7. During negotiations, assurances have been obtained that
debt amounting to K40.2 million (see paragraph 6.03 (ii)) will not be recalled
by GRZ during the construction period of the project if such recall will have
a material a adverse effect on ?.ESCO's ability to meet its financial re-
quirements. This debt is subordinated to all other debt and could be likened
to equity. The debt equity ratio should improve to 82/18 by 1980.
6.09      The financial position at the end of each year through 1979/80 is
shown in the balance sheets, Annex 9. ZESCO's financial position steadily
improves each year. To assure that adequate debt service coverage will be
maintained, assurances have been obtained during negotiations that ZKSCO
will not incur any debt additional to the debts included in the financial
plan unless internal cash generation is sufficient to cover the maximum future
debt service, including services on any proposed loan, by not less than 1.4
times.



- 24 -
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS
7.01      Daring negotiations assurances have been obtaine6 from:
(a)  ZESCO (Borrower) that it will:
(i)  anong other measures consider increasing temporarily
the lake level of Kafue Stage I reservoir by 1.2
meters until the Kariba North Bank Power Station
commences operation (para 2.09);
(ii)  continue to emptoy consultants acceptable to the Bank
for designs and supervision of construction (paras
3.04 and 3.05);
(ii)  under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank cause the
dam to be constructed under the Project to be periodically
inspected to determine existing or potential deficiencies
in the structure, and ensure proper maintenance and safety
thereof (para 3.07);
(iv)  consult the Bank before subsequent appointments are made
to the posts of Chief Engineer and Financial Controller
(para 5.07);
(v) recruit competent staff to fill vacant key positions
(para 5.03);
(vi)  continue to employ auditors satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.16);
(vii)  earn an annual return of at least 8% on its reasonably
valued assets in 1974/75 and thereafter (para 6.07);
(viii)  not incur any debt without prior Bank approval unless
maximum future debt service is covered at least 1.4
times (para 6.09);
(b)  GRZ (Guarantor) that it will:
(i) provide ZESCO, or cause ZESCO to be provided, with any
funds needed to complete the Project (para 6.06);
(ii) not recall the debt amounting to K40.2 during the con-
struction period of the project, if such recall will
have a material and adverse effect on ZESCO's ability
to meet its financial requirements (para 6.08).



- 25 -
7.02      During negotiations, GRZ has informed the Bank that ZESCO's revised
retail tariffs would shortly be approved by the Minister for Transport Works
and Power. This action will be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan. Legal transfer of title to the Kafue project and signing of the loan
for the project will also be conditions of effectiveness of the Bank loan.
7.03      In view of the above agreements, the Project is considered suitable
for a loan to ZESC0, with the guarantee of GRZ, of US$115 million equivalent,
for a period of 25 years, Including a five and a half year gre-P pericd.
May 4, 1973



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
ZAIBIA
KAFUE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)
Historical Background
1.        When the Bank loar (145RN) of US$ 80 million equivalent for the
first stage of the Kariba Project was made in 1956, the power situation in
the three territories of Southern and Northern Rhodesia and Nyasal.and,
which at that time formed the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland, had reach-
ed a staoe where it was no longer practical to meet growing demands by Ad-
litions to existing thermal generating stations.
2.        In 1955 the Federal Government reached the conclusion that che
construction of the Kariba Hydroelectric Project on the Zambezi RFier, with
a transmission system to interconnect existing generating stations in South-
ern and Northern Rhodesia, would be the best solution to the power problem.
It decided that the project should be built in two stages: the first consist-
ing of an arch dam, an underground power station on the South Bank (in
Southern Rhodesia) with an installed capacity of 500-M;, and a 330-kV
transmission system; and the second consisting of an underground power station
on the North bank (in Northern Rhodesia) with an installed capacity of
700-MW, and the expansion of the 330-kV transmission system.
3.        The Government also decided that the first stage should be built
as soon as possible so that demand in 1960 could be met without adding
thermal units other than those already committed. At this time it was en-
visaged that construction work on the second stage would commence immediate-
ly after the completion of the first stage.
4.        On May 1, 1955, a Federal Electricity Act came into force and the
Federal Power Board was established, the Board having among its general
functions and duties "the provision or administration of services common
to two or more Territories for the bulk supply of electricity". The Board
was directed by the Federal Government to undertake the construction and
subsequent operation of the first stage of the Kariba Project. To finance
this stage, the Board obtained, in addition to the Bank loan, loans of
E 15 million from the Commonwealth Development Corporation, E 3 million from
the Commonwealth Development Finance Company Limited and ER 28 million from
the Federal Government.
Work on site commenced late in 1955.  The first generating mit at
Kariba South commenced supplying power on December 28, 1959; and the first
stage, comprising an arch dam which impounds the Zanbezi River and creates
a reservoir with a gross capacity of some 150 million acre feet, an under-
,round power station and a 330-kV transmission system, was completed in mid
1962 on sclhedule. Instead of five 100-MIW generating units originally planned,
six units were installed. Although the nameplate rating of each of the units



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
if; 100 MW, they are each capable of a m.ximum output of 117.5 MW and the
capability of the station at present is therefore 705 Mw. The cost of the
first stage, K 155.2 millicn (US$ 217.3 million), was lower than the original
esgtimated cost of K 161.6 million (US$226.2 millioa).
6,        At the end of 1963 the Federation of Rhodesia and Nyasaland was
dissolved and the Central African Power Corporation (CAPC) was established
br a United Kingdom Order-in-Council to take over the operations of the
Federal Power Board, which ceased to function. Under a loan assumption
agreement and guarantee agreements, which were signed with the Bank on
December 30, 1963, C.PC assumed the Federal PoweL Board's obligations to
the Bank and Northern and Southern Rhodesia each guaranteed a half of the
payments due under Bank Loan 145RN. The United Kingdom guarantee remained
unchanged.  A Higher Authority for Power was ostablished comprising two
"linisters from Northern Rhodesia and two Mlinisters from Southern Rhodesia.
All major decisions regarding CAPC, including the approval of capital ex-
penditure and borrowing, have to be made to the IHigher Authority. Decisions
by the Higher Authority must be unanimous.
7.        On October 2, 1964, the Bank nade a loan (392-PCS) cf 115$ 7.7 million
equivalent to CAPC to finance part of the cost of a second 330 kV transmission
line hetween Kariba South ancl Kitwe in the Copnerbelt in Northern Rhodesia
and the expansion of substantions at Kariba, Lusaka and Kitwe.  These facil-
ities were required to enable CAPC to zeet increasing demand for power and to
glve greater security of supply.  This development was commissioned in
October 1968, some months ahead of schedule. The total cost was slightly
iess than the estimated cost of USS 15.4 million.
c5.       On October 24, 1964, Northern RhodesiE. became independent as the
Republic of Zambia and succeeded to the responsibilities of Northern Rhodesia
under the Guarantee Agreements for Loans 145RN and 392RNS.
9.        Load growth on the CAPC system during the early 1960's was less than
expected and this, coupled with the fact that the South Bank station had a
capability of 705 'BY instead of 500 MW as originally planned, resulted in the
nostponement of the construction of the Kariba North Station.  However, by
January 1965 it became apparent that additional generating capacity would be
required by 1970 and CAPC ins7tructed its Consultants to prepare a report
on systemi development. The report was received in September 1965 and it
reconmended the construction of the Kariba North station with six 150-Mw
generating tnits and the expansion of the 330-kv transmission system, the
first 150-MW tvit to be inservice by 1970 and the sixth unit by 1976.  The
report was accepted by CAPC.
10.       CAPC notified the Higher Authority for Power in December 1965 of
its acceptance of the Consultants' report and requested permission to proceed
with the prcposed development, but by this time Southirn Rhodesia had declared
itself indepondent (November 1965) and the Authority had ceased to function
because the appointment U  t,Jc Ministers to it by the Smith regime to represent



ANEX 1
Page 3 of 6
Southern Rhodesia was not recognized by the Zambian members.  The Bank sub-
sequently worked out a nunber of schemes to permit preliminary work on the
project to go ahead. Satisfactory arrangements were not agreed until the
beginning of 1967, but by this time the Zambian Government had decided to
proceed with the construction of n 200-MW hydroelectric scheme on the Kafue
River in Zambia and two schemes at Victoria Falls with a combined capacity
of 100 14W. One of the Victoria Falls schemes with an installed capacity of
60 !1W was commissioned in 1969 and the other 40-11W scheme in 1971. The
power generated by the Victoria Falls station, with the exception of a small
amount to meet local needs, is purchased by CAPC and fed into its transmis-
sion system.
1T.       In September 1966, the Government of the Republic of Zambia (GRZ)
announced the size of the Kafue scheme would be increased and that it would
hiave an initial capacity of 500 MW and an ultimate capacity of 750 MW.
Althougn the estimated cost of this Kafue development was more than twice
aF much per kW installed as that of the proposed Kariba North station, the
G':Z decided on its construction instead of Kariba North for reasons of
secturity of supply.
12.       Construction of the first stage of Kafue commenced early in 1967.
It vas financed by the GRZ and Yugoslav contractors. The plant has a capacity
of 0O0 1W (instead of 500 I&I as originally proposed) arid space for two ad-
ditional units to be installed as part of the Kafue II project to bring the
total installed capacity to 900 MW. The first generating unit went into
service on October 26, 1Q71, and all four units were in service by April 1972
(about 10 months behind schedule).  Considerable difficulties have been
a';per1enceJ with the generating plant and modifications to the main bearings
o' each unit in turn are now being made.  It is expected it will be early
April 1973 before this work is completed.
13.       As very little storage is provided, the firm output of the first
stage will be little more than 200 MW. During a dry year the firm energy
output would be about 1800 CWh and the secondary energy output about 1000
CWh. The power generated at Kafue is purchased by CAPC and fed into its
transmission systems.
14.       The GRZ has indicated the cost of the first stage was K 75.8
million (US$ 106 million), to which must be added about K 8.2 million
(lS$ 11.5 million) for the interest during construction making a total of
K 84.0 Million (US$ 117.6 million). These figures are tentative and may be
adjusted. Assuming a cost of US$ 117.6 million, the cost per kilowatt
ii'stalled is US$ 197, which is low, but this cost is misleading as the firm
capacity of the scheme is only about 200 1W.
15.       The firm capacity of Kafue can be increased to 600 MW through the
provision of upstream storage.  Two additional 150-MW generating units would
be installed at that time. The estimated cost in 1969 of this second stage
(e.ccluding interest during construction) was US$ 63.7 million.



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
16.       In view of the relatively small amounts of firm power to be obtained
from the first stage of Kafue and the obvious need for additional generating
capacity to meet growing system demands, CAPC instructed its Consultants in
April 1968 to report on the next stage of development. The report was received
in February 1969 and it recommended the construction of the Kariba North
generating station with an installed capacity of 600 MW (which could be
expanded at a later date of 900 MW) and the expansion of CAPC's transmission
system followed by the second stage of Kafue. An economic comparison of the
two developments showed that, by constructing the schemes in this order, a
considerable saving would be obtained. The installation of another 300 MW
at Kariba North could not be considered as an alternative to the second stage
of Kafue as the additional capacity would provide little firm energy.
17.       The report further recommended that four 150-MW generating units be
installed at Kariba North and that work in the station be commenced as soon
as possible in order to have the first generating unit in operation by
June 1974 and the fourth unit by June 1975. The recommendations were accepted
by the CAPC and the GRZ which were both anxious to proceed with the construc-
tion of the Kariba North station. The GRZ then asked the Bank to assist in
its financing.
18.       Before Southern Rhodesia declared itself independent of the United
Kingdom, the arrangements for financing the Kariba North project and the
expansion of CAPC's transmission system would have been for CAPC to provide
half the cost from earnings (in accordance with covenants in Bank Loan
Agreements 145-RN and 392-RNS) and for the Bank to have made a loan to CAPC
to cover the other half o. the cost, which, with the existing loans to CAPC
wou:.d have been guaranteed severally in equal shares by the Southern Rhodesian
and Zambian Governments with the United Kingdom backing the Southern Rhodesian
guairantee.  The Southern Rhodesian and Zambian Governments would have provided
the necessary foreign exchange to enable CAPC to meet its loan liabilities
from its own funds within the two countries, while keeping its reserves in
the two countries under arrangements which reasonably shared the allocation
of the resources taking into account the cash requirement by CAPC.
19.       Because of the situation in Southern Rhodesia, the above agreement
couLd not be followed. Also, because of Lhe situation, neither the Higher
Authority for Power nor the Board of CAPC were properly established.
20.       At that time the Higher Authority for Power, which should have
consisted of two Mlinisters appointed by the Southern Rhodesian Government
and two by the Zambian Government, could not function because all decisions
were to be unanimous and the Zambian members did not recognize the Ministers
appointed by the Smith regime (see paras 6 and 10). The Board of CAPC should
have consisted of a Chairman and seven members. Three of the members should
have been appointed by the Zambianl Government, three by the Southern Rhodesian
Government, and the Chairman and one member by the Iiigher Authority for Power.
A quorum of five members was required. But the terms of office of the
Chairman, the Southern lUiodesian members appointed before UDI and the member
appoin.ed by the Higher Authority had expired and the Board was without a



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
quorum and unable to execute its statutory functions. Day-to-day operations
were carried out by a committee consisting of the three Zambian members, the
three Southern Rhodesian members and the Chairman who remained in function
after his legal term of office expired.
21.       In view of these circumstances, a number of possible arrangements
for financing, constructing and operating the Kariba North Project and the
expansion of CAPC's transmission system were considered. After a series of
meetings between representatives of the United Kingdom and Zambian Government,
the CAPC and the Bank, agreement on how to proceed was finally reached during
meetings lhe-d at the Commonwealth and Foreign Office in London from July 30
to August 1, 1969. The arrangments following for project implementation are
summarizpd below. They are based on those agreed at the above mentioned
meeting.
22.       A company, the Kariba North Bank Company Limited (KNBC), was
etablished to construct the Kariba North Station.  The company, wholly owned
bv the GRZ, appointed CAPC as its agent for construction. After project
completion, CAPC will lease the station from KNBC and operate it as part of
the system. CAPC made a loan to KNBC to cover the initially estimated local
cost of the station and is financing the whole of the cost of the expansion
of its transmission system in Zambia and Southern Rhodesia during the period
1969 through 1976.
23.       A Bank loan of US$ 40 million equivalent (Th1-ZA, was made on July
29, 1970 to KNBC to cover the initially estimated foreign exchange cost of
LVie project.
The Bank loan is guaranteed by the Government of Zambia.  To meet
the Government's request that its responsibilities as guarantor under the
then existing loans and Loan 701-ZA should not exceed 50% of the total Bank
Loans required for the Kariba development, thus continuing the equal sharing
of guarantees by Zambia and Southern Rhodesia, the Bank agreed to release
Zambia from its guarantee obligations on part of the old loans in order to
maintain the 50/50 arrangements. The existing loans continue to be backed
by a United Kingdom guarantee.
25.       As the Board of CAPC and the Higher Authority for Power (see para 6)
wqas not considered legally constituted by the Zambian Government and could
not function effectively, the United Kingdom Government made an Order-in-
Council which permitted the appointment by the United Kingdom of two members
co the Hiigher Authority to replace the ministers which would normally have
been appointed by the Southern Rhodesian Government.
;'.       After the Order-in-Council became effective, two members were ap-
painted to the IHiglher Authority by the United Kingdom Government, this
enabled the Authority to appoint a Chairman and a Board member.  The Board
:then had a quorum of five members and was able to approve the Agency, Lease
and Loan Agreement with IQIBC.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
27.       In 1971 the Zambian Governmen  indicated it would request Bank
assistance in financing the second stage of Kafue (see para 15) which in
accordance with the recommended system development plan (see para 16) is the
proper project to follow Kariba North.



ZAMi3IA
KAU  HILED.TRIc PEDJDnT (STAGK II)
Forecast of System Demand and Energy Rfe.uirements (1972   1980)
CAPC's Interconnected Power System
Actual                               Forecast
Year Ending 30 June               1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979    1980
System Demand MW
Rhodesia                       626     726      817      984   1,002   1,094   1,170   1,252   1,340
Zambia                         606     699      760      818    8§5       914     98     .7   1.120
1,232   1,425    1,577   1,8C2   1,861   2,008   2,148   2,292   2,460
Reserve                        210     210      210      210     300      300     300      300     300
Required Generating Capacity      1,442   1,635    1,787   2,012   2,161   2,308   2,448   2,599   2,760
System Energy Requirements GWh
Rhodesia                     3,490   4,395    5,016   5,642   6,389   6,960.  7,447   7,968   8,525
Z arbia 24,293   4,976    5,407   5,805   6,065   6,443   6,893   7,375   7,891
Gesamines                        -     2     _ 72        515     878   1,427   2,048         -        -
Total System Requirements         7,783   9,594   10,795  11,962  13,332  14,830  16,338  15,343  16,416
Transmission Losses (3.5%)          235      336      378     419      467     519      574     537      575
Total Energy Requirements
r
Including Gecamines          8,018   9,9XC   11,173  12,381  13,799  15,349  16,962  15,880  16,991
Excluding Gecamines          8,018   9,699    0,787  31,847  12,889  13,873  14,840  J15,b8')  16,991
1/  Allows 1,15C ITW hydro units and 6C MITW thermal hirin], 1972-75;  from 1976 onwerds 2,15C MW hydro units.
2/ Includes energy distributed and sold by ZESCO at Victori  Falls.
3/  Supplies to Z.ire are envisaged when surpluses are availblle an] are to be arranged during offpeak hours.
Kev..e, vt,ey -re not. included in. the maxmurnm  emrfl fiutres.  The energy requirement oeyond 1578 is
x.nrertriv, .nl hence not included.



ZAMBA
KAFUE     3KL37TB[(  ?IKJE  (SG  U )
Generating Capacity and Energy Available (1972 - 198C)
CAPC's Interconnected SysttSm
Actual
vear Endinr, 30 June                                    1972    1,973    197h    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979  1980
I. GEIR5ATING CAPACITY (MW)
Hvrlro Stations  Kariba South                             7C5      705     705      705     666 Y   666       666      666    666
Kariba Nlorth                              -        -       -        -     450      600      600      60c    60C
Victoria Falls                            88      108     108      108      108     lc8      105      108    108
KafPze (Stagcs I end II)                 600      600     600      600     600    9^.        900     900    900
Kafuo (Stage III)                          -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -    300
Thenmal Stations
Phodeiisn                                336      336     336      336      336     336      266 21  206    149
Nchanga (Zambia)                          6c       60      60       60       60      60       60       60     60
Copperbelt VThste Heat (Zanbia)           20       15      10       10       10      10       10       10     IC
Copperbelt Gaa Turbines (Zambia)          60       60      60       60       60      60       60       60     60
Total Available generating capacity                     1 869  1 884   1 879   1 879   2 290   2 740   2 370   2 610  2 85
Required system capacity (including reserves)           1.                                                                  2 2  i7I1B    
(Annex 2)                     6.                                       _         I
Surplus (Deficit) capacity                                427      249      92      (90)    125      432      222       il     93
II. FIRM ENERGY AV.NLARLE 2    (GWh)
Hydro Stations  Kariba South                            5,500   5,250   5,250   5,250   5,250   4,250   4,250   4,250  4,25C
Kariba North                                -.I - 1,095   4,250   4,250   4,250  142 5
Victoria Talls                           48.3     565     735      735      735     735      735      735    735
Kafue (Stage I and II)                 l,085   1,8CC   ],800   1,CO   1,80C   4,900   5,250   5,25C  5,250
Kafuie (Stape 'II)                              -            -       -        -        -       -        -  1,000
Total                                              7,068   7,6V    7,785   7,785   8,880  14,135  14,18b  )4,L485 15,985
Thermal Stptiors
~ Rhsode3iaw  thermbls                   653      9C04/   SCC   1,740   1,740   1,740   1,500   1,201    7Cr
ropperbelt thermals                      26C      54C5/   54C      540      540     540      5hC      C V    54.0
Total                                                913   1,440   1,44    2                  2,280   2,040   '.s .0  1,240
1/  Kariba South derated when kariba North is ir operation because head would be reduced by lower reservoir acad higher
tzilwater lev3ls.
2/  Thenna] stations older than 25 years progf-sve-l   retired.
3/  Corresponds to water available in dry years;  seccondFr- ener-y is available at Katfue and varies hetween lCCO/1 8CC Mlh,
1/ Timited in 1573 :nd 21974 hy availahi]ity of coa ,.
c!-d on al2 pl]rt in operoti on (excepi.inri g[s tt;rf ines) at 85,+ plant factor.
L.



ANNEX 4
ZAMBIA
KhFUE HYDROELAECTRIC PROJET (WAGE II)
Project Cost Estimatez
Foreign  Locali  Total    Foreign  Local  Total
---(million KwacFa)-           (milliorn US$)---
I.   ITESHI TESHI DAM
Preliminary Works                       0.7      2.0    2.7        1.0     3.2    4.2
Main Civil Works                       22.4    13.2   35.6        34.8    20.5   55.3
Electrical and Mechanical Equip.        2.7     0.3    3.0        4.2      0.5    4.7
Eigineering                             3.2     0.2    3.4        5.0      0.3    5.3
Site Supervision                        1.5     o.6    2.1        2.3      0.9    3.2
Contingencies - Physical                4.2     2.3    6.5        6.5      3.6   10.1
Contingencies - Pricn                  1x.5     5.3   18.9       21.2      8.2   29.4
Total                             48.     239   2.2         75.0    37.2  112.2
II.  FKFUE POWER HOUSE EXTENSIONS
ANiD TRANSM4ISSION SYSTEM
CG.vil Works                            1.3      1.0    2.3       2.0      1.6    3.6
Mechanical and Electrical Equip..       7.3      0.7    8.0       11.4     1.1   12.5
Enginecring                             o.6      0.1    0.7       6.9      0.1    1.0
Si.te Supervision                       0.3     0.3    o.6        0.5      0.4    0.9
Contingencies - Physical                0.8     0.2    1.0         1.2     0.3    1.5
Contingencies - Price                   3 4     0.4      X        5.3      0.7    6.0
Total                             13.7            16.4      21.3      4.2   25 5
III. TOTAL OF I AND II                      62.0    26.6   88.6        96.3    41.4  137.7
IV.  INTEREST DURING CONSTRUCTION           12.0                       18.7
V.        TOTAL (INCLUDING IV)              74.0                      115.0
May 4, 1973



ANNEX 5
ZAMBIA
KAFUE HYROELECTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)
Estimrated Schedule of Disbursements
Cumrulative Disburseznent at
TIORD Fiscal Year & Quarter                        the End of the Uuarter
(US$ thousands)
1973/71
Sept 30, 1973                                      2,000
Dec 31, 1973                                       5,000
March 31, 1074h                                     5,000
June 30, 1974                                      12,100
1974P5
Sept 30, 1°74                                     17,000
Dec 31, 1974                                      22,000
March 31, 1975                                     28,000
June 30, 1975                                      34,800
1( 75/76
Sept 30, 1975                                     41,000
Dec 31, 1975                                      46,000
larch 31, 1976                                    53,000
June 30, 1976                                      61,550
Sept 30, 1/76                                      6.5,000
Dec 31, 1976                                      70,000
March 31, 1977                                    '785 000
June 30, 1977                                      61,000
SePt 30, 1977                                     35,000
Dec  31, 1977                                     _19,000
March 31, 1978                                     93,000
June 30, 1976                                      98,000
197E/7T)
Sept 30, 197Th                                    103,000
Dec 31, 197b                                      110,000
Mjarell 31, 1979                                  112,500
JTune 30, 10Q79                                   115,000



ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 4
ZAMBIA
KAFUE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)
Environmental Aspects of the Project
1.       1While the addition of two units to the existing four at the Kafue
Gorge powerplant is not expected to have any adverse environmental affects,
the construction and operation of the Itezhi Tizhi reservoir 160 miles up-
stream will undoubtedly give both positive and negative results which, at
this time, are impossible to quantify. The physical aspects are twofold:
the creation of the reservoir itself and the impact of partial regulation
of the river on the large generally flat area between the dam and the Kafue
Gorge which is known as the Kafue Flats and is inundated during high stages
of river flow. The latter will not significantly alter natural conditions
on the YAfue Flats in years of normal or above normal river flows but will
in years of less than normal flow.  The evaluation whlich follows results from
interviews in Zambia during project appraisal with officials concerned with
Came Parks and Wildlife, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and hlealth. The
disciplines and interests of those interviewed covered a wide range of
environmental/ecological considerations.
The Reservoir
2.        This will inundate an area of approximately 370 kn2, uninhabited
except for occasional itinerant fishermen. Extreme drawdown will be about
23 m but normally the reservoir will be operated within a range of about
9 m. The corresponding areas exposed due to variations in reservoir level
will be about 280 km2 for extreme ar' normal operations respectively, About
80% of the inundated area will infringe on the Kafue National Park, one of
the largest game sanctuaries in Africa.  Covering 22,500 kin", it is as large
as Wales, or half the size of Switzerland. The loss of park area to the
reservoir, being less than 1-1/2%, is not a matter of serious concern to t!is
Park slanagement but they are concerned that the annual variations ia reservoir
level will expose unsightly brush and dead trees to the detriment of tourism.
As there are no plans within the defined project for clearing the reservoir
or the reservoir rim, other than for an area directly upstream and visible
from the dam, a solution to the problem will have to be found outside of thie
project. i1owever, this is not a large problem as modest annual budget
allocations i-'ould enable the Park Management to clear the areas of concern
to them during the early years of project operation, or as required when ro:!4.
for game viewing are extended.
3.        No settlements are allowed within thie Park area, bitt a few itinerant
fishing families inhabit the reservoir area. Estinates of the number of
these people vary between 50 and 250. As they presently adjust to the rising
and falling levels of the river they are expected to adapt as easily to the
rising and falling levels of the reservoir.  Roads both within and without
the Park lost to the reservoir will be replaced under the Project and easy



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 4
access will be provided for fishermen at locations recommended by the
Fisheries Department. The reservoir area is not heavily wooded, being miostly
open with brush and small trees.
4.        Whether aquatic nuisance plants such as water fern and water
hyacinth will develop is not known. If they do, they could be detremental
to fishing and to reservoir operations because of transpiration losses.
This will have to be onitored and appropriate control measures introduced
should the problem develop.
The Kafue Flats
5.        Below the dam site, the river meanders through the Kafue Fl&ta
covering some 5,000 km2. Extensive flooding occurs each year under natural
conditions and the annual cycle of the flood and its recession is responsible
for much of the grazing upon which a large number of cattle and wild life
survive. Key among these are the lechwe, a small antelope unique to the area
whose future will be anxiously watched by wildlife conservation groups the
world over. There are presently ustimated to be some 90,000 on the Flats,
mostly in two groupings, one on each side of the river. They follow the water
level closely, concentrating at the peak of the flood in half mile wide bands,
where on the north side of the river they must compete with cattle for surviva1.
On the south, they concentrate in a former cattle ranch, now the Lochinvar Game
Park. Cattle are prohi'ited in this area but there are many thousands of zebra,
waterbuck, wildbeast, impala and other plain animals which also depend, but
to a lesser extent than the lechwe, on the grazing provided by the annual
flood. Ilowever, these other animals are much more adaptable than the lec.hwe.
They roam over large areas while the lechwe tend to stay within well-defined
areas. It is interesting to note in connection with natural balan.es provid-
ed by nature that the lechwe on the north, which have to compete with cattle
as well as to survive against natural predators, are considered to be
healthier than those on the south where there are no cattle and where the
predators were shot out during, the cattle ranching days.
6.        As earlier mentioned, the peak and extent of flood will be little
influenced by the formatioa and operation of the upstream reservoir in years
of normal or above normal flow. This is because the reservoir is relatively
small in relation to the average runoff of the river, its storage being only
that required to maintain full-bank flow hetween the dam and Kafue Gorge
during the low flow period plus a margin for ecological reasons. However,
the onset of the flood will be delayed and its rate of recession will be
slower. Tlhe former is not a cause for concern as by May/June, the critical
months for the lechwe, the extent of flood with the reservoir will be, for
practical purposes, the same as without the reservoir.  While the effect of
the slower rate of recession is impossible to predict with certainty, it will
likely be beneficial on balance in increasing the amount and duration of
grazing. Thus in the majority of years the operation of the reservoir is
not expected to be detrimental to wildlife.
7.        The same cannot be said for the low-flow years as the extent and
duraLion of flooding with regulation will be significantly reduced as compared



ANNEX 6
Page  3 of 4
to natural conditions because most of the incoming flood waters will be
stored in the reservoir. To partially compensate for the loss of natural
flooding during the years when it is probably needed the most, the reservoir
includes a volume of 750 Hn3 additional to that required for power discharges.
This will permit a discharge of 300 m3/s during March in dry years to induce
a degree of flooding to maintain some semblance to natural conditions. The
area flooded in this manner will be less than it would hafe been under natural
conditions but on the other hand, there will be a substantial increase in dry
season flows. The need for this supplemental measure would have been neces-
sary only four times in the 20-year period 1951-70, so its probability is
1 in 5, based on those years.
8.        The ultimate effects c' reduced flooding during the dry years caT-
not be predicted with any degree of certainty and there is no practical meaa
of finding the answer. Some reduction in game population and in cattle may
be necessary to keep the herds 'n good condition but the possible need for
this is not viewed with alarm.
Fisheries
9.        The Flats are an imoortant source of fish production.  During the
period 1959-65 the median annual catch was about 5,000 tons, corresponding
to about 18Z of the total catch in Zambia. Nevertheless, large parts of the
Flats were underexploited. Estimates suggest that the total loss of fish in
the underexploited lagoons alone would amount to 74,000 tons per year, eqequiv-
valent to more than twice the mean annual catch of all Zambian fisheries.
The large fishery potential of the Flats is expected to further improve after
the regulation provided by the reservoir as authoritative studies show that
the catch is always better in years following a wetter-than-normal dry season.
As the reservoir will be operated to keep the river channel full during the
dry season, this condition will be duplicated.
10.       The reservoir itself could become tn important source of fish
production but as the area is hardly fished at present, its development will
likely be slow.
llealth
11.       There are twlo aspects to health considerations, one being the
hazards associated with the large labor force which can be expected to
congregate near the dam site and the other being the effect of environmental
changes associated with the operation of the reservoir. Diseases such as
malaria schistosomiasis and trypanosomiasis could easily be spread by a labor
force coming from different areas of the country in absence of thorough health
screening, treatment when necessary and the use of preventive medicines.



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 4
12.       Schistosomiasis - transmitting snails are endemic to the Flats aad
probably occur in sheltered coves along the Kafue River in the National Park
as well. While tsetse flies are common in the National Park and in parts of
the Flats, the trvpanosomsa are not knowm to exist although they do in some
distant parts of the country. Simuliun flies and onchocerciasis have not
been detected in Zanbia although endemic in certain areas to the north.
13.       One of the nost pub]icized and insideous effects of recent river
regulation projects (Volta, Kariba, High Aswan) has been the transmission
of 1'ilharzia to downstream populations or to ponulations along the reservoir
rim. In the case of the Itezhi Tezhi reservoir and the area downstream of
it, the snail hosts are present to cause the same harm. However, the popula-
tiort which could stiffer and which is necessarv to t.rauksmit t'-e parasite is
not.  %s the snail hosts are endemic to the area, the ,roblem is not one of
preventing the spread of snails but one of ensuring that satisfactory sanitary
and health measures for the temporarv work force are establi,hed and enforced.
The snails themselves do no harm until the human link is established.  Wlhether
it is depends largelv on human water-use habits.
14.       Because insect hosts exist throughout much of the area, the project
itself cannot make the situation worse. Preventive measures would be neces-
sary with or witlhout the project to enable people to move into the presently
sparsely-populated area.
15.       !'easures will be taken to prevent the start or spread of disease
among workmen o  th_ project and their followers.  Brush and trees are already
being cleared arouu.d the perimeter of the project area to prevent the nuisance
and potential he ith hazard associated with the tsetse fly. Control points
will also be estqniished on roads entering the project area. The contractor
will be requir*'d t.o *stablish medical facilities to screen and treat workers
and modern san!tr-y arrangements will be made for both potable water supply
and for sewage '.- ;vnsal. Two proposals have been prepared by staff of tVe
'niversity of Zwn"-- 'a for continued research and monitoring of the incidence
of vector liosts a-nd these will be supported by ZESCO.



MuNIEX 7
Pags 1 .1f 2
KAwI!E 'i!M!`jLr.CTHIC PROJECT (STAGE Ire
Rp.turn on Investment
1.        ThM economic return on investment on the  cpt4ec- is _he JIscount
rate at which the 2raasnn: worth of the costs of tL.e Fruiect, net of E'Ad;is
and ta*es, is -qual to the present worth of its benefits.  In tho present
calculations, the revenues expected to be derived irou the Project are used
as minimum eseimaLe of benefits.
2.        The Project would provide 300 11W of capacity and 2,80 GWIL (" ad-
ditional energy potential, on the average, to the generation resouices of the
CAPC 330 kV interconnected syster. to which the Kafue Power Station is ennnect-
td.  The transmission system is currently beit(,v expanc'ed during i972-,6 in
connectien with the Xariba North Power Station.  To mr:ket pcwer fr:m, the
Project tc CAPC's five mtin consumers viz the G(opperoelt Company and  Z.FSCO
in Zanbia tn'I the SRESC, Bulwayo and Salisbury 1l1niiciapa.i.±es in hodrp'sa, no
furtlher extensions are requiree' to its grid. For the purpose of calculating
the economic return of the ?roject, the cost of t.;e Project is the -tstimated
caniJal cost of the Itezhi Tezhi Dc-n and Kafue Power Station extercions at
1972 price levels. The revenues have been assessed or. the basis of the
average enorgy generation and CAPC's prevailing average tariffs to its five
consumers.  This would nrovide a conservative picture, as it dueq not take
into account the capacity value of the power station.
3.        In Zambia, the Copperbelt Company is the largest electricity consumer
accounting for three-fourths of the total. It pays for its power consumption
at CAPC's tariffs. Although the other ultimate consumers in Zambia and
Rhodesia pay higher rates for their electricity consumption than CAPC's tariff,
the economic calculations were not carried to this stage as information regard-
ing the additional distribution costs and  .evenues in Rhodesia was not avail-
able.  Further, arbitrary allocations of these would have to be made to the
Project, as these systems also distribute powe. from other sources.  It is
considered that omission of these data further uinderstate the net benefits of
the Project.
4.        The tabla below shows the details of the computation of the return
on invczt-onti



ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 2
Year    Addit'iraal    Additional       Operation and tain-       Project Costs /2
Sales       Revenues /1    tenance Costs L2
(GWh)      (kwacha millions)
197.3          0         0                   0                        2;.0
1974           0         0                   0                        6.25
197.5          0         0                   0                       13.20
19765          0         0                   0                       15.55
1977       1300          ,fi5                0.075                   12.08
197B       2580          11.o1               0.400                   10.20
19B7       2580          11.61               0.400                    7.50
2015 /3    2580          11.61               0.400
/1   Based on the average revenue of 0.45 ngwee/kWh earned by the CAPC
during 1971/72.
/2   For the Kafue Stage II Project only.
/3   The life of the Project has been assumed at 40 years, for the Dam
and Hydroelectric station.
5,        The discount rate at which revenues equal costs in the above computa-
tion is 18%.  The return on the investment on the Project for firming up energy
genLration and increasing the capacity of the existing Kafue Station, is there-
fore at least 18%.



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
ZAMBIA
KAFUE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)
Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation
Tariffs
ZESCO's BULK SUPPLY OF POWER TO CAPC
1.        ZESCO supplies bulk power from two sources:
(a) the Kafue hydroelectric project; and
(b) the Victoria Falls hydroelectric stations.
The sale of power from Kafue project is regulated by a Tariff Agreement
entered into between ZESCO and CAPC on December 23, 1970, as a condition
of effectiveness of Loan 701-ZA for Kariba North Project. The sale of power
from Victoria Falls is covered by a separate agreement between ZESCO and
CAPC. Details of these are given below.
Kafue Tariff Agreement
2.        The agreement stipulates the point of supply at Leopards Hill E>t
330-kV, that Kafue energy would be sold entirely to CAPC on call and uw"Ier
the following tariff:
(1) The price to be paid by the CAPC in a financial year for energy
purchased under this agreement shall be:
(a)  until two turbo generators are in commercial service at
the Kafue Gorge power station - at the rate of 0.2 ngwee
per kWh.
(b)  ---- after two generators are in commercial service at
Kafue Gorge power station:
(i) a demand charge at the rate of K 1 million for each
100 megawatts of declared demand; provided that
while the available capacity is less than the declar-
ed demand payment shall be at the rate of K 1 million
per 100-MW of available capacity; irrespective of the
actunl declared demand, the payment shall include
the purchase of 1800 million kWh in each financial year;
(ii) an energy charge of 0.02 ngwee per kWh for secondary
erergy purchased in excess of 1800 million kWh.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
(2)  For the purpose of this clause, "financial rear" means a period
of twelve months ending on June 30; "declared demand" means
the demand in megawatts required from Kafue Gorge power station
in a financial year as declared by the CAPC to ZESCO in advance
of each financial year; "available capacity" means the capacity
of the plnt available for operation on request by the CAPC.
3.        The revenues earned by ZESCO depend largely on the "declared demand"
o' CAPC. Tne General Manager, CAPC, indicated to the mission that from 1973
onwards, the declared demand during each financial year could be assumed to
correspond to the installed capacity, i.e. 600-MW, until construction of Kafue
11 (the proposed Project). Thereafter, a new agreement would have to be
reached. Ilowever, considering that under the prevailing operating conditions
the bulk of the energy production at Kafue would be firmed up, he agreed that
the rate of 0.2 ngwee per kWh under section 1(a) could be applied to the total
energy production, without any demand charge and that this would in fact
represent a minimum payable.
Victoria Falls Tariff
4.        The scope of ZESCO's bulk supply agreement excludes the offtake
from the Victoria Falls power station bus bars required to meet the demand
of the Livingstone area, Victoria ralls township area, and Wankie area
(Rhodesia). The productic.. of Victoria Falls surplus to these requirements
is stepped up to 220 kV and transmitted to Kafue town, where it is stepped
down to 88 kV. An 88-kV interconnecting line connects Kafue town to Leopards
ilill. The capacity of these lines restricts maximam supply to about 70 MW,
though the station capacity is 108 MfW.
5.        The terms of payment for the output of Vtctoria Falls station A and
K (6F. MW) in force in June 1972, entails paynent by CAPC at the rate of K
815,C00 per annum for a capacity of 55 MW continuously available, the payment
to ccver the delivery of up to 350 GWh in the year of account, with payment
for cxcess of energy being made at the rate of 0.14 ngwee/kWh.
6.        With the increase in generating capacity of Victoria Falls, the
tariff was revised, based on a capacity of 70 MW continuously available with
tie basic energy and payment increased in proportion, the excess energy charge
remalning unaltered at 0.14 nr,wee/kWh. The mean charge works out to about
).22 ngwee/kWh. This rate has been applied, for the purpose of financial
forecasts in this appraisal, to energy outputs indicated by ZESCO to be avail-
able for bulk supplies.
Rccernt Discussions on Tariff Revisions between Zesco and CAPC
7.        ZESCO has recently raised the issue that all of Victoria Falls
production should be reckoned as belonging to ZESCO, to remove the existing
'anomoly' of ZESCO selling this power at Leopards Hill at about 0.22 ngwee/kWh
and purchasing power from CAPC, at the same location at about 0.3 ngwee/kWh.
This question is also under discussion between ZESCO and  WC.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
8.        The Kafue tariff at para. 2 above was not based on costs, but on
what CAPC was able to pay at that time given its tariffs for supply to its
consumers and its loan obligations. ZESCO has recently asked for a review
of these tariffs in view of the fact that, contrary to earlier assumptions,
the entire energy output of Kafue is now needed by CAPC and because the
tariff level is too low to cover costs. CAPC has agreed to discuss the matter
and talks are in progress.
9.        The general managers of C.APC and ZESCO have recenLly agreed on a
system of payment which would enable &1ESCO to recover its production costs
fully. According to this arrangement the en'ire output of Victoria Falls
and Kafue Corge (Stage I) power stations would, with effect from July 1, 1973,
be delivered to CAPC,-and be paid for by CAPC at a predetermined price which
covers the costs of operation, maintenance, depreciation and actual interest
on the depreciated assets. The agreement is to be valid for a period of three
years and would be subject to review thereafter, when the question of adding
a contribution for further development would be considered. The agreed yearly
changes are as follows:
(amounts in million Kwachas)
Year                 Victoria Falls        Kafue Gorge (Stage 1)       Total
1973/74                      2.989                    9.200                12.189
1974/75                      3.025                     9.125               12.150
1975/76                      3.064                    9.056                12.120
10.       The agreement of the genera. managers awaits approvals by Lhe CAPC
and ZESCO Boards, which are expected shortly.  The General Manager, CAPC, has
estimated tha, in order to meet the increased costs and maintain a satisfactory
level of surpluses for future expansion, CAPC would have to raise its bulk
supply tariffs to its consumers (see paras. 13 and 14 below). These revised
tariffs are also expected to be considered by the CAPC Board shortly.
ZESCO's RETAIL TARIFFS
11.       The tariff structure approved by ZESCO's Board and recommended to
the ORZ for introduction throughout Zambia with effect from January 1, 1973
is given below:
A.         INTERCONTNECTED SYSTEM (connected to the main grid)
1.   Energy Tariffs
(a)  Restricted, 5 amps. (single-phase)
Fixed monthly charge                -    K 0.5
Unit charge per kWh                 -       1.4 ngwee
(b)  Restricted, 15 amps. (single-phase)
Fixed monthly charge                -    K 1.00



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
Unit charge per kWh                 -      1.4 ngwee
(c) Unrestricted, up to 15 kVA for domestic consumers
(single-phase or three-phase)
Fixed monthly charge                -    K 3.0
Unit charge per kWh                 -      1.2 ngwee
(d) Unrestricted, up to 15 kVA for commercial consumers
(single-phase or three-phase)
Fixed monthly charge                -    K 10.0
Unit charge per kWh                 -      1.4 ngwee
2.  Mlaximum Demand Tariffs
(available to all consumers)
(a)  Fixed monthly charge                -    K 10
Maximum demand charge per kVA       -    K  1.8
Unit cnarge per kWh                 -       0.8 ngwee
(E)  Fixed monthly charge                -    K 200
Maximum demand charge per kVA       -    K .1.6
Unit charge per kWh                 -       0.6 ngwee
(c)  Fixed monthly charge                -    K2000
Maximum demand charge per kVA       -    K  1.4
Section (a) applies to consumers with demands below 300 kVA, section (b) to
those with demands varying from 300-2000 kVA, and section (c) to those whose
demands are above 2000 kVA.
(The maximum demand charge in every case shall be per kVA
registered over any consecutive 30 minutes during the year)
B.        ISOLATED SYSTEMS, HYDRO (not connected to main grid, mainly supplied
by hydro power)
Energy Tariffs
Restricted energy tariffs as under A. above, other tariffs subject
to a surcharge of 20%.



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6
C.        ISOLATED SYSTEM, DIESEL (not connected to main grid, solely supplied
by diesel power)
Energy Tariffs
Restricted energy tariffs as under A. above; other tariffs subject
to a surcharge of 125%.
Tle Revised Tariff Structure has been considered by Government and
approved by the Electricity Council. It awaits formal authoriza-
tion of the Minister of Transport, Works and Power.
10.       ZESCO has estimated that for the year 1971/72, the average revenue
per kWh would have been approximately 1.27 ngwee/kWh, if the Corporation had
taken over the municipal undertakings at the beginning of the entire year.
The introduction of the standard tariffs at 9 above is expected to increase
lhe average retail tariff to 1.59 ngwee/kWh.
11.       Under the Electricity Act of 1956 as amended, tariffs are included
:Ln a separate schedule in each undertaker's license. To alter these tariffs
a licensee must notify the affected consumers of the proposed change and if
:here are no objections from the consumers within 30 days, the new tariffs
chen become aff active.  If consumers object to a proposed change they may
lile an application with the Electricity Council.  (This Council consists of
3 to 5 members appointed by the Minister of Power, Transport and Works).
After a formal hearing concerning the application, the Electricity Council
submits its recommendation to the Minister. The Minister may accept the
recommendation or make his own decision regarding the change in tariffs.
CAPC's BULK SUPPLY TARIFFS
14.       CAPC is bound by its agreement with the Bank to operate and develop
lthe undertaking as a well ordered and financially self sustaining public
utility enterprise, capable of financing from profits (earned after providing
for interest on and redemption of oney borrowed) not less than one half of
the cost of development. Specifically CAPC is requirad to so maintain its
prices for the sale of electricity as to provide surplus sufficient to finance
nLOt less than one half of the cost of (Kariba) Stage II until its completion.
Stage II of the Kariba project refers to installation of 600 MW at the Kariba
Dlorth Power Station together with related substation and transmission lines.
15.       CAPC's tar;'f structure for bulk supplies to its main consumers
(CPC and ZESCO ,±. Zambia; SRESC, Salisbury and BULWAYO municipalities in
Rhodesia) is a promotional arrangement covering separately (a) the sales
corresponding to the state of development at commencement of supply from
the Kariba project, and (b) the growth -f sales thereafter. Briefly, all
growth sales are at the uniform tariff of K16.9 per kW of annual maximum



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
demand and 0.016666 ngwee per kWh of energy consumed, whereas the original
or basic consumption is charged at a fixed amount which reflects the then
prevailing costs of generation of thn respective entities. The latter varies
from one entity to the other. In the case of ZESCO, the basic demand and
energy ievel were determined as 13 MW and 47 GWh and the corresponding basic
tarlfi at 0.86 ngwee per kWh (with no demand charge).  This tariff has re-
mained unchanged for over a decade.
16.       A proposal has recently been evolveJ by the General Manager, CAPC
to replace the prevailing promotional tairiff, with a conventional tariff
uniformly applicable to all electricity undertakings. It consists of K20.0
per kW of annual maximum demand and 0.1 ngwee per kWh of energy consumed.
These tariffs are to be considered by the CAPC Board shortly.



ZA3GA
ULSBA Er fMICITY SUPPLY CODPUUlual  LDUILD
Act.1l .d F-neat Bal..ce Sheet.
(tr-d. illllo)
Act(rl                                                      toorecst
nme 30                                         180         93       19s2       39o       1974       1ni       1937       19l                  1939       1980
FleRd Aects
Flact Ia arrolca                                               X 7        54.5     1159.     154.       146. 9     t1s5.7     199.0    ('89.1      311.9      3.72.4    412.2
Lt... acu.lated depretatloc                                    ~07      1jS          2.7       7         12.        1 .3       24.8       1.9       416        52.2      6s.5
itat ploat L. .roioa                                        ?6.0       53.2    136.8       147.1     154.6       167.4     174.2      257.2     270.3      270.2      348.7
Wor-k I pr-ce..                                                 4.9       11.5      10.0        25       26.9        42.6      72.9       20.S      42.4       69.0        9.2
L0.9      4.7    146.8        159.6     181 5       a= IL      W1         =a        3L3..     339.2      5579.
-n-s -t-                                                           0-.       0.6        0.5        0.5       0.5         0.5 b                0.5       0.5        0.5        0.5
P"r-et A..et.
cloS                                                            2.5        3.5       6.o        6.7       5.8         2.2        1.0       6.2       8.3 7       .5        4.1
Acc-o-t.  1eotlrble                                             1.4        1.5       2.5        4.)       6.1         6.2       6.3        6.8       7.9        8.2        8.e
Nlotarcil.  nd copplle.                                         2.5        1.7       3.0        3.8       4.1         4.2       4.3        4.4       4.6        5.0        s.3
Other -ure--t os.et.                                            2.9                              -                     -          -         -
Totatl ctrr.t a ...to                                        9.         6 7      1- 1S 84             16 0        t2 6      it 6       t-.        --6       16.7       18.2
Total Asoto,                                                40.7                158. 8      74 9     198.0         LI      259 2      295.6      334.0 o    5         9 76.6
roursrY AN LIAIILITIES
Coe.toot Cra-t-                                                           12.3      12.0       12.2      13.9        15.3       16.1      17.0       17.3      17.6       17.9
Retolead lactIc0S.                                              7.4      (1.3)       1.0      C 2.7)                  3.0       6.8       14.6      28.1       34.7       45.6
D.ffcitto  tk.--se of  *--et. t .)                                -                                                   Zt         2j        ?D         2-           2S}f a      ]  
Total Eouity                                                 I.                              7.       IL.         16. 1     20.7r      29, 4      4U.2      r!o 1      6t z
Debt
bWoc Stogp It ProJect
ropo- d  ~-,k I-                                                                                       7.4        21.4      38.5       52.7      66.4       72.2       70.3
Prepoacd Oo.oern- t Ion                                                                      2.1       4.7        10.3      I?..       24.1      25.A       25.4       25.0
Other I-$.                                                     26;7       3q       13J        155.3     160.9       159.6      15 6      170. t     U_         85s.6     19s 0
Total Debt                                                  26.7       54.0     138.7      157.4     173.0       I8t1.     220.9      246.9      269.5     265.2      290.3
Loes  lojtec.  debt dur.  tthbn on- yeo-                      ___                     7    0        1.1    1         5L 4           7     2       t            4.6        4
N-t DObt                                                    26            9  5910          156.      171.7       189.9     219.2      2 0 8      265.2                /65. 4
C-Crer LlabltltIe.
Obcr_ -crt .d  -c-ud I.blIti5.                                             4.7       1.t        1.2        1.2        1.3        1.3       1.4        1.4        1.5       1.5
Coo-r de.poit.                                                  0. n       0.2       0.5       .o6         1.0        1.1        1.?       1.3        i.6        1.7       1.9
Lt-ogt.-c debt O.. 1thib   oMe peor _Y..0.1 O I                                                     7  1  1           1 4 31.7             2. 1                 4.6        4.9
Total Corre-t LtablIttea                                     4.0                 5 5.2      )9        4..               5.t  S S       6.1                   9.4      1 0.
Contrlbu lonc to 1 Aid  Cor oteC- tle- n                            2.6       L          4.8                                                  1 30.0  Lo  t  5.3  16.8 l6 gP  19.8
TOTAL EQU6Y  /IND l.LAIL20IES                              4_0-                             i 9                                                              r2541  2 95 6  70  6
DObt'Eq.ity Rtio                                                78/22     79/21     93/7       9t/4      94/b        92/d       91/9      19/11      56/14     93(15      83/17
C-rreet Retio                                                  2.511.0   1.1/1.0   2.2/1.0   3.8/1.0   3.5/1.0    2.5/1.0   2.1/1.0   2.9/1.0   2.4/1.0   1.8/1.0   1.8'1.0
MOy 4, 19-5



ZAMI4BA
L4FU WYDROgEtCTRI. PilOECT (STAGE II)
ZAMBIA ELECTRICITY SUPPLY CORF0RATI1t4 LIMITED
Actual end Forecast Cash Flow
(V.wacha million)
Sevotn-Year
Sunaary
Year Endiang June 30                                            !2q194                1975        1976        j           197fl       1979              1972173-78/79         1980
internal Source of Funds
operatiog Incomes                                                 5.9       12.8      13.1        13.8        18.1        23.4        2'..2                  111.3            28.2
Depreciation                                                     4.5        5.2-       6.0         6.5        Jj1          9-7        12.:.                    49.6           11.3
Total                                                       10.4       18.0       19.1        20.3,       25.2        12-         3.                     160.9            39.5
Deductioyns
Increase in working capital other
than cash                                                      4.3        1.6       (0.2)        0.1         11.4        0.8         0.4                     7.4             0.5
Interest charged to operations                                    9.8      10.3       10.3        10.2        10.5        10.1        17.8                    79.0            17.5
Principal payments                                                07     .1.1          1.5         1.4~       1,7          2.1         4.3                     12.6            4.6
Total                                                        14.8      13. 0      11.4        11.7        12.6        15.0        12.5                     M9.            22.6
Bal&mce of Internal Funds Available
for Investment                                                        (44          .         7.7         8.6        12.6        20.1        12.3                    619             16.9
Construct ion Program
Bank Project - Eafus Stage 1i                                     2.7       8.4       17.7        20.9        i6.1        1.3.2         9.6                    88.6
Interest during construction                                     0.1        0.9        1.9                     4 8         6.0        ___17.0
Total Bank Project                                           21.8       9%5       1 9.6       24.2        20.9        19.2         9.6                   105.6
Other works  construction                                         8.4       17.8      i4.i        19.2        16.1         24.2        25.5                   126.1           27.3
Interest during construction                                    -          -          -           ..L2        J..L.       _..L         _                     ...-AA            2.7Z
Total other works                                                      17.8       14.9        19.4        16.8        25.5         27.5                   130.3           30.0
Total construction program                              11.2       27.        34          43.6        E-          44.7        37.1                   235.9            30.0
Balance to be Financed                                                  15.6       22.1       26.8        35.         25.1        24.6        24.8                   174.0            13.1
Financed by
Eaf-ue Stge 11 Project-
Proposed Bank Loan                                                      7.4       14.0        17.1        14.2         13.7         7.6                    74.0
Proposed Government Loan                                     2.1        2.6        5.6         7.1         6.7         1.7                                 25.8
Other long-term  borrtiving                                      11.2        6.7                   6.8         6.8          9.3        10.4                    51.2           11.1
Contributions in aid of constructioni                             2.6        2.6       2.0          1.8         1.5         1.5         1.5                    13.5            1.5
Non-operating income                                              0.2        0.2        0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2         0.2                     1.4            0.2
Grants                                                            0.2        1-7        1.4         0.8         0.9         0.3         0.3                   1.....6
Total                                                        1         ffi21j     23.2           ~~2J                          ~     .                    i1J.L
Cash increase or (decrease) for year                                     0.7       (0.9)      (3.6)       (1.2)        5.2         2.1         (4.8)                   (2.5)0.
Cash b,lance beginning of year                                           6.0         6.7       5.8         2.2         1.0         6.2          8.33 
Cash balance end of year                                                 6.7        5.8        2.2          1.0        6.2          8.3         3.541
Debt service coverage                                                     1.0        1.5        1.4        1.3         1.4         1.6          1.4                                    i .6
May 4, 1973



rA   ffMa4Cl
lev  tn419 'nne 30 12~~~~~~~~X71   N 192                                                                                                  TW5:  
cAx clKue pr!-X                      t3 2k                          I        b        o          5        .         kA       0  6  lfo     61tt l  7 68o
;;   '                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~417     W%  605    791    ek7    907                    gro   1,039   ,.Lx0   1.88
IP.rt"m r                                       21.       101             472        Xe9          T        613        6t36        7693       J61        S96
L-1.st-  ee                                     93         8S              98        Ice1      tli         131        llb         159        175        in
Alue u:    l { ta:l     er                                    0.15            ° U          UX       0.T7        e.1       0.20        o.a2       0.22       o.a2
<;Ar {VIritertlshlgt                             0.19       0.20            0.2I       0 22       0.2        e .22       O. 2       0.2!k      0.2%       Q*
F~~~~ "1  ut s ~~~~~~~~~~~.1L                   IP             L--                                            " 1.57               1.  .S     62  1.60
CAPC ("A    pm_r)                                       1,%.7                      6.1        6.1        6.1         S .6      13.6       13.6       *6.g
CAM  (VIcet-t  ftil-c_r)                     0.T         .3              .         1.r        1.3        1.          -3         1.1        l.3        L.3
Retstl ts- ~~~~~~~~~~~~6.l  i.   L A                                              2*1|.; 240:N   2   
tot.I.t o1r der tr              S       ct 6.8   lO.4            3 .5   29,6             3t.S        )3. 1    39.0         66A        50.0       56.S,
otr.r oV ratim F*~                               0.2       ,9t              0.1        -.1            9.1    0.1         02         4. Z       o,2        0.2
7rWi lr " tio4         r         r         0       I"       o     qas 2D.6               3:.3L 6      U  3 ° _2            Ad.    3                 -1,
t8   *UE                           1.8        2.0             2.6        3.2        3.t        3 5         3.46       38         3.S           I.
CFC                            0.2        e f             2.T        3.1        SA          1 .7      4l.1       kl5,        1,.9       5.*6
G-1-rtttr -ots -4~ IWw         vl  i'tl. rlv bl.  02         0.2            0.9        1.0        1.CQ        1,0        1.2        i.5         1.5        1.3
T".. lrln t stion              0.6        ° S             0 6        Q.7        0.1        a.e         0.6        o' °         .          .
trrtttetdi.tktr tion                     D.8        1.9             2.0        2.t        2.3        2.i        2.41        2.7        2.         3q:k
Ad-M.rtMrrt"                                     09          t.2            LA^        1.6        1,7         1.t1       l.9        l.9         2.1        2.2
Ve;a-ci.tlon                                     1.3       -i.4             i.5        5.2        6 9        6 5         t.X I       .         lc.6       11.3
Otote  oper%tLA  -p--e                    La        TA              167        OA         tB S       tl-T       nu|        ,,4. 9       :6.8      W_j
O  ffli                                 1~~~~~~            ~      ~~~~~~~~~~~.2  2.9  5.0  12,8  U.tI  1).B    1e. 1      23.4       24.t       23.2
SerKptrtttnvnc                          o ~~~~~~~~~~~~~01  0.51    _.         0-         Q 02        02         C-.2       D,2        G 2         L.29
t¢tO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1   Snc 3E2                         r      _ M   U.-            il     6     41        iu         25R.05  2    6 A      2841
WnttreX  3vTstW                        7  ~~~~ ~             ~ ~~~~~~~6  2 1  9.9  *1.2  122       13.8       t6.0        18.0       19.4       20.2
Tts ttterest ^'^rged to r<nstrutloo   _   _                t                    l t        5.6        5.5        7'3         2.0        2.7
1t-trt eF^rged W>                                                                                 2.21ton    -L I^        I 0 U   0t l.   0    It         z
Gex~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~01    r .r                                  (3.7 g      5!) 2.7    5   °     S.8          7'5   t 3.5S           6.6       10.9 |
r^^te cbS rtteLre                       W t~~~~~~~~~~~4,  3b4      4.2        a.s        e.t         a.1        54i        tt.s        8,7      9.1
r_  {rterrze cFrecv coweres             0,5 ~~~~~D.S  .S            h         17         tl                                 7.        1.2       Ie
ml 4. 1973



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 13
ZAMBIA
KAFUE HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)
Zambia Electricity Supply Corporation, Ltd.
Financial Assumptions
Balance Sheets
Accounts Receivable
The estimated annual increase in accounts receivable consists of
two components: one relating to bulk sales and the other to retail sales.
Bulk sales (all to CAPC) were assumed to be paid within 30 days
from the billing date, as has been the prpvious practice. Therefore at the
end of each year the outstanding bulk srt_'e receivables were calculated at
1/12 of total annual billings.
During the past few years retail sales have been outstanding on
the average for about 83 days which represents a receivable turnover of
about 4.4 times. ZESCO expects this turnover rate to remain at this level
for the next few years after which it should gradually Improve.
Calculations for the annual increase in receivables are shown
below:
Bulk Receivables        Retail Receivables          Total
Ending                           Ending    Ending
Balance                          Balance   Balance      Total
Year     Sales    (1/12)    Sales    Turnover   (3) - (4) (2) + (5)  Increase
(1)      (2)        (3)        (4)        (5)         (6)        (7)
1971/72   2,453    204         7,933      4.4       1,803       2,007        463
1972/73   5,726    477        14,796      4.4       3,363       3,840      1,833
1973/74   7,271    606        22,325      4.4       5,074       5,680      1,840
1974/75   7,453    621       24,056       4.6       5,230       5,851        171
1975/76   7,420    618       25,949       4.8       5,406       6,024        173
1976/77  11,069    922       27,950       5.0       5,590       6,512        488
1977/78  14,945  1,245        33,210      5.2       6,387       7,632      1,120
1978/79  14,904  1,242        36,867      5.4       6,642       7,884        252
1979/80  18,161  1,513        38,768      5.6       6,922       8,435        551
Note:  Above amounts are stated in K thousand.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 13
The large increases in receivables in 1971/72 through 1973/74 re
reflect the substantial increase in retail consumers resulting from the taking
ovesr of additicnal municipality undertakings and also the assumed 25% tariff
increase in 1973/74. The significant increases in 1976/77, 1977/78 and 1979/
80 resulted from increased sales after the completion of Kafue Stage II, the
initial operation of the first generating unit of Kafue Stage III and the
asjiumed 10% overall tariff increase in 1977/78.
Materials and Supplies Inventory
The year ending balance of the materials and supplies inventory
was calculated in direct relationship to the annual increase in transmission,
distribution and isolated generation operating expenses excluding deprecia-
tion charges.
Accounts Payable
Accounts payable year balance was estimated as follows:
(i) One-twelfth (30 days) of estimated annual bulk
power purchased, plus
(ii) One sixth (60 days) of estimated other purchases.
Conisumer Deposits
The year ending balance of consumer deposits was calculated as
1/20 of the annual retail sales revenue.
Construction Program
The construction program for the years 1972/73 through 1978/79
total K 235.9 million of which K 105.6 million or about 45% represents the
Batik project (see Annex 10).  Other construction amounting to K 130.3 mil-
lion is based on ZESCO's own construction 8chedule. The entire construc-
tion program was based on annual expenditures including interest during
coLstruction as shown in the detailed Construction Program, Annex 12, page 8.
Borrowings
Estimated borrowings for the seven-year period 1972/73 through
1978/79 total K 151.0 million, and are shown below:



ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 13
Amount
(K million)
Kafue Stage II Project
Proposed IBRD loan                   74.0
Government loan                      25.8
Drawings on existing loans              1.1
Govarnment loan - accrued
interest on loan for Kafue
Stage I Project                       6.2
Kafue Stage III Project -
assumed foreign loan                 33.1
Additional Government loans             10.8
Total                 151.0
Terms of the proposed Bank loan are described in paragraph 6.06.
It was assumed that the Government loan for the Kafue Stage II Project would
be for 25 years including a six-year grace period with interest at 7-1/4%.
The drawings on existing loans were from several loans provided by the Zambia
National Provident Fund and the Mtmicipai Council of Kabwe. The terms of
these loans vary with amortization periods of 20 and 30 years and interest at
6-1/4% and 8-1/2%.
On January 1, 1972, the Government transferred Kafue Stage I
to ZESCO with a liability to the Government for a K 84.0 million loan with
a 7-1/4% interest rate and repayable over 35 years after a five-year grace
period. During the first 2-1/2 years of the grace period, interest amounting
to about K 9 million is not expected to be paid, and, by agreement with the
Government, this will be added to the original loan amount in 1976/77, making
a total of about 93 million to be amortized over the next 35 years.
The K 33.1 million foreign loan for Kafue Stage III Project repre-
sents the estimated foreign cost during the period 1975/76 through 1979/80.
It was assumed that this loan would have a five-year grace period, repayable
over 25 years and interest at 7-1/4%.
Iwo additional Government loans required for the construction pro-
gram were included in the forecast; one for K 7.7 million in 1972/73 and one
for K 3.1 million in 1973/74. It was assumed that they would have terms similar
to rhose of other Government loans to municipalities, namely, one-year grace
period, fifteen-year amortization period and 6-1/4% interest.



ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 13
Details of the annual drawings from the various loans are shown
in the Schedule of Borrowings, Annex 12, Page 9. Annual debt service on
alL the loans is shown in the Schedule of Interest and Amortization, Annex
12, page 10.
Depreciation
Prior to June 30, 1971 ZESCO did not employ a standard uniform
depreciation policy. On July 1, 1971 the Financial Controller issued a
schiedule of the estimated useful lives of the various classifications of
assets (see Annex 12, page 11) to be used in calculating annual deprecia-
tion charges. It became effective on this date.
Annual depreciation charges as a percentage of the average gross
fixed assets in operation during the period 1972/73 through 1979/80, aver-
ages about . 2%, as shown below. Also shown is the percentage of ac:umulated
depreciation to average gross fixed assets in operation.
Average                     Z          Accumu-         A Accumulated
Gross      Annual    Depreciation   lated           Depreciation
Fixed Assets  Deprecia-  of Ave. Gross  Deprecia-   of Ave. Gross
Year       in Operation    tion       Fixed Assets       tion      Fixed Assets
1972/73       146.8          4.5           3.1          7.1             4.8
1973/74       160.6          5.2           3.2         12.3              7.7
1974/75       176.3          6.0           3.4         18.3            10.4
1975/76       192.4          6.5           3.4         24.8            12.9
1976/77       244.1          7.1           2.9 /t      31.9            13.1
1977/78       300.5          9.7           3.2         41.6            13.8
1978/79       317.2         10.6           3.3         52.2            16.5
1979/80       367.3         11.3           3.1 /1      63.5            17.3
Average 3.2
Nol:e: Above amounts are stated in K million.
/1   ZESCO follows the practice of commencing depreciation in the year follow-
ing the year in which an asset is completed and placed into service.
In 1976/77 most of the cost of Kafue Stage II Project would be trans-
ferred from work in progress to assets in operation. Since depreciation
on these facilities would not be recorded in 1976/77, the percentage of
depreciation to average gross fixed assets declined as shown in the
above table. Likewise in 1979/80 the percentage declined reflecting
the fact that the Kafue Stage III project would be placed in operation
that year with no depreciation charges.
A detailed schedule showing the calculations for the annual depre-
ciation charge3 is given in Annex 12, pages 12 ar.d 13.



ANNEX 12
Page 5 of 13
INCOME STATEMENTS
Sales (GWh)
1.   Bulk Power Sales
A.   Sale of bulk power from the Kafue hydroelectric complex
is based on the assumption that CAPC purchases all the
available power. The following table, abstracted from
Annex 11, shows annual Kafue output and the increasing
generating capacity.
Year         Sales (GWh)
1971/72       1,085             First year of operations - Kafue Stage I,
two 150 MW units operating part time
1972/73      2,800              Kafue Stage I - four 150 MW units operating
part time
1973/74       3,600             Kafue Stage I - four 150 MW units operating
full time after allowing for normal maintenance
1974/75       3,600
1975/76       3,600
1976/77      4,900              Kafu,s Stage II - two 150 MW units operating
part tine
1977/78      6,180              Kafue Stage II - two 150 MW units operating
full time after allowing for normal maintenance
1978/79      6,180
1979/80       7,680             Kafue - Stage III - three 150 MW units operat-
ing part time.
B.   The output from the three Victoria Falls hydro stations
is divided between retail sales in the Livingstone area
and bulk sales to CAPC. These stations first provide
sufficient power to meet the consumers demand in the
Livingstone area and CAPC purchases the remaining power.
Retail sales are est-mated to increase at the rate of
10% so the power available for CAPC decreases each year.
In 1972/73 sales in the Livingstone area amounted to
17% of the total output and by 1979/':0 this is expected
to increase to about 27%.
C.   Retail sales, including retail 3ales in the Livingstone
area, were based on the recent SWECO tariff study. From



ANNEX 12
Page 6 of 13
1973/74 through 1979/80, annual retail sales are expected
to increase by 9% (see Annex 11).
Revenues and Tariffs
Revenues have been ca'culated otl the basis of the estimated sales
and tariffs. It has been assumed that the bulk supply tariffs for Kafue
and Victoria Falls power would remain at the present level until 1977/78
when a 10% tariff increase was assumed (paragraph 6.07). The average price
per kWh for retail sales increased annually in 1970/71 through 1972/73 as a
direct result of taking over of additional municipality undertakings where
sales prices were higher than those of the original undertakings taken over by
ZESCO at its vesting date. It was assumed that the proposed tariff increase
of about 25%, which ZESCO has already filed with the Government, will become
effective on July 1, 1973. Thereafter the average annual retail price is
s:iown to decline slightly through 1976/77 because of special terms and in-
creased consumption in the lower tariff blocks. Commencing in 1977/78 it
was assumed that retail tariffs were increased 10%.
Generation Expenses
Generation expenses have been forecast as follows:
Generating
Station          72/73  73/74  74/75  75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80
Kafue i              600    700    750    750    750    750    750    750
Victoria Falls       250    275    325    325    325    325    325    325
Kafue II                                                    75    450    450
Kafue III                                                                 300
850    975  1,075  1        1,150  1,525,  1525  1,825
Note:  Above amounts are stated in K thousand.
The estimated cost increases were based on the additional power
generated as additional plant is placed in service and gradually becomes
fully operational (see page 5, Annex 12).
Generation expenses at the isolated stations are shown to increase
about 10% in 1973/74 because of the operation of additional small diesel sets
and the completion of two small hydro plants, the Lusiwasi extension and the
Kasama station. Thereafter through 1979/80 the increase in such expenises is
est'.mated at about 5% annually.



ANNEX 12
Page 7 of 13
Purchased Power    72/73  73/74  74/75  75/76  76/77  77/78  78/79  79/80
CPC Cwh               465    525    588    659    738    827    026  1,037
Price (per kWh)   0.59   0.58   0.57   0.56   0.55   0.54   0.53   0.52
Revenue (million
K)              2.74   3.05   3.35   3.69   4.06   4.47   4.91   5.39
CAPC Owh              651    851    911    975  1,043  1,116  1,194  1,278
Price (per kWh)   0.39   0.38   0.37   0.36   0.35   0.34   0.33   0.32
Revenue (million
K)              2.54   3.23   3.37   3.51   3.65   3.79   3.94   4.09
The above forecast of units purchased was based on ZESCO's requirements to
meet the sales forecast. Unit prices were based on existing purchase agree-
ments.
Transmission and Distribution Expenses
Inereases in transmission and distribution expenses are forecast
as follows:
Amount              2
(Kwacha million)    Increase
1912/73                    2.00
1973/74                    2.10               5
1974/75                    2.31               5
1976/76                    2.37               3
1976/77                    2.43               3
19771/78                   2.67              10
1978/79                    2.94              10
1979/80                    3.23              10
The 5% increase in 1973/74 reflects increased operating expenses
resulting from completion of tratismiission facilities started in the previous
year. The 5% increase in 1974/75 is primarily attributed to the expansion of
municipal distribution schemes which were delayed in 1973/74 and carried over
to 1974/75. 1975/76 and 1976/77 increases of 3Z represents increased distri-
bution expenses caused by normal load growth. The estimated 10% increases
in 1977/78 through 1979/80 are due to the expansion of the system by the com-
pletion of the Kafue Stage II project and the partial operation of the Kafue
Stage III project.
Administration Expenses
T- 1973/74 administration expenses are expected to increase 12%
over 1972/13 expenses. This substantial increase reflects the additional
expenses relating the build up of ZESCO's administrative staff and activities
necessary for the proper management of the consolidated municipal facilities
recently taken over by ZESCO. From 1974/75 through 1979/80 administrative
expenses are estimated to increase annually at the rate of 5%.



UMNIA
KArUE !RMIZCTU.C PROJECT tSTAn 523
WA1A KLWcRTCmT SUPLT CwPATIN  LDMTTV
Construction Progr
(mum e ur
Se"u Year S     try
Year Ediosx June 30                                        1973      1974       1975      1976      1977       1978      1979         1972/73-1975179       19 0
Hyvdro Projects36b
ML2.,svs  Hd306                                                                                                                               306
Lusi,,si t tenaion                                          8m      1,500       500                                                       2,800
Kas ow  8dro                                                450        s0                                                                   SW0
1afue Stage III                                           -                             10820    10.000   IL.400    X100                 48.23            14 9W
1,556     1,L55C      Seo    10820    t0,00v             4    h .100 I.n2L6                     149O
1li ...  Censnation
Diesel et*tion                                             250      1.325        845       330       250                                  3  o
Traenwioion                                                                                                        1,667     2,00w
ruture Project                                                                                                                            3,667             2,000
Chingols/Solvssi Power Line                               1,000                                                                           1,000
victoria P.IAllWlogu lPower Line                          1,400     1.500                                                                 2.900
Power Systms - Lnqnl* Province                              215     2,140      2,980       535       130                                  6.000
)5pikafSerenje Tranelssion Line                           1.000      1,000     1,Oo       500                                            3.500
ftab  Tran,ods :o  Line                                     850        350                                                                1,200
KafuefLopard' Hill SubstatIon                               350       500                                                                   850
Control Centers                                              50       500      I,ODO       9r4                                            2.500
Ripple Control                             _                                      20         0         150                                  200
Total Transmission                                           6      6,090      5                     160      1,667     2,000            U1.t               2,000
Distribution
lMunicipal Schemes                                        1.5D0     5,320      5,640     3.860     3.760      4,000     4.000            28,100             4,000
Rural Electrification                                                  825       760       680        835       864      1,160             5,144            1,560
Future Projects                                                                                               1,667     2.000            _2.                2.000
Total D6stri-utimn                                           M      6,145    _6400       45,0      4,615      6.551     7,160             3                 7.560
Other
Kariba north Bank YHusing
Sur-yes and lnvestir.atioms                                          1,350     1,050       650        750       200        200            4&,200              200
Traluing Center.                                            200        300       300        100       1oo       100        100             I,2'0              100
Staff Housing                                                50       670        600       480                  600                       2,4WO               500
Workshops and Offices                                        50        350       200        200       200                                  1,000
Future Projects                                                                                               1.6t6     2.000              ,66              2.000
Total Other                                                  0       2,670       @                 10         2.566      2.300           12,4               2.800
Total Cnstruction Coots                                   8,471    17,780    14,tm95    19,155    16,075    24,184    25.560            126,120            27,260
Interest during construction                                         _2                              705      1,265     1 95              4,160o
Total                                                     8.471    17,780    14 895    19 390    16 880    2                                               29,995
X&e'  - B k Projert                                            2,700     8,400    17,700    20,900    16,100    13,200       9,600            88,600
Interest during construction                                 73       921      1,990    _2         4 807      6,o00       _              17.,)?_
total Kafue II                                            _773                19,590    2422       70,907    19,205     9,600            IS,b2o
Construction Program Crand Total                         11,244                                    37161 34,ts    43,614    5607    44,654    37,115 %,900 
hay 4, 1973



WAUIA
A'E HTDRCLEC-Mc ?ROJ=CT (MzE 11)
ZAMBIA  LECTRICITY SUPPLY CtlPArTUm L22aT-
Schedule of Barrowinx9
(Kwachs thoou,)
Year Fjdihd  June 30                                                1973          1971          1975          1976         1977          1978          1979          198o
Exstint Logn
Zambia Natiml Provident Ftnd                                  19
Zatia Naticmal Provident Pund                                310
Z . bia National Provident Pund                                            500
Municipal Cowlcil of Kabwe                                    b5            45            4S            4S            45
Ge*emint of Zambia (urpaid pmt±on of
interest o  lLue Stage I loan)                             3,090         3.090
Proposed Loans
Kafue  Stage nl Plvect
IERD                                                                7,384        13,964        17,154       li4.256        13,661         7,600
Governt o Zmbia                                        2.073        2.637         5,626         7,070         6,651         1,744
xaroe Stae II Project
r .ea±  Loan                                                                                    6,727         6,705         9.305       1e,U415        11.675
Lae. for other wks
Govumant Loan                                          7,733
Governnt Loan                                                        3,111
TOrAL BDhT- YNGS                                      13,270        16,767       19.635        30,996        27,657        214,710       1d,o15        11,675
Play 4, 1973



ZAM
Lkm LAOILC Kbiltt (SUM
CMPOPAnOP Lb=
Sth.d.l. .1                Id A-tti..ti-
(EttEt)
O'tzi-l   h-M                            It?ML-    _ 11911171
)Q. '7                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Awril."s-
)-3/4           6,257          61251              235                         215                                                      2)s                         235                         I)s                        135                           2)5
SW             so                2                           n                           20                          10                          20                          10                         20                            26
4-1/2              "I             "I                is                          Ia                          Ia                          1.                          I6                           I.                         I3                           to
5               4, *41         4. O'1             202                          702                        2 02                         202                         202                         202                        102                           202
5-1/4           2. 415          2, 115             127                         127                         121                         127                         127                         127                        izi                           127
'.'/4          21,700         11.708            1.357                       I.M                         1.357                       1,357                       1.351                        1.357                      1,3S7                        I.3S7
6-1/4           4.870          4,870               30                          L04                         304                         "4                                                      304
40.106         40.186            2.263                       2,26a                       2.263                       2.3o                        2.263                       2,26)                      2.24)                         2,261
Av'tl 197Z        6-114           1,112           Ijz2                70            28            68            so                          32            64         34               62            34            so            31           37             41             is            43
2-                               A, 000         84,000            6.090                       6.090                       6,090                       6.090                       6,4A             206        6.736            435       6,TO4             470         6.669            so
CDC                                                 "I"'4              too              74               4             4              5            4             5             5              5          4                4             6             4             5                           7              3             6
D.. 31 I964    7-1/4.                100             75                6             &             5             4             5             s             3          4                4             6             4              s            3              7             3             6
"I    "I'll               too              II                1             3             7             4             6             11            &          4                6             I             I              I           I               5             11            7
lw. It. i'"       1-31,               Do             .1                7             1             6             4                           1             6          4                5              I             I                          I              I             1              6
A... .  .. Ltd.              190      I                  Sao            440               30            1.            29            24            1:            20            16          29              2s            20             34            J            12             a.            2%             n
Z-bL. 0.11-1 ft-id..t
J_    II. tol I   8-1/2           illoo           1,4"               140                         154                         154                         153         11              152            14           ISO             12         ISO              la           14S            14
u f.  I.tt :.L    Cd              (It.8,1969        6-1/2              232            212               %4            it            13            12            12            13            It          14              it            14             10            15            9             16             a             1)
Z..bt .K.,i:    1"-'.-d-t
F..d                          A.S.27.1%9    $.I /2                 619            600               51                          51                          $2             6            $2          12              51            13                           14           44             16            47             17
30                                                                 t9                             21            25            21           21             24             22            25
I. 11169    7                     Soo               2              it            16                          17            29            to            ts                          26
H-ttp.l C--tl If
K.b-                             1969/1970    6-1/4                360            135               10                          13                          16                          Is                          22            24             2t            24           20             24             14            Z4
-N-I IwiIdiI,,
.'y                         1969/1970    7                    Soo            929               34             6            m              6            34             6            34           6              32              a            32             1           32              4            31              9
t-bi.
1971/1972    6-114                             LM                 572                         549           411           3)z           U-S           iu         46I              465           In            434           324          4m              "O            2ft           ah
Y.t.1 I.I.ti., 1- .                                                          138,743           L 3)l            Q3         9.317            512        1.2"             in         2 2L7
ft-ld..t
F-W                             1972/1973   6-1/2                  5m                                                           21                          43                          62           4              42              4            42             4           42              4            42              4
C--., If Z..bl.
- TUI.11. F.11.                  1972/1973   6-114.             6,140                              354           259           36$           275           350           29)           332         311             313           330            292           351          270            31)           347           3%
R.N. sts. 11 pv.3-1
IX                            1972/1973    7-1/4             T4,01                                                          684                       1, 3"                       2.354                       3.354                        4.261                      5347           1.751         3 220         1.871
r-         I If Z-bi.         1972/197)   7-1/4              25,801                               73                         237                         526                         970                      1,451                        1,7"                         :an             394         t:842           4m
E., st. XII ft.1-1
is. I,-.                 1974/1975    7-1/4            49.477                                                                                                                   Its                         701                       1,263                      1,955                        2.?SS
C=         , L.-                     19;211973   6414               7,733                                                          49)           316           463           MA            441         30              4tl            391           3%            415          I"             "I            MG            469
C.    -    t L.-                     t9 3/1974    6-1/4              3.111                                                          91                         194           132           144         140              M             149           I"            isil         M              IMI            t"            176
G.-- t L...                          191211979
CRAND TOM                                                                                      -9" 5            742   11,20?    1.11!   17,234    JU2    1).117  JW                                           60 4    _j,,g   _L 08                      2 O"          9 7U           w!-6    - -.36    4.60
M.Y 4, tro



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 13
ZAMBI .:
KAFUE HYROEEECTRIC PROJECT (STAGE II)
ZAMBIA ELECTRICITY SUPPLY CCRPORATION LIMITED
ESTIMATED LIFE CF ASSETS FCR DEPRECIATION PURPOSES
ISSET                                 PERIOD OF YEARS
Hydro Electric Schemes
Dams and Headrace Tunnel                              50
Other Civil Engineering Works, Buildings,
Plant and Machinery                                   35
DieEel Schemes and Thermal Power Stations
Civil Engineering Iwrks, Buildings and
Generating Equipment                                  15
Transmission and Distribution
Transmission Lines with Steel Towers                  25
Transmission Lines with Wboden Poles,
Mains, Services and Cables                           20
MeterE and Relays, with Accessories,
Substation Plant and Switchgear                      15
Transformers                                          25
Housing, Offices and Workshops                             45
Vehicles                                                    3
Aircraft                                                    8
Movable Property, including Radio Equipment,
Loose ToOBs, Furniture and Equipment                        5
May 4, 1973



2AMB !A
KAFLTJ HYdROMMTRC PP.r97 (S7T0A  11)
Z86. mECnTaC177 SUMt,T CatRPltI LYIT7KD
StD,oilo 07 i>Dr.o¶tbo Ch reo
0.0 or 4 .
Dopr.ol.t100
In 1971!72       jW217)        1977174      1974175       197517L       1976/77       L977ZLI       17a/79        1979L80
ft..d ....  tt 7/1170               15,295 (0t1 book r-lI.)
Addltloo 10 IS70/7l                 194734  1Colt)
FPood                                                                                                                                    424        1 .1 9,32/71  5.424  1,626  1,624  1,426  t1424  1,424  1.42b         1,424         1,424
e.N.  I - trn..err-d to ZESC0 en  11172   no- dnp-il.t.oo 1971/72                                                                      2.070        2.070         2,070         2.000         2.070         2.070         2.9'0         2.070
M0o1oip litit   tok.  on-r 1/1/72. 6/30172 92bO ' 6.sn  (ov.CgO  19 Y.ro)- 620
DNp.or-of1o     wto. 191l/73                                                                                                         620           620           620           620           620           620          620            620
As..t. Iipl.t.d  t. 1971/72. 11554 . 372. o. po.lt. not. - 430
OoproC-toll. *t tto In 1972(73                                                                                                       430           430           430           630          620           630 Z'                      670
Vi.t-l.o  P1ll. Pl.,. (0t00t dwpticonlo 1973/746  6.140 . 2.55 (coop90 tt. rot.)     54                                                                154           154           154          154           LS            136           154
To.r A.m.t.
Conpl.td                  (Ot-tttior .t.rt follen1tR Yor)
1972/73         1972/73 b6g.0la0g ti ti  prog..so 10,018 .i-.  65 for Ktfe 11 Coot  - 9,953
9,953 . ..ti-.o d 3/4    p.l.rd - 7,463
7.465 o,--d t0 6.ootly di.lt onbooto  OMd t110.1ioo  foT  ohlth th.
-Po.It d.n t    ct ttioo  I010  o1d b. 4.47
7,665 . 4.41 -                                                                    328
Lo.1oo01 t*tloon  306 * 2S.1%                                                       S
Clliogool/Ooloool tr'  _l'.10    lb    .000 r 45                                   40
301141080 oo/ 016.1 **o.0 300 o 37. -                                               9
Idnl1jpo1 onh.          - I.S00 o S   .                                            75
S111 dti... I SeretlOo  250 * 6.7  -                                               17
To.l.1                                                           47                                                  477           677           477           677           .77           677           677
1973/74         1972,73 bogO-Io8  ,Vok In p,.g...0 b.1 . 2.488 A 4.47 -                           109
o1-o  67dCo 500 o 2.5s  -                                                          13
5_11 dIi.. Ig."' 1tlo   1.325 x 6.7  -                                             89
VIotto FolIo/Moog.. 1r.ooston  llrI  2.900   4%                                   116
h-bo  010             ln   1.200 * 47 .                                           49
.fo./l.o1do  .ub.t  tion es50o  6.77n                                              57
RippIl  .ootol 100 0 6.7 n                                                         7
t16.opcl  -ooo6o.  5.320 . n  -266
lotol *loonrlfo!.too 8750 5.ss -                                                   41
1ildi408   od 016.1 *,.  s 2,670 * 1n -                                          80
T,t.1                                                            826                                                               826            826          826           826           826           826
1974/75         L..l ..t. I     lon 2,800 . 2.55                                                   70
0-ll di s.l g..ot o.  845 . 6.7n 7                                                57
tlipl .  _totIol 20 . 6.77.
16bn1o1pol .16.h.. 5640 . 5s.                                                     282
R.,r.l  .ctrtfl.slio. 760 . 5s -                                                  38
Dl.Idig: so.d oth.C ....to 2,150    3 sX
T..1.                                                             f                                                                               513           ;'9           511          511           313
1975/76         0.011 dl..l  0001-otot  330 n 6.77 n                                               22
Hpfk./Se.rnJo tr.n1-loo  11n  3,500 o 42                                          140
Coot-ol 0tt..0 2,500 A 657n  *                                                    168
kIppl. 000t111 50 . 6.77. *                                                         3
hS nbclpo1 .il1.  31 O  2 5                                                        193
kolol *rectrfloolrlon 600 0 5S. *                                                  34
S.ildi.g. .nd oth06    .0..t. 1,430 * 37.                                          43                                                                                                                                                 1
T.t0.1                                                                                -               -                          -                                         _ _O     601    60  
7T7TAL CAIUtlFD FRWAtlD                                                               1.421           4,544         5,175        S,vOl         6.51-         7,117         7,117         7,117         7.117
my7 L, 1973



1IL   l icfl?107 11? gme2mtmI0  LD%=
o   "ytatig
(1.'.tcTtcA. ,S,rL!.v,d             hltl
to 1171/72       &llUfl       2717         I'77 ns       ZLZ&        UZ8LU        UZ7Z3          WWI7          OWN
tSWA  Bran    08m                                                                                 t.au           *,5 7         S,17S        6 401        0,S14        7,1U7         7,117        7.117         7.117
1916/77         .11  dt*1   r .tU   250 a 6.71                                                 I ?
pt_r  *s-t_tu    re 6lc   N7 * a%                                             t40
ttpplM. .o.- I0 * n1 -                                                           2
%micip.1 66-0  ,. ,7 D a $% -                                                 I"t
amietpl -   {fai  l3.     *  SX.                                              *21
u-i~. -i-crtfi~atim us3s x1 n                                                  42
bflit4tav   d aetbr aeste 1,050 a n                                            I 17
6*Af. StAO  11 8)..91. 2.5S                                                 2 O*
Total                                                        260                                                                                                     ,oO 2,60     2160        2.609
1977/75        1.t.T* po.jct. - ts_4*qn  - 1.U87 . h1 -                                        87
M.I.z1pcL  *~b F     ,00W Sa    *                                              ZODO
R.r.t elotrtficati"w * S 4
ott.re pronj-t  - Distrib.utim. 1,647 a n                                       D3
I.ldig,c  .d o,tbr *.t.  2,5t x 3n *
K.t.e 11 15,392 x Z.5% ).5
Total                                                         2i56                                                                                                                              O56
1787/79        Ft..r. project. - TI,mLseim - 2.000 a '1                                       0o
Ih.1.i,.1  sc~    4.000 a4 $%                                                  2
lu.t *si.tftfic..tZi   1.10 t 21.                                               54
t er pFroject. - JlstribuhcLo   2.000 a 5  -                                  100
ktld44s .6  Itg.r  o.etv 2,300 x 3%                                             69
xaf' . 11 7.076 * 2.5% *t177
7.t.1 Dwpr"L.tl.a Ch.r L17 lS.                                                                                              6 OM         f,5S          7.117         p          1-0, 5-292#
H'Y 4, 1973



A F R CA                  CENTRAL AFRICAN POWER CORPORATION                                              4b
)                   _              i, INTERCONNECTED  SYSTEM                                           ,
A KGOLA        (
.~~~~~~~~~~~ 1:                        - -i                           I5     w 
z, A    N         I  A
N ~      ~        , R     e 0f D   E                         s-l 
___           .-,-IS      o           1.* >                              ,-              1
\\ . . ~~~~-'.                                                                 .~    f   t >'{
~~~~~~~~~AV~                                IA                   -. s    H- . N  
JI..    1.+PtC r*\ z
-   - ~ ~ LP
p     /'~~~~~EPBICO
*   0    U Ti UqS I  OUTH   AF R  I
o  ;   CO.S.2'1 .;' 'LI'j .............SrSrl  _/'                                           - 
'IorR~~~~~4  5                .           A'lstr___   ,. ;' 
..... I... 'r AS1 'j4) 'ASfT 'RE PBICO 
- rSOTH AF.PI,CA .v
L                      _ 



