 IEG
                                                                                             Report Number: ICRR14636

                  ICR Review
                  Independent Evaluation Group




       1. Project Data:                                      Date Posted: 06/30/2015

               Country: Africa
             Project ID: P093826                                                  Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Senegal River Basin          Project Costs (US$M):                 142.17               141.42
                         Multi-purpose Water
                         Resources
                         Development Project
  L/C Number:            C4182; C4183;                Loan/Credit (US$M):                  128.73               106.78
                         C4184; CH231
      Sector Board:      Water                       Cofinancing (US$M):                    18.75                24.44

           Cofinanciers: Netherlands, France,        Board Approval Date :                                  08/06/2006
                         EC, African                          Closing Date:           09/08/2011            03/31/2013
                         Development Bank
          Sector(s):     General water sanitation and flood protection sector (27%); Health (22%); Irrigation and
                         drainage (22%); Animal production (22%); Central government administration (7%)
          Theme(s):      Water resource management (29% - P); Regional integration (29% - P); Pollution
                         management and environmental health (14% - S); Land administration and management
                         (14% - S); Administrative and civil service reform (14% - S)

Prepared by:              Reviewed by:           ICR Review                  Group:
                                                 Coordinator:
Nestor Ntungwanayo        Soniya Carvalho        Christopher David          IEGPS1
                                                 Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  The Senegal River Basin Organization (OMVS) was established in 1972 in order to support member's economies
(initially Mali, Mauritania, and Senegal, and later on Guinea), and reduce the vulnerability of peoples’ livelihoods
through water resources and energy development. In 2006, IDA proposed two adaptable program loans for
Multi-purpose Water Resources Development which aimed to support the OMVS in developing an integrated water
resources management program with short, medium and long-term impacts, and this project is the first of the two
planned operations.

The 2006 Project Appraisal Document (page 7) states that the development objectives of the Multi-purpose Water
Resources Development program objectives were:

    “to enhance regional integration among the riparian countries of the Senegal River Basin through the
    Organization of the Senegal River Basin (OMVS) for multi-purpose water resources development to foster growth
    including improved community livelihoods.”

While the 2006 Financing Agreements between IDA and beneficiary countries omitted to mention the program
objectives, the 2006 Project Agreement (page 6) between IDA and the OMVS states that the project development
objectives were:

    “to enhance the regional integration among the riparian countries of the Senegal River Basin through OMVS for
    multipurpose water resources development to foster growth including improved community livelihoods.”
The Amendment to the Financing Agreement and the 2011 Restructuring Paper state that the project development
objectives were:

     “to improve management and use of water resources in the Senegal River Basin.”

The program objective was unchanged during restructuring.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 05/20/2011

c. Components:

Original components :
1: Regional Institutional Development for Water Resources ($7.6 million at appraisal against actual costs of $10.47
million): This component intended to support actions at the regional level to consolidate and strengthen policies,
plans, and actions relating to integrated water resources development. Specific actions were (i) to modernize OMVS
and enhance institutional capacities, (ii) operationalize Guinea's inclusion in OMVS and (iii) rehabilitate the OMVS
documentation center.

2: Local Level Multi-Purpose Water Resources Development ($90.6 million at appraisal against actual costs of
$87.96 million): Activities included the following:(i) Development of small hydraulic infrastructures and related
activities, (ii) improvement of traditional fisheries, (iii)water resources protection, and (iv)reduction of waterborne
diseases

3: Regional multi-purpose and multi-sectoral master planning : ($5.2 million at appraisal against actual costs of $8.12
million): Key activities under this component were to (i) prepare the Senegal River Basin (SRB) Comprehensive
Master Plan, (ii) ensure the pre-investment support for the OMVS Guinea hydroelectric and for a number of
multi-purpose dams, and (iii) participate in Multipurpose and Master Planning.

Revised components:
The original components were all maintained during the level 1 restructuring, but components 2 and 3 were modified.
As the costs of implementing the agricultural activities, and design studies for dam development were underestimated
at preparation, the following activities under Component 2 and Component 3 were cancelled in order to free resources
needed for the revised components:
a) Component 2: Development of small hydraulic infrastructure and related activities : (i) Develop recessional
agriculture, including identification of suitable options for processing and marketing agricultural products; and
improvements to cropping systems including inter-cropping and integrated pest management practices, (ii) Expansion
and rehabilitation of small-scale irrigation and drainage schemes, including the support to crop diversification and
training in grading, packaging, processing, and marketing agricultural products.
b) Component 3: Regional multi-purpose and multi-sectoral master planning : Activities of pre-investment support for
OMVS multi-purpose dams (Balassa) including: (i) support to prepare a comprehensive feasibility study for Balassa
(Guinea) and (iii) prepare other relevant assessments to determine the nature and scope of environmental and social
safeguards to be addressed for Balassa.


d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:

Project Cost:
At approval, the estimated project cost of this regional project was US$142.17 million, including US$109.98 milllion
from IDA resources, US$18.75 million from cofinancing, and contributions of US$12.00 million from the beneficiary
States. At project closure, actual costs reached US$141.42 million, including IDA resources of US$106.78 million,
US$24.44 million from parallel financing, and US$12.00 from the borrower States.

Financing:
The project was funded by three IDA Credits (for Senegal, Mauritania and Mali) and one IDA grant (for Guinea). Of
the total financing agreed at appraisal of US$109.98 million, US$104.98 million was disbursed and US$13.26 million
was cancelled. The increase in the US$ value of the financing was due to devaluation of the US$ against all
currencies in the financing package.
The IDA Grants were: Mali received US$30.08 million of which US$25.57 million was disbursed and US$6.64 million
cancelled. Mauritania received US$31.78 million of which US$32.74 million was disbursed and US$1.44 million
cancelled (the Grant increased in value because of the devaluation of the US$ against Special Drawing Rights, the
currency of the Credit). Senegal received US$30.08 million of which US$30.06 million was disbursed and US$2.25
million cancelled because of the devaluation of the US$ against Special Drawing Rights, the currency of the Credit.
Guinea received US$18.04 million of which US$16.61 million was disbursed and US$2.03 million cancelled because
of the devaluation of the US$ against Special Drawing Rights, the currency of the Credit.

Cofinancing
The OMVS received a Netherlands Grant of US$12.12 million of which an amount of US$11.99 million was disbursed
and US$0.12 million cancelled. Because of US$ devaluation, the EC Grant was US$2.6 million instead of the US$1,8
million planned; and France gave a grant of US$9.30 million instead of the US$8.32 planned. Cofinancing expected
from the African Development Bank ($2.00 million) could not be disbursed.

Borrower Contribution :
The four riparian borrowers contributed to the project for a total amount of US$12.00 million, and this amount was fully
disbursed.

Dates:
The project was made effective on 03/14/2007, nine months after approval. The project was restructured (level 1) on
June 17, 2011 to clarify the focus of the first phase of the program, to revise the project outcome indicators so that
they can be more measurable and to ensure a closer alignment of the project outcome with the food security and
energy production objectives included in the CASs of the OMVS member countries. At the time of restructuring, 63%
of disbursed resources for this project had already been used. The project was also extended by 18 months at
restructuring and was closed according to a new schedule on 03/31/2013.



3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:

Original project: Substantial
In 2003, OMVS laid out a joint Basin Development Program, which aimed at developing multi-purpose water
resources infrastructure, increasing income-generating activities at the local level, implementing a regional health plan
with correlated activities, modernizing Basin institutions, implementing the Water Charter principles, and implementing
the regional infrastructure program. All OMVS member states development strategies and the Country Assistance
Strategies (CAS)/Country Partnership Strategies (CPS) or Interim Strategy Notes (ISN) support the development of
smallholder agriculture, that is reliant of access to water and irrigation. The objective of the project was also in line
with (i) the second pillar of the World Bank Strategy for Africa Vulnerability and Resilience, which stresses the
importance of increasing resilience to health shocks; and (ii) the three pillars of the Regional Integration Assistance
Strategy for Sub-Saharan Africa as delineated below: (a) regional infrastructure, and development of trans-boundary
waters, (b) cross border malaria prevention, and (c) coordinated intervention to provide public goods.

However, the project objective was stated as a program objective, and this triggered a mismatch between the
long-term thrust of the program, and the short and medium-term nature of the project. The program objective was in
line with the priorities of the four OMVS countries, and the Bank's strategies for that category of countries as detailed
above. While the project addressed specific priorities of the four member states, and was in line with Bank's
strategies in those countries, there was a mismatch between the long-term nature of the program and the short and
medium-term content of the project activities for which there was no clearly defined objective.

Revised project: Substantial
At restructuring, the main action taken was to maintain the program objective, and to align the statement of the
project objectives with the short nature of the project. All other aspects related to the consistency between the project
objective and the countries' development agendas, and the Bank's strategies in the beneficiary countries were
unchanged.

The relevance of the objective at project closure was reflected in the request from riparian countries to continue with a
similar program of activities for the second phase of the Program. The riparian countries and OMVS prioritized rural
livelihoods for IDA financing as it is easier to source private financing for hydropower development.

b. Relevance of Design:
Original project: Modest
The project was clearly defined and there was substantive coherence between the identified activities, outputs and
outcomes, and the program objective at approval. However, the results framework in Annex 3 of the PAD was initially
too far-reaching; the intermediate indicators attempted to assess impacts which were beyond the timeframe of the
project.

 About 90 percent of the project budget was allocated to achieving the objective of local level multi-purpose water
resources development, which was designed mainly to develop agro-forestry, watershed protection and expand and
rehabilitate small-scale irrigated agriculture. Some activities were underestimated and others overestimated as a
result of the difficulty in getting accurate budget data. The main problems of budget estimation were in the dam design
development. Ultimately it was found that almost double the budget was required to complete the planned work. Thus
the budgeted resources for one project were stretched thin among components in order to achieve the objectives of a
multi-year program, and the inaccurate budgets meant that lower priority activities were deleted.

The multi-sectoral and multi-level scope led to a project design that was both too ambitious and complex. For example
the project was one of the first within the Africa region of the World Bank to integrate waterborne disease
management into water resources management projects. This complexity, combined with a lack of background
studies and baseline data, increased the implementation risk of the project, as reflected in the inaccurate budget
estimates and the overly complex results framework.

Revised project: Substantial
At restructuring, the main action taken was to align the statement of the objective with the short-term nature of the
project. In all, at restructuring, the project adopted more realistic budgets and also a more realistic results framework.
The restructuring operation improved implementation as activities were more focused on high priority activities.
However, the removal of value chain support for irrigation cooperatives was not appropriate, as it could have adverse
impacts on the sustainability of the water use aspects of the project.


4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):

 Original Project

“ To enhance the regional integration among the riparian countries of the Senegal River Basin through OMVS for
multipurpose water resources development to foster growth including improved community livelihoods” .

(i) Regional integration: Substantial
Outcomes:

    Regional institutional development for natural resources has improved with the integration of Guinea into the
     Council of Ministers, the Permanent Water Commission and in the High Commission;
    Performance contracts were signed with the four national executing agencies, and agreements were also signed
     for implementation of health activities. However the partition of costs and benefits for investment in the basin did
     not yet include Guinea;

Outputs:

    Guinea became a full member of OMVS and was part of the joint agreement for the financing of several
     hydropower projects. Guinea has benefited from the lifting of financial constraints to developing its significant
     hydropower potential,and positioned itself in the West Africa Power Pool market. Guinea’s contributions to the
     joint development and protection of the headwaters of the Senegal River will benefit the other riparian countries.
    The project implementation complied with internationally recognized management practices (including legal,
     human resources and financial), as Bank staff completed training and capacity building for the High Commission
     and national units;
    A document center was rehabilitated and modernized;
    80% of Water User Associations (WUA) enhanced their technical capacity, access to information, and
     decision-making processes; eight new WUA were created, and 40 existing WUA were supported and
     re-mobilized with training and equipment;
    An effective M&E system has been put in place and fully operational, as data collection capacity improved in
     terms of tracking project implementation, progress reports were timely, accurate and detailed. However, the M&E
     system does not have the capacity to measure impacts on poverty reduction in the basin.

(ii) To foster growth including improved community livelihoods : Modest
Outcomes:

    Poverty alleviation . The majority of the planned investments were executed, but there was limited evidence to
     support improvement of socio-economic conditions in member countries. The ICR reports that the incremental
     number of people reaching or crossing over the poverty line because of Project support to fisheries and
     agricultural activities was approximately 30,100 and 2,700 persons respectively;
    Fisheries: Sustainable fisheries development was partially achieved. The quantity of fish sold from the main
     markets or depots in March 2013 increased by 13% against a planned 15%;
    Health: According to recent studies, the $5 per cost of each of the treated mosquito nets is expected to have high
     economic returns over the 3 years life. Evidence in support of the outcome include the funding of the
     reinvigoration of the national schistosomiasis control programs, and the mobilization of bednet distributions to roll
     back malaria;
    Food security : The ICR reports that the incremental food production is estimated at 77,130 tons per year and that
     malnutrition is becoming less prevalent;
    However, the ICR provided incomplete reporting on the following targeted outcomes: (i) percentage of farmers in
     the coverage areas using the irrigation facilities to improve agricultural yield production, (ii) increase of acreage
     under cultivation, (iii) increase in crop yields, (iv) percentage of communities in the coverage areas in the basin
     applying better land and water management practices, (v) percentage of communities in the coverage areas in
     the basin applying better agro-forestry practices, (vi) percentage of fishermen reporting improved catch, and (vii)
     percentage of children under 5 in the project areas utilizing insecticide-treated mosquito nets to control malaria.

Outputs:

A number of outputs were fully achieved or exceeded as described below :
  88 km of constructed canals improved access to water and eliminated the shortage of water for irrigation across
    about 8,000 hectares of rice fields; 35 km of channel were cleared in the fight against invasive aquatic species
    and; drainage canals were constructed to cater for all irrigation projects in the vicinity;
  The project purchased and installed 25 motor pumps, and rehabilitated/enlarged or built 22 pumping stations;
  Women benefited mostly from the newly developed or rehabilitated small market gardens; the total number of
    women that benefited from the project investments in irrigation was estimated at 2,100; an increase of 10%,
    against a target of 5%;
  58.5 km of riverbanks were restored, in addition to the 25 km baseline including 20 km along tributaries in Guinea
    and 38.5 km in the Cercle of Kayes in Mali.
  16.14 million tablets of praziquantel and 4.6 million of albendazole tablets were delivered to distribution sites.

Other outputs targets were partially achieved as follows :
  5,700 people were trained in agro-forestry practices across 273 villages in Guinea;
  Positive socio-economic benefits have been realized, allowing irrigation areas to be put into production and
    markets to be fully used;
  Two intakes were constructed and one rehabilitated against 3 planned intakes built and 2 intakes rehabilitated;
  The rehabilitated or developed schemes have been transferred to farmers and reports indicate that yields have
    increased, however no quantitative data are available;
  Farmers’ cooperatives and water user associations have been trained in improved land and water management
    practices through project support and the parallel Dutch Trust Fund financing;
  At least 80% for identified low land areas were rehabilitated.


Revised Project

The revised objective was "to improve the management and use of water resources in the Senegal River Basin ":
High

Outcomes:
    A comprehensive Senegal River Basin Master Plan as a planning tool for effective management of water
     resources for multi-purpose development was adopted;
    Regional institutional development for natural resources has improved with the integration of Guinea into the
     Council of Ministers, the Permanent Water Commission and in the High Commission;
    Positive socio-economic benefits have been realized; however more time is needed for all irrigation areas to be
     put into production and markets to be put into full use;
    The percentage household coverage with long-lasting insecticide-treated bednets (LLINs) in 2012 was 85% for
     Mauritania, 90% for Senegal, 96% for Mali and 65% for Guinea. Target exceeded by 4%.
    80% of the population in the project areas where the prevalence of schistosomiasis crosses WHO-approved
     thresholds have been treated, exceeding the target by 20%,
    There was at least 100% increase in the flow of water passing through the principal water intakes (Laoueja,
     Gorom Aval and Dioulol), and the improved bulk water infrastructure benefited Mauritania and Senegal. The
     increased flow supported 6,000 ha of existing irrigation development and the production of two crops per year
     since 2010;
    The ICR reports that the incremental food production is estimated at 77,130 tons per year and that malnutrition is
     becoming less prevalent;
     Sustainable fisheries development was partially achieved: the quantity of fish sold from the main markets or
     depots in March 2013 represented a 13% increase (target 15%);
    M&E data was used to improve program management; M&E data on project progress informed decisions during
     restructuring to refocus the project.

Outputs:

    A documentation center is operational and equipped; increase in use reached 68% against a target of 35%;
    Pre-investment framework (technical, environmental and social) was put in place to build three selected dams;
    The feasibility studies for three dams and complementary documents have been completed, including the
     Strategic Regional Evaluation, Environmental Study, the Senegal River Master Plan and the study on developing
     the local power pool;
    A decision was made to build at least one dam and at least 20% additional megawatts added to the hydroelectric
     capacity of the OMVS member countries upon completion of the second phase of the project;
    5,223 hectares of irrigated areas were rehabilitated or developed against a target of 4,400 hectares; there were
     15,000 direct beneficiaries from the irrigated area;
    3 million long-lasting insecticide-treated bed nets were distributed, but all nets could not be distributed in Guinea
     because of the civil strife;
    Women benefited mostly from the newly developed or rehabilitated small market gardens; the total number of
     women that benefited from the project investments in irrigation was estimated at 2,100; an increase of 10%,
     against a target of 5%;
    The project purchased and installed 25 motor pumps and rehabilitated/enlarged or built 22 pumping stations,
     against 6 stations and 4 motor pumps planned;
    88 km of irrigation canals were built and rehabilitated; the constructed canals improved access to water and
     eliminated the shortage of water for irrigation across about 8,000 hectares of rice fields. In addition 35 km of
     canals were cleared in the fight against invasive aquatic species;
    Other output targets were partially achieved as follows: (i) two intakes were constructed and one rehabilitated,
     two further intakes were rehabilitated, representing a 95% target performance; (ii) at least 900 ha of lowland
     areas in the project were 60% complete, due to suspension of works in Mali and Guinea, due to political
     instability in the country; and (iii) the 2500 ha of forest area are rehabilitated and completed at 63%.

Progress towards achievement of the Program Objectives

    The ICR reported that the triggers identified in the PAD as a conditionality to move toward the second phase of
     the program were substantively achieved as follows: (i) as a policy trigger, Guinea had been admitted within the
     OMVS as the fourth member country; (ii) the minimum technical triggers achieved were: (a) satisfactory
     integration of Guinea into OMVS institutional, legal, and financial structures; (b) satisfactory installation and
     operation of at least two intakes; (c) at least 7 percent of targeted Basin communities are applying improved
     agro-forestry practices; (d) 10 percent of farmers in selected areas are using irrigation facilities to improve
     agricultural yield; (e) at least 50% utilization of insecticide-treated bed nets among children under-five in the
     project areas and (f) clear consensus among riparian countries to build one dam from the pre-selected list of
     options.

    The above achievements allowed moving from the first to the second phase of the Bank's program of lending.
     Consequently, two new projects were approved on November 8, 2013: (i) the second Multi-purpose Water
     Resources Development (MWRD2) whose objective is to improve coordinated management of water resources
     for socially, environmentally and economically sustainable development in he Senegal River Basin, and (ii) the
     climate change resilience development project aimed at strengthening trans-boundary water resources
     management in the Senegal River Basin.



5. Efficiency:

Modest
Economic and financial efficiency : An economic and financial analysis was conducted only at the time of project
appraisal, and after the project closure, but not before the project restructuring. The economic analysis of the project
captures the combined benefits and costs of the agriculture and fisheries activities of the project, with agriculture
accounting for about 90% of the net benefits. The analysis covers 30 years, including 5 years of actual production and
cost data (2008-2012), with 25 years of projected costs and benefits (2013-2037). At a 12 percent discount rate, the
analysis confirms that the project activities had positive NPVs in Mali, Mauritania and Senegal. The negative financial
and economic NPV for Guinea is due to: (i) the absence of income-generating activities from fisheries; and (ii) the late
exploitation of irrigation agricultural areas (340 ha in the low-lands that were just coming into production at the end of
the project). The combined effect of these two factors has led to lower job creation and revenue generation. The
higher productivity of Mali and Senegal’s investments are mainly explained by the: (i) larger surface areas cultivated
under the project; and (ii) greater number of primary fishery beneficiaries.

   OMVS Countries                            FRR                                                   ERR
                          At appraisal          At closure                   At appraisal                At closure
   Guinea                       18.6                   -0.1                        12.8                         -4.2
   Mali                         29.8                  31.06                        31.8                        24.6
   Mauritania                   40.3                   18.1                        27.4                        13.5
   Senegal                      51.1                   40.2                        35.8                        28.3
   Project                      36.9                   25.9                        29.3                        20.5

Some of the assumptions underlying the calculation of the economic rates of returns seem unrealistic, especially
those related to the same productivity and intensity rates for all crops and the incremental job creation of 10%.
Moreover, the ICR economic analysis did not elaborate enough on the sample size used in the calculation of the
economic rates of returns. and how the samples were selected and representative of all activities financed by the
project.

Administrative and institutional efficiency : The project confronted a number of operational obstacles: (i) three
member countries experienced coups and major security problems in Mali hindered field activities until the project
closure; (ii) weak supervision by national cellules and executing agencies and poor selection of contractors for
implementation led to delays in achieving the hydro agricultural works; (iii) some costs were underestimated, and
some planned activities had to be cancelled or postponed; and (iv) counterpart contributions were delayed throughout
the project.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                 Rate Available?                           Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                        Yes                                      29.3%                                    97%

    ICR estimate                     Yes                                      20.5%                                    100%
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:

Original Project: 64% of disbursed resources - Moderately Unsatisfactory
The relevance of objectives was substantial and the relevance of design was modest at approval. The efficacy of
regional integration was substantial. The efficacy of objective to fostering growth, including community livelihoods is
rated modest.

Revised Project : 36% of disbursed resources- Satisfactory
Relevance of objective and design was substantial after restructuring. Efficacy to improve management and use of
water resources in the Senegal River Basin is rated high.
Because of administrative and institutional drawbacks during project implementation, and unrealistic assumptions
underlying the calculation of the economic rates of returns, efficiency is rated as modest.

Applying the harmonized IEG/OPCS formula to assess this restructured project [(0.64*3)+ (0.36*5)=4.0], achievement
of project outcome is rated as Moderately Satisfactory .

 a. Outcome Rating: Moderately Satisfactory
7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:

Institutional risks are moderate : OMVS is one of the strongest organizations in the region supporting the regional
integration of the riparian countries for water resources management and is strongly supported by the Heads of
States, who also support the preparation of the second phase of the program. There is a risk that the volatile political
situation in the region may slow development of further regional integration.

 The key risk to the development outcome is the sustainability of local level activities. The residual risks threatening
the benefits of project investments are specifically: (i) the small holder farmers targeted by the project may have
limited access to credit and insufficient liquidity to purchase inputs; (ii) the river basin has a highly diverse ecology
and, there is no overall study showing the long term trends in overall fish stocks, (iii) long-lasting insecticide-treated
nets (LLIN) have a design life of 3 or 5 years before needing to be re-impregnated or replaced, and can be as short as
2 years due to inappropriate handling and other damage.

Financial risks are moderate : OMVS is designing an integrated financing system where some income from Manantali
dam would be used to cover both investment programs and also operation and maintenance costs. The Dutch
Government will continue to finance the control of aquatic invasive plants and support to the water users associations.

A follow-on project supporting OMVS and similar development objectives was approved in November 2013.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : Moderate

 8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

 a. Quality at entry:

Moderately Unsatisfactory
The project was relevant to regional, country and World Bank's priorities to support regional integration of the
OMVS member states, as well as economic expansion of the region. Consultations were completed at the
regional, national and community level, involving at least 87 communities, institutions and associations. At the
national level, consultations were held with all relevant ministries of water resources, agriculture, fisheries and
health. Government and community buy-in was promoted through addressing regional water resources issues
which were the mandate of OMVS, but also key national and local priorities. However, the Bank team designed a
complex project which integrated sectors such as health and fisheries, with more traditional water resources work
on dams and irrigation.

There was a significant shortcoming in the quality at entry; while the program objective was well defined, there
was no specific objective for the project. In addition, there were other shortcomings, including (i) inadequate M&E
and budget development, weak political and security analysis, which later on became a risk to implementation.
Furthermore, the associations that benefited from the project investments were not formally assessed for their
capacity to use the new infrastructure and equipment. The PAD did not analyze the socio-economic impact of the
project beyond immediate implementation. Finally, safeguards were not well integrated, as there was no budget
line for these activities.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                       Moderately Unsatisfactory

 b. Quality of supervision:

Moderately Satisfactory
The Bank's supervision task team developed a close relationship with the client, and the OMVS had experienced
staff that were involved since the project launch. The decision to drop lower priority activities in order to fund
higher priorities resulted in successful completion of the latter activities. Close support of the Bank's sector
specialists helped the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to perform well and to build capacity in the course of
project implementation. In particular, the Bank's agricultural specialists were instrumental in providing active
support to both the PIU specialist and directly to national agencies in the supervision of works.

However, the Bank team took five years to identify the project’s design shortcomings and to proceed with an
appropriate restructuring. Moreover, delays were noted in providing no objections which slowed the procurement
process. There were areas that needed more attention from the Bank's task team: (i) while consultation and
sensitization in communities were mostly adequate, they were not consistent across all areas and activities. This
led to beneficiaries either rejecting or not using the equipment distributed by the project, notably in the case of
fishing nets and pirogues in some fishing communities, and watering cans in communities working on
agro-forestry; (ii) the division of responsibility led to lack of ownership for cooperatives that were sometimes
created ad-hoc in response to the potential investment. Despite being classified as a Category A project, the ICR
does not provide a clear statement of safeguard compliance or lack thereof.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :                Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :              Moderately Unsatisfactory


 9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

 a. Government Performance:

The OMVS member states established the Regional Steering Committee (RSC) in time and paid counterpart
contributions. The RSC met as needed to review and approve the project’s programs of activities, and the relevant
ministries from the OMVS member States were fully involved in the implementation of the project activities. The
key shortcoming was the continued delay in releasing counterpart contributions, on the grounds of political
volatility, budgetary constraints and lack of satisfactory information on the use of their contributions.

   Government Performance Rating                                Moderately Satisfactory

 b. Implementing Agency Performance:

The OMVS implemented the project successfully, and managed adequately the national level institutions and
community organizations involved in the project. In spite of the political, technical and administrative differences
among the member countries, the participatory approach adopted in the project design and management, and
multiple workshops organized to smooth out differences have contributed to good project implementation and
progress toward project objectives. The OMVS rose to the task of supervising activities over large geographical
distances and with rural communities from desert to semi-tropical forest. Fiduciary and safeguard policies were
complied with, both Bank team and QAG reviews rated these as satisfactory, as was the project financial
management. The procurement staff in the national executing agencies performed well, even when multitasking
across multiple different roles.

However, supervision by OMVS of the hydro agricultural activities did not spend sufficient time on field activities,
and the PIU did not have sufficient resources for monitoring and evaluation of field activities or for monitoring
safeguards issues. The centralization of procurement in OMVS also affected negatively project implementation.
National units of OMVS only supervised the works in parallel with Bank missions, which limited the impact of their
action. The weak ownership of the national units and the lack of responsibility devolved to the national level
affected the local supervision of the project implementation. National project units were not provided with
dedicated funding for the supervision of works. Finally, national agencies supporting the three components
(Hydro-agricultural component, Health component, Fisheries component) were less effective in reporting and in
project supervision because of inadequate human resources.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                     Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                        Moderately Satisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:

The original design of the M&E system was weak as it contained one outcome indicator, and most intermediate
indicators proved difficult to monitor. The project restructuring substantially revised the results framework, improving
alignment of the results indicators with the development objectives. However, the indicators could have more
comprehensively captured improvements in community livelihoods. Baseline requirements were inadequate to
measure incremental improvements.

b. M&E Implementation:

The M&E system was decentralized and improved over the life of the Project. The PIU within OMVS had a dedicated
M&E specialist to track and report on project progress. Data on project implementation were collected through data
collection networks, implementing agencies’ field visits and the monitoring of field trips of the PIU staff. Mobile phones
and the Internet were used to monitor progress of project implementation. By the end of the project, the progress
reports prepared twice a year were more accurate. However, the PIU did not have sufficient resources for monitoring
and evaluation of field activities or for monitoring safeguards issues.

c. M&E Utilization:

M&E data were collected and used to identify problem areas of the project and reflect on corrective measures. In
particular, M&E feedback and reports were used to determine how and when the project could be restructured.
Physical progress was well-tracked throughout project implementation, but data on yield increases from rehabilitated
perimeters was less readily available. The key weakness of the M&E system was its inability to evaluate the
socio-economic impact of the activities on the project beneficiaries at the household level and at the regional level for
institutional strengthening work. In particular, the impact on gender, although expected to be positive, was not
captured through the M&E system.

M&E Quality Rating: Modest




11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:

The PAD identified the project as a Category “A” project, and the OP/BP 4.01 was triggered. OMVS prepared a
strategic regional Environmental and Social Management Framework, a Pest and Pesticide Management Plan and a
Resettlement Policy Framework. These three documents covered the entire Senegal River Basin and addressed
environmental and social screening and management of sub-project level activities in the entire river basin. It was
expected that the local level activities would individually have relatively low environmental and social impacts;
although cumulative impacts were expected to be more severe. These individual and cumulative impacts were to be
assessed and appropriately mitigated over the course of project implementation.

Under Component 3, the project financed feasibility studies, environmental and social assessments, and resettlement
action plans for some new potential hydropower dams in the Senegal River Basin. It was recognized that potential
impacts of the small water infrastructure may be changes to the social balance that could trigger increased social
conflicts, and these are planned to be monitored and addressed during the successor project.

While the project was classified as a category A in the Environmental Assessment classification of the Bank, primarily
due to the preparation of studies for large hydropower dams, there was no specific line for safeguards activities in the
overall program budget. There were difficulties in the supervision of the large number of sites progressing in parallel,
in particular as some contractors did not have environmental specialists to monitor these issues. Training was
completed for the national agencies; however monitoring implementation continued to be challenging, as focus of
safeguards activities often focused on the environmental, or physical issues were often at the expense of social
issues.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:

Financial. The financial management system functioned well and complied with the Bank’s requirements. However,
there were sometimes reporting delays due to the high workload on external auditors. Money flow through project was
efficient; centralizing the majority of the financial management in OMVS increased confidence and facilitated
monitoring. There were no suspected leakages. Due to the difficulties with auditing the accounts across four
countries, each year the national cellules and executing agencies would send their accounts information to Dakar for
audit. While the staff ISRs consistently rated the project management as satisfactory or moderately satisfactory, the
ICR did not report if the project had unqualified audits.
Procurement. Overall, procurement activities were conducted as established in the procurement manual. There was
good collaboration between the specialist in the OMVS High Commission and the PIU procurement specialist.
Cascading capacity building from the OMVS, the PIU and national executing agencies was a strength of the project.
Consequently, thresholds for review were raised for the second phase of the project to reflect the increased level of
confidence.

Weaknesses included (i) delays in approvals from the Bank; (ii) procurement methods were not tailored to each
agency; (iii) insufficiently stringent Performance Contracts for the National Agencies and (iv) the absence of a
procurement specialist in the National Executing Agency in Mauritania. Procurement delays led to project extension;
but they triggered a great deal of collaboration with the national agencies and to an improvement in capacity and in
the quality of documents produced over the life of the project.


c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                                ICR                  IEG Review                     Reason for
                                                                                         Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Satisfactory                 Moderately             Performance before restructuring was
                                                            Satisfactory           negatively affected by the misalignment
                                                                                   between objectives, expected
                                                                                   outcomes and available resources.
                                                                                   Before restructuring, the project
                                                                                   outcome was moderately
                                                                                   unsatisfactory; after restructuring it was
                                                                                   satisfactory, resulting in an overall
                                                                                   weighted outcome of moderately
                                                                                   satisfactory.
          Risk to Development Moderate                      Moderate
                     Outcome:

            Bank Performance: Satisfactory                  Moderately             There were shortcomings in the quality
                                                            Unsatisfactory         at entry and the quality of supervision.
       Borrower Performance : Satisfactory                  Moderately              There were shortcomings in the
                                                            Satisfactory           performance of the project's
                                                                                   implementing agency.
                 Quality of ICR:                            Unsatisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:

This review supports the three lessons identified in the ICR:

(i) Trans-boundary projects dealing with river basins can have a role in disease control. The Bank should consider
the advantages of a multi-sector project and/or a regional project when dealing with issues that are closely related
and/or are trans-boundary. There were clear advantages to treating malaria across the four countries since the
population is constantly moving in this area. This is applicable for most of the sub-sectors covered by the project.

(ii) Support for a regional organization generally transcends the political instability that affects the individual national
governments and may have positive development impacts. Close collaboration between the project executing
agencies and the beneficiaries can mitigate the negative effects of national civil strife on project implementation.
The implementation arrangement of channeling funds to the regional organization also had the advantage of
keeping implementation moving forward despite military coups in three of the four riparian countries.

(iii) Ensure that all aspects of the value chain are supported when local institutions are weak. Additional support
following delivery of assets is needed for better outcomes and sustainability of value chains. To maximize
development impacts, the program will typically need to go beyond delivery and provide follow-up support to
recipients.


14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes     No

Why? A PPAR reviewing the achievements of the two operations (MWRD1 and MWRD2) after the closure of the
second operation would provide lessons for the Bank's future engagements in regional integration .




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:


The ICR provides a good overview of the project design and implementation and also discusses the intended
outcomes. Beyond the simple fact of providing factual information related to the project, it makes an effort to discuss
the context and to explain the results achieved on the ground. However, while the economic evaluation presented is
sanguine, it does not provide convincing evidence that distinguishes between assumptions and field-based surveys.
Furthermore, the ICR had other weaknesses, including (i) a split evaluation did not follow the guidelines, and (ii) IDA
numbers related to disbursed resources presented in Annex I were not updated. And a significant weakness was that
despite being classified as a Category A project, the ICR does not provide a clear statement of safeguard compliance
or lack thereof.

a.Quality of ICR Rating : Unsatisfactory
