Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 8124-ZR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 7, 1990
Population and Human Resources Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit           Zaire (Z)
US$ 1.00           -    Z 450.073 (Nov2mber 1989)
Z 100.00                US$ 0.222 (November 1989)
SDR 1.00                US$ 1.321 (January 1990, Negotiations)
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st - December 31st
ACADEMIC YEAR
September - June
ABBREVIATIONS
ABA       Additional Budgetary Allocation
AfDB      African Development Bank
AGCD      Administration Generale de la Cooperation au Developpement
(Belgian Cooperation Agency)
BPE       Bureau des Projets Education (Project Implementation Unit)
CEREDIP   Centre de Recherche et de Diffusion de l'Information Pedagogique
(Center for Pedagogical Affairs)
CPTD      Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de Developpement
CSS       Comite de Strategie Sectorielle (Sectoral Strategy Committee)
DEPS      Departement de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire (Ministry
of Primary and Secondary Education)
DESURS    Departement de l'Enseignement Superieur et Universitaire et
de la Recherche Scientifique (Ministry of Higher Education)
DPSMD     Direction des Programmes Scolaires et des Materiels Didactiques
(Directorate for Pedagogy)
DPSS      Direction de la Planification et des Statistiques Scolaires
(Directorate for Planning and Statistics)
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Cooperation Agency)
IFCEPS    Institut de Formation des Cadres de l'Enseignement Primaire et
Secondaire (Institute for Training of Education Staff)
PRAIGEFI Projet d'Appui aux Institutions de Gestion Economique et
Financiere (Assistance to Economic Management)
Reged     Regional Representative of the DEPS
SECOPE    Service de Controle et de la Paie des Enseignants (Teacher Pay
Service)
SERNAFOR Service National de la Formation (Training Institute)
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission that visited
Zaire from June 20 to July 4, 1989, and consisted of Benoit Millot
(economist, mission leacer), Gustave Chene (consultant, educator), Baudoin
Duvieusart (UNESCO, education planner), Jean-Christophe Laederach
(implementation specialist), Michel Moisan (consultant, education
specialist) and Peter Smoor (consultant, architect).



(i)
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY             ....................... iii
I.  INTRODUCTION ................................................... 1
II.  TUTE EDUCATION SECTOR .......................................... 2
A. Overview .................................................. 2
1. Organization of the Sector
2. Main Enrollment Patterns
B. Sectoral Issues ........................................... 4
1. Decline in the Quality of Education
2. Low Internal Efficiency
3. Underfinancing of the Education Sector
4. Lack of Planning and Managerial Capacities
C. The Government's Sectoral Objectives and Strategy .........9
D. The Bank's Role .......................................... 11
III. THE PROJECT .................................................. 14
A. Project Objectives and Description ....................... 14
1. Sectoral Adjustment Support
2. Restoring the Quality of Instruction
3. Reinforcing Managerial Canacities
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan                   .       .        23
C. Project Implementation ................................... 26
1. Project Preparation and Management
2. Procurement
3. Disbursements, Special Account and Project Account
4. Auditing and Monitoring
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .................................... 32
V.  AGREEMENTS AND RECOM-IENDATION'S ................................ 33
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1-1   Comparative Education Data
1-2   Basic Data
2-1   Structure of the Education System
2-2   DEPS (Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education): Organizational
Chart
2-3   DEPS : Regional Organization
2-4   DEPS: Organization of Supervision at the Regional level
2-5   Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research:
Organizational Chart
2-6   Enrollments in Primary Education by Grade and Region, 1986/87
2-7   Enrollments in Primary Education by Type of Institution, 1986/87
2-8   Enrollments in Sdcondary Education by Grade, Stream and Region,
1986/87
2-9   Enrollments in Secondary Education by Type of Institution, 1986/87
2-10  Enrollments in Higher Education, by Type of Institution, 1971/1972 to
1986/87
2-11  Primary and Secondary School Teachers' Annual Salaries, 1988
2-12 Repetition and Dropout Rates, by Level of Education, and Grade, 1986
2-13 Results of the Final Secondary School Examination ("Examen d'Etat"),
1985 to 1987
2-14 Current and Capital Expenditures in Education, 1980-87
2-15  Current Expenditures by Category:  State and DEPS, 1980-87
2-16 Execution Rate of the DEPS Budget, 1980-86
2-17  Regional Budgets:  All Sectors and DEPS, 1980-87
2-18  Unit Private Expenditures by Level and Category, 1987
2-19  External Assistance to Education:  Selected Sub-Saharan Africa
Countries, 1984-86
2-20 Bilateral and Multilateral Aid to Education: 1980-85
3-1   Draft Sectoral Strategy Letter
3-2   Draft Monitoring Table
3-3   Scenario of Development of the Educational Sector
3-4   Additional Budgetary Allocation
3-5   Sectoral Strategy Committee
3-6   Draft Sectoral Public Expenditures Program
3-7   Provision of Textbooks
3-8   Primary School Teachers In-Service Training
3-9   Rehabilitation of Local Educational Environment in Bas-Uele
3-10 DEPS Office Consolidation
3-11 Project Costs and Financing Plan
3-12  Specialist Services, Local Trairing and Training Abroad
3-13 Disbursement Schedules
Map   IBRD  21959 (January 1990)



( iii )
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:         Departement de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire
(DEPS) (Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education)
Amount:              US$49.0 million equivalent (SDR 37.1 million)
Terms:               Standard IDA, with 40 years; repayment
Description:         The credit has two main objectives:
(a) to help the Government implement its sector
education strategy to restore the conditions
needed for long-term balanced development of a
more viable and adequately financed education
sector, and
(b) to stop the deterioration and improve the quality
of primary education, by taking immediate steps
to increase the availability of main educational
inputs.
Policy Measures      The education strategy includes the following policy
measures:
(a) reallocation of incremental budgetary resources
for recurrent expenditures in the sector,
(b) creation of the Sectoral Strategy Committee
(CSS), with representatives from both the DEPS
and the Ministry of Higher Education (DESURS), to
monitor sectoral developments,
(c) control and adjustment of enrollments (through
admission, transition and examinations), based on
educational priorities and financial constraints,
(d) organization of a progressive scaling down of
repetition at the primary level,
(e) redefinition of the conditions of school
management by NGOs (in particular church
networks), and
(f) regular preparation of sectoral public
expenditure programs (PEP) and public investment
programs (PIP).



(iv)
Key Components:    The project will have three components:
(1)  Support to the Government's Sectoral Strategy
through :
(a) technical assistance to the CSS,
(b) strengthening of DEPS planning and
programming capabilities (including PEP and
PIP).
(2)  Promotion of quality, efficiency and coverage of
education -- especially primary education --
through:
(a) the provision of basic textbooks and teacher
guides in primary education,
(b) in-service training related to the
textbooks,
(c) rehabilitation of the local education
environment (multi-level classrooms in rural
areas, two pilot teacher training schools
and incentive schemes for teachers) in Haut-
Zaire, and
(d) construction of about ten primary schools in
the crowded periphery of Kinshasa.
(3) Institutional reinforcement by:
(a) rationalizing the working conditions of the
central administrative staff (office
consolidation, training, computerization,
and support to the office of statistics) and
(b) improving the working conditions at local
levels (training and equipment of regional
and subregional admininistrators and
supervisors).
The project, to be carried out over six years, is designed in
two parts. The first provides for essential educational inputs
and other basic sectoral needs --a kind of deferred maintenance.
A joint mid-term review of project implementation, including the
execution of agreed sectoral measures, would precede the second
part.
Justification and
Risks:               The project will ultimately boost student achievement
at all levels, and help to restore Zaire's human
capital base. The risks stem from the fact that
Government may not make sufficient budgetary
allocation to the sector, either for sectoral or
macroeconomic reasons, or because of DEPS' weak
managerial performance. The project addresses these
risks by strengthening the Ministry's planning,
programming and budgeting capacities with external
assistance, equipment, and training and by sectoral
policy measures. Other risks are associated with
textbook distribution in a large country with poor
communication. Relying on well-organized church
networks will help reduce this risk (as it has in the
ongoing project).



(v)
Project Cost Summary
Estimated Costs
US$ Million           Z Base Cost
Project Component                      Local   Foreign   Total
1. Sector Strategy                      0.7      1.0       1.7            4
2. Quality of Instruction              10.1    25.9       36.0           72
3. Administrative Capacity              1.8      6.3       8.1           16
4. Operating Costs                      1.0      3.3       4.3            8
Total Base Costs (1-4)              13.6    36.5       50.1          100
5. Contingencies                        4.5    12.2       16.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST (1-5) 1/         18.1    48.7       66.8
Financing Plan
IDA                                     8.4    40.6       49.0
Belgium                                 0.9      5.0       5.9
France                                  0.6      3.1       3.7
Government 1/                           8.2       -        8.2
TOTAL 1/                               18.1    48.7       66.8
1/    Including taxes and duties estimated at US$ 1.3 million.
Estimated IDA Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year
US$ Million
Years         1991      1992       1993       1994      1995       1996
Annual        3.0        8.0       13.0       12.0       8.0        5.0
Cumulative   3.0        11.0       24.0       36.0      44.0       49.0
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Although richly endowed with natural resources, Zaire, with 32
million inhabitants, remains one of the poorest countries in Africa, with a
stagnating per capita GDP of $170. A period of civil strife followed
Independence; then economic and financial reform triggered expansion from
1967 to 1974. But an attempt to radicalize and "zairianize" the economy, a
badly considered investment program financed largely with commercial funds,
and a sharp decline in copper prices ended this relative prosperity. What
followed was a fall in private investment, the deterioration of the
country's infrastructure, and an intractable debt burden, which in turn led
to a decline in real per capita GDP, loss of creditworthiness, huge budget
deficits, and high inflation rates.
1.02     In 1983, Zaire launched a stabilization program and reform of the
price and exchange rate system, to eliminate the main distortions in the
economy. In 1987, the authorities began implementing a structural adjustment
program with the support of IDA (SAL) and the Fund (SAF). In the following
years, however, Government spending was excessive and tax collection
declined, which derailed the program. Early in 1988, both institutions had
to decide to withhold temporarily further balance of payments aid. After the
appointment of a new government, agreement was reached in early 1989 on a
new macroeconomic framework, including a three-year public expenditure
program and a limit on current expenditures by the administration. As a
result, disbursements were resumed again. IDA is currently reviewing
performance in 1989 and discussing a macro-economic framework for the next
three-year period.
1.03     Currently the economy is characterized by a decrease in per capita
income, low private sector investment, strong financial constraints, and
high public spending for nondevelopment purposes. The second phase of
adjustment will address those issues.
1.04    The social sectors have been hurt by these changes.  The demand for
health and education services increased as a result of strong population
growth (3% a year) and because of low initial delivery levels, but resources
to finance these services became less available. Public expenditures to
education and health have dropped to less than 15% of the current budget,
and despite enormous household financial efforts, the decline in coverage
and quality of services has been unavoidable. Given the high labor
intensity of social sector activities, the drastic erosion of civil
servants' wages played an important role in the decline in social services.



- 2 -
This is particularly true of education, where severe underfinancing makes it
imoossible to retain teachers and to purchase even minin.um teaching
materials.
1.05    The Government has recently shown its awareness of population
issues, and has expressed concern about the threats posed by the
deterioration of the social infrastructure. The Government has recognized
the need to mobilize substantially more resources for social services, and
is designing an overall social sector policy which aims at redLessing public
expenditures for the social sectors, while improving the quality,
efficiency, and equity of services in these sectors, thus re-establishing
the social conditions important for economic recovery.
1.06    In this context, the Government has requested IDA's assistance in
financing a project aimed at taking the urgent actions needed to
rehabilitate primary education, and restore the conditions for long-term
development of a more efficient education sector. Total project costs are
estimated at US$66.8 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange component
of US$48.7 million (73%). The project would be exempt from taxes and
duties. The Government would contribute about US$8.2 million equivalent.
France would finance about US$1.2 million and IDA US$49.0 million. The
project will also rely on technical assistance already provided and to be
further developed by Belgium (for US$5.9 million equivalent), and France
(US$2.5 million equivalent).
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.    Overview
1.   Organization of the Sector
2.01 The formal education system consists of 6 years of primary education,
and 3 to 6 years of secondary educ ion, including general, technical and
professional streams (e.g. Ecoles d'Art et Metiers, 3 years, and Cycles
Professionnels, 4 years) and teacher training (Ecoles Normales, 6 years).
Upon completion of primary education, students receive a "Certificat de Fin
d'Etudes Primaires", while they take the "Examen d'Etat" at the end of
secondary school. Higher education is delivered in three sorts of public
institutions: universities (Kinshasa, Lubumbashi and Kisangani), structured
into three cycles ("graduat", 3 years; "licence", 2 years; and doctorate),
18 institutes of technology ("Instituts Superieurs Techniques", with two
cycles), and 14 secondary education teacher training institutes (Instituts
Superieurs Pedagogiques, with two cycles). In addition, the private sector
operates about thirty technical institutes. Annex 2-1 shows the structure of
the education system.
2.02 Although the State retains its sovereignty over the entire syst m of
education, a variety of institutions deliver educational services. First,
more than 95% of the students in both primary and secondary education are



enrolled in public education.  This subsector consists of (1) purely p<ll. i;
schools (these enroll a sixth o' the total primary and a third of th(e
secondary education student population), which are operated enitirely by  he
"Departemetut de l'Enscignement Primaire et Secondaire" (DEPS, Minisity ,I
Primary and Secondary Education), and (ii) subsidized schools, admliui'teIlo
by the main religious organizations (Catholic, Protestant, Kimbanguin;t w(i
Muslim) which have national school networks ("reseaux") and a longstandin',
historical involvement in the sector. After a long period of confusion
(including the nationalization of all church properties), the division ol
administrative, pedagogic and financial responsibilities between the Stat.
and the churches has been redefined in the Loi-Cadre of 1906. Second, putl<y
private, (nonsubsidized) schools enroll less than 4% of the students ..t both
primary and secondary levels, and are mostly run by churches (e.g. Jesuits;)
or, in the *^ase of professional training, by large corporations (e.g.
Gecamines). The "Departement de l'Enseignement Superieur et Universitaie c-t
de la Recherche Scientifique" (DESURS, Ministry of Higher Education) handles
matters related to postsecondary education.
2.03 The DEPS is structured into eight "Directions" (Directorates), under
the control of the Permanent Secretary ("Secretaire General"), as shown in
Annex 2-2. The "Direction des Programmes Scolaires et des Materiels
Didactiques" (DPSM, Directorate for Pedagogy) plays a key role in developing
curricula and disseminating pedagogic advice and information. Supervision
services are in a single Directorate ("Inspection Generale de
l'Enseignement"). In addition, various other services are semi-autonomous:
among them, the "Service de Contr3le de la Paie des Enseignants" (SECOPE,
Teacher Pay Service) manages the teachers' wage bill and has undertaken a
comprehensive census of (real and fictitious) teachers, under the direct
control of the Cometat. The DEPS has 11 regional offices (headed by the
"Reged"), and subregional offices (headed by a "Sous-Reged"). Supervision is
regionalized (one "Inspecteur Principal Regional," or Chief Regional
Supervisor, leads a group of supervisors), and so is the SECOPE (Annex 2-3
shows the decentralized structure of the Ministry and Annex 2-4 charts the
regional organization of supervision). Schools have relative de facto
autonomy, because the country is so immense.
2.04 The higher education sector is administred by three bodies: (i) the
DESURS (its structure is shown in Annex 2-5), which has its own specialized
services such as the "Commission Permanente des Etudes" (CPE, Permanent
Studies Commission) and a distinct Planning Service (Direction de la
Planification), (ii) one administration Board for each of the three sets of
Institutions (Universities, Institutes of Technology and Secondary Teacher
Training Centers) and (iii) the institutions themselves, which, formally,
have an autonomous management.
2.05 In the public primary and secondary schools administered by religious
NGOs, a parallel hierarchy is to be found: at the top, the "Coordinations
Nationales" directly emanate from the four main churches. At the regional
level, local "Coordinateurs" (paid out of the State budget, like the
administrative and teaching staff of these schools) complement the work of
the supervisors, and ensure adherence to the objectives of their respective
churches.



-4-
2.   Main Enrollment Patterns
2.06 Educational achievements in primary education, measured in gross
enrollment rates (76%), are comparable to the average in other countries of
';itb-Saharan Africa (75%). Enrollments at this level (Annexes 2-6 and 2-7
provide detailed statistics) -- presently 4.1 million -- have been leveling
off for the last decade, and have failed to keep pace with population growth
(enrollment rates dropped from 92% in 1978/79 to their current level).
Gender inequities at the primary level are less marked on average than in
other countries of Sub-Saharan Africa (enrollment rates were an estimated
90% for boys and 64% for girls in 1986/87). Geographical disparities
persist, however. Primary enrollment rates approach universality in some
regions (such as Kinshasa and Kasai-Oriental), but have remained less
satisfactory in relatively disadvantaged regions such as Kivu (62%) and
Haut-Zaire (70%).  These regional averages probably mask even wider
disparities at the subregional level.
2.07 At the secondary level, enrollment (see Annexes 2-8 and 2-9) has
expanded moderately since 1978/79, up to about 960,000 students, or a gross
22% (the Sub-Saharan average is 24%). This expansion is entirely accounted
for by technical and vocational education, in which 24% of secondary
students are currently enrolled. Gender and geographical disparities are
greater than at the primary level, with male enrollment nearly three times
that of female, and close to fourfold differences among regions (Kinshasa
enrolls 40%, and Haut Zaire 11% of their respective cohorts). Private,
unsubsidized schools are principally geared toward well-to-do segments of
the urban population. Enrollment in higher education has soared from 15,000
in 1971/72 to 46,000 in 1986/87, mostly as a result of the development of
technical institutes which represented 35% of total enrollments in 1986/87
compared with 12% fifteen years earlier (Annex 2-10).
B.    Sectoral Issues
1.   Decline in the Quality of Education
2.08   The quality of instructional services provided in public schools has
fallen to an unacceptable level. Most inputs are either insufficient or in
poor condition mostly because of lack of funds to buy/maintain them. There
are strong indications that the pedagogic value of the education received
has dangerously deteriorated. high rates of repetition in primary education
(para. 2.13 and 2.14) show that the problem starts at this level, and gets
worse as students progress to secondary and higher education. Students
leaving the system after completing primary school often are ill-prepared to
benefit from vocational training in skills needed in the modern sector, and
often have not mastered basic skills needed to be more productive in the
informal sector. In short, despite relatively high enrollment rates, there
is a serious risk of undereducating the current generation of Zairian youths
and of eroding the country's human capital base.



2.09  Shortages of textbooks and teacher guides have reached crisis
proportions, hindering the effectiveness of teachers and student
performance. Notable exceptions ar: unsubsidized private schools and some
church-operated pub'Lic schools that have access to external funds. Parents
are responsible for purchasing te:.tbooks in primary education. This practice
raises a serious isssue of equity as students from underprivileged families
invariably lack ac'zess to textbooks. Also of concern is the limited
institutional capacity for devel.oping textbooks and teaching materials. Even
when educational riaterials are available, lengthy distribution delays occur,
especially in rural areas. Wheri books are in the classroom, teachers often
may not make the best use of them, because of improper training.  In higher
education, libraries lack boolfs and laboratories lack basic scientific
equipment.
2.10 Underqualified, underpaid, and demoralized teachers are highly
unstable and unprepared to make up for the lack of teaching materials.
Initial salariE-s are low (about US$240 a year in 1988 for a qualified
primary school teacher) arid earning profiles are very flat (the
maximum/mininu,m ratio does not exceed 1.9), giving teachers little incentive
to stay in the trade, and even less to perform well. Average wages (US$348
and US$650 fc)r primary :and secondary school teachers, or 2.0 and 3.08 times
per capita G?AP, respect.ively, in 1988), are not competitive with those
offered for equivalent levels of training in the modern sector. The work
conditions and remuneration of Zaire's roughly 180,000 teachers are probably
among the poorest on the continent. The dramatic erosion in public salaries
(the index of real salaries plummeted from 100 in 1975 to 16 in 1985) has
resulted ia low pro'ductivity, high absenteeism and attrition, and unethical
practiLces -- inclueling extortion of contributions from students. Teachers
commonly )ursue al.tern&tive income-generating activities, which hurts the
quality of their services.  (In Kinshasa, 39% of the 10,200 primary school
teachers on the T?ayrol' in 1987 had resigned by October 1989). Despite
Government measrtres taken in 1987/88 and October 1989 to redress the drastic
erosion .if civil servants' purchasing power, current salary levels still
account for pr'abably less than a fourth of urban households' basic
expenditures 4Annex 2.11 documents the salary structure). Teacher salaries
in some church-operated schools are topped with private funds collected by
the churches.
2.11 The other major issue concerning teachers is their low level of
qualification. These are no genuine teacher training institutes at the
primay:y level.  Future teachers enroll in the "pedagogic" stream of
secon'dar'1 schools, which are considered more as a relatively easy route to
university than as professional schools. There, only general curricula are
taught, and there are few opportunities for classroom teaching experience.
This iriadequate training is compounded by a lack of well-developed in-
servic.e training programs, and poor supervision (para. 2.22). Because of
these poor conditions, it is increasingly difficult to recruit the best
students in the ISP for the training of secondary school teachers.
Stuilent/teacher ratios are rather low (1:35 and 1:22 in primary and
seo.zondary schools, respectively), but these are averages. Some rural
(Trrimary) schools have fewer than 30 pupils per teacher, but there may be as
v.&any as 180 students per teacher in highly populated urban areas.



- 6 -
.,    f   1it Iie  are generally ill-maintained arid often
'yirled. nh  +Itiirt(cal disengagement of the State ir, tecent yeats has
A :  :'- tic ewfo,d r e lance on parent.s an,i local conmMuni t. i0! fol sIchoo1
i p   (11Ma  tlIt euratiice.  The result has been poor inialntev-ance of
X  carlE   l  qtec1(- by local communiitie.; with limited resoutces and
'-- Vi * ceI'; to edcat olanal facilities -- with remote rural areas falling
t.rr, hel i",  Recrdt efforts by the DEPS to assess the -.tatus of physical
rt 4e- (]?,OOo ptimary and 4,200 secondary schools), and t.o rationalize
¶ 'ait 'l'e  eveall t Iat some schools have dete-iorated beyoni rt pair, and many
Oc,t  at (iIt rieed of inmediate rehabilitatio.i to prevent further
:ik,r. ecitperable ilosses. In urban areas, where population pre-,sures are
paitficul-tly acute, the salient issue is overc.owding (150 students per
c:l';'iS riot uncoummon in Kinshasa) and the need to expand classroom
ca;pzcity. In higher education, overcrowding of existing buildings (44% over
(-yac1ty at the University of Kinshasa in 1985/86) greatly reEduces the
quarifTy of teaching, let alone research.
2.   Low Internal Efficiency
2.13  The pedagogical and financial burden of repetition and the waste of
dropouts have reached intolerable levels and divert scarce resources from
the normal processing of students through che system. The poor quality of
education services contributes to high repetition and iropout rai:es. At the
primary level, repetition rates reach about 19% (the average in ctber
countries of Sub-Saharan Africa is 14%).  On average, ar' estimated 795,000
students repeat each year (Annex 2-12 shows repetition axid dropout: ra':es by
level and grade) in primary education. These repeaters occupy scarce school
places and prevent eligible candidates from entering the school systera. The
cost per graduate is 60% higher than it would be without rfipetitiori.
Another sign of low efficiency in primary schools is that dropouts
represented a sub-population of 487,000 in 1986/87.  Factors contribLLting to
high repetition and dropout rates include: seasonal demands ifor child labor
and a negative perception of the utility of education in some rural areas
(the low economic status of teachers does n^t help), inability to pay school
fees, and the poor nutritional/health status of students. In ac2ditiori,
teachers are inadequately prepared to deal with students of dif.'erent
endowments.
2.14  In secondary education, repetition rates average 22% in genecral
streams, 17% in teacher training and technical/commercial streams, and 14%
in technical/engineering streams. Data suggest that repetition at the
secondary level has worsened significantly in the last decade; it currently
affects 195,000 students. The highest rates are found in sixth grade,
because many students fail the "Examen d'Etat," the examination that paves
the way to higher education.
2.15 No control of student flows. The selection of students at various
entry points in the educational hierachy and their orientation through th e
system, are not harmonized. They do not prevent the movement upward of ar.t
education sector which is almost entirely targeted toward the university,



7 -
nor do they reflect a po11icy liniilng enrollment *ri'  C- .             : ..   '
of those who success f]. I ly ( omplcte their prima i y ed;            :
secondary sc hools, jarining thle general/teachet t l t  i.!       '
failure rate at the E;:amere  W'Etat reflects the   idcy             i
most students: irl 198',, 46% of candidates passed tl;A cw. * Wu¶
distinction ( "certifioation") , and only 3% receivcd          i  th 3, ' i:X i :t l,
to proceed to higher 2ducatio ai in the stream of tthe i           (AL.'i   , 
The screening device has been somewhat softened, howovei i, ;d illt c'
efficiency in tertiary educati on is dangerously low.  thC li      . !, .  a. .
the end of the primary year war; 68% in 1986, and 37% of stUdtIlts  Cd:ixt((
dropped out before graduating.
3.   Underfinancing of th,i Education Sector
2.16  Public expenditures in edu^ation, which are heavily slkewed I  fovc_
of university, have eroded both i n real terms and as a share of total
expenditures.  This has thwarted :Lmprovements in quality, and prev.nrted
enrollments from keeping up with p opulation growth.  Education's shaic of
the Government's total recurrent bxidget (including debt servicing) was
reduced from about 24% in 1980 to I ess than 10% in 1989, so public financing
of primary and secondary education  in Zaire has de-lined in real terms to
(ne of the lowest levels in Africa ('Annex 2-14). This disinvestment in human
,:apital is likely to harm produ.ctivi ty and economic growth in the long run.
It is probably the single most impori;ant issue facing the education sector.
:.ts resolution requires a commitment  from the highest authorities in the
(iountry to a radical revision of the current allocation of public resources.
A chief reason for the drastic reduct:.on in education resources was the
(,ountry's large debt servicing payment s, which during 1984-88 claimed mote
t:han 50% of the Government's vecurrent  budget. In addition, other, non-
clevelopmental sectors have conLsistently  been given priority over educalion
a nd other social services.
2 .17  Although insufficient (para. 2.10) , teachers' salaries absoxb no:c
t han 90% of education's current budget,. leaving only meager amounts for
n onsalary expenditures (Annex. 2-15), ar:d resulting in an increased reliance
o n alternative sources of fir.ancing. Itivestment execution rates in the
s ector typically fall below 50%, and pliysacal implementation of development
programs remains far behind schedule (A%nnex 2-16).  The intrasectoral
a llocation of public resource:s is mark(!dly detrimental to primary and
s,condary education, which, :.n 1986, togettier received only 66% of the to,al
edlucation budget (the Sub-Sztharan avei-age was 75%), compared with 3/0
r(ceived by higher education. Public ^x per:ditures alone represented only $F
p(tr capita in primary education, and le ss chan $20 in secondary education In
1q87.  Low unit costs (an est.mated US$ 22 fcir primary education, US$5Y, fo,
gc neral education, and US$96 for technical secondary education) reflect tlhis
urLderfinancing and suggest limited poss ibilities for further cost
rc¶duction. Unit costs in higher educatio n reach only US$350 (two times per
eELpita GNP, as compared with a. median eij;ht times per capita GNP in Sub-
Ss haran Africa), suggesting that even in this re.atively advantaged
su bsector, there is little room for savin gs (with the possible exception of
re ducing the scholarship budget).  Region al resources are extremely limited.
Th ey do not allow local admini3trators to  count on even minimum materials to



- 8 -
operate (Annex 2-17).  Furthetr deterioration of the education system will be
avoided only if education's share in the Governmerit budget is restored to a
viable level, allowing decent teachers' salaries and the purchase of basic
materials.
2.18 Public underfinancing of education is unlikely tc be compensated for
by an increase in users' contributions, which e.re alreaiy among the highest
in Sub-Saharan Africa and are probably already prohibit.ve for most
households.  Parents' contributions represent an estimated 60% of total
primary and 67% of secondlary education expend-.tures. Patrents' contributions
take three forms: (i) compulsory financial fees ("minerval," "frais de
fonctionnement," and "intervention ponctuelle:"@), aimed mainly to support
operating and administrative costs; (ii) stu dent-related expenses
(transportation, uniforms, textbooks) and (i.ii) financiaL or in-kind
supplementary payments to teachers. All to gether, in 1987 these payments
represented roughly US$13 a pupil per year at the primary level, and three
times as much at the secondary level. The ce is limited scope for expanding
parental contributions, without creating gross inequities (Annex 2.18). In
fact, both stagnating enrollments and highl drop-out rates found in some
regions appear to stem in part from famil iesI inability to pay school fees.
Moreover, the collection and use of parerLtal .zontributions are often
inefficient and unstandardized. The sitlaatiort is different in private
schools, where student fees twenty times higher than those charged in the
public sector have been observed. In hiigher education, parental
contributions represent a smaller share of current expenditures. An
increase in university fees is desirabiXe for e:Eficiency and possibly equity..
2.19 External assistance, which also favors h:tgher education, is grossly
insufficient, both as compared with o ther sectors in Zaire and with the sam e
sector in other African countries (sf:e Annexes 2.19 and 2.20). Education's
share in international concessional aid to Zair.e, presently less than 20%,
has been steadily declining.  Exterrn,al assistance is predominantly directed.
toward higher education (which absoi:bed 40% of i:he assistance allocated to
the sector in 1981-86) and vocational secondary education, virtually by-
passing primary education. Most of-fitcial aid if; chanelled through the
technical assistance programs of a feu' bilatera:L agencies (mostly Belgian),
subject to political factors. The recurrent budget situation and the
subsequent lack of governmental cc)unterpart fun(ds severely constrain
external financing of investment.  NorL Governmerital Organizations (NGOs),
especially international religious grcups, seem to play a more and more
important role, but little is knoaw  of their modle of operation and their
financial contributions.
4.   Lack of Planning and Mana :erial Captcities
2.20   The central administration fo r primary e.nd secondary education lack.s
mechanisms for planning, proFramming , and monitoring sectoral long-term
development. Political dec4.sions ar e taken at the highest levels of the
DEPS without enough input !Zrom tech:iical divisions. These decisions are
more often a reaction to the pressu re of facts than the translation of a
well-defined long-term s'^ctoral str ategy. Inve.stment budget preparation if;
done in isolation by poiitical appc.intees, without standardized methods.



- 9 -
The resulting problems are compounded by the nonexistence of reliable
current expenditure forecasts for the medium term. The Department does not
have well-established, transparent criteria for validly selecting from the
requests forwarded by its various services for current and investment
expenditures. As a result, the DEPS is typically in a weak bargaining
position in budget negotiations, and is often short cut by either the
Ministry of Finance (current budget) or that of Planning (investment
budget).
2.21 Duplicate efforts and the lack of communication between services
(especially the Planning Division, the Teacher Pay Unit, or SECOPE, the
Computer Unit, and the General Services Division ) also hinder
administrative efficiency. Similarly, the DESURS does not perform well in
staff management, sectoral programming, and the production of statistics.
Furthermore, lack of systematic coordination between the planning divisions
of the two departments hinders the development of coherent sectorwide
policies on overlapping or common issues such as the transition from
secondary to higher education or secondary school teacher training.
2.22   Poor working conditions at the central and regional levels hamper
intvadepartmental communications, generate attitudes and practices that are
prejudiciable to productivity, and prevent the full operation of both
administrative decentralization and pedagogic supervision mechanisms.
Lacking transport, too many DEPS civil servants arrive late to work, leave
early, and spend a good deal of time traveling between the 22 buildings
located in 5 sites scattered around the capital -- thus devoting only a few
hours to their actual duties. Isolated and without the basic infrastructure
to work and travel in their administrative territory, the DEPS
representatives in the provinces ("Reged") and at the subprovincial level
("Sous-Reged") play only a passive role in the management of the school
system, which remains highly centralized. Likewise, supervisors and
"coordinateurs", their local counterparts from church hierarchies, rarely
visit their schools; thus, they cannot exert significant pedagogic role,
and often limit themselves to purely bureaucratic activities. In higher
education, administrators and technicians at all levels are widely
underqualified.
C.    The Government's Sectoral Oblectives and Strategy
2.23    To make up for the virtual absence of university graduates needed to
staff its higher administration after Independence, Zaire invested in higher
education at the expense of primary and secondary education, which were
somewhat abandoned to religious missions. Nationalization in 1974 marked an
abrupt reversal of church involvement in education, with neither a
corresponding increase in state involvement, nor a larger allocation of
public resources. In the early 80s, a National Committee for Primary and
Secondary Education was created, and started working on new stuctures and
programs to professionalize primary and secondary education.



- 10
2;. 2't     c Cecently, the DEPS has taken a few COr ICt IVt a.t T011,.  The most
ipo ortant ot these have been (1) the st -eam1ining of t.he teache i force, (2 )
ti he   t lonai izat ion of the teacher pay system and piocediii v!, .a:id (3) thle
p)i (q s~;ive and systematic implementation of the sclhool map.  Otlher
sigttliica'ut actions include the adoption of four nat lonal languages as
t.(l.itij; languages in the first four years of primary s5chool, and thle
lt Ingther.ifng of syllabus preparation and textbook development. capabilities
within DEPS.  But language practices still vary greatly depending on the
teacheif, the area, and the social composition of the classioom.  Textbook
development is linmited mostly to secondary education. The Government
promul-ated a "Loi-Cadre" in 1986 to lay out the legal framework covering
the education system from pre-primary to higher levels.  This law defines
tho responsibilities of the State and private operators (mostly the churches
alnd their networks), as well as those of parents. However, delineations
renmain ambiguous and the former sytem of "conventions" has not really been
replaced by a clear-cut stucture. Uncertainties left by the law hamper the
restoration of a climate favorable to private education initiatives. The
Government also took steps to increase cost recovery for welfare services in
higher education. Subsidies for student lodging, food, and transportation
were discontinued in 1986/87, but growing student dissatisfaction diverted
the Government from this policy. Although officially closed, student
lodgings are fully occupied and subsidized transport is again being
provided.
2.25 With the quality and quantity of primary and secondary education
seriously deteriorating, financial resources shrinking, and social pressures
increasing, the Government has come to recognize the need for a long-term,
financiallv sustainable sectoral strategy. The Department is finalizing a
strategy that is closely in line with the conclusions and recommendations of
the 1988 Bank Sector Review. It has been extensively discussed with the
project preparation team, in close coordination with general macroeconomic
discussions. Simultaneously, the Government is pursuing a multisectoral
public expenditures review. In the education sector, this review reflects
macroeconomic constraints and budget priorities on the one hand, and
technical parameters specific to education, on the other.
2.26 The sectoral strategy, presented in more detail in para. 3.03 to 3.12
and in Annex 3.1, is the product of a concentrated effort. It reflects a
consensus within the Government and among nongovernment educators that
education, along with other social activities, should regain its position as
a top priority investment, and thus should benefit from incremental
ritnIcing and be made more efficient. The strategy specifies the most
rc. i.tic development scenario within which to achieve clearly defined and
oral objectives compatible with budgetary constraints and consistent
wit' labor market absorbtive capacities. The strategy is organized around
fou  themes: (i) adjusting enrollment targets (intakes, transitions, and
out,) ats) at each level and stream, according to priorities, taking into
a-count financial, physical and human resources, needs and equity;  (ii)
imp;oving the quality and internal efficiency of education, starting with
prif.l.ry education, on which the entire system rests; (iii) coordinating and
-Viutalizing the work of all constituencies active in education (including
NC)s), and upgrading staff working conditions;  (iv) mobilizing additional



- 11 -
resources in the education sector and strengthening their pIogra'mnilng'. and
management.  The document lays out objectives, measures to be iplVnmewcnd,
and indicators for monitoring and evaluation.
D.    The Bank's Role
Previous Bank Involvment
2.27  IDA has supported Zaire's education sector through four credits. TL..
First Project (Credit 272-ZR, approved in 1971 and closed in 1981) provided
US$6.5 million, mainly to help train teachers for primary, secondary, anid
technical education. Lack of timely provision of counterpart funds. a
considerable rise in construction costs, and widespread civil strife reduced
the scope of the project by half, a result described as positive but mixed
in the Project Completion Report prepared by Unesco/Government. The Second
Project (Credit 624-ZR, for US$21.0 million), was approved in 1976 and
closed in 1982. It aimed to construct and equip primary teacher training
schools, agricultural technician training schools, and one higher
agricultural institute, and to provide technical assistance to these
institutions. The rising costs of civil works, and Government's failure to
carry out measures that would have allowed continuation of the amended
project resulted in cancellation of a large undisbursed balance. The Project
Performance Audit Report (Report No.5678) pointed out that project
preparation and appraisal were unnecessarily rushed.
2.28 The Third Project (Education Technical Assistance and Training
Project - Credit 1519-ZR - approved in 1984 for US$9.0 million, to be closed
in March 1990) helps the DEPS improve its planning, management, and
administrative capacity. In particular, the project aims to (i) strengthen
education planning through systematic data collection and a pilot program of
school mapping, (ii) improve the relevance of education by preparing
programs to upgrade technical teachers, a pilot textbooks operation and a
survey of technical schools, and (iii) strengthen education management and
administration (e.g., through training of DEPS staff, school principals, and
supervisors and providing better communication and transportation
equipment). Various delays -- particularly of counterpart funds -- have
weakened implementation, which is nevertheless more satisfactory than in the
previous projects. Some operations, such as the textbook experience and the
gathering of education statistics, suggest that sustainable activities can
be undertaken in the current framework. The Third Project has been
instrumental in facilitating the preparation of the proposed operation. All
three projects show that: (i) the department's managerial capacity is still
weak, (ii) project implementation can be jeopardized by the unavailability
of counterpart funds, and (iii) operations must be paralleled by sectoral
measures.
2.29 The Higher Education Rationalization Project (Credit 1839-ZR, signed
in 1987), aims to formulate and adopt a long-term strategy and supports
independently justified, high-priority measures. The project is implemented
by the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research and comprises:
(i) improving administration and management, (ii) upgrading



- 12 -
teaching/learning, (iii) strategy development, and (iv) providing teaching
materials. The project also introduces a program to improve cost-sharing,
to support earlier measures taken by the DESURS. Another important element
in Bank assistance to the sector is the work on Public Expenditure Program
(PEP) currently being executed under the PRAIGEFI project, which has already
helped clarify budget classifications and identify clear-cut criteria on
specific sectoral grounds. Finally, the UNDP-financed, Bank-executed Study
on Human Resources (released in July 1989) is a key input in the analysis of
long-term changes in Zaire's labor market. Based on a representative sample
of employers from the modern sector, the study provides an accurate
breakdown of modern employment, and forecasts skilled manpower needs by
level and type of qualification, and by sector and subsector. The study
also projects the demand and supply of skilled manpower in the modern sector
for the next 15 years. First findings suggest large and deepening shortages
in middle-level technicians in many fields, and an increase in the
oversupply of high-level generalists.
Sectoral Lending Oblectives and Policy Dialogue
2.30 Sustained development in Zaire depends on maintaining an adequate and
stable macro-framework. It also requires the rehabilitation of physical and
social infrastructure. IDA's country dialogue is currently focused on
reaching agreement on a macroeconomic program, following the mixed
implementation record under the first SAL. Nonetheless, IDA's involvement
in rehabilitating the long-neglected education sector will be highly
beneficial under any macroeconomic scenario: the project supports policy
measures aimed at increasing budgetary allocations to the sector to
alleviate past underfunding, and at shoring up the legal framework for NGO
participation to reduce uncertainties and improve the delivery of
educational services. The proposed operation would build upon previous IDA
involvement in the sector (Educational Technical Assistance and Training
Project -- Credit 1519-ZR), and would complement the ongoing Higher
Education Rationalization Project (Credit 1839-ZR). In particular, it will
intensify efforts to strengthen planning activities in the DEPS, and bolster
collaboration between the DEPS and the Ministry of Higher Education (LnESURS)
to harmonize control of student flows and resource allocation policy in the
two education sub-sectors. Efficient and equitable education services not
only permit direct productivity gains, but also help to alleviate poverty
and are critical to long-term progress on the status of population, health
and nutrition, and women.
2.31 IDA should therefore give its support tc rehabilitation and reform of
the education sector. The stategy has two channels at its disposal. The
first one is the macroeconomic dialogue, to address the issue of
intersectoral budget allocation and such cross-sectoral issues as the
structure and level of civil servant wages. These two problems are outside
the education sector, but will affect its future development. If education
is to mean more than simple school attendance, teachers' real incomes must
be re-evaluated and current expenditures re-allocated in favor of the
education sector. IDA will encourage the Government to address these public
finance and employment issues. The second channel is the sectoral strategy
and operations, which address both immediate needs and long-term issues.



- 13 -
The current state of emergency in the education sector and the weakness of
administration call for immediate action under the proposed investment
operation to restore the quality of basic education, while supporting the
definition and launching of rationalization measures needed to trigger the
adjustment in the sector. Because of the long-term nature of adjustment,
IDA assistance to the sector will be needed well beyond the proposed project
to ensure the sustainability of the measures.
2.32  IDA support to the e'ication sector will be complemented by related
actions to increase efficiency and equity in the delivery ot social
services. We are discussing with Government a common policy framework for
the major social sectors, in line with the macroeconomic adjustment. Such a
policy would encompass health, education, population, and employment issues.
2.33 The project will buttress line ministries in their efforts to regain
minimum levels of resources needed to operate. To this end, it will promote
public expenditure programming as a tool to boost and monitor spending on
social infrastructure. Under the project, the Government would also
allocate targeted incremental public resources to the education sector,
starting with the 1990 budget. These specific allocations are meant to
finance non-salary recurrent costs in the field as well as salary incentives
for teachers. Besides encouraging an increase in and a restructuring of
public spending on education and health, the project will also foster NGO
involvment in the sector, and encourage the Government to make the sector
more attractive to these organizations which often have extensive experience
and expertise in the field.
2.34  Finally, IDA should catalyze other donors' contributions, which have
been quite modest so far and decreasing, to help mobilize the resources
needed for rehabilitation of the sector, especially at the primary level.
The Round Table on Social Sectors, held in Kinshasa in October 1989 with the
active help of UNDP, was a good opportunity for coordination among donors.
With its sectoral strategy ready and its PEP drafted, the Government should
be in a much better position to attract new external funding to the sector.



- 14 -
III.    THE PROJECT
A.    P'r ,(t Objectives arid Description
3.01   i:e proposed investment project has two objectives:  (i)  to take
!iitidiit c w(tions; to stop the deterioration of primary education and to
rehLabi i t at ( the basic system of instruction, and (ii) to help the
Govermnent testore the conditions needed for long-term, balanced development
of a n;ote efficient education sector. To this end, the project will aim at
the fio" wing actions: (a) to help the Government gradually implement
sectotal adljustment measures aimed at regenerating internal efficiency and
financial relevance in the sector and mobilizing necessary resources from
private and public sources; (b) to promote the quality, coverage, and
inteinal tfficiency of education (mainly at the primary school level) by
providing textbooks and teacher guides, organizing in-service training, and
launching pilot actions to improve the education environment in the region
of Haut-Zaire, and (c) to strengthen the DEPS' ability to perform its basic
tasks at both central and regional levels by rationalizing and reinforcing
key services and improving work conditions.
3.02 'fThe project will be implemented in twc parts (operations are detailed
in para. 3.36). The first provides for essential educational inputs and
other basic sectoral needs --a kind of deferred maintenance.   A joint mid-
term review of project implementation, including the execution of agreed
sectoral measures, would precede the second part. The first set of
operations corresponds to a core program (amounting to US$28 million of IDA
financing) which is "adjustment-proof" and focused on the most urgent
operations aimed at basic needs. The second part will be launched only
after the mid-term review shows satisfactory implementation of the agreed
sectoral measures (see paras. 3.03 and 5.05a).
1. Secto:ai Adlustment Support
3.03 The Government has adopted a strategy for development of the
education sector. The strategy (Annex 3-1) was reviewed and agreed at
negotiations. It provides for redirection of resources toward the education
sector, with a special emphasis on primary education. The strategy contains
a series of policy measures described below, and spells out the educational
priorities that the proposed operation, along with other projects, intends
to support. The most crucial adjustment measures in the strategy, condition
the financing of investments by the Credit, both through effectiveness
conditions and during implementation. The strategy is based on a development
scenario, which meshes financial and technical parameters with enrollment
objectives. Monitoring of the strategy will be facilitated by the use of a
monitoring table that includes key performance indicators. Implementation
of the strategy will be jointly reviewed on an annual basis (para. 5.02),
and disbursements on the second part of the project will be contingent upon
satisfactory mid-term review of the strategy (para. 5.05a). A comprehensive
list of measures to be implemented is synthetized in Annex 3-2, and the
scenario is shown in Annex 3-3. However, for this process to be successful,



- 15 -
a significant effott has to be made by the Government.  This ie, x;v¶Lo
Government will allocate incremental recurrent resources to the.           (
measure 1 of the sectoral strategy).  This Additional Budgetary A' 
(ABA), to come from the central Government, will be spent accoldiv.:K lo
precise mechanisus to be monitored by IDA.  Proof of the annual irsc;r      : .
of the ABA and presertation of its utilization scheme is inco1i)pCra!d  l thly
conditionality of the proposed operation (see paras. 3.08 and 5.02).
3.04 Adjustin Student Enrollment Under Clear Priorities. The
Government's first priority is to stop the decline in primary education
enrollment rates and to allow enrollments to increase at the sarme pae  -..
demographic growth (3% a year), paying special attention to rural areas;.
Student flows will be monitored throughout the system so that enrollmenlt in
each stream and at each level is adjusted to existing capacity, financial
constraints, the need for teacher training, and known absorptive capactcties
of both the modern and informal sectors. Measures to be implemented
include:
(a)  Creating multigrade classes in rural areas -- to be started
under the proposed project (see para. 3.19);
(b) Keeping intakes in secondary general education at their current
level -- this measure to be closely monitored in annual joint
reviews;
(c) Limiting enrollment in primary school teacher training to
projected needs -- this measure to be under special scrutiny
during joint IDA/Government reviews;
(d) Encouraging enrollment in short vocational courses;
(e) Strengthening the selection nature of the "Examen d'Etat", to
keep intakes into higher education in line with the limits set
up in the Higher Education Rationalization Project and to
prevent an overproduction of graduates -- evidence of this
measure would condition disbursements in the second part. of the
project (see para. 5.05d).
3.05 Raising Internal Efficiency by Improving the Quality of Education.
School attendance without books and skilled teachers serves little purpose.
Similarly, repetition without the inputs that assure quality of instruction
is not worthwhile. The Department will thus ensure that enrolled students
receive more, move faster, and perform better. Measures to this end will be
taken at all levels, but primary education will be a priority since most
youths will not go beyond this level and the achievements of those who
continue in the education system will depend on what and how well they
learned in primary school. Improving the quality of instruction will
ultimately boost internal efficiency; but, for efficiency to be increased
without long delays, administrative steps will have to be taken. Measures
to be implemented include:



- 16 -
(a) Departmental measures limiting the repetition rates in primary
and secondary education, especially in intermediate grades that
are not at "knowledge thresholds" (1st, 3rd and 5th grades).
(b) Reinforcement of pedagogic discipline and practical experience
in primary school teacher training classes.
(c) Stabilization of the number of primary school teachers by
limiting access by teacher training colleges to higher
education, and career promotion after minimum in-service
training. As an incentive to encourage teachers to stay in the
profession and to fight excessive mobility (para. 2.10),
seniority will be granted and teachers with a minimum of three
years in the profession will be allowed a special "fidelisation"
premium under the ABA scheme (see para. 3.08b).
(d) Providing textbooks and teacher guides in primary and secondary
education. The first generation of books and teacher guides
will be organized under the proposed project (para. 3.15).
(e) Providing basic classroom equipment in primary and secondary
schools through the special budget line (ABA) to be credited to
the DEPS regularly on a progressive basis (see para. 3.08a).
3.06 Improving Cooperation and Working Conditions. The Department will
take steps to improve management of the education system. The thrust of
these actions will be to define more clearly the responsibilities of
constituencies and to bolster the productivity of a more compact, better
equipped staff. The Department will:
(a) Pursue the cooperation the DEPS initiated with its partners of
NGOs (notably church-affiliated "reseaux") by finalizing
official documents, completing the 1986 Loi-Cadre, and mapping
each party's responsibilities and roles for the management,
financing, and operation of schools. Documents should clearly
encourage private initiatives in education. Draft of a
presidential "Ordonnance" setting up the new legal framework was
transmitted to IDA before negotiations (para. 5.01c); however,
this text is still too general, and does not yet provide serious
incentives for churches to take school management in charge.
Transmission of the final text(s), including "mandat-type" is a
condition of effectiveness (para. 5.04b).
(b) Complete a detailed inventory of the staff needed to efficiently
operate key divisions of the Department (to be undertaken by an
external agency/consultant) and subsequent decisions to
implement the recommendations of the study. Transmission of the
study/decisions to IDA is included as a legally binding action
the DEPS has agreed upon (see para. 3.23 and 5.03i).
(c) Continue the inventory of teachers, elimination of fictitious
staff, and improvement/computerization of the payroll, as
successfully undertaken by the SECOPE.



- 17 -
(d) Upgrade the regional and subregional administrative staff -- to
be undertaken under the proposed project (see para. 3.24).
3.07 Resource Mobilization, Progamming, and Budgeting. To compensate for
the current underfinancing of education and allow its revitalization, the
Government will show its commitment to the sectcr through appropriate budget
reallocations. Meanwhile, the two Departments in charge of the sector will
jointly improve sectoral planning, and the DEPS will program and rationalize
expenditure allocation. To achieve the quantitative and qualitative
objectives set forth in the program, the DEPS budget will be increased by 5%
a year in real terms and the intrasectoral budget allocation will be
modified to reflect the new priority given to basic education. By 1997, the
budget should tend toward the following distribution:
Primary                                     :  76%
Secondary, general and teacher training  :  18%
Secondary, technical and vocational         :   6%
3.08 To allow the schools to function, the Department's budget will be
allocated a special credit line (ABA) which will supplement regular
recurrent resources. The ABA will be split into two categories. First, it
will buy more nonsalary inputs for schools. Second, it will be used to
fight the high teacher mobility which plagues education at the primary
level, by rewarding teachers' stability (Annex 3-4).
(a) Category 1 of the ABA (about US$3.0 million in 1990) will be
channeled entirely to schools for the purc'ase of basic teaching
materials. This allocation, linked to projected enrollments,
will be based on a progressive per pupil budgetary entitlement,
as follows:
Primary education:   US$0.50 equivalent per pupil in 1990
US$0.75       "         "      in 1991
US$1.00       "         I      in 1992
and thereafter.
Secondary education: US$1.00 equivalent per pupil in 1990
US$1.50       "         "      in 1991
US$2.00       "         "      in 1992
and thereafter.
(b) Category 2 of the ABA (about US$2.1 million in 1990) is meant to
provide an incentive for teachers to stay in the profession
(para. 3.05c). It would be allocated to the target population of
primary school teachers with at least 3 years seniority (about
47,000 teachers.)
These measures are expected to have a direct impact on the quality of
instruction. Transmission to IDA of an operational plan of physical and
financial execution of the ABA during the 1990-93 period is a condition of
effectiveness of the project (para. 5.04d). Implementation of these measures



- 18 -
I  1,, c;tt U'i Id to) thtie SECOPE, which haf an eff Icient tegiona1 nietwork
h(Q(1'FR ) , ,utd succces--fully manages the teacher salary system.  These
Iii (rilent al  resources will be reflected in the PEP.  They are already part
(t tho draft 1990 budget. The ABA shows the Governnent's commitment to
titianc  the mix of Imputs needed to produce primary and secondary school
graduates,. It will also prepare the DEPS to progressively pay for books and
guides, the first provision of which will be financed by the proposed
project. By 1992, the allotment for pedagogic input would amount to US$2.50
equivalent, per primary pupil, assuming that books will be made available
undl(er the proposed proiect at a cost of US$1.50.  This amount is only half
the provision considered minimum by African standards. Inclusion of the ABA
in the 1993-95 PDP will be a condition of disbursments for the operations
programmed in the second part of the project (para. 5.05b).
3.09 A Sectoral Committee ("Comite de Strategie Sectorielle", CSS) will be
instituted under the joint responsibility of the DEPS and the DESURS, but
hosted by the DEPS, with assistance from the proposed project. This
Committee will ensure that the sectoral strategy is implemented. It will be
responsible for monitoring overall sector performance and evolution. It
will commission specific studies (essentially to the respective planning
units of the two Departments), and recommend corrective measures of an
institutional, financial and pedagogic nature. The Committee has already
been created. The nomination of its high-level staff (one economist-
coordinator, one DEPS staff, and one DESURS staff) is a condition of credit
effectiveness, as stipulated in para. 5.04a (for a description of the
committee's tasks and composition, see Annex 3-5).
3.10 The Planning Unit of the DEPS will prepare annually a three-year
Public Expenditure Program (PEP) including recurrent and investment items,
with a financing schedule including public and private domestic and foreign
sources. The program will be presented each year to IDA for discussion and
approval (para. 5.02). A draft PEP was submitted at negotiations for review,
and will be updated by the Department before effectiveness (para. 5.0ld and
Annex 3-6).
3.11 The investment budget will be prepared by the DPSS and coordinated by
the cabinet, following strict, transparent criteria agreed upon with the
Ministry of Planning. The Department will commit itself to adopting
acceptable procedures (para. 5.03b).
3.12 Current budgets will be prepared and expenditures managed by the
General Administration Services (Services Generaux) of the DEPS with a
methodology and procedures to be agreed upon (para. 5.03a).
3.13 Support for Implementation of the Strategy. The project will help the
Goverment, especially the DEPS and the DESURS, monitor progress in
application of the strategy and the balanced and rational development of the
sector. To this end, the project will finance technical assistance for a
high level economist/education planner who will act as Coordinator of the
Sectoral Commiftee for the duration of the project. The expert's draft
terms of reference were transmitted to IDA, as a condition of negotiations
(para. 5.01k), and his/her effective recruitment is a condition of credit



- 19 -
effectiveness (para. 5.04a).  In addition, the project will ass ist ta;o
with basic equipmlent.  It will contribute to the equipment of the Iisv
unit and to overseas training for selected staff of this ustit.
2. Restoring the Qualitv of Instruction
3.14   To improve student achievement and reduce repetition, the project
will help authorities increase and improve the factors most important to t }
education process.  To have a full impact, activities and investments
financed under this first component by IDA, other donors, and the Governle:.
will be paralleled by the various measures designed for the same purpose  ;
the sectoral strategy (measures 4 to 14, Annex 3-1).
3.15 Provision of Textbooks and Teacher Guides in Primary Education. Tlle
project will make available one set of textbooks in basic subjects (math,
French, and national languages) for each two pupils, and guides for every
teacher (in the same and additional subjects). To this end, the unit
responsible for selecting and adapting textbooks (Division de l'Enseignemerf:
Primaire) will be reinforced, and its functions redefined (see para. 3.18).
The project will also strengthen the editing capacity of the DEPS (Cellule
Edition). The staffing of these units, a condition of negotiations (para.
5.01i), has started. A special committee was appointed to make a final
selection of books, those to be (i) printed, (ii) adapted, and (iii)
created. Only those books deemed printable without major changes will be
produced during the first part of the project; the provision of books
requiring substantial alterations will be financed under the second part of
the project.  A list of readily printable books presented by the DEPS as a
condition of negotiations (para. 5.01e) was discussed and agreed. Financi:ng
of operations on the second group of books will be contingent upon release
of the list of titles to be adapted and/or created (para. 5.05c). Books
will not be produced on Government printing facilities, unless they are
demonstrated to be competitive. To make sure that the books selected and
bought will be appropriate for the programs entire lifespan, the Department
will promulgate the programs that are the basis for book evaluation and
selection, and will commit itself not to modify these programs during the
project (a written commitment was transmitted to IDA before negotiations;
see para. 5.0l.h). The project will also finance textbook distribution to
the schools. Distribution willl be entrusted to NGOs and private
transporters whose capacities have been demonstrated by the textbook
experience undertaken by the ongoing project (Annex 3-7). Full cost
recovery will not be a goal, given the level of resources in most Zairian
households and the cost of other basic (primarily health) services they must
contribute to, but parental contributions will be sought and allocated under
the authority of local school committees to Improve teachers' conditions. In
the pilot zone, parental contributions (Z. 100 per textbook each year) will
go to the local teachers' credit union that is to be created (para. 3.19).
In the rest of the country, the proceeds of the contributions will be
managed, and their use determined by local school committees, under the
authority of each school director, who will see that they are allocated to
operations that improve teachers' living conditions. Final decisions on the



- 20 -
arnount, allocation, and management of the proceeds will be made after
completion of a study on student fees. The Department's commitment to
conmlision this study was given during negotiations (para. 5.03d).
3.16 The project will finance the printing, distribution and storage of
books and teacher guides, as well as equipment and incremental operating
costs of the Division de l'Enseignement Primaire and of the Cellule Edition.
The FAC would provide technical assistance for the first of these units (2
education specialists, possibly to be joined by 4 others in the next two
years. It would also finance books worth the equivalent of up to US$1.0
million, to the extent that a certain proportion of the books selected are
editEA (or co-edited) by French firms. AGCD will continue to offer technical
assistance to the Cellule Edition; AGCD experts currently working at either
CEREDIP (Centre de Recherche et de Diffusion de l'Information Pedagogique)
or SERNAFOR (Service National de la Formation) play a key role in the
functioning of those institutions and will contribute to the project. At
negotiations, the Department gave assurances that both French and Belgian
agencies will be been asked to continue/reinforce their cooperation in these
specLfic activities (para. 5.02). Letters of intention from the agencies
themselves will be required before credit effectiveness (para. 5.04c).
3.17 At the same time, the Government will finance basic school material,
on the special budget line to be opened for the DEPS (para 3.08a). The
spending program under this incremental budget will be monitored by the DEPS
and subject to review by IDA. Distribution of the fungibles will be
organized by the unit responsible for book distribution and supervized by
the SECOPE.
3.18   In-Service Training for the Use of Textbooks.  To ensure that
teachers can make the best possible use of the books as teaching tools, the
project will support a targeted in-service training operation designed to
help teachers adapt their teaching to the pupils' use of books. The
principle and structure of the training could be replicated later, on a
larger scale and more systematically. The operation will be triggered at
the central level of the Departement, by the Division de l'Enseignement
Primaire, and in collaboration with the SERNAFOR. Once its own training is
completed (through several rounds of "animation-formation"), the National
Unit will then disseminate its experience with books to supervisors
(Inspecteurs and Conseillers Pedagogiques) at the regional level in
interactive workshops (ateliers pedagogiques). Supervisors will then
organize workshops for school directors and teachers, at the school level
(nearly 100,000 people). The project will finance per diem and travel
expenses of the "animateurs", and AGCD will continue its support to
SERNAFOR, mostly through technical assistance (Annex 3-8). To ensure the
proper management of these tasks (paras. 3.14 -3.18), the Department had to
restructure its "Direction de la Pedagogie," and to redefine the respective
roles of the "Unite Pedagogique Primaire" and of the "Cellule Edition."
Evidence of restructuring of these two key services was given during
negotiations (paras. 5.01g), and their staffing has started (para. 5.01i).
Coordination of all pedagogical activities will be the task of a "Comlte
Pedagogigue" recently created by the Department (as a condition of
negotiations; see para. 5.01f).



- 21 -
3.19   Rehabilitation of the Local Education Environment. Improving the
quality of instruction requires mobilizing many complementary factors. The
project will assist operations aimed at enhancing the overall education
environment. These experimental operations will be I anched in the sub-
region of Bas-Uele and the adjacent zone of Banalia (both in the region of
Haut-Zaire). They will include:
(a) Organizing (and when necessary, building/rehabilitating) multi-
grade classrooms or schools, to allow pupils of different levels
to gather in a single teaching session. This would both reduce
the likelihood of repetition and alleviate the strain of crowded
classes by making better use of existing facilities. The
Department would make available the list of the sites and a a
standard layout of the schools within four months after the date
of the Credit Agreement; (see para. 5.03g).
(b) Launching two pilot primary school teacher training centers
("Ecoles Normales") in Banalia and Bondo, to provide more
professionally oriented training and to equip teachers with the
skills and awareness needed in a multigrade classroom (texts
defining student recruitment and status should be released in
due time; see paras. 5.03e and 5.03f. Annex 3-9 describes the
basic principles to be applied in the organization of the new
schools).
(c) Implementing an incentive package for teachers to encourage
their stability and productivity. This package would include:
(i) teacher housing in multigrade schools; (ii) the creation of
a teachers'credit union ("Mutuelle") for financing basic goods
and services, (the "mutuelle," to be managed locally, would
receive technical assistance under the project); and (iii) the
provision of basic school materials, as scheduled in the
countrywide operation to accompany textbook distribution, and to
be financed by the special budgetary allocation (ABA -- see
para. 3.08a).
Activities in the pilot zone will be supervised by Institut de Formation des
Cadres de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire (IFCEPS), with the
assistance of an architect provided by Belgian Cooperation; the Department
will reach a formal agreement with this institution (paras. 3.34 and 5.03j).
Local communities will help build primary schools.
3.20    Rehabilitation of Urban Education Facilities.  Two of the most
crowded and dilapidated secondary schools in Kinshasa (Institut Nemba-
Lemba, a general school, and Institut du Fleuve, a technical school) draw
most of their students from outside the business/residential area where they
are located (Gombe). And the presence of these schools hampers the rational
consolidation of administrative buildings to be completed by the project
(para. 3.23). Students of the general secondary school will be relocated in
better-suited catchment areas: half of the student population will be
transferred to existing schools, for which some additional classrooms will



- 22 -
I)e constructed, anld financed by the project; the other halt will be
accosmmodated In the buildinig currently occupied by the DEPS Planning
)ivision, which will be rehabilitated by the Governmenlt aftel this division
vacates thie buiilding, unider the consolidation component of the project (see
pata. 3.23).  A simailar operation will be undertakern iot the technical
';chool, unider an upcoming AfDB Project.  Similarly, in a second part, the
IDA project will finance the constructioni of about 10 primary schools on the
periphety of Kinshasa, where dwellings have been soaring without a parallel
development of basic infrastructure, so thiat scarce existing facilities are
saturated. (Sites and standard layout plans should be made available within
24 rmonths after the date of the Credit. Agreement -- see pata. 5.03k).
3.21 Education of Girls. Operations to be financed by the project are
mainly focused on primary education, where gender distortions are relatively
small in terms of enrollment. But because it emphasizes internal
efficiency (by improving the quality of instruction and by relaxing
repetition regulations and practices), the project would mostly benefit
girls -- who are affected more than boys by school attrition. The
Department will be encouraged to introduce population, health and family
planning units in secondary school curricula. The project will finance
studies judged necessary for this purpose (for example, a study of why there
is more xepetition among girls).
3. Reinforcing Managerial Capacities
3.22    Achievements from the ongoing project need reinforcement to yield
full and lasting effects. The proposed project will therefore develop the
most important aspects of IDA ongoing assistance to the Department (through
Credit 1519-ZR), both in central administration and in decentralized units,
whose responsibilities need to be strengthened, to improve DEPS's outreach
services. At the same time, rationalization measures spelled out in the
sectoral strategy will be implemented, to complement the envisioned
assistance and to give it long-term significance.
3.23 Restoring of Minimum Working Conditions in Central Administration.
In an effort to raise central staff's productivity, the project will improve
working conditions and standards through:
(a) The consolidation, rehabilitation/partial reconstruction and
equipment of the Department's currently scattered administrative
offices on four sites in the Gombe district of Kinshasa, where
several Department's services are already concentrated (see
Annex 3-10; the final layout and work plan will have to be
submitted to IDA within twelve months after the date of the
Credit Agreement; see para. 5.03h). In addition, and not later
than eighteen months after the date of the Credit Agreement, the
Department will commission a study on human resources management
aimed at identifying the number and type of personnel needed to
staff the main services (PSMD, Planning Unit, General and
Teacher Training Education Division, and General Services).
After review by IDA, the Government will adjust its staff as
recommended by the study (see condition in para. 5.03i).



- 23 -
(b)  Support to the Plainnring Urnit (Direction de la 1lanification et
des Statistiques Scolaires- DPSS) so that this; scrvice canl
sustain such key activities as organizing the annual education
survey, producing basic education statistics, and preparing
studies, as requested by the Sectotal Commuittee (para. 3.09).
The project will contribute office equlpment, staff training,
and the launching of a pilot experiment to collect local
statistics in the Haut-Zaire region.
(c) Technical assistance in the Computer Center, cteated under the
ongoing project, and for the progressive computerization of the
Department, following a coordir,ated and rational development
path (Central Data Bank, pursuit of the teacher pay management
by the SECOPE).
(d) Support of a Departmental Business Center, to eliminate
inefficiencies, waste, and duplication of effort, and to
centralize typing/word processing, copying, mailing, and filing
of DEPS documents (equipment and incremental salary costs).
(e) Strengthening the departmental capacity to manage and monitor
current spending procedures (technical assistance will be
supplied by the "Centre de Perfectionnement aux Techniques de
Developpement" (CPTD) with possible support from the FAC).
3.24    Strengthening Local Administration.  For local administration to
recapture the significant role appropriate in so vast a country, minimum
working tools must be put at its disposal. This is why the project will
assist two parallel operations geared toward regional ("Reged") and
subregional ("Sous-Reged") staff: (a) minimal equipment and in-service
training for administrators and (b) transportation and basic equipment for
supervisors (to complement their role in the primary school teacher in-
service training component).
3.25   Environmental Issues.  Civil works to be completed under the project
(construction of two teacher training colleges and about 50 primary schools
in the Haut-Zaire region, construction of six secondary school classrooms
and about 10 primary schools on the periphery of Kinshasa, rehabilitation of
DEPS offices in Kinshasa-Gombe) will have a minimal environment impact.
Rural primary schools will be built using traditional techniques, and will
be located along the main road, in already inhabited areas. The
relocalization of urban schools from the center to the outskirts of Kinshasa
will reduce the opportunity costs of students who have had to commute long
distances, and will ease dangerous traffic conditions in the central urban
areas.
B.     Project Cost and Financing Plan



- 24 _
3.26 Prolect Cost. Project costs have been calculated in US dollars
equivalent. The total project cost is estimated at US$66.8 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$48.7 million (73%).
Taxes and duties amount to US$1.3 million (2%). Base cost estimates have
been calculated in US dollar equivalent on the basis of April 1989 prices
adjusted to January 1990 (negotiations). The estimated project costs, given
in Annex 3-11, are summarized below.
US$ Million            % Base Cost
Local     Foreign   Total
1. Sector Strategv                0.7          1.0        1.7            4
2. Quality of Instruction
Teacher training                4.2        2.3        6.5            13
Textbooks/educ. material        3.2       19.3       22.5            44
Pilot region                    1.0        2.0        3.0             8
Urban primary schools           1.7        2.3        4.0             7
3. Administration Efficiency
Central administration          1.4        2.2        3.6             7
Regional administration        0.4         4.1        4.5             9
4. Operating Costs                 1.0         3.3        4.3            8
Total base cost (1-4)         13.6        36.5       50.1           100
April 1989
5. Contingencies
a. Physical (10%)               1.3        3.7        5.0
b. Price increase (20%)         3.2        8.5        11.7
Sub-total                      4.5        12.2       16.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST                18.1        48.7       66.8
of which taxes                   1.3         0.0        1.3
3.27 Contingency Allowances. An average of 10% (US$5.0 million) for
physical contingencies has been applied to project costs. Price
contingencies are based on the implementation schedule and the following
expected annual price increases:
89    90    91    92    93    94    95    96
Foreign & Local -0.4% 4.9%  4.9%  4.9%   4.9%  4.9%  3.7%  3.7%
3.28  Financing Plan.  The project would be financed by an IDA Credit of
SDR 37.1 million (US$49.0 million equivalent). Belgium and France would
provide technical assistance estimated at US$5.9 million and US$ 2.5 million
equivalent, respectively. In addition, France would provide textbooks for
an estimated amount of US$1.2 million equivalent. The Government would
finance the balance of US$8.2 million equivalent, includ'ng US$1.3 million



- 25 -
in taxes (not taking into secount the incremental budgetaty allocation to
benefit the DEPS which would represent about US$5.1 million in 1990 and
about twice that in 1995). During negotiations (attended by a
representative of the AGCD), the Department indicated Its willingness to
formally and rapidly request French and Belgian commitment to participate to
the operations of the project. Prior to credit effectiveness, the Government
would submit to IDA signed agreements confirming the availability of the
cofinancing (para. 5.04c). In addition to contributing taxes, the
Government would contribute about US$5.1 million equivalent to include cash
for local salaries, project administration, cash-in-kind contributions of
local communities for unskilled labor and local materials, and about US$1.8
million equivalent in cash, to be deposited in a project account (para.
3.45). The financing plan would be as follows:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign    Total
IDA                              8.4      40.6       49.0
BELGIUM                          0.9       5.0        5.9
FRANCE                           0.6       3.1        3.7
Government 1/                    8.2         -        8.2
Total                          18.1       48.7      66.8
1/    Including taxes and duties estimated at US$1.3 million.
Estimated IDA Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year
US$ Million
91        92         93         94        95         96
Annual      3.0        8.0       13.0       12.0       8.0        5.0
Cumulative 3.0        11.0       24.0       36.0      44.0       49.0
3.29   Recurrent Cost Implications.  The project's investment components
will entail minimal recurrent costs at the primary school level, since the
project will not finance any additional capacity beyond the approximately 50
primary schools to be built in the pilot zone, and 10 others on the
periphery of Kinshasa. Teachers will be recruited for these schools at well
within the current pace as the multilevel class system allows a higher
pupillteacher ratio. Recurrent costs at the secondary level will also be
minimized because recruitment in teacher training schools (other than the
two pilot Ecoles Normales to be financed under the project) will be
discontinued in the pilot zone (this point will be the subject of a specific
agreement; see para. 5.03f).
3.30    Recurrent cost arising from the book provision component will be far
more important. A second round of books will have to be financed for the
following reasons: (i) book availability is not a passing need, but a
permanent one in any primary school system, (ii) the lifespan of textbooks



- 26 -
'imilted, (iii) the proposed project does not envision a replenisthment
oin, and (iv) the proposed project will not make books available for the
!t ire primary education cycle. Pursuit of the book operation would
.pi esemit annually about 7% of the Department's after-project current budget
I it was to be financed by the Department. If the experimental teacher
i,eiitive scheme associated with the introduction of textbooks were to be
c.wwed, it would not put additional pressure on the current budget, since
lhe idea of the experiment is to encourage parental participation, however
31    One of the most important adjustment measures supported by the
pLoject is the promotion of public spending for education (para. 3.8).  This
reflected in the incremental 1990 budget allocation that benefits the
.PS. This allocation will eventually be increased from 10% of the
:ecurrent Government budget at base year to 15% at the end of the project.
' ts aim is sustainability, so that the Department will be able to provide
the resources needed to operate public schools with a minimum of equipment
-nd with a more committed staff. Therefore, the allocation will have to be
programmed in the sectoral PEP, well beyond completion of the proposed
l)roject. Adjustment measures aiming at increasing internal efficiency in
the system will tend to reduce public spending on education, but only in
tending to reduce unit costs per graduate. By reducing money currently
wasted because of repetition, efficiency gains will increase the amount
available to students who might not otherwise have been enrolled.
C.   Project Implementation
K Project Preparation and Management
.32 Status of Preparation. Project preparation, which was financed under
,he ongoing Credit (1519-ZR), is completed. Implementation of all
components included in the first part of the project can start as soon as
<inancing is available. Working papers have been prepared by Government
<'fficials representing a wide array of skills and competence, from
technicians up to the Minister's closest staff. Working teams were set up
for each component, with subgroups for more specific activities, and
onsultants were called when needed. Civil servants who participated in the
eams regularly reported to the Department executives, especially the
Secretaire General` (Permanent Secretary), to ensure political awareness
and commitment. A high-level steering committee, including main department
lecision makers (especially cabinet members), was created to prepare the
;ectoral strategy and adjustment measures and discuss the conditions linked
co the project. This group regularly reported to the Minister. Thorough
involvement of the Department staff in project preparation was sought to
increase incentives for the personnel to participate in implementation. It
hias already yielded positive effects, as reflected in the quality and
organization of the working papers.



- 2 / 
3.33  Sites for the two tea hoe  t i aitir; n  colleges in th  ) p'ot  wose  IteC
identified and found acceptable by IDA.  The Government w;ill .         w:!.it sithin
four months after the signlng of the ctedit agreement all peitis:est
documents confirming the availabiility ot the sites toi  the two 1" ot Schools
(para. 5.03g). Sites tor th(e new multigrade primaty school0s will be made
available by the Governmentt flee oi cost and will be located. in accold'ance
with a school map under preparation.  The selectioII of ptotess.ior'aL se,rvice
consultants is well advanced. As a re;ult, architectural desigr2;, and lists
of furniture and equipment wilJ be started before project effectiveness.
Books on the list submitted by Lhc Government (para. 3.15) will be printed
and distributed under the first part of the proJect.
3.34 Management. The existing Education Project Unit (BPE) will be
reorganized, strengthened, and moved to the Ministry of Education
headquarters site. The BPE will be responsible for coordinating
implementation of all aspects of the project.  It will also be responsible
for supervising procurement problems related to the distribution of
fungibles to be distributed under the incremental budget allocation and to
be implemented by the Direction IV of the DEPS (para. 3.08). To help the
BPE with specific tasks, the project includes short-term consultancies (one
architect and one educator) for the duration of the project. Draft terms of
reference including draft agreements for these experts have been submitted
to the Association during negotiations (para. 5.01j). The "Institut de
Formation des Cadres de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire" (IFCEPS) in
Kisangani, where a seasoned technical assistance team from Belgium can be
called upon, will coordinate the major educational actions in the pilot
zone. In addition, an architect provided by the AGCD, and stationed in
Kisangani, will supervise all construction activities in the pilot zone. The
architect will also design the other civil work components of the project,
except the DEPS administration buildings, which will be designed by a
private consulting firm. Before the appointment of key personnel (including
consultants) to the BPE, the Government will submit to IDA the curriculum
vitae of recommended candidates, for review and comments. Finally, the
government has submitted during negotiations a salary structure to be
applied to the staff of the BPE (para. 5.011). Contribution of the
Association to salaries of the BPE staff will be limited, and remain
consistent with the practices followed in other projects financed by the
Association. IDA contribution to salaries of the BPE high level staff (as
agreed upon at negotiations) will be below the amount agreed for the Higher
Education Project at the time of negotiations of this project, for staff of
a comparable profile.
3.35  Specialist services and fellowships.  The project will provide 108
man-years of specialist services (not including time DEPS staff will spend
in the nationwide retraining of primary school teachers). It will also
include 1400 man-years of training (99% locally, mostly for teacher
training). Terms of reference for technical assistance to serve in the CSS,
the "Unite Primaire" (Primary Education Service), the "Unite d'Edition"
(Editing Service) and the BPE were be agreed upon during negotiations
(paras. 5.01i and 501.k). Details regarding specialist services are in
Annex 3-12.



- 28 -
3.36 Parts. Investment components of the project are grouped into two
distinct parts. The first part corresponds to a core of basic sectoral
needs -- a kind of deferred maintenance (disbursements of about US$28.0
million). Disbursement for the second part will follow a joint mid-term
review of project execution (including implementation of agreed sectoral
measures -- para. 5.05). Operations started under the first part will be
carried out during the entire life of the project.
The first part would cover:
(i)   Component A (policy framework support, US$1.9 million):
-    all operations.
(ii)  Component B (quality improvement, US$21.9 million):
-    textbook and pedagogic material: provision of readily printable
textbooks;
-    in-service teacher training: all operations;
-    rehabilitation of local educational environment:  all
operations;
-    school infrastructure in Kinshasa: secondary school classrooms.
(iii) Component C (reinforcement of managerial capacities, US$0.9 million):
-   administrative efficiency: all operations but civil, works;
=    local administration: training operations.
(iv)   Component D (operating costs, US$3.3 million):
-    all operations.
The second part (to start January 1st, 1994) would include the remaining
operations:
(i)    Component B  (quality improvement, US$11.5 million):
-    textbooks not readily printable;
-    urban primary schools.
(ii)   Component C (reinforcement of managerial capacities, US$9.5 million):
-    administrative efficiency: civil work operations;
-    rehabilitation and equipment of Regeds.
2.   Procurement
3.37 Procurement Methods. The project procurement arrangements are
summarized in the table below.



- 29 -
Prolect Element           Procurement Method           N.A.       Total Costs
ICB*      LCB**    Other
(US$ million)
Civil Works:
(a) Primary and                  4.2        3.2                         7.4
secondary educ.              (3.8)      (1.6)                      (5.4)
(b) Bldg materials    1.0                                               1.0
(1.0)                                           (1.0)
(c) DEPS                          1.9                                   1.9
(1.7)                                 (1.7)
Furniture, equip.,   22.6         2.4      0.4         2.5             27.9
vehicles, mater.,   (22.4)       (2.0)    (0.2)        ( - )          (24.6)
textbooks
Textbook                          0.9                   1.0             1.9
Distribution                     (0.9)                   _ )           (0.9)
Technical assistance                       4.8          8.7            13.5
and studies                              (4.8)        ( - )            (4.8)
Training                                   8.9                          8.9
(7.8)                        (7.8)
Operating costs                           4.3                           4.3
(2.8)                        (2.8)
TOTAL                  23.6     9.4      21.6          12.2           66.8
(23.4)   (8.4)   (17.2)          (-)           (49.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis represent the amounts financed by IDA.
* ICB = International Competitive Bidding
** LCB = Local Competitive Bidding
3.38 Primary Schools and Teacher Training Colleges (TTC). Construction of
about 10 urban primary schools (US$200,000 per school), the two rural
teacher training colleges (US$0.8 million each), the about six urban
secondary classrooms (US$0.3 million), and the Reged's office in Buta (US$
0.3 million) would be awarded after local competitive bidding (LCB) (US$4.2
million) acceptable by IDA. LCB requirements would include advertising,
evaluation criteria, and award to the lowest evaluated bidder. Interested
foreign firms would be allowed to participate, and the first LCB documents
would need to be cleared by IDA. The 50 small, scattered primary schools
(US$50,000 per school) and the 11 offices for the Regeds (US$60,000 each) -
- to be constructed or rehabilitated in remote areas -- may not interest



- 30 -
major corntractors because of the low value of the work itivolved.  Ncither
local nor foreign firms would be interested in such conwstcl tl o[.  Wotk for
the rural primary schools would thetefore be undottaJ(en by t1w communutities
under the supervision of the BPE and an architect located it: IKiwingalij
(US$3.2 million).  Building materials would be ptocured by the FPi. anld
awarded on the basis of international competitive biddinqg (ICII) in
accordance with IDA guidelines for procurement (US$1.0 million equivalent).
The Credit would also finance labot, transport costs, and localiy available
materials (such as crushed stones and sand, US$0.9 million) wItil prudent
shopping from local sources with three quotations.
3.39  DEPS Rehabilitation.  The civil works contract tor the tehabilitation
(roof repairs, electrical, water, sewerage, painting) of the DEPS facilities
would be awarded after LCB (US$1.9 million).
3.40  Contracts for furniture, equipment, materials, and the printing of
textbooks would be awarded after ICB except for contracts of less than
US$100,000 equivalent each, which would be awarded after LCB. The aggregate
total of such contracts is not expected to exceed US$2.0 million equivalent.
Transport contracts for textbooks distribution would be awarded on the basis
of LCB (US$0.9 million). When ICB procedures are used, domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin of preference over the c.i.f.
price of competing foreign suppliers or the existing applicable rate of
import duties, whichever is lower. Items that cannot be grouped, or groups
of items, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$500,000 may be procured
after local shopping. Technical assistance and training would be awarded in
accordance with IDA guidelines. Operating costs would be financed through
statements of expenditures (SOEs).
3.41 Procurement for the education material to be financed by the
Government under the incremental budget allocation (para. 3.08a) would be
done in accordance with Government procedures acceptable to IDA, with BPE
responsible.
3.42 IDA Review. Sketches of plans, draft bid documents, and master lists
of furniture, equipment, and vehicles, including grouping and cost
estimates, would be reviewed by IDA. Items would be grouped to the extent
practicable to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk procurement.
Prior IDA review of documents would be required for contracts exceeding
US$200,000 equivalent for civil works, and US$100,000 for furniture,
equipment, vehicles, and building materials. As a result, about 75% of the
contracts would be submitted to IDA for prior review.
3.   Disbursements, Special Account, and Project Account
3.43 Disbursements under the proposed IDA credit will be made on the basis
of (a) 90% of expenditures under civil works contracts awarded after
competition and 100% of expenditures under other civil work contracts or for
force account works; (b) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
expenditures for vehicles, equipment, materials and furnishings; and (c)



- 31 -
100% ot )to t   f rxpon(i 'tt ur,s for the production and the distributIon of
textbool)  ;i, d :..tl; , for o(nnsultants' and sp.-cial Ists ' set vices, a:nd fo
trainin?g .!td (pttL   m Iw (c(sts . fcxt'.)ooks not readlly print able, azid t extbooks
to be deve lopod w-l (d he f inianced under the second part of the project
Consttuct UC ! !on s(d oqi1pn:ert of the urban primary schools, and rehabilitation
and equiptiewt of tht Reg&ds' offices would also be financed under thie seconid
part (part. 3.36).  (Thie est imated quarterly disbutsement schedule list is
shown itt Anltox A.l3.)  All disbursements would be fully documented except
for: (a) civil work ; (excluding building materials), done through fotce
account atnd c-titrat t, costing less than US$200,000 equivalent; (b)
furnrture, equipment, mate:ials and vehicles costing less than US$100,000
equivalent; (c) training; and (d) operating costs, for which disbursements
would be made against SOEs which would be certified by the Project Director.
The documentation of SOEs would not be subnmitted to IDA for review, but
would be retairied by the Government and made available for inspection by IDA
during proiect suipervisionI.
3.44  Special Account.  To ensure that funds for the Education Project Unit
would be available when needed, a Special Account in US dollars run by BPE
will be established in a commercial institution acceptable to IDA, with an
initial deposit of about US$3,000,000 equivalent to cover about four months
of expenditures, which would be withdrawn from the credit account after
credit effectiveness. The Special Account would be replenished on the basis
of documentary evidence, provided to IDA by BPE, of payments made from the
account for goods and services required for the project that are eligible
for financing under the credit.
3.45   A Project account in local currencies, operated by the BPE, will be
established in a commercial institution acceptable to IDA, with an initial
deposit by the Government of about US$203,000 equivalent to cover the
Government's contribution to the project expenditures of the first year of
operation. Evidence of the initial deposit is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 5.4.e). This account will be replenished by the
Government on a regular basis to ensure that the balance will at no time be
lower than about US$70,000 equivalent.  This account would also be subject
to the project audit.
4.     Auditing andMonitoring
3.46 Auditing. BPE would maintain separate accounts for all project
activities, in line with national accounting practices. These accounts
would be controlled in accordance with normal Government financial control
procedures, which are satisfactory. BPE would prepare and submit to IDA an
annual report summarizing the financial situation on all project operations.
Annual audits would be required for all expenditures financed under the
project, with particular attention to those reimbursed under SOEs (para.
3.43). The audit report would include a separate analysis of the use of IDA
funds under the Special Account (para. 3.44). Auditing would be performed by
an independent auditor acceptable to IDA, within six months following the
end of the Government fiscal year, and would be financed under the project.



- 32 -
3.47 Monitoring and Evaluation. Annual progress reports on project
implementation would be submitted to IDA by BPE by June 30 each year,
following credit effectiveness. The format of the reports would be similar
to those routinely used for comparable Bank Group education projects. The
reports would briefly identify any major problems and recommend solutions;
review the performance of implementing authorities and agencies; and
maintain key performance indicators in reaching project goals. In addition,
the Government would prepare and send to IDA for comment, no later than six
months after final disbursments from the credit account, a completion report
assessing the attainment of project objectives, project implementation and
initial operation, its cost and the benefits derived, the performance of the
Government, IDA and other agencies involved, and the significant lessons
learned. In additi)n, each year by mid-September, IDA would perform a review
of the Public Expenditures Program (PEP) and of the implementation of the
sectoral strategy (paLa 5.02). Implementation of the strategy and of the
project will be subject in 1993 to a mid-term joint review the results of
which will determine disbursements on the second part of the project (para.
5.05a).
IV.     PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01  Benefits.  By making basic inputs available, the project would boost
the quality of instruction and upgrade student achievement, especially at
the primary school level, with delayed effects in secondary and ultimately
higher education. About 4.5 million pupils at the primary level and about
40,000 at the secondary level will have access to textbooks. New or
rehabilitated primary schools will accomodate about 6,500 children. Over
100,000 primary school teachers will benefit from in-service training, and
about 2,000 civil servants will find better work conditions. The project
will alleviate the pedagogical strain and financial burden of repetition.
It will help restore Zaire's education base, which would make labor more
productive, and will indirectly improve health, nutrition, and family
planning awareness, thus revitalizing the human capital stock of the
country. By helping organize administration and encourage adjustment and
rationalization measures, the project will allow controlled development of
the education sector, drawing on both public and private partners. Finally,
the project will help make allocation and management of current expenditures
more efficient and investment expenditures more relevant, both within the
sector and in relation to macroeconomic framework.
4.02 Risks. The main risks associated with the project are: (a) the
Department's poor managerial performance, (b) the difficulty of distributing
textbooks to the schools level in an immense country with poor communication
and weak local administration, (c) the potential demobilization of teachers,
given their living conditions, and (d) the possibility that Government not
allocate enough budget funds to the sector. To reduce these risks, the
project will:  (1) strengthen the DEPS planning, programming and
implementing capacities through human resources rationalization, training,
and equipment, both centrally and at the local level, (2) rely on well-



- 33 -
organized church networks, whose efficiency was shown in the ongoing
Education and Training Project, and equip local administrators and
supervisors, (3) design training mechanisms and incentive schemes, before
macroeconomic measures are taken (and supported by IDA) to restore civil
servants' purchasing power, and (4) include appropriate sectoral measures,
including on budgeting.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01 Prior to negotiations, the Government provided the following
documents:
(a) A draft Sectoral Strategy letter (para 3.03),
(b) A ministerial decree creating the "Comite de Strategie
Sectorielle" (CSS, para. 3.09),
(c) A draft text clarifying and reorganizing the respective rights
and obligations of the state and NGOs in school management
(para. 3.06a),
(d)  The draft Public Expenditures Program (PEP) (para. 3..0',
(e) A list of books ready to be print-id without major changes (para.
3.15),
(f) The text creating the "Comite Pedagogique" in the DEPS (para.
3.18),
(g) The text reorganizing the Fourth Direction of the DEPS, creating
the "Division de l'Enseignement Primaire" (Primary Education
Service) and redefining the "Cellule d'Edition" (Publishing
Service) (para.3.18),
(h) Official agreement to promulgate and stabilize new primary
education programs in the basic subjects for which textbooks
would be printed (para. 3.15),
(i)  The staffing of the "Division de l'Enseignement Primaire" and of
the "Cellule d'Edition" with local staff (para. 3.15 and 3.18),
(j) Draft Terms of Reference for the technical assistants to be
appointed by the BPE for regular consultation (one architect and
one educator) (para. 3.34),
(k) Draft Terms of Reference for the economist in charge of
coordinating the CSS (para. 3.13),
(1)  Salary structure for the BPE staff (para. 3.34).



- 34 
5.02  I)Di    r e?n iat ior.n, t hle Association and the Government reviewed the
Sectot Pu.hlic Expenditutes Program (PEP) for 1990-92.  The PEP will be
updated !:<ilo !ly. !t includes the i rcterreuntal a]l ]oci-tion which has been
budpeted in favor of the DEPS.  Each yeat by mid-Septembet, the DEPS will
prepare and update the s;ectoral PEP, and send it TDA for review and
agreemelt .  she Govettirent. also com-ittted itself to plovide IDA at the same
period each yatr with tNe necessary documenits, to teview  implementation of
thc sectol.' s.trategy.  The review will be based mainly but not exclusively
on a Monitoring Table, the terms of whichi will be agreed upon with the
Departmen,.  The satisfactory mid-term review will condition disbursements
against the second part of the -roject (para. 5.05a). Finally, the DEPS has
indicated it will make an official tequest to the Belgian and French
cooperation agencies, in order to obtain a firm commitment from these
agencies concerning their contributions to project activities (paras. 3.16,
3.28 and 5.04c).
5.03 During negotiations, the Government agreed on the following:
(a)  Implementation of the project in two parts (para. 3.36),
(b)  Preparation of standardized procedures for preparing Department
investment budgets (para. 3.11) and for the current budget
(para. 3.12),
(c)  Taking measures necessary to reduce repetitions to 10% in the
1st, 3rd, and 5th grades and to 15% in other grades of primary
education (para. 3.5a), before December 1992,
(d)  Completion (within 12 months after the date of the credit
agreement) of a study of recovery and management of student
fees, and follow-up measures, after review with IDA (para.
3.15),
(e)  Promulgation (within 12 months after the date of the credit
agreement) of the text defining the status of the primary school
teachers trained in the experimental "Ecoles Normales", and
specifying the conditions of their remuneration, and transfer to
university studies (para. 3.19),
(f)  Promulgation (within 12 months after the date of the credit
agreement) of the text describing the method for recruitment of
primary school teachers to the experimental "Ecoles Normales",
and the related closing of redundant pedagogic streams in
secondary schools in the pilot zone (para. 3.19),
(g)  List of sites (and proof of their availability) of the primary
schools and of the two "Ecoles Normales" to be built in the
pilot zone, within 4 months after the date of the credit
agreement (para. 3.19),
(h) Finalization (within 12 months following the date of the credit
agreement) of the general layout plan and of the work program



- 35 -
tot the consolidation of the DEPS's buildings and offices in
Kinshasa (para. 3.23),
(i)  Completion (within 18 months following the date of the credit
agreement) of a study by external consultants on management of
human resources in selected Directorates of the DEPS, and
follow-up measures after consultation with IDA (para. 3.23),
(j) Reorganization and staffing of the BPE, and signature of a
letter of understanding between the BPE and the management of
the IFCEPS as to how this institution will contribute to the
coordination of pilot activities of the project (para. 3.19),
(k) Sites (and proof of availability), layout plan, and cost
estimates for the primary schools to be built on the periphery
of Kinshasa, within 24 months following the date of the credit
agreement (para. 3.20).
5.04 Conditions of effectiveness will include:
(a) Recruitment of the economist coordinator of the CSS, acceptable
to IDA (para. 3.09), and full-time assignment to the CSS of one
staff member seconded from the DEPS and one staff member
seconded from the DESURS, as reflected in the text creating the
Committee (para. 3.09),
(b) Official promulgation of the text redifining the relationship of
the State and NGOs in the management of schools, with evidence
satisfactory to IDA of the involvement of NGO's in the process
of preparing this framework (paras. 3.06a and 5.01c),
(c) Confirmation by AGCD and FAC of the availability of their
contributions to the project (paras. 3.16, 3.28 and 5.02),
(d) Transmission to IDA of a plan of physical and financial
execution of the ABA, for the 1990-93 period,
(e) Initial deposit of US$ 200,000 equivalent in a commercial
institution acceptable to IDA, for the project account (para.
3.45).
5.05 Conditions of disbursement on operations in the second part of the
prolect will be:
(a) Satisfactory project execution, including implementation of
agreed sectoral measures (paras. 3.02 and 3.47),                               r
(b) Inclusion in the 1994-96 sectoral PEP submitted to IDA for
review and agreement, of the incremental allocation to the DEPS
budget, review of the execution of this incremental



- 36 -
plan of physical and financial execution of the allocation for
the 1994-96 period (para. 3.08),
(c) A list of the second set of books to be printed (para. 3.15),
(d) New regulations organizing a more effective transition
between secondary and higher education, along the lines
indicated in the Sectoral Strategy, (para. 3.04e).
5.06 Recommendation. Subject to the agreements and conditions set forth
in paras. 5.01 to 5.05 above, the project is suitable as a basis for an IDA
credit of US$49.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Zaire.



still      41     mso                                                    a -  -                       = 39911  6 3---  01t£1.1           (    991    *£
dOSLI                                        991~~~~~~~~~~ar  v  -    ts£@  91                        q90 16        1'?   0910               el            19U6b
-  91  09          09        LVS~~~~~              ~~~~I et  IIf               a £0  *   a      ar-          94169      OIos   I         It   IOU39039U1
£@99l  2?  K          U         ~~~~        ~~ ~ ~~0.0  91  91   a         a  63    111              19?1         9*1      63      9901    a 3
OLD   11       32 ~ ~~ 9£            at£                    It        6               St 3  13It          t1*1        a9I       09i1l   OS      O1           5935d
Ag096a    Ali?      Meg          on          *.n1    Ann         -I          o                11 .11  .19      91ge1       £mf*S    qWII*l to,          etWW
-    ON1   an                       -               ILl        91   "a            qat -  -  -                919I1 ~0£-   919. q9lt  et                        9oi3s
0t*LI9 it           of.0191                                        11      a3         86     191 99 SO             l         I.,     so l   569    a63l
00'3       S         Is         10          (.1        0 9                 aI         as    a        6(   a£    I'          1I9      0111   I1        63           VJTII
jeOll       -       dM91         -                     jelli              a mp1              -    -    -        jeV£         jetSl     an9      l*0     It              WIN
Su *1     £11   dA91i            U            -       jell        -       M09               -    -    -         gIll          l. *LI  610',  9         IuV"N
^j6W1      dolt    Am"1           19                     Kt        3a    do"1           3     a39    GO         jeP"l       d96t-      999      991     It        U*1933I
100? 9t     1        it         10          t,1        91        -         got        II    et   It   it        L91i       do:*      0li   Oro        a            I'wo$
0t,91      It       019         A           $6       Mu*         tAlp                es91a6a £55      09        i'll         9.    9001 @q1?          el        101119VADO
A431  *90     £q(1          -                                         o  je91Is 11                           0.t       je tl636           vo01    IL              311
£09?i       -         I -                     -        jg         -        j           to -9                   .56g        je1-9    06        916      es           11113
I   Is          Is                     it         aO       91       qti    11919I1i             1061        IIt      066t   tlO    OS               UUSO
.9*11  0       11~~f       L                      A -                 as 91           GelqU VC1. 01 9     rhi1         ri1      011   (¶Ll&    A    V       - 
Sets 0       5?      .11          GO         q0rg         a        -        sit        off   -     -     -       4010         4099     311        t*    U            ?mI1s
Ofr   9       .9          .1          09?         9*                  ft        U    q01 911ea"            DI"         9t'               99      96            W.3
of ?                       it         0161        91        o        So1  P     91    3    P0             Wl           91'      39   VI         91to t        4110113
0391       a?                   It9         *    011              at       aI         LI    001 a    a19Wi                  01      qOK    *Ls        401         w11in9
03?i       63        el         IS          00t        at         a1       St         61    a1   0?             '           e       419 94'l 99 SI  I  6           Yhf1
IIl         III 01  sif46 t                                                            at 0t LI IL 35I1   it09a  @l'l9        VS'    3*L    9104       IS               I'm33
-    I       -           -           Olt         91         01       016    (S)S     1-    It   s         901         -       gILl    46IO      go     6330199310
ST0   0        of          it       300o          91         it       91        of   on?  On   es?          -        do,,#   au9         11s    06             v93n1
It   £A991                               dqL          - t      -                                   qSVIl        £9 6090           cII    *L               NW3
Li  391          09s                   4          ON      A*jeLgot 4q0           Ott1@          et *9       Mt t      0?       *0      LLi
-   ~~.s1  1?       09          VI         03         01        11       q01~r       9?   L9        9*£         4 6t    .DLlt  gil        1i              mow"10
gC   I         I                        el      me          CO       91                   91   Ilt    -o'9           SOD1    qOlI   qtOl        GO.
O0f1  1         II         K          09           9         6         9       @1             19           01           1       61     q1        Is
1'    ?        I          U             t        K                  I S       99      9 a1                III          'IgO L         gLt       II           9"
001 I       t    fII             09         W*I         6                   TV9    .00       0 i-                91?        OSL     OM1      gIl?    II33W
('170     .CT        1    91   to            11        £9         St       asl     91£      9     I   69        L£l         0 I   09?        09 I     6t3wn
9?1tI           1         G 9!  9                 St 1   91   99    il           a1   909                 I'l         01'   490       qtOI    03               "on
00   UO       eil        0U          w0g         at?       aU        a?       4991   gI  99   gO         1olo          all    Golf      VI      19           91193
otle  CZ       -           it           -         ft        -t       at         P      O .0,1.9 Ott         ?          91S    OmL    90't    06            WIY1f1
DC'   1?       01          DCI~      ~ VII        Cl1       3£ to             903 o    91        99 i        1         V9       OK?   901        19         64)113'
(   6 1         3          09T          t         a        u       4 91   1 391 0  16A311       1 Oft     .01'       @116    VI'    CO          0993909
0`:!       I'1      I?          99          VI         9t         et     s911      911      63 t1 9             6'           V      otIt    *91       of           UW31
of.'          91          1           101        C 91                 £111 C   01t    6?   91   It    it       91 elI           i)      6 01    to          "10193
or, I      6'        0?         091         069        C 1 09     9Om                       I 01   9?   16      I'llt 01             639    40 9I     to           W3161
f09        V I       91         1i         es          to         C 9 -   11   09  I'Pt   et10                  91?1       .I'1      191Z   a,'%    99             I9
O0~~~~  6     u~~t         1?         t*          LI         It     .0?        ts      9 It      et63 4    019    91           Ott'     r*'     13            106136
00'       C        01        e9           V1Ol        01       go         001       9      I I   9t  19       01?         01'    qoil               St 1         nom130
Li-AI     6?'         ofj        CO1        0*19        co?                9                 0 0   ? .     or   t PSI1        Olt     a"11             Oll9           930031
09?? I      ' I0 Ft                                    It         10      psi      jot      it   O    0?        011         ILs      059?   O'l'    is         3W?S3s3
AvAt,Of   'W    * no       .001          -6        -0        .001      .09      .011  *-                   .100         099      00???I 219    16                GM&
.*nt??       $'       t           00?      4*0,1         of        act      .01      *46   6.1    It9 6.0       L.li         as SL   %I10,19  961)    19         0111m  
91"?  (~~~~    16         owl               -               o? wl0   .1?              -    -    -          91?          9.11    0631'r 99?"t     6          ' 
9')    CII'  6??)  41))  60?)  (0)      (9)      (6)       19)         (1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I)  (9)    C?)        CT)      (1)
6119*  135  1413   119961amu  P   ~ '         )04~   01413     161   (119    )  3      4in3om63  03    913    (9l)"II?I*)
* h1   1*01    oil"  9  136313£    u12.' o         gm:3        MAO3 '71913     3413  a 03Y'1y "a 316  994*903 a;                9)90   *6
L lP 6903139  '09W31   OA£  543       616313£    6?Id         63T1  31613£INmm    '   93541 UVMm       4335  59fi#   &=mu,    93m
19vapm%kywomo       flI93 UV's    433EU n45 Iwi1o                                  4in003     &011909330
inMn.S to.                    o     v *63l3i£9                 14W415    6354UD13go
&Unran  'WUVWM                                   n-Mm-,m
&mown&"
i-I );3N!x ~ ~ ~ ~~~~ol VIM



- 38 -                                                                          ANNTEX  1-1
Page 2 of 2
co  a          lm  401   W   atAccav    4.1440  CBo=. 10111g1l    420  I0  fWA1G7  0ft44               I   UmN,,,   M1my;  m=.
Ia0j.4h  05    *        1         05       Is3  USC  Li   (II   a010 006              0          0 m, ~                 04        1 
"lo,a"'   a]      1.*0    GU      S )i        Is.        406   I            )       10       030        34*      I$.0         is           Jan     20 
.16pva         II  iF.16        MO0   ii           4.iLO      ea     3          Flo      Fe       6S        57        It           go          j5       3
timam            4*       )   .,.Io      (.1        20.0        10  54 3         F         9        0         '        tOO           0 ;I                 I2 I      0
0        t               .          01        10 0       e      79U               0          00 4la                 0          is                a  00
%4=  LO,         01     (.'    6lo                  sO .6 1.06  00   17  ID      is       to       so         It       15.1    0    55            1      to~       (.10
-ALLOW~0         71   005         400.00            44 14  .)   001  L)          WA      tot        be        AL        0.0          W1                   to      srn0
(006760          10     5.16  0.1        1.)        U.$         50    0   (a     0        9s        U0        55       1.0            3         a1       00        1.00
*    '     93.)~   10         .49        to,1 to     1   LI   0       21.      037                15          .6          -          4        03       1*)
VT"0             a      4.5      CD      1.0        44.0        -                50t      la-                                                    -             
PALSU        e      07.1'    MD~  1.V             7.I0      is   0o  24       U        go       05         3          .9          to                  is4       10
MM;?£.~             FL      -      1.1         1.?        07    0   4Is    Li       lijo      00        %70      -             000                 Fe         .U1I
C_,*1111A     T     is.)  I.7?*       (.ov       40.)                         is 0  30 1  03    000        17        W.0          0'         3        is        .1.0?
LA??             0a    41.56    0500    0.40           7.0       (50  USW          #A       1)                  340       0.00        0)    00        4     006 1   57.4
,4zsm         174    50. 40,70        0)p        10.40      It   JlI                                       to        :.U          -          ?#A      slo       ?.S
F    A.3    li       -. VW       6.6w                        -         10       -                                           044       -I     27.30?
70    17.0   0.00)  1.4,   O.00                         -       00 -SO,              It       -                                         *V- os0
C -wOA            TO      01.  1.100       .. O)                 1     0 0          )       5 ..               IL         0.          a           060      056      0.001
,,214.0.          04      4.56    03      7.0y        17.7       3          5       5       a"       00         55        7llp0                            3        w.
T'_-q$jA  to    A    L:.'3'     (5.00         (3.7.  (2)   ((0  (to     ((0                          "a.(1. 55  (W.(                    W1      (0-       0.0)
1_11of  63     '11  I.w          50.0)         (0.1    5 00 n     3)    4)        50o     42)        U7        67.0         563        to5      It       09.05
90I04.         t 9     36 '0          ?(.0                                                                 It7 0    2    I   e 0  10.  00     07      100         .
%CM   .0.6.  a  :.00    40      .is         50.5      a    14)      so   5)                          as05 1    5)A          0)          0       so        3.7
L                                                         Po. 5.0 0    32   1)    et  00      Go         So       Os           s0o4                          Ss
om1556 000500131           5.)           0.4~~~~~~~~~31    0.0  (C.  0.1   0.0    (It.  0.)    (if      (1.0          e.        4.        (a.    (1.03
'*.)          57.0)  000058)            1 )       10)    ")          10)       10)         W11         a)       Fe1     a9.0,
.44)8700095005.00             5.0~~~~~6    06.7      5*5 as           29        7         00 U                  is2O                Fe        U         .7.
0.0          50.0      4)U05            is       to        a5        is                    611        00        to       5.7
f-lo,             1.4                            0   U          asUto       *         M          -        o       1        * 3             it in 3n           6.
*  s~~~~~~~~~~~~~           568        l        g      U         a       WO         U        i          0             sOW o-  U r
10*111  111111*1111
P.40
706~~l.   7Oin  S  5  .  0500to SW         m 4*00 woanog como 42700  #04000030.
coa-  i co 1a. emu4 Sb egm m   o    wosom. s0lglsm
c.-,d005WO  004208om    0331=  S0OW  emspta .  ..-..a  to blue 00 an  Pm 000    P                          aW    OMOW
(ZI9j_L  to mop49aft   00 Om0  ggosoi. GM          uo    is do 8942089  Om                0000 = % -. =     09 fo   Ge
- O66,9211 a5       i   oemw    ast3"W 05 (Om  000a am  #M000.00  sw .  UOmW M  mm4  MO a00   oupooi"g,
(t ..t05    a 060  Mid"0. afte    me 89     m  00 MD Mm. som000k. "a datea   Gn i044                0       so
.-mi o           one 600 SW   o   W UP=a   anmmo       s m    M an 00050 00 to   p0Awe ewO.  to do
*~~~j           edc      3 MaAt sam    am 100.00n ad 0   00               6 am00.        as0000010000  wE l.
(A0C 0-02&Mn  WOW  ,op031  d  0CM  (046. *  lsoo.  000loo. dpsilgmo).
.7        a ,mi  (OM - 05 053 ad0  .03000  0300 am          m     . U  mm gamma  "W  300 0?
4;Ocmt =  CO U5 is 50    staL am  eM  05*05 ft2tess)00 00 *106050   me am  . O    mmoiLPv.
Ne"    -       gG   t   ecmgg   uo -*0   00  no00   (l.     aft"  i GU 05mom00     0 a s cmmm  Sum inlo  050la
05311000t0 gma06o   4casW0-00550 ~csillgs.
(75   Twe"azza 051*  (USIa. 7. Laco2         .  fOsSI0) 60030   0 FM0  do  M1 on      Pmm    00 "M"04  giow,
&W-"00093  la do 05O000M  050". 3011             0w11g   Pium   W0 5042. %W  M   ego  C"   to0 0am0
50I000 00 SW CDM&l;U* C(0C 05UM Fe 920000000t 0t5 c=W d fas06 CM ILIA.
e '5Iso 00!0aI00 gm                    uveu= nC=  I .5    0I2      IV~0  co Agrp   mbs Om      ts 0
M. ~ tc0-1AkF CM 1'                      6=',i.   am 0a wis;=   n 500    - 00   s ago0    p 50C01A05 05 401:1,4.



- 39
AMN'EX  1- 2
Basic data/
Donn6es de base
General
Land area                                                2,345 million sq.km
Population  (1988)                                       33 million
GNP per capita (1987)                                   US$160
Average GDP annual growth (1980-87)                      1.6%
Average GNP per capita annual growth (1965-87)           - 2.42
Gross Debt Service Ratio (1989)                          29.0
Total Government Revenue as a Z of GNP (1987)            16.3
Agriculture as a Z of total GDP (1987)                   38%
Urban population as a Z of total population (1987)  38%
Life expectancy at birth (1987)                          52
Population growth rate (1980-87)                         3.12
Education: Enrollments (1986/87)
Primary   -absolute enrollments                          4,111,000
-gross enrollment rate                       77%
-female participation                        42Z
-share of enrollments in private schools  4%
-number of teachers (1985/86)                 111,000
Secondary -absolute enrollments                          960,000
-gross enrollment rate                       221
-female participation                        30%
-share of teacher training                    29%
-share of technical streams                  23%
-number of teachers (1985/86)                 41,600
Higher Education
-absolute enrollments                        46,000
-gross enrollment rate                       2%
Education: Expenditures
-Public expenditures on education as a share of total public
expenditures (1987)                                      7.92
-Share of primary and secondary education in total public
expenditures for education (1987)                        772



Structure of the Education System/
Structure de 1'Enseignemetit
-ktoles Arts et IYtlers, ex-C.O.-
*                             Ii 1-[1]A
SE     3          I~~~acultd de tleers e
rcoles Pmofesslonnclles (Er) ud o
[92    3                 4                        J   Au'[1uu[f
Aet.ies facultes
foles Ilaterrpelles          (coles Primaires                Fcolesledluiiques (l)                  A
*          £   ] ~~~1 12    3   & s   5    6     '      ,     
- a .             Opt on ArcLi l   2
tcoles IEnErales (fCt)
-u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
e    | I 1 21 3 1 6 15     62  C           4.     12  
[coles ot~imls(M) 
4IA
Aut es optionss
Age th4or 1tqe
I~~~~~      ~~~                               3 tL l |     ,| |1    13 F| IsT|1  16 |17 ||Is | 19 | 201  dEH _]
fnseignement lilaternel      (uiseignonent Primaire           [nselgneemnt Secondaire                      rnseiqncn.pnt Supfrieur et
Unsversitaire
H.



DEPS (Ministry of Primary and Secondary Education):
Organizational Chart/
Ozganigrta    du Dap.ttaauit do 1'K"negn.ment
Priasie et Secodafit. (DMS), 1987
| CEC4ETAtFIE D'ETET   |
..E_ETAIRE GENERAL
, ETtE ESE
_.~~!E                                                                          - -4jE
.X  A,E H   A.ETP   .                   IG_.EI       ts.,
|G          R.EGiED      | | REED1    | REG.ED   | ED                   F D    m E           i'3i REiEf
LML   I  1  6&  1  I  EfiZM ! I_H.Z. I I K.il~~~~~~~~~~~FErE.   I.]|WW|



D.PS: Regional Organizat ion/
Structure lD;contzalisio du D;partemnent de 1'Enseignement
PriItse et Secondetre (DEPS), 1987
O'ETWTI
i,EC(f E
_                 _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
_ r              .P.  . lix.  ped;3CA91Ger,er
I      REGED         I 
-__
.. |. ., ,. _ ~~~~~Inspc teurI
otiiCC ERt                           P- irlf         tpl 1
:ArJvl .e$       .evic1<e       j Er~se1SneAer,t                             Er,sei9rni"erA    P1 r,   ifu 
_E=- -~~~~ ~ !-                                                                         -~ -7
Oo*§JS ¢¢JS BW S ,.,tlJS : ,.l15 w:~~~~~~~~~
R:e ^i    Ree"1                     ~~~~~~~~Re3eU                ;^                         l    



DEPS:  Organ izationi of Stupervisioll dt t he  Hegii&ta   le.Ve
Or"aa5a1    de I <oimp.c lea de S' am"Ie m*At OR r6ioa
a                   |  lewo~~~~~~~ct Principal   lol   
EN5AICGEMENT PRIMAIRE                                                              ENSEIGNEMuEN  SECONDA IRE
ET MATERIEL
II
aspectair Principal                                                                nspoctor Priipal
ldeel,t de pr in8rs                                                                AdJoint du srcon4sire
| S4Ct44tiGt |                                                   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~socr6tariat 
InP.lorgslt  iIJop. Chor0*e                                In o ct                 Jnap. chor0e
d'expleitatloa              dole                           d eoploitation                     do foroation
fos reppott   termation          doe rapporto 6,oluetion
Iaspecteeits                                                                      Inp5ct4ur
Chefs do Pool.                                                                    Chbad do P.olo
do pel"i-r                                                                        de oecondsIto
lspeTi                                                                             Inaspecteura
ItIoprfsts                                                                         Itid6roants
e              ^~~~~d prizito                                                                     do socondalr
104 
rn



MINISTRY  OF HICHER EDUCATION AND  SCIENTIFIC  RESEARCH  (DESlJRS):
Organizational Chart /
ORG.ANlE.,.AMF I)fS SERVI(I-S
Dtl DErARTE MENT M   LEMIISIGNEMENr S.1 vIeLeImiII  r-T 0NIVEltSITAIIRE
CAIhINI. r  aIiJ MOMMISSAIIE  1)'I TAT
___________________ _ _ _                                                           _      _     ______________
|  SECl  rIM"Mtr I)sl. rA r 
SE('RtETAltl             l)E't  AT 
Services specialises                             F         Services centralx              |           u (o     tX l'.id'r.ninisi.
ri~1 T                                                                                                 __                               - - -1
I.G.     ~P.lj.           (:g)2P        jtuPOIZA j                                            pcnlt)itjt ae            IN    bbIUa
___ 1    I   P    Z  J   | <  |  |IS1.1Ain|vers|tj  |   so perteurs   |              et)ar%ir' 
Mirection &s            I)irection des          lrecltion de la        trectaoe, (t la'    I)Iret toui *1 1-
Serfv. );4'uI'r.ltljK    er v. acradeeaiq.      pIlanfliication         O4m)pter-%twn ino       l '   1of itd,ttittj-I |
Sou.u-ce: lNrection de la planification.



- 3 :) -                         ANNEX 2-6
Enrollments in Primary Education by Grade and Region, 1986/87/
Effoctif, de 1'eneeign.ment primaire per region, niveau et sexe
lse/87
let Grade/ 2nd to eth/  Total/  Shar/   Annuel Crowth/    Grove Enrollment
Rate/
Taux annuel do    Taux brut
ler annee  2emc a $*m   Total   Part       croiseance            de
annee                             78/79-88/87      scolarisation
KINSHASA                98608       381027   479636      0.12      3.87               89.9
Filles/Girls            45960       184684   230834      0.06      3.16               86.6
Garcons/Boy.            62668       196143   248701      0.06      4.17               94.4
SAS-ZAIRE               es703       235115   303818      0.07      0.17               83.5
Filles                 28677       103781   130468      0.03     0.07                71.8
Carcons                42026       131334   173360      0.04     0.24                96.1
EQUATEUR               120844       309640   430494      0.10      1.26               74.6
Filleg                 46386       111239   165007      0.04     2.37                64.2
Carcons                76478       198401   273877      0.07     0.66                94.9
KASAI-OCCIDENTAL        88189       230786   316977      0.08    -2.61                82.2
Filloe                 39977        88164   128141      0.03    -1.71                66.8
Garconn                48212       142624   190836      0.06    -3.02                98.7
KASAI ORIENTAL          92469       288114   380683      0.09    -1.86                87.0
Filles                 40483       112987   163470      0.04    -2.63                70.3
Gareons                61988       176127   227113      0.08    -1.39               103.8
SHA8A                  183413       464495   627080    0.15        1.96               83.6
Filleg                 73414       192410   265824      0.06      2.67               70.8
Gercons                89999       272085   362084      0.09      1.50               96.2
8ANDUNDU               111497       383162   494669      0.12    -3.88                73.3
Fille                  S1818       163164   214980      0.06    -2.63                82.9
Garcone                69881       219099    279679     0.07    -4.71                84.1
HAUT-ZAIRE             126900       346003   472903      0.12      1.37               69.9
Filles                 65855       144336   210193      0.65    0.37                 61.9
Carcons                61046       201666   262710      0.06      2.23               78.0
KIVU                   164337       447716   602068      0.15      4.60               61.9
Filles                 63518       113926   237446      0.06      8.80               48.8
Gareons                90819       273708   364607      0.09      3.87               75.0
TOTAL                 1024859      30860s0  4110919   109.06       0.69               78.7
Filles                453057      1274896  1727962      0.42      0.97               64.6
Careons               571802      1811165  2382967      0.56      0.32               89.0
Note: Lee toteux peuvent ne pas correspondre exactaeent a cause
doe arrondis.
Source: Estimations mission a partir d. dosinoes fournies par le DEPS.



AN';5 X
Enrollments  in  Primar,. zt .c a:           . .' .       ::      .
:nscriptions  dans  1'Easeignement  Pri=aire  nar  %Ve 1'.:scirt^rt
Crade I  Grade 2  Grade 3  Credo 4  Credo 6  Grade 8  Total             Share
Public: State         135423   108197   100010    87388    78154    87128   578298    0.186
Girls                85218    43927    41149    35139    30232    24833   240498
Boys                 70206    84270    5sse1    S2247    47922    42296   335800
Public: Wsaions    899361   631088   485701   418914   358493   293228  2782753    0.797
cirls               300748   229207   210880   174098   141288   108749  1184748
Soys                398606   301881   276021   242818   216227   184477  1818007
Catholic             446130   340894   319922   288446   228897   181480  1780568    O.s10
Girle               194346   160640   140674   116147    93138    70708   784462
says                2SO786   190364   179348   161298   133569   110772  1018118
Protestant           222637   188087   142578   130644   112198    98881   870923    0.249
Girls                92376    68421    80599    50876    41344    32884   348099
Boys                130281    97886    81977    79889    70864    84197   524824
Kimbanguist           28648    21462    20817    17823    18007    13568   117723    0.034
cirls                12671      9163     8487      7499      8233      4992    48940
Boys                 16470    12309    12330    10324        9774      8657     88783
Islamic                3638      2826     2388      2102      1591      1297    13639    0.004
Girls                 1449      1093      1020       777      661       386      6256
Boys                  2089      1632      1388     1325      1040       932      8284
Private                37287    28013    23986    19014    16108         9911   133293    0.038
Girls                18214    13316    11360       8860      7006      4298    83037
Boys                 19073    14703    12610    10164        8l03      6813    70265
TOTAL                 872061   e67278   809871   623314   449766   370286  3492344    100.0
Girl.               384178   286444   263179   218097   178503   137880  1468281
Boys               487883   380834   346492   306217   271252   232386  2024083
Note:   Data not adjusted.



Tauo  annual do                                    Tou.  annu-l d.                    SC, ar,
Effectife                              GCneral &  cro.aaanco/                            Tochn.cal A  cro.eeanco/               I        eat.o-/
C.neral/ Ntoral/      obrmal/   Annual Crorth Tech./    Profoee./  Profore /    AnnuAl Crowtb  Total/  Pa,t/   Enotf moet
Ceneral  Pedg.       General & Rat.             Technical Voc.       Tech. a voc. Rat*              Total    Sha,e    Rat.
Padsg.     78/79-86/87                                        78/79-86/87
K HASA               8530    3180S          117335           2.09    S0975        12037         63012            14 90   180347     019      39 7
F;ll e             33987    14281          48268           4.60    21215         6198         27413           18 30    75831      0 08     32 0
Carcono            61643    17824          69067           0.57    29760        56839         3S699            12 63   104666     0 11    47 9
8AS-ZAIf             5092     20020          70943          -2.94    16486         2750         19236            20 13    90179     0 09     284
fillen             16251     9029          25200          -2.70     5779          578          6357           11 63    31637      0 03     20 3
Carcona            84872    10I91          45863          -5.07    10707         2172         12879            9 44    58642      0 06     36 2
ERlATBf              32956    28676          61611          -0.03    19203         3789         22992           15 97    84603      0 09     17 2
fillee              7034    6O02           15068           1 04     3898          010          4708           17 92    19794      0 02      8 2
Garcona            25902    20623          46625          -0.36    15305         2979         16284           lS 50    64809      0 07     2S 8
KASAI-OCCID8TAL      39959    23471          63429           2 59     9063         1652         10715            3 29    74144      0 06     22 1
F;ll.o              7157     5116          12252          -0 77     1475          312          1787            0 as    14039      0 01      8 5
Cargcone           32822    1366           61177           3.53     7S88         1340          8928            3 63    60105      0 06     35 1
KASAI-ORIEWTAL       41840    32141          73s80          -4.39    13917         2803         16720           12 43    90400      0 09     24 1
Filles              8089     6721          16759          -1.30     3650         449           4299           13 54    21058      0 02     11 5
Carcons           S3301    23420           86921          -6.15    10067         2354         12421            12.06    69342     0 07     36 2
SWA8                 40068   S3378           18166          -0.68    14196         5968         20154            9 09   102040      0 11     16 9                               -  :
Filloo             12525    10591          23114          -0.70     3623         1189          4812            -0 43    27926     0 03      9 3                       ,  .       _
Carcon             38S485    23287         58072          -0.67    10573         4769         16342           13 80    74114      0 08     24 5                          -       s
8$tND&               6984S    49473         119320           1.54    35214         6782         41966           17 12   161286      0 17     27 5 
FPll.o             22160    16342          3623            2.24    10862        2707          13560           10 59    52092      0 0     18 0                      '.       C_
Corcona            47885    33111          80797           1.21    24362         4045         28397            16 46   109194     0 11    36 9                           .    '
HAUT-ZAW£            27151    17634          44785          -2.78     8230         0058         16288            12 15   61073      0 06     11 3                      :3 C-       D
fille-              7301     5857          13158           0.22     2004        2332           4416           12.23    17574      o 02      6 6                      -  f      .
agconse            19060    lrm            31627          -2.52     6148         6726         11872           12.09    43499      0 0     15 9                               r  a
KIW                  63604    37652         101255           1.S2    12245         2705         14950            12.43   116205     0 12     1I I                       -   .
Filloe             16321    11007          27328           5.63     3688          302          3990           11.34    31316      0.03      8 1                      r        p  ::I
Carecano           47288    26646          73927           1.21     8567        2408          10960           12.85    84887      0 09     22 23
TOTAL               4S9497   274748         7S4245          -0.07   179029        46604        226033           13.06   960278   100 00      21 5                      r1  t   IL  t
fillo.            230758    89016         219769           1.17   86474         14877         71351           13.94   291120      0 30     13 ID 1                   (           r.
Carcane           328744   185732         514478          -0.57   123065       51627         154632           12.67   669158      0 70     29 8                         LP'   Q. c
CD( :3
Note: LAe tot4us peavent no pae  correepondre exactent a cae. dee errand. .3    D 
Source:  Eatiston. .i;ion a partir de  donna.s farnin.  per la OEPS.                                                                                                   Ur 0t    Q '1
~r      0 L 
00      ozr, f
X0       . Or-
_0      -0O



Enrollments in Secondary Education by Type of Institution
1986/87/
Inscriptions dans l'Enseignement Secondaire par type d'Institution, 1986/87
Crad* I              Grade 2               Grad. 3              Grade 4               Gredo. 5              Cad. 6               3Ad  6 '    '    "     7",'
Cmoral  Ptdagoeic  Con.rrl    -ds c  CGo.,l  Podago8,c  CGnral  P.dd.oc..  C anral  P.dogos,c  G.n.J'.I  P.4.903..  0*                     I.4.g.g    I.F ,
P.b!ic  State        44767       20182    29974        13931    12917       14099      8483       10693      6741        9456     6217       10164    410909       r1e1    6t/6.-4                     .t.
Citl.              18000        6462      6861        4201     4178        4148      1562        2868      1072       2106       889        1672    3065       21ei7    !.IS Y4.e                     . 1. 
Sboy               29764      1370    2141U          9730     9t39        9951      6921        7826      5669        7M30     5328        8292    78834      5s64e   )3st6e2              50u I3   16t 
.bIIc:   aciouie    116390       43860        19       2892m    32106       24712    21181       1379    16296         14176    14649       14946   213439       145016   4134.             I  IIt.   . '
Cir.l              a11         17680    21848       t108?      8036        96u5      4506        6080      2744       3716      2044        3231    71267        506e9   327e76             37479   1  4-
Boys               7777        26880    81474        MM6    24070         19127    16873        12329    13561        10460    12605       11715   396152       94327   290479              71236   36l ;I
C,thtolic           66044       22621    04714        18930    17147       11436    11162         7832      8448        6616     7056        5171   136169        66s06   203)(115           19?2 22:y     t
Girls              19257       10162    1405          5667     408         6209      2445        3264      1530        IB8O     1063        1517    38923       27869    66712              21384    e1te e
eaeo               36767       1248      24409        6068    12844        6227      8717        4868      6916        3684     8973        3654    97646       38637   1362eJ              37414   11161
pro nt.at           47001       16460    81070        11487    12376       10130      8320        7923      6439        6541     6458        7438   113872       5s969   171841              473W6   214167
Cirls              10876        6906      6799        8774     3140        3482      1706        2143      1031        1461      834        1343    30894        16113    49007             12344   6eil1
say*               01625       10648    229           77M      92          6 a64     8614        6780      8608        5060     5624        6096    80976        41856   122334             29982   15 116
Iicmngai1           Q10366       4086      6402        269       20         240       153         2053      1124        1522     1047        160    22898         14621    37519              1062    4.54 
ai3lr               8724        1257      2062         744       648        736       829         s63       166         291      122         245      6940        300    130146              2630    I 3 t
so"                 6644        2799      4340        2146      1888       1764      1207        151a       959        1231      926        1356    15950        10613    26163              2432    2'ulTh
losaic                987         768       626         617       181        646       163         571        66        597        68         736      2100       3920      6020              2099     o11y
Cil.l                254         228       179         167        88        158        28         108        18         114        5         126       522        899      3421               691      .1 I
oy                   70S          27       446         460       148        468  135              463        68         483       83         610      Iss7       3021      4599              1408      60e/
Pre.                  2292         747      1542         710       701        676       567         831       414         506      392         597    5s08          3667     9.113             91!:9    369,4
Girln               1006         286       828         320       236        217       155         169       104         146       99         176      2226        1311     3S19              2461     eoCAo
Dole                lae          464       914         890       466       a8         412         362       010         360      293         421      3680       2356      6036              6496    3l2.14
TOTAL               163449       64860    10406        4384    45720       S937    30231         29603    23460       24138    21258        25707   388446      227208   633:614            188V93  8W1i47
Girls              64620       24315     064         16076    11449       10950      6225        908?      3920        5986     3032        5279   109760        7367?   183457             59246   24.9 03
aye               10o62        40494    7SS01        2846     34274       25407    24006        20616    19830        18170    18226       20428   278666       153531   432197           132847   561044



- 49
Enrollments in Higher Education, by type of institution,
1971/72 to 1986/87/
Inscriptions dans  1' Enseignement  Supe'rieur, 1971/72 a 1986/87
Institutions                 1971/72  1980/81  1985/86  1986187  growth   growth
71/72 to 80/81 to
80/81    86/87
Universities                     10442     9927    14920    17993        -5.2%    20.6%
Techn. Instit. (IST)              1809    10045    17801    16191        82.0%    -9.0%
Sec. Teach. Tng (ISP)            2743      8521      9585    12032       67.8%    25.5%
total                           14994    28493    42306    46216         47.4%      9.2%
Source: DESURS, Direction de la Planification



ANNEX   '-..
- 9i i -.
Annual Teacher Se'ariee at Primary Levels/
Salairee annuele dese enseignte eux niveaux primaire at cecondairo
1988
Level      Qualific.  waeg         minimum    maximum    ratio         average    average    average    average
category   initial    final        max/min    salary       increase   salary       salary/
salary     salary                  (categ.6)               (catog.6)  GNP per cap
Z.         Z.                      Z.                      us
1988       1986        ls 19 1988              1987/88        1988        1988
Primary
Underqual.      32           44400       80184        1.81      64284         132         321         1.9
(D4)
Qualified       31           46O00       80882        1.61      89676         148         846         2.8
(06)
Ratio                         1.00        1.08        1.00       1.08        1.12
Secondary
Gradue          22           72000      127890        1.78     103060         202         S1S         3.0
Licencie        21           90M0       162090        1.80     130060         211         6s0         3.8
Ratio                         1.26        1.27        1.01       1.28        1.04
Note:      Housing and family allowencee not Included
Source: DEPS



-     -> I ~                                A-NNEX__.X -
Repetition and Dropout Rates,
Dy  .evel of Education   and Grade, 1930
Tamu de redoublement at d'abaodon done to
prie ire St aeondaire. 1976/79 et 1961/67
£Z!~M /PRIMARY
Redoublint (tagn)/Repetition (rate)
1)  pop ann"d  d'6tat/by grade
I   I                             I         I         Total
1073/79  21,2      19,7      26,6      19,2      17,?     14,7
196/67   19,1      1,1       21,6      10,6      17,2     18.3      18,4
2)  per neoe (1916/67)lby gender (1966/07)
flileet  1t,6
p) pr rigloe  (191137)/by region (1908/87)
Sandundut           10,?7              Bos ZaYre:          19,2
Equateur:           20,S               Heut Zayre:         23,6
Kssaa  Occidental:   17,7              Koee; Oriental:    17,3
Elnebhe             16,1               Klvut               21,7
Sbab.t              2S,4
4)  per type d'6tablasemnt (1916/67)/by type of institution
Public nRe eeventllennd      161,4
Pubile 'eeaventl.n69         19,2
dents  Cotbelque          19,6
Protestant         Is.7
KInheauIe          16,7
lalemque           16,9
Pi,6                          6,4
(per some"   d'4tes)/DRopeut (by grade)
AM/?$    106      a,6      is's       7,7     4,7
0111/11    16,4      5,6       6,1       0,1     9,2
SE&pvAE /SECOHARY
Radeuble.aut/Ropetitlon
I) pee _o  d@A-/by grade
4                            Total
1976/79                 6,6       7,4       0,7      I,8       9,4       16,1      e,?
19/6                    I?,2177   14,9      17,6      16,2     16,7      20,6      16,9
1) per *11Ie/by str
neasel /goral   13,2      11,1      16,9     1T,S       17,6     21,7      17,7
and pedag.
- Techniq   a
pretsee leneial/  16,7    14,41    is,'       12,?      14,9     16,4      14,4
technical and
vocational
-tedeublmnt: doan6ee DEPS
Abandonss eatsteoac miesleion A partir des doenne DIPS



Results of the Final Secondary School Examination (tExamen d'Etat s),
1985 to 1987/
~~1te I  lanm dlEtet per ty   d'fabIlemet, 195. 1917
(I)                     (2)                      (a)                       (4)                     (6)
sombre dib       _        omb" 4D                bombre do                  teen de                 town de
eadoMIfi                diplIemI                  diplamI                   r6ossite               selectioe
number of               number of                61ig1blea                   (251 a 1                 desk
appti canta             graduate.               a 'easeigmemert rate of                             soplriewrlrete of solection
sap4ie"t 91/             succese                          to higher oduc.
number of graduates .3i a M
eligible to higher educ.                                1
1195        18O?        t811           197T        loss          1987    1965         1SO?       1966        1981
Astodidactee                6112         7 416       2  "          2 221          102         so       46,6        30,6        1,S       1.2
Me cee,eetieaa             26 674       20 174      12 614        12 446          699        449       46,2        44,2        2,3       1,8
Covenatl Ieoa
Cateliqu               26 o96       2 499       It 279        18 493        1 026      1 686       61,1       60,8         8,1       8,1
Freteraltde               648          767         840           870           20         43       64,1        46,0        3,1       6,6
Ialamiqse               1166         1 764         612           641           10        i1       26,1        36,3         0,9      6,6
Klmbeaaulote            a 689        a 6S2       1 180         1 420           20         48      31,3         39,0        0,7       1,3
Protetet               28 669       21 1N        a 7J1        10 648          825        360      38,3        43,t         1,4       1,6
Aut.. (Cezlme-...)            624         a.d.         400          a.d.           94        a.d.      49,6        n.d.       Is,6       n.d.
To"tl                      es 17        0992        8 167         41 97         2 94       2 776       46,e        47,8       834        1,1
Note: g/ Los Lligible. saet lea diplom6  ayant obtenu su sone. 881 d8  points.
Seere: 1186: "PS/Centre National de Correction.
1987: Coaweetia. National. da. Ecolea Conventionn6es Catholiques.



Current and Capital Expenditures in Education, 1980-87/
N6peaa.  ccoou  .e, buedot ana.ses et
I - e 0d lna.etiaemt: IP S. OESU *t Etat
18w004 (aS mllIIrs Z. ceereate)
AMUS/                      1|_. ameaa&w               Ihds*U     Foactlo*"_yi              Budget                  TOTAL/               tPort Educatlon
servie.  ceatroaua         "aeae                            iaw.tissement4                                done budget toteV (X)
Y.ears                           1                      2          8u1.                     (4)                 (6) z(3) #(4)                 (8)
Central current *xp.   _           cur.0xp.Totml cur. budget    Znv.tmnt               Total budget Share of oduc. In total budget
19U          DIS                  000 71                e              d9*  F0o           14 844                     70  404                 10,0
rdejl    D    S5U                  8  26                0 71           37 a1s              2 723                     309  723                 7.4
Actual       TOTAL                 89 048               a 717           997 780            17 3o?                  1 916 327                 24,2
TA1               8064 go1              2137 l          a 947 210           246 e83                  4196 901
1861         DEPS               1 12i  077                t57        1 123 414            20 020                   1 160 042                 17,7
.1.lf        DESU                 261 411             136 In           897 8s7               366                     397 "2                   0,1
actual       TOTAL              1 04 468              g8s 233        1 620 721            20 "83                   1 647 7e4                 23.8
STAT              6 283  686            690 2U          6 022 806          689 498                   0 611 693
1982          WPS               1 024  6S8                le0        1 025 068            03 330                   10  869
tf il        KSU                  484 115            13 6f            6"7 116               a                       667 116
sctlual      TOTAL              2 269 060             138 1e         2 892 108            0s 33                    2 466 684
STAT              I 29 407                -                -                   -                       98 086                     -
ion          SPS                I   100539                107        1 88  220            61 322                   15607 64                  11,2
o1l         Otl9U                64  321             180 062          077 173             a 163                     680 36                   6,0
aTOTAL            I 04088               137 03          1 038  99            046  6                  2 847 9804                 10,8
actual       tTAT              10 604 700             632 w9         13 897 06           063 141                  12 200 166
184          DePS               I S06  0                a 802        1 68087              74 462                   16483 22                   6,9
Moll         OESU                 620 280             6a Of7           677 0o                0                       677 age                  2,4
actual       TOTAL              2 06 621               o 449          2 14170             74 462                   2220  22                   9,3
l TAT            22 86  242             0100 5         22 970 M07           848 60I                 23 832 614
19086         WIPS              2 87 120               8a  4         2 81  424           43 268                   236U 682                   6,2
M4a 411 1                         626 on              102 080          930 740             9 o0n                     937 746                  2,1
actual       TOTAL              8 18  28              108 142        3 239 170            62 260                   3 2"1 420                  7.3
ETAT             43 SU  e40             799 677        44 587 026           82e 734                 46 I" 069
180          DIEPS              2 a"mios               12 70         2 632 863             34 a"                   280  863                   6,1
rAoe         oSeu                 02  442             a66 365        1 183 797             12 076                  1100 472                   2,1
actual       TOTAL              3 04026               80026          4 810 60              40 676                  4083 326                   7,2
ETAT             U   94 416           1 596 637        6  493 103          1012 340                 60 06e  443
18997        DPS                8 971 477               6 176        3 9700 63          1 146 720                  6 122 378                  6,6
P.6Vm        SESU               1 165 00              798 375        1 964 038            622 366                  2476 423                   2.8
TOTAL             6 127 140             003 661         6 930 691         1"68111                    7 690 882                  8'6
otd            UETAT           71 783 069           8 336 629       76 189 187         13 263 161                 80 442 338
1088         DIPS               6 0 0840                0 10         8 014 137            647 000                  8 661 137                  e1;
pD&vul       DESU(a)            2 00  716           1020 170         3 631 8a7            732 600                  4 363 e87                  3,2
oted    TOTAL             1 013 764            1 032 268       11 046 024          1 279 600                 12 926 624                  9,6
voted        ETAT             120 023 468          0 076 763       127 302 211          7 824 461                136 120 692
Not.e:        1900-1980: peiemat
1987-1908: crOdit
(a) boures non-inclus.          Source: 0Apartemat des Finance*



ANNEX 2-15
. r'"r   Expendidtures  by Categorv:
otate and DEPS, 1980-87
(4ponaea courontee du DEPS (1980-88)
ot do l'Etat (198348) per cathgori.
A. Evolution dee d6pensoe de fonctionnemont
du DEPS per cat6gorie, 1989-07
(G&O Z courents)1/
DEPS current expend turee
by category, 198/07
REMUNERATYON       FONCTIONNENON'         TOYAL
VALEUR             VALEUR    I          VALFI IP
Salorios   (2)      Other   (4)          Total
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (1)                           T otal       (8
1980         682610   96,9    28260  4,1           69070         10lW,0
1981        1067603   96,0    65811      6,0      1123414        100,0
1982        1899190   93,1   126763      6,9      1824963        100,0
1983        12'1300   96,0   64926       6,0      1308226        100,0
1984        1630629   97,6    38341      2,4      1688870        100,0
198S        2239164   96,9    71260      3,1      2310424        100,0
1986        2707838   96,0   112347      4,0      2820183        lee,s
1987b/      3608866   80,3   464811    11,7       3971477        100.0
19asb/      7611049   96,0   397000      6,0      808049         100,O
Note: a/ Budgets annexo  non compris
, Pr6vioiane
Source: DEPS at D6perteamnt dee Financeo
3- R4pertitioa do. 4t*"ne   do fcetiloeaoeut
de IEtet per east6gpe, 111$4  !/ (R)
State current oxpefditufeo
by cateSety, I/0687/
1913       199       1985    1986
RUmun6rstlono                      46,7       a5,0       82,0     36,3
04pone. deo eet6flol                4,6        4,7        4,2      6,2
Frele finaneicre                    7,0       18,i       30,8     22,5
Politlqus                          11,2       1I,j        9,l      0,8
Autrese                            8G,        32,2       22,0     26,2
Total budget hope-dette           106,0      10,s      100,6   10,9
Note:/ Budgeto annexee non coeptie
i Pr6aid.nce e d6poeneo  Etat et PolltIque (pOMP 1988, 84 et 85)
* Consoil
L6glolatif Nationol e Bureau lop Coestat
SouPco: 06prtgwant dee FnlanceQ, redditlon dee ceeptee



Executiin Rate of the DEPS  Budget, 1980-So
Comparaison des budgets VL6visionnels et des Oepenses
rOelles du DEPS. 1980-86
(en milliers do Z. courants)
Actual uOc
Credited/         Poid/                of reources/
Cr6dit         Pa.emeflt    Dt6assement  ;    Non znso-re ;
ANNEES           BUDGET                                                Valeur             2
1980         Ordinaire             340 051         690 760             350 709         8133.,
Investissement         41 395         14 644             -26 751           -64,5
Total                 381 446        705 404             323 958            84,9
1981         Ordinaire             676 081      1 123 414              447 333           66.2
Investissement         27 801         26 628              -1 173            .4,2
Total                 703 882      1 150 042             446 160            63,4
1982         Ordinaire           1 202 104      1 824 953             662 849            51.8
Investissement         67 226         63 336               3 890            -5,8
Total               1 269 330      1 888 289             626 739            46,0
1983         Ordinuire           1 265 241      1 306 226               40 985            3,2
Investissment          38 667         61 322              22 655            58.6
Total               1 303 908      1 367 548              63 640             4,9
1984         Ordinaire           1 673 953      1 568 870            -105 083            -6,3
Iavestiosemnt         99 coo         74 452             -24 548           -24.8
Total               1 772 953      1 643 322            -129 631            -7.3
1985         Ordinaire           1 726 807      2 310 424             583 617            33,8
Inveotisse=ent         95 000         43 258             -51 742           -54.5
Total               1 821 807      2 353 682             531 875            29.2
1986         Ordinaire           2 716 143      2 832 853             116 710             4,3
Investiesement        204 368         34 000            -170 368           -83,4
Total               2 929 511      2 866 853             -53 658            -1,8
TOTAL        Ordinaire           9 600 380    11 657 500            2 057 120            21.4
Investisement         573 457        317 640            -255 817           -44,6
TOTAL             10 173 837    11 975 140            -1 801 303            17,7
Notes Le budget ordinaire inclut lee d6penses courantees des services centraux at les
budgets annexes maie pas loo budgets r6gionauz, ni lee budgets pour ordre.
SourctS O6partesmnt des Finances



- 56 -                               SN'X '-1,
Regional Budgets:
All sectors and DEPS, 1980-87/
Budgets R4gionaux
A. Budget r4gionaux totauz et part consacrie
& l'ducation, 1980, 1981 et 1986 (milliors de 2.)
Regional Budgets: total and share of education
1980        1981           1986
1. Budgets r4gionauz totaux        99 602       96 583        87 322 a/
2. Budgets r6glonaux affect4s    1 165           2 544         8 338
& 1'ducation
3. Part des budgets r6gionaux         1.2          2,6           2.7 a/
affect4s & 1'4ducation
4. Budget DEPS                   690 760   1 123 077    2 820 183
5. Part btdgets r4gionaux             0.2          0,2           0,3
dducationlbudget DEPS
Sources D4partement des Finances (Reddition des comptes)
Note: &/ moins Bas-Za%re
B. REpartition par catEgories du budget
rEgional du hfut-Zaire affect4 & l'4ducatioa, 1987
(millions do Z.) t
R"ional educgtion budget Hlaut Zaire by cstegory
12spection      AdMinistratioM   Total   Part
4issions iut4rieures         192                26            218    61,4
TndemitEe vdhicule            13                13             26      7,3
Fournitureg bureau            25                18             43    12,1
Entretien reparations         21                16             37    10,4
MatEriel durable              17                14             31      8,7
Total                        268                87            355
Part                          75.5              24,5                  100
Sourges Couvetrement de Ia REgion du Haut-Zaire



Unit Private Expenditures by Level and Category, 1987/
0U..  $WSW&" eltal re deas I'e.m.leait Pubic pie 
%l**. at for dstlI.tlea. 1061 (I.)
prieiveN/                              GCnrel Secondalr. et Noralj                            S eir
Primery                             Qoneral Secondary and Pedageoical                     S          Tchn ce
Up..                                                      '- 1_ .   Sie                                                  - DG_ ___e____s_e _
061134e"M1   IflMtlbes          lo Ibiltol   FlWu tltv                         loteles      Obl i -olre      facultatl v      oes
Pe roml           6                eS                                       268            266       o                    268            260
Adiialstrati    40            -              40           7l                 -              11             144             -             144
atrti. et    010              -             1             142                -
Eqetmipeeat                                                                                142             686             -              96
tEeles
Foatitee         as          406            48             47                              84              299            a"            169
Usifrme          -                                                                         a" 06  -  60  660  -           086            as0
Treaopeots,      -            64             64             -              061             663              -              36            636
letermat
TOTAL           186         INS            1611           2So              2861           2861            1344            2380          3711
Source: Estimations elegie..
r'i



. )8 
ANNEX 2-19
Externai    Assivarce  to Education:
LOW incose ielectea Sub-Sahara A4rica Ccuntries, :964-ib
Atie exterleure a ' eiucition
'a-s a id;ole rewe^u. Atrllue sdD-sarae,ve, lqo4-i5
Tecnr;ca'   Capitai        Ttal         Focuiatiom  ier capita
Ass:starce        A'o      Assistan:e                 tot. ass;st.
tS *I!I^,)  s ciitlon) ($ esilionl !e11izoni           S
"a', I                                           13.2           ;.i          1o.1            a           2.0
iurk;na                                           13.4          Q.a         23.2             a           i..
Niger                                            13.4          10.2          23.6            7           3.4
aoaoia                                               2          2.6           4.6          0.8           5.8
.o0al a                                             15          1.7          22.7            6           '.8
Tchad                                             8.2             1           9.2            5           1.8
Total Lou Incoee See.arid                        65.2          34.2         95.4          34.8           2.9
Etriopia                                         21.6           6.5          29.1           43           0.7
,aire                                            30.4           4.4         54.6            32           1.1
falat'l                                            5.2         10.5          15.7             7          2.2
6ulnea-8issau                                     3.4           1.8           5.2          0.9           5.6
tanzanid                                         27.3          12.6         3c,9            23           1.7
Burundi                                          19.5           6.8         25.3             5           5.1
Ouganda                                            6.6          9.9          15.5            15          1.)
to90                                              9.2           2.5         11.7             3           3.9
Leotrairique                                       9.2          2.'          11.3             3          3.8
"adaqdscar                                        19.1          1.3          19.4            11          1.9
iemin                                             9.1           4.1          13.2             4          3.3
;Panda                                            12.6          6.5          19.1             6          3.2
'atal Lo* Incooe Other                          171.2            68         239.2        152.9           1.e
T3tal LOc  Incoee                               236.4         102.2        '38.6         187.7           1.8
Sources: Aid data from Sergent; Laside sxtwriuure a l'ducation en Afrique Sib-Saharienre;
Faits et probleu,s. IREDU, Dijon, 1998
Populatbon data troe World Bank Oevelopeent Report, 1988



ANNEX   - t
Bilateral and a     id   ti   t:.al Aid  to  Education:  1980-b5
Aide exterieure totaLe et a l'education
1980-35 tmilliers de US$)
AMEE                             MU  COOP. KMTIL.   COOP. GILAT.               AUTRE           77AL
1980    EDUCATION            .4.9           11114           47333               0           59896
TOTAL           ioa9s          33861          113752                0         158508
1 DUC.             13.34 32.82                    41.61            0.01           37.8:
1981    EDUCATION            1450            3109            9654               0           14213
-            TOTAL           9450           18014           40231               0           67695
1 E:C.             15.31          17.3:           24.0A            0.01           21.0$
1982    EDUCAT1ON            1215            1339           43461               0           46015
TOTAL           9041           24800          115790               0          149631
I EDUC.            13.4        e   5.4:           37.5S             0.0%          30.61
- 1983    DUCATION               592            1567           30738               0           32897
TOTAL           5319           24824          10372A               0          1387
E DUC.             11.11           6.3X           29.61             0.01.         24.61
1984    EDCATION               33             102            4922             101            5158
(1)   _    TOTAL            4519           10005          71198             1112          86834
I EDX:.             0.71           1.01            6.9S            0.0P            S.91
95es    fflTIOR               167              4S          20707             162S
(2)        TOTAL            7614           16848          84558            5141          11;161
E .                                                                                    -W
I EPJC.      ~~~2.3           0.1%           24.51            0.01.          19.711
(1) AJQTfl 62560 K          S DE LA 00PDO N           , N   VTII S    .2260230001
(21 L=       1359 ET 14551-   M      $ IEECTIVDW  M  JAN ET DE LA FlAKU:E. NO  VEIN    (Z. 793479)
Source: Rapports annuele du PNUD, cit6 dans Duvieusart 1987



ANNEX 3-1
(page 1 of 10)
Draft Sectoral Strategy Letter/
Lettre de Strategie Sectorielle
Une education de qualite est a la base de la promotion du
potentiel humain et au centre du redressement des infrastructures sociales
au Zaire.
Or la situation de l'enseignement appelle des actions energiques
et coordonn6es pour d6velopper ce secteur et lui permettre d'assumer le
role central que le pays attend de lui dans son effort d'ajustement et de
croissance.
Le Conseil Executif a deja dresse les orientations generales a
donner a l'education, et une serie de textes jalonne la voie a suivre
(Constitution, Manifeste de la Nsele, Directives du Parti, etc), tandis que
la Loi-Cadre de 1986 fixe le regime general applicable aux activites
d'enseignement. Enfin, une Commission de la Reforme a 6tO instituee pour
adapter l'6ducation aux r6alit6s du pays.
Les grands objectifs retenus, tels que la scolarisation primaire
universelle, l'alphab6tisation, et la professionnalisation de
1'enseignement exigent, pour etre atteints, qu'une strategie sectorielle
claire et realiste soit mise en oeuvre. Le programme presentg ci-dessous
explicite les priorites du secteur, et il recense les actions et les
mesures institutionnelles, operationnelles et financieres qu'il convient de
prendre pour respecter ces priorites, compte tenu des ressources
interieures (publiques et privees) et externes previsibles.
Le d4veloppement du secteur educatif, tel qu'il est formul6 ci-
dessous s'ins6re dans la politique g4n4rale d'ajustement macro-oconomique
structurel decrite dans le Document-Cadre de Politique Economique (DCPE)
6labor6 par le Conseil Executif, et transmis par le President de la
Republique par lettre datee du 10 Mai 1989, au Pr4sident de la Banque
Mondiale. Dans la presente lettre l'expression "document cadre de
politique economique' signifie ledit document cadre tel que mis a jour
chaque annee ainsi que confirm6 dans ladite lettre du 10 mai 1989 du
President de la Republique.
La strategie developpee ci-dessous identifie cinq grandes
directions pcur le redressement du secteur Oducatif qui devrait concretiser le
septennat du social. Dans chaque cas, un bref rappel de la situation pr6c6de le
detail des objectifs et des mesures a prendre.
Centree sur l'enseignement primaire et secondaire, la strategie
developpee a aussi des incidences sur l'enseignement superieur. Les
Departements concernes rechercheront une integration plus poussee des plans de
developpement de tous les niveaux educatifs.



- bi - 
B.    LE TRANSFERT DES RESSOURCES PUBLIQOES EN FAVEIR DU SECTEUR DE L'EDUCATION
Situation
Le  sous-financement  du secteur  6ducatif constitue  un obstacle majeur au
ddveloppement de ce secteur. et explique en grande partie que l'enseignement se
soit d6grad6, en d6pit de l'effort financier consid6rable consenti par les
familles. Le redressement du secteur 6ducatif est conditionn4 d'abord par un
accroissement des ressources publiques en sa faveur.
Obiectifs
1.    La r*alisation des obiectifs quantitatilfs  qualitatifs et d'efficacito
assisnms au secteur imwliqae des financements budaitaires sumDl4mentaires, en
varticulier pour assurer aux Otablissements des moicns de fonctionnement minimum.
2.    La 2riorit4 accord4e var les pouvoirs iublics & la restauration d'un
enseianement primaire de oualit6 se traduira Par des r6allocations budva4taires
en faveur de ce sous sectour.
Mosures
1. Une dotation budg4taire additiounelle sera mascrite au profit du D4partement
da l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire, pour mettre & disposition des
Etablisements lee ressources mlnium n4cessaires & leur fonctionnement). Cette
allocation sera compoa4e de deuz cat4gories bien distinctes: la premoire
peormttra d'Equiper leas coles du materiel de base (tableauz noirs et craies... );
calculiee sur la base de couta unitaires, elle sera progreseivement augment4e.
La seconde catEgorie devra penattre de fid&liser lee enseignhnts du primaire,
et bEnEficiera auz inatituteurs ayant une certain anciennetE dans la profession.
Ces allocations budgtaivres seront camptabili6es indEpendamment des lignes
budgEtaires dEj& existantes dans le budget d. 1'PS qui devra s'accroaitre d'au
moins 42 par an en terme rEels (sans tenir compte d'Eventuels r6ajustements
salariauz) pendant la prochaine deccenie.
2. Le budget courant allouE I l'Educatiou primaire et secondaire fera l'objet
d'une rEallocation en faveur de l'oneeigneemt de base d4 facon & permettre a
co niveau d'eneeignem.nt un r6tablisement en ternc quantitatif aaussi bien que
qualitatifa.
C.  LA MOBILISATION DE TOUS LES PARTENAIRES A LA TACHE EDUCATIVE
Situation
Les moyens humains et financiers de l'Etat ne lui suffisent pas pour assurer seu.
la tlche de r4habilitaion du secteur de l'6ducation. Or les conditions actuelles
de participation des partenaires de l'Etat ne les incitent pas A accroltre le%.r
contribution au secteur.



Objectifs
3.    Explicitation des responsabilitfs respectives de l'Etat et des ^NG.
Le Conseil Ex4cutif a d4j& d4fini dans la Loi-Cadre de 1986 les principes
generaux de la coop4ration avec les differents organismes concourant & I'activit,
Oducative (notamuent les reseaux constitu4s par les Eglises); les droits, les
obligations, les responsabilitCs, et les domaines d'intervention de chacun des
partenaires seront prOcises A travers une large concertation. Par ailleurs,
l'Etat encouragera l'initiative priv4e par la dEfinieion d'un cadre reglementaire
pricis et durable.
Mesures
3.     Le  Departement  promulguera  les  arrOt4s et  d4crets  portant  mesures
d'application de la Loi-Cadre apris concertation avec les divers intervenants
(Coordinations et priv4s), pour favoriser la contribution des organismes non-                    r
gouvernementaux & la gestion des 4tablissements scolaires.
D.    LA RESTAURATION DE LA QUALITE DE L.ENSEIGNEMENT ET LAMELIORATION DE
L'EFFICACITE INTERNE
Situation
Malgr4 les efforts dijA entrepris. la qualite de l'enseignement dispense  & tous
les niveaux du systame scolaire se d4grade gravement; en mQme temps. les
redoublements s'accroissent dans des proportions alarmantes, accapArant des
ressources pr6cieuses. Parmi les causes de cette 4volution, il faut citer la
laiblesse de la rQmun6ration des enseignants. qui compromet le sOrieux de leur
trevail, et se r4percuto sur l'ensemble de l'activit4 scolaire. Ce probleme fera
l'cbjet d'une rQflexion sp6cifique du Conseil Ex6cutif. D'autres facteurs sont
a l'origine de la baisse de la qual.tQ et sont directement du ressort du DEPS;
ce sont notammnt le manque de pr4paration p4dagogique des maltres, leurs
conditions de travail dOfavorables, le blocage du systeme de supervision, la
quasi- absence de manuels et de livres du maitre et de 'ournitures scolaires,
ainsi qu'un environnement p6dagogique peu favorable.
Obiectifs
4.   Adaptation de l'enseianement aux r4alitCs socio-culturelles du pays.
L'enseignement & tous lee niveaux doit repondre aux sp4cificit4s zairoises. tant
dans leurs dimensions culturelles et sociales que par rapport aux besoins
4conomiques.



s.   Cii,inuti3n des redcublements au primaire et au secondaire.
Les  redoublements  seront  significativement  rsduits  tant  au prLmaire  qu'au
secondaire. afin de dogager des places supplementaires. et donner leur char.ses
a un plus grand nombre d'6lbves d'accomplir une scolarite complete.
6.     Encouragement des classes A deux niveaux (4cole rurale, et groupes -'e
rattrapage).
L'implantation puis la systematisation des classes A deux niveaux permettra de
rdpondre aux difficultes de la scolarisation en milieu rural en operant des
regroupements d'0l1ves; ces classes induiront en outre l'amOlioration de
l'efficacite interne (pedagogie differentielle).
7.    Amelioration de la formation des maltres.
Le D4partement assurera aux maltres une formation adaptde aux exigences de
l'education de base. Dans ce but, la formation dispensee sera r4ellement
professionnelle. Elle associera l'enseignement theorique des matieres de base,
celui de la p4dagogie et les exercices d'application. Ces acquis seront
renforc6s par le recours plus syst4matique & la formation continue.
8.    Introduction d'auxiliaires pDdagoaigues.
a) Pour le niveau primaire, mettre I disposition des eleves les outils
p4dagogiques essentiels que sont les manuels, et fournir aux instituteurs des
guides p4dagogiques correspondant aux manuels des 4lves; ces guides faciliteront
la tAche des enseignants et allhgeront ainsi leur travail .
b) Pour le secondaire, les efforts engages par les services
pedagogiques seront intensifiQs, et la disponibilit4s de manuels sera egalement
accrue
9.    Amelioration de l'environnement pddagogioue.
Dans ce domaine on veillera & la fois & l'amdlioration des conditions de vie et
de travail de l'641ve et de l'enseignant sinsi qu's celle de l'environnement
pddagogique de l'gcole.
10.     Education oour l'amelioration de la sant4. de la nutrition, et des
questions de po0ulation.
Le D4partement slassociera aux programes d'4ducation, de sante et de population
en introduisant dans la formation qu'il dispense, des modules relatifs A ces
themes.



'     - l
-) -                                    a k )t !
Mesures
L'amelioration de la qualit4 et de l'efficacit6 internes sera recherchde de deux
fasons complementaires: d'une part. directement par action sur les mecanismes
de selection et les taux de redoublement, et d'autre part. grlce a des actions
pedagogiques qui auront un impact positif sur les performances des maitres et
des eleves. Les mesures de restauration de la qualit4 (programmes. maltres et
manuels) ressortent des recommandations de la Commission de la Reforme.
4.   Poursuite de la mise en oeuvre de la Reforme Scolaire, et en particulier
de l'6laboration et/ou l'adaptation des programmes d'etudes et des materiels
didactiques.
5.       Promulgation  d'un  texte  amenageant  la reglementation  relative  aux
redoublements dans le primaire : les redoublements seront autorisas uniquement en
dernihre ann4e de chaque degre, et resteront inf4rieurs a 20 Z. Le D4partement
4laborera des textes r4glementant les conditions de passage.
6.      Promulgation  de  textes  amdnageant  la  rEglementation  relative  aux
orientations en cours de scolarit4 dans le secondaire et limitant a lOS le taux
de redoublement en premiere annie, de maniere & accilirer les flux et & lutter
contre les abandons.
7.   Introduction de modules de pidagogie dans le programme de formation des
maStres pour les preparer I la pidagogie de la classe & plusieurs niveaux ainsi
qu'B celle des grands groupes pour ripondre aux contraintes actuelies du systeme
iducatif.
8.  Renforcement des apprentissages et de la pratique professionnelles dans les
programmes de formation des instituteurs.
9.   D4finition des modalites d'acc&s pour les instituteurs & l'enseignement
post-secondaire apris une periode minimale de trois annies d'activitC
professionnelle continue.
10.  Les manuels scolaires dans les disciplines fondamentales seront disponibles
& raison dun manuel pour deux ilives. La mise en place des manuels n@cessitera
toute un s6rie do mesures afferentes aux operations suivantes: silection, et,
si nicessaire, adaptation et ridaction. idition, impression, distribution; & olus
long terme, et lorsque les conditions le permettront. la recuperation des coats
sera recherchie.
11.     Les  fournitures  scolaires  feront  l'objet d'une  dotation budgetaire
equivalent dans un premier temps & environ 0,5 $ par elve et par an, et
progressant jusqu'& environ 1 $ ensuite dans le primaire, et de 1 puis 2 S par
eleve et par an dans le secondaire. Le financement de ces fournitures sera assure
dans le cadre de la dotation additionnelle allouie au Dipartement (voir mesure
no. 1).



12.   Les parents et les collectivitts locales seront sensibilis4s et mobilis#s
pour I'am6lioration des infrastructures et des Oquipements dans le cadre du
Salongo.
13.   Les enseignants b4n4ficieront d'une promotion de carriOre apres avoir
accumulA un nombre d6termin# de stages de formation.
14.    Le  Departement  executera  les mesures  nicessaires  pour  systimat.ser
l'iducation de la sante. de l'hygiene et de la population, et pour favorise: la
scolarisation des filles.  I1 procedera A la rinovation des internats dilabris,
pour encourager la scolarisation des ilbves originaires de regions iloignies.
E.     LE CONTROLE DES FLUX POUR E1'RAYER LA CHUTE DE LA SCOLARISATION DANS LE
PRIMAIRE ET POUR AJUSTER LES EFFECTIFS POST-PRIMAIRES AUX BESOINS ET AUX
CAPACITES
Situation
En ddpit du dmclin des taux de scolarisation dans le primaire (de 922 en
78/79 a 76Z en 8586). dans lequel sont scolarises plus de 4 millions dItleves,
une forte pression s'exerce sur l'enseignement secondaire g4n6ral et normal, et
corrilativement sur l1enseignement superieur. Les taus de scolarisation & tous
les niveaux sont fortement disparates d'une rigion I l'autre. Dans le primaire
urbain, dans l secondaire et aans le supirieur. les effectifs adpassent
largement Ies capacitis d'accueil. L'itude ricente sur les ressources humaines
a r6vQl par aillours des disiquilibres graves dans la structure des sortants
du systime scolaire: exc6dertaires par rapport aux besoins d'emploi dans le
secondaire g6ndral. normal et commercial, et dans l'universiti, les diplomis du
technique court sont insuffisants pour couvrir ces besoins.
Obiectifs
11.  PrioritO au maintien des taux d'admission en oremiere annee du nrimaire.
Le premier objectif de l'Etat est, dans la perspective d'une scolarisation
primaire univereelle. et compte tenu des contraintes budgitaires, denrayer la
chute de la acolarisation. de maintenir les taux d'admisuion en premi&re annie
du primaire dans les zones favorisies et de les ameliorer dans les aires
giographiques moins scolarisees pour que les entries ivoluent globalement au meme
rythme que la croissance dimographique.



12.   Stabilisation des entrfes dans l'enseiRnement secondaire.
Actuellement 75 ? des sortants du primaire ont accOs & l'enseignement secondaire.
En vue de r6allouer plus de ressources vers la poursuite de 'a scoI.arisati.on
primaire, et d'Oviter une surproduction de diplCm#s au niveau secondaire. les
effectifs globaux entrant & ce niveau dans le secteur public  seront stabilis6s.
13.      Orientation  des  e'fectifs  du  secondaire  en  faveur  des  filibres
professionnalis4es.
I1 faudra en premier lieu orienter une part importante des finalistes du primaire
de fason & reXquilibrer l'enseignement secondaire au profit des fili6res
professionnalisees vivement n4cessaires A l'economie, et & reduire les pressions
scensionnelles s'exer9ant sur l'enseignement sup$rieur. Aprts les deux premieres
annees de 1'enseignement becondaire g4ndral, une deuxiSme phase d'orientation
guidera les elAves, soit vers l'enseignement g4n4ral. soit vers les formations
normales ou techniques.
14.    R44puilibraae de loenseignement technique et professionnel en faveur des
filieres courtes.
Les effectifs dans l'enseignement technique et professionnel court seront
progressivement accrus pour r4pondre aux besoins en personnel semi-qualifie et en
ouvriers qualifi$s (A3) ainsi qu'en personnel de niveau A2 dans le secteur
moderne.
15.    Alustement des effectifs de l'onseianement secondaire normal aux besoins
en enseignants.
Les entrees dans l'enseignoment normal seront contrOlEes et ajustees aux besoins
en enseignants dacoulant do l'objectif de scolarisation dans le primaire (voir
objectif no. 10) et compte tenu de lVaccroiseement pr4vu du ratio *loves/ma1tres.
16.    Limitation des entrOes dans l'enseignement sup#rieur.
Une concertation sera entamde avec les DUpartements de lEnseignement Supirieur
et du Plan pour ramenor lee effectifs do l'eneeignement sup4rieur aux capacit4s
existantes et pour no pas aggraver le chOmage des diplOmda.
17.   Lutte contre l'analDhabQtisme.
Parall6lement & ses actions dans l'enseignement formel, le D4partement
encouragera les efforts d'enseignement non formel dirig4s en faveur des adultes.



-   t)hi.\    , .
Mesures
15.      Accroissement progressif des capacitts d'accueil dans l'ense:gnemenr
primaire avec un effort particulier pour les r6gions sous-scolarisOes.
16.     Implantation de classes primaires & plusieurs niveaux dans des zones a
faible densit4 de population.
17.     Dans les dix prochaines annees, non ouverture de nouvelles classes de
premiere annOe de cycle long de l1enseignement secondaire.
18.  Fixation des nouvelles inscriptions dans l1enseignement normal en fonction
des projections de besoins en maitres et instauration d'un concours de
recrutement.
19.       Augmentation  des  capacites  d'accueil des  filieres  d'enseignement
professionnel court et etablissement d'un plan directeur de reconversion des
anciens cycles d'orientation en dcoles d'arts et m4tiers, professionnelles et
techniques.
20.   Etudes pr*liminaires et 4diction de mesures incitatoires pour l'ouverture
de formations professionnelles sous l*gide des entreprises.
21.   Les D4partements de 1E.P.S. et de 1'E.S.U. se concerteront pour d4finir
de nouvelles mesures d'acc&s & l'enseignement supOrieur qui sera ouve-t sous la
forme de concours aux laurdats de l'Ezamen d'Etat en fonction de leurs aptitudes.
Le nombre d'admis sera rEQvalu6 chaque ann4e en fonction des perspectives
d'emplois et sera limith aux capacit4s d'accueil.
22.    Le DEPS se concertera avec le Dipartement des Affaires Sociales pour
d4velopper les Centres d'Alphabdtisation.
F.        LA PROGRAMKATION ET LA GESTION RIGOUUUSE DES RESSOURCES ET UNE
DECZNTRALISATION PLUS POUSSEE.
Situation
La maltrise de l'appareil 4ducatif par le DEPS impose & l administration centrale
et ddcentralis4e un mode de fonctionnement plus efficace. A l'heure actuelle,
diverses raisons viennent entraver une utilisation optimale du personnel
(enseignant et non enseignant) travaillant au service de l'Oducation. Par
ailleurs. il n'existe pas de mecanismes de pilotage rigoureux de l'education,



.VNLX I-
(8 -
et  les  fonctions  de  planification.  de  programmnation  des  depenses  et  de
budg6tisation sont insuffisamment developpees.
Obiectifs
18.    D4centralisation accrue.
Le Departement concrdtisera les dispositions legales relatives aux competences
administratives. financieres et p4dagogiques des entitds decentralisees.
19.    Poursuite de la rationalisation du Rersonnel enseignant.
L'effort entrepris pour rationaliser la gestion et la paye des enseignants sera
poursuivi.
20.    Rationalisation de 1'administration centrale.
Pour accrottre lefficacite de l'administration centrale, le Ddpartement ajustera
les effectifs de son personnel aux nombres et aux profils soigneusement definis.
II am6liorera les conditions de travail de ses agents.
21.      La oroarammation syst4matique des ressources Publiques consacrees a
1 *ducation.
Pour atteindre les objectifs qu'il so fixe dans sa strat4gie sectorielle, le
D4partement renforcera ses capacitOs  de planification. de programuation et de
budg4tisation de faron & piloter et a controler de mani6re suivie le d4veloppement
du secteur.
Mesures
23. Le DUpartement assurera la formation des responsables r4gionsux et sous-
rOgionaux et leur fournira lee moyens indispensables pour assumer leurs
fonctions.
24. Le receneement des ensoeignants entrepris par le SECOPE sera poursuivi et
*tendu a lPeneemble de l'enseignement primaire et secondaire.
25. Le Departement 6tablira l'inventaire des besoins quantitatifs et qualitatifs
de chacun de ses services en fonction des tAches qui leur sont attribuees. Les
effectifs seront ajustds en consdquence.
26.    Le r4tablissement des conditions physiques minimales pour un travail
efficace de l'administration sera opera par le regroupement des services.
l'am4lioration des infrastructures, et la fourniture des 4quipements et movens
de fonctionnement indispensables.



Page tO  f 10
- 69 -
27.     11 sera constitue un organe commun au DEPS et au DESU : le Comite de
Strategie Sectorielle dont la mission sera d'effectuer un suivi analytique
regulier du secteur. II s'assurera, sur base d'indicateurs et d'etudes fournis
par leurs services respectifs de planification, de la confomnite de le'evolution
du secteur avec les objectifs de la strategie. Ce Comite avisera les autorites
d'eventuelles  mesures  i  prendre  en  cas  de  deviation  ou  de  changements
conjoncturels. II sera sous la tutelle directe des Commissaires d'Etat, et sera
compose d'un petit nombre de responsables designes par ces derniers.
28.     Le  role de  la planification  sera  intensifie et  la production des
statistiques scolaires qui lui sont necessaires deviendra une activite
essentielle et reguliere. La Division de la Planification sera rationalisee et
ses moyens materiels renforces.
29.   La Direction de la Planification se livrera a une programmation sectoriel'e
des depenses publiques tri-annuelle et glissante, incorporant les depenses
recurrentes et d'investissement, et prenant en compte les sources de financement
domestiques at externes.
30.   L'elaboration des budgets, le suivi financier et physique des dtpenses et
des projets seront rendus plus efficaces et plus transparents. En particulier la
preparation des budgets courants et la gestion des moyans de fonctionnement de
l'administration seront coordonnes par la Direction des Services Generaux. La
Direction  de  la Planification assurera  la priparation technique  du  Budget
d'investissement du Dipartement. Les procidures budgitaires seront amiliorees et
feront l'objet de textes riglamentaires.



Solp-mo $41 l}149aiettcts  toW  il    J  e         ;1               ;tj  1 0  )01 3
*   311'ItJ   *rltij,rd2 *;telt,4I .3              t;+   *8t§;|t   4fi  ht3iI'l *tl 6,IiI#tti *II  3tJU;.UUI,                             iIAI*XI';8i ,pIgtj?I.5ti;4
- js                    *           45            s j         &k>v @               ut* *                   %j¢01     to sawf4mU;98&l@ Sol-   40 vattlttl"    *                  ;   J11tit)IJAS)
rrs | * v * - * v X X~~~~~~*                                                uo'                      >vt  i  I,1i  *4 I e¢ ¢@ >  .  i# ui g  wjb# aI*  *~ s ol3p   j  *      s.flI9))tIJ@  +  I        
F'l1130i -4jjt ti V SI1.14i11Wd 531 Soot la 3II'tSll1IJ '4
< i r                                                            @ j | f X |; ~~~~~~~~~~~ASiIt atq
#M   *v                                             4#j 4) p0t1891i @,  iP  S           -
*   s rs      r        z1w  -        ~~~~;43ipl4 noS I *           leX p;i4allf;,  Pol 1*:6clsed§g   sa# #111mll;|11   , -
*(UU     -a~p4 "p   *                 S       -r i p  so u4:s; fl qlp fu-03te 9      rel)te -
pill30 . ,                 a   sa,ws .ip     galpu 1 g up  ;ueas u,l a   polue
It                       I t7,       v +   t .   tit&Aoo 1%.ut o)9 jo°  udp tt   tit ln   passiscosit pB-1 -
.....................   ..........   .                    ........   ........  .  ..................   ................................   .
*           *                     *                                      |an,l  9,@~~~~~~~~~~~~~Do   wisptSt -
e  .  igi *MQ E ip , ltm     up U lGiWlIii 1i
,~~~~~                         .~oi 
>                    *4,. *LI,~uwGI4u6d5IOilIPUS                                                                                                       p I  me   S
R  s s   .   0 e       § t         °'l *           *          *              $ t }{l '~~~~~~$s1  "O Blt A"j I #I~ {tsslov8  SI Nip -
Z    -                              *                                                            uiuj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"13 oi  Lw a iejIUiUje (u.maSwu.j I 911seld   *j
*                      .                     .                                                 11~~~~~~~01 I.   6  0111063w  3   Dol ', SIm1MES     u m
I1AI          96@ -.
UI*aONI.§* . *1    1  N 3133 Ua   M S 13 IMIU1   S 0n U13    fN lABr       l *   Ve
H-                             *,od   *Bn2j   (   g1839                                                         trS    l"|   |""we"                                               
*~~~~~~~ * * * w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.6LV3 3.1  $30     1ss WhI'l *0  il 



4.G 01 IS 444I).dA;SUl,1 $; IQ#Jflo %1§nt4n ;no
-:                                    .                                                                           ID  peliqi I8V... .......... . .................. ..... . I............................  ....................'iIoi.  . 
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I   'M'                                                                                                       slitfinu  s3g;443
et.  al .Jop's sais       ;ipe   49l japII- on,   w.oII)9] c                wl949j              q.
t~~~~~~~~~~~ _Ihjt *4114  149sl  aaut}114}; ;a61  l ultsl§t
*                                                                                                                        * *                            I'-1 *14fil la10 ,0
;,~~~~~~~~                                                                ~           ~ ~~~~~~~~ 14 W;      nIlma.l " sl       qt@    l9't$3a39 #14   ;ue;s(         fjo0,;,,,g;,1
S:,t' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~1~Iei~                                                                                                     1)9h86 149|lw@|      *91II6U                     1001100} Sj t,;O@1U&"
......... ... .... .    ..    ....... .......   ..........    .    ..............    .    . . .............................................................
*                                                                                                                           *149tI11iIJ a           L11  a 
*           *     ¢el,w11}~~~Sa 4atlitJulZD   *        f3 :8Z1 1 w   ji 1J 'tpn  ulvi sq,jO st         tl2 @l#9 8
0  -~~~~~                                                                                                                         33S5Ud Slid  UUISIUUIUIs3cllifoid  p ljipeSa
~~~~~... .. ........  ....... ... ............ ------   --------------- ----------- -...... ... I.............................................................sB$^| tM"DtjU
*~~~~~~~~~~~oljp' so solll"%!qg                                        VP *xt6 Pv adfltla Op
Iflfp     811;J13salpi  DP1N55    5)2a  3100 1 W111153513   UIIIVUWIS3U                                    3
....           ........................ .......... .................. .  ..............................................................                                       ...... - . - - ---A  -  ------*-------------------------ll
*916, a~g~ u.                 no 1169~WI *66 *00*8 ""!lin           i         W     w i Iig    l 3AleJ     w 3
*   '                                   *                        *  w~~~~~~~~~~"1A)SGO. asl    2039 p" *l  tnw §§t           la losw nu    'kg tttg2!|}
.......... .........................  ..........  ........I.........  ...............................................................
s *          *            t S4fill       lilO           flU  *                t1)11           o alm"to p             mu         P 6k 8ae,                    llaAumlipllinW   1
*                                                                           116)110 ,9 *5 2 *  9,    *          16 SdIl 49 W,161MWa            J go wls E"i            *U L                "1lW1l!
*                                                                                                       H1uW11*ji1W 3A914    uA                                1Sold1111U6 w      "11
*                                                                                                  W lE  ,6664   NIII   10 Uuitlii * 1490)    *1
-                                 RS -_l                              *ll   8t4336t    tt51  *            *II.JUt)EMllM   IcU6U6Ihit  b   61U1USI0uI*pt                                 a}        il2b @>                 *
*  .                                         1)l~~~~~)~~~            1111Y9 ~~~ 149      SUfl*p              SR3~6   149 O13 elIS II,I    I] l                   16601616*
.             ..........   ........... ............ .......... ................. .                                    .............................................................. .
O9113.11 Magi .  *3                               311ll*111
till  l~~~l        till              tsgillJ~                 GP. til10P  I  M SAA  49           36)al sI;ia oof'q uuhig      WRi
;                                                                                                                                 11110) *t9IpI o *O4 *S  1e31  5 W11111Zs   13  *
..............I...................I....                 . ...........I..... ...............................................1.9                            ...l      .
' *   *l         llT ISlE      *ti               *}IKQSAOW  *      0l)       U 1 *     1    0WAd UCIH* Soi 13109  11149 ,IP I0J1 S9l
*l@||lOlS *       EO, 1e539                                                                                                 tm 14o.ap v  !laSo    *"G   361 -
......................I........... .......... .................. ...........................I.................................... .
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~so *il go *                                                                                  ISFA3pJ  woexetulissw A lonvoillmatp -
%J1138fif               ! "411M  SO 1101. 9f imfn)sipvlUlepsiq 11  61 -    msmpom.
..........    ......... ..I...................... ............  ...I..............  ...............................................................    se                               " l      Wsleil            S
*   *   tsss   Xsw            szzz -       vale 1F1 Uj *                                           1"   lullel Ifomfisoo'lso gillS  Xell     Il @.ttm                       o  to
*      .t                                                            gss  s1~l)m   *  IwIeJOle )unugui,.~119 1U0Idl13i 1t49e  I l10I)911j    wleu
.....................................   ...... I...  .  .................- .  .........................................................--.------..- .                               lot     §jzt Dl allpoa:s
*                            *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~if04   so ;|pe; s e3           e S alode 1e1"4to smjoillrsoil.   4 1 offavw                   pasigglDw@,l ap l§"4pga          t    *b1
*      t#8            l.St           tgtX  *            $}~~~~11;4Affa *       s",    elolop)  I         IN   S*   Dam bl   voli@. ts4e lds         t-ll
......... . ..-.--I-.-....-.-.-.--.-.-... -.- -I-..-.- -.--.-.-.-..-.-.--.----.- --.---.-..-.-.-.-..-.-.-.---.-.-.--.-.-.-..-.-.-.--.-.-.-.---.-.-.--.-.-    -      -  -  |oAet  "lf  "I   I * 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~&"                                              volssol s is    *ass  B io(l ide 'sa iUn"   06 Solos"         ;.   galotl de *         ,         p 85dtil*@lit t    'St
* * *zIsJ* * Isz~~~~~leoi                                                 pejanwimel    uellp  Hlldisl sip    lollemij                 l  tl 



1L ~     - 
:~~W    e~                                   ~                                         I.~    ?
-  *t   .7  ~ ~~It  z                                                    -ui
a-~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
~~~  ~    i- *-        j                                                   .-         -             -
*                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ill
-                                                    I~~~~
*   C-                             ...  .....
2 ..a   :~j 3.j~:j~:                 m:   ..we,
j1.i ju~~~~.j~~~  ft  £I
a  ;.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   -a. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~J
. . . . . . .   . .   .. . .  . .                  ..                     . .  . .     .  . .
UL -
-   *-*      .       .    a        . a.        -         .        a. a. Y



ANNEX 3- 
2 v ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~Io
8                          -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
19~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
.    .-                                                        
A                                    *              *~rr.996
if~~~~~~
19~~~~
Si~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i
.      .                                         .   .       o£ .I  
.     ..     . .. .    .                         . . . . . . . . . . . .   I                  



...................................... I............. I........................................................ I......................................... I............ I........ ... ........ ......... I...........
IK6100                 faults                      MMCPICS KS 11110111 - UC. 6EAllk
le6iff                 haost(  0 plitl             SM      (I K    sm :UM 111's  kow s?    0                     1141    OU 0 UPA    .    2 M aill[S AM ($  ISCIU1111 Elf(Ct    W    (AR  . bUft tl IECIC  IP2069    SIMILAIRESI,    1. VOILIVII61
liamio .               $IUR611 tm                   wrentsis :   Wallis :                                       1141LIUllOn DO ANISHOUS [a tere AU (OM  OIS oulOXimis if ti III
1419.1111K             SEC. 69CIUL                                         le M      . tv ffo.                 UOUCTION K$ KDW&tfltl[S tA  ltft. ACCROISS(FAIII COW L&Ilf IX  LA ftW fIOU                                           AJKIIodtAllou "Outs5lyt OAAM  'E'. . Ottaltat NIOAO
....................................................... ................................................... I..................... ... I .............................. I........ I.    ...................... I...........................
1AEffs S'9 lots, 140 t'Amislion. stamigint 11 miming  Imkwcltsw                                                        It"          11,01    I M             J"o    I M                I"I    I "I    1903    199,    J"s    I 996                                              1990    I---              7"           20t,
ACIUILS           1111111 ftleYAdM IS                                        1")          1903        001          19,00        I"I          1")         1991         1094         leas        19%          19V                       1494         ' OM         2%;          1%
191511     I"I        4194        met                               0. llas(                                  ouleb!mkf  I                    I                    elliou    oulgaAlwAll  I;                                      pielm          wlawl"Alt  1:1
.....    ...    ........................          .........................               .....................    ...
I          -Aselisloo            60 It    60 St    0    ft          Ss 64    OM       M                  M Ah         26806    21022    W ill    254810    IblUt    26243D                        2oiloo    261"'11    1C.01    20806                             I)JO10                    21)69q    268,
now       .          10 $ll   tg  04        10.01    10 Ot    KOM           MIS               W 01        $2601        W 42         4(469        III??        21259       2"84         24151        29020        29,20       19S.8        9 C'       M . i        ' 11 1,       ,92,02      29910
-mmotles              $1. ot    Gs 0%    10 0%    ?S. at    1618L                            32104        321071    320164    2*1641    2112W                M     19    291$14    290260    2qkn)    21111    4 ill."                  2n,13        Inib,    28"C' t         289901        9
bt    25.0%    28.0%    is Ok
$m     m                  174114    1 ?"12    161621    ltim                 IS6948    190181    191863            19sISS    11) 24 I    102919    20t.                            20. 1,        L',63       210961;           'e
Qtmm                 is 60       Is 6%    IS.61         IS."      alwa Agils                  12182        S2162        sjeo       U ?S9        15466        JON         I=           35404        JW 2         16382        3 13 56     !?Bill        lass.       :eja.        31 -it        W .
-"M ilos              30  St    20           20 St    30. St  ttateL                         M nb    212114    'Illb I 1    211348    N1464    224956    2269$0                        2SO589       'IS.O                    26"64    44'lt           .4411-       ., 1 W),    "6114    2,Rlt
bs         Si 94  63.ft  !
aw .AUR                    4212.       OW           4 $4 34      4066,        lbm        04115        46102        402'.        '72p,        OLI-1          ,I                                               'ev
I(OWJSL              2 I tt      I 5 ot         It      to Os    Koft&#Al$                    134.54       10§59         914          glee        S)AA          so;        1,56         6831        W $          )SO I        , t'                                              t' -
F      itom          $1 it    Si 0%    be (M           $3.0%    loilkL                        ilf?$        SM86         5531.,      $1406,       $5351        5 900      $J"         t3s$.                                                                                      ..'6.       6'; t
-itawlaoill,    16 St             30 at      10  .1    10 et
9M     ME                  W ).         Ian)        26061        2859.,       29AS?        Wee          30itO       SOSOC        S03t         . V.,       12i N          It.        1"&'
NOW&                 2: 6%       15.101    Is at    IS.04    mow"               is             ?W           ?IIA         W e.         bots        sus          $ 256        $M           $124        55),         h4i          5"s          t         bal,         t.t.
-POW 1105,            60.1%    bi Ot         10 0%    IS at    lalk                            SU?$         3S?2 7       U"t         UbV          $54lio       35790        PM          1$82i        A2- S        "L 1)        W ., 3      6 0 14 I     61"JI        'o           "Ljc            O  I
18  ill    20.19       IS.011   10-Ok    cOm "It                        ZilA         ?:ta.        21664        lisis        Z!.56       Z.           zslsl        200,        241.6        1W    1
-§fDm                 22 it    15 3%         10   11,   10          810M      ADIS              6059         Ug?          $10          4M          4311)         l"',        36"          3, It       S200         29811
-FM     IION          36  11      ?a ot    75 as    Be ot    folk                              2161?        2724)        M U         21591        26400        26710        9"I         2?16.'       2)5U         28JO         16714        196..        1;916        3,2,3       1$..,)       .06js
IM     AUN                 16110        JOS32       114sS        laAi         16402        18521        Aqaj        lqb"         lit"         20182        1,314         ;I I t     2AA0           'tj                    1050.
immimilli  Is At 0 0%   Is ot  46.0%
*IN&                 26 At    20 et         15 0%       is Ot    KOO* ml$                      "II          OU           $16:         Ubs           004        401          , 165        4 IV.       '001          Si%          tl?        :. "         30.                                   '162
-PM IIO                                                             IOIAL                      NW           MO    2,30    259)?   2k9b   i322i   WO                                     Wl   i4vl   24176   24641   25'.   ,"& I Csdt    WO    Is?"
'"W 1001(al           ?I ?a    $0 04    65.0%    as 31
*10011101LAIls
IOIAL
.     ..     .   ..............                       ...............         ..           ...     ........     .....
'Cfft(l WAL DU SU                 UNERAL                                                  1`414i                    tbOSOB          01180        V%"      665454    65SW            615104    08165    664610    066759    6N 39    *W lt    oj5uol    t81W                                t"C          'I"V.    '1011
Iftom Ilti Di stofthols                                                                                                is it             II                   0    "      1,  't       11 21        12 9t        II St        !2 51       I? 4%        I., 2%       IA                                        .11      12  it'
...... 0...................... ...........                              ........... ........ 4....... .......                                                                   .. .....
'Diftmi op lit t                                       rum N ftossill                             lilft
09 CLASM         1-
2.
S.
5t    5A  St    54  se    54  le    El   EtAl fAKI                  13490        IJJ,5        01%          I X0.       121%         1204         12yjz        1,91.       ilol?        131's                                  '.tO          ';'e       ".11          9."'
fols(rat               I $460      Ilia$        117W         0064          d9b        I 04        12)32        1 iqu        I IG I      13I)l        IWO         '39L                                                                                        t
.................................................................   ..................................................................... ......... ...' .............. I......... .........................                                                                                     .....................
.. .............. I...... I..................... I......                                   ........................                                                    ........           ............. I..................... ..........................................................
W F[Olf$ DU S((DMDAltt. IOURS SMCIAtlitS                                                          101AL             M ill    915817    98603    101626    16041    462164    9bo t 24    158246    UIPSI    168011    919401    q I I'l,    9612q3                                                     05115    taell?' -
............... I....... I......... ... ....... I....... ..............                                  ....... I............                   .............................................................. ..................  ........   .......................



ANNIX     - i
Palgt' 3 ot e,
-    / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -~3                                                                     
.  .  . . . .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .            .     .      .
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2:
.                                                                     .  .  .         a. .... .....  ...........  ........  . 
2   -                                                                                                                -. .~~96   A ,- ca  
_                                                                                                                                                                             .
~~~ * ~~~9N r.                                            g  t -gt    
_ 8w              ;_oo....                                   - .  . .  .   . .   .  .  . .   .
. .   . .                                                              22. .  .   .  .   .                  ..   .  °. .. .  .  .  .  .   .
*   a                                                                     aa .0                                                     -a O
: ~ ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       , ..2 _~
<~~~ _a         ,fw                                                                                   _ °o_ _-.
a                                                                                      '.                 °                         °. a '   Q  - -   -  ^    a      a--  _ _-
* g   >   5°:   
j               .                                   1            . _      _       -~            a                                                                       -~  ° 
a  -  -  t  ~~ '<                                       226  --a -                       - °        _aO;       
- * _ o8.                                                                         .                              S-_S                                            f,°-5  ^  _   2  a 
--~~~~~~     
m ' S* ° °~ ~ ^~ ° S~ ,-  ,.                                                                       -     r  C   .<



RAWs  1111.$..                                                                       MULL U9 SlNAIIO8 DII 8(KWLO2YLO2 OK  1.I0h2C4ll0  P11218211  (  SL(m&iUM                                                                                         OmA'
.KtSIO           3ROOM                    M1t(lift  KS OFFiCItIS - lt[C  de. a CO.
'USIN             P,2MC * 73191         NU*$  U  i800:UI(c2is10,111 19018  :    E. 8N00( P.$                  01128  Pit t  780(2  IIIIOumS iui*iSv  .* ?Al Soi.
'1C(AI8           51301621 (ft           87200             (hluh   :                        KSSiOo0  KS F880A222 P80iSS220Ui3,S 11882L2282208 M   (808811(6 II S. D(vft0 118Kl2 PtIVI±2410 01 M    MLf1 ±O107S
'1111.if,to        mtft  An. S (EU.                        It FM9. ii 111S.             680890(115  UWil 11 81188 MO  (C8h2L188 K  408 2248423  MIS0   it 21(26 .  8fA1420±0($  80511116Oi  tof9 5 AU L250 DE$ 01 3,1IQUIMM1  II   I  II
....................................4...*...........  ...............................................I...............
'MUE  oi lt*0I !7288   $'MISSION0. oou$iltM 2  ti "mile:88    IIUNUIm                         k984      198       1988      1989      2998      29±       2992      2993      2994      2991       ±994      199)      3990      ±91       mm        203±
*                        1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AtP0214     (31411 SIin81il                   2981       988      11989     m9,0      1992       M99      2993      299       19,1      I99       ±3        1998       1999      2203      200       2032
*                          m98s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10  M OOm   2904  80               *8M. "M0 2               7128 MINE    020880L8 2 I         SI              F±i200t 0ou88401±.   11           I               P:m±loo±  gu±ba34±±   III
.. . . . . . . . .   .. . . . .    . . .  . ..  . .-..     . .  . .    .  . . . .  . . .  . . .. .  . . .     . . .    .. . . . . . . .          .. . . . . ... . .
*   t        !Nsssmu           00311140   8                        OMANm                  212         29         2         0         0         a
*        580480.          i 259        it2                      M0outM1        *       2          9          2        0          0        0
- 731022980               429      429                        1618                    21         20          3        a         0         0
*        8888fl0          AS *22    110Os
*  2     002129                                             '892840                    24        74        22          2        0         0
W omIft                      It8    2.8 OsLUS                                           4         2                   0         0         a
*        Paula.                                               IIoAL                    28        is        28         2         a         a
I            -ANIS2SIO         I 248      221t   214      22b L  28   888148            21142     V2129      27444    28294      2811      21?1,    2144       22414     2149±     2)40±     V'',    2 '1         341);,              ',8       ±
*        K80.&            ±1 98   21 9    28 O8   2808 0* 5008 A41             1     042       804       9461      8027      8224      42.2       410      4882      4017      1$44      103±       1.2       3±02      3.ts      2294      IU. o
*         p801201         1 S,     $2 )1l    0G    to(8  00   *  016,               0311      $3003     55420    34212    34814        3291     ±1024     32208s    3248       20941    3281`4   S3I0.0a     1±43 ±u      ' .    33144     3WV
*        *8481411it    234         2*09 A    3009    1808'
*   A        '0±00                                                 80IS298001 U          21444     28221,    :902      28010     ±0272     21621    ±8442    .84         ±0.4 4    ±8S11     28014     ±9Q61      1983±     M  I±8   .3;        2± I12k
KD586K                    84 28   24 it   21 08   t0 08   it404s8821           I     342       3412      0409      042       348.      $,.4±     212       0401      5424      S292    2214        S±32       2827      1~t       25,60     M31
*        13601206         420a4 6 4209       a 700   s 808    30241                 22011     2±334     2±392    22124      22175    22748      2794       2202     2±82    2384         224.      2208      1241±     23.'    114         2±418
*        *08*120112       2204t  3208o      I 208    00.09'
*  I  *i1231281                                    * 1092904120~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~" AU  2244  12220  2312  20414  23S122    ISM     14291      6911 124119    1,948          ±1229    it1)04     ±4301      )±1t     ±4028      00081
*        '5865             2128i  I7 IIt   21S et   200 *l 500954                    2422      242        10       314       21 11  2710 1?  Vs   M        2141      273        204       2449      2.81      2119    21:9,       2098      2028
*         7,11208         88t 88 48         88 08 cm   008c   1014.                 22212     2102      14252    12420    12424    1412±    ±1042    ±1322    21498            ±1442    ± '829    ±8±046    304±4       31.2    230S84    20031 
'8086*4L          21 78   28 ? 1    S 2188 28  10    00254401I        '      233      3233      2982       02       301 10      08so )    ?I00    2400      2±0        2218      ±9.2      2)34      ±141,      WS2    I.± I        22H
*'"t20101R                                                  * 0184                  24898     23159     1301  1  2.2        ±4721    3429±      ±5921      2700    221±       12948      ±2143     12112    libel       ±382     1±24±           ±519
*!188112812               it I03   is3      8109 a    9008t
*            '80l1180                                              1249249
*       '0888                                               * 54080408
,""l021oll Of    6544811                                                       8             I2888      20 281   21 88    21 18    ±3 78    280           28 1  98    21 98    24 9t    24 24    23 22    ±2 44    22 48         it 0      2 18        992'
Of K    SS (42 1 2                                                  
*2'                        12 49    124 itC$7t2                                 *       2        1)        2±          I        0         0
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9 1    2 4         9    21 08   40 08        (21  (0002           291       204       III       2±1        ±11      239       49o        143     ±214      ±18s       249±      2239      4±24      12±4      41±1      83,
*       4                  3S 98   01 98   4008            i 10(  (I244 (00 CF       13481     4932      0490      1090      1328      1±20      1222       W123      12±8     1048       104       004,      1±22      12.0      5120      %148
2M1MI840                                                           488498Aw      '    844       1291      820       $4S 4   140   43    144       8403      1898      42±4      4*23       1303      8181      9248     I  2034    ±2029    ±40±0a



IOw;    zz**t    .^Oow  I.g;!~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ I:n  I,9  zb;         Z"Ct       all SO         Ifg   ICll      ;ello      1t6 Of      t        *g  I si       sWm SFI 00t to9             ss " t t    t
,    ofC     n        >; t       .c( t0:s 0n lp9 Iet                                  rX        71U. MI IiiSs v Kt   nu1        SwOI       14        96( 1      Ocl          ltno) l)1)1        So  Sto *Of Ot       U    ll      I Il     
^  it^W    nt^:       §^t       ;:;        lo^z      ,.:e       see~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~bz :z   qtoi  rU         tcI       w           u   tl      t z  t             .l          st      .          j S         So *0 w   0 0;   *01        *0(
>: |              .  @zt       *9~~~~~~~~~~09                                q 7  10^  %7. t^    t tb     t46        INe       16,        tb        (,61       it;        1TM       0wb       .  9                  t0ot Dv    1 ot   114 I    *e *svl .1                    U BI
.1 .rn     19 6       14 lOtZ         6bU    Xto    tt   06-01       COt    ll    t    vn Ix0t    %StC (     1I £        ifbO    OIeS      So  f    %  t}U        nb 1                  ltlO                                       II s      olfm     il all nC    t llO UJ.
II -`6il I-tl O~v:    ot  1    r6,1 916  I 6 VI  1,9        iic      ?19         ilt        ols      910         6iv                   iitl .                                    )Iissiig    II"OWci01M
to stoW to   St vi   itt  UItsKinpr
.T.Xl       toSI      oct        lfl       ift,       gitl      OUIz        OCsl       iltl     Jill       to51       1001      Uali       SOL         tsI      Utill     .    sitw7lnu    SO tSl   to St   SC it   Ui IC                   VW]$,
,      ZO 6SI  un Slb      KIS        o Uz       tql       itSO       is9       90ng       no9        ilK        MSC       ntos       O t       tses       IzS .is            x7Jnitffi                                              NOlSsIVoe           c
%O ol   te f b        St   SC ST U         I "I"":S
.   TWtr    feitt    onri    6;ce9         OKII        111       If  t tU  I I 9    t   Osal    OoUI    tflet        01,11    Oftwoi    SOso          ;"OC      nsol   .                t101  -     ( C    0 es    cO  Os    U  ec t es1 I WAN -
,tlU       *rr        nn9       K91        Utlf       ftnl       qfIl      OSI         Mt       tni        90ol        iSI      (oil       golf        lt       Sit[      ,    slitnooU  -to Of   %O OltO *l VI                 *r           7R W II,
Itl *nn    *zir       u1ti    &0o01    I1611          *nttl    nUxt        flitl      Ubil      atilt    4t01    os6            uto       1o t      US         060 tiU .                tt.01SSIWt.                                                          S
to ore      ee %O   nf It        tf     311 etis/n
,  tNI     $v01    usot         nnelo      vtou       16"        ;eU     Ulz 16t       UZ        ltnX      este;    *Ksl        °KU@       IKI n 1    *0091     C61e;                  ivnoi .       tOot t  09   it ns       : TSs        0110 lo    
i .,       141  ftu   sruz      tOol       oil?       xu         ioz       list       on        nn lilt              Sts 6t     "i9t       ttOt       not       vottt           s[ninooRt   % O 01   %O 01   Ui tl   U  tl                  'WWII.                      I
.  t;,ff 7*t :c.~~~~~Mi             qnqnt      0xou    oci.101n  t9461 U         eICI  ¢oI tsn:1    MCI       4*1zt  tR9U           ozsmbt  .9i   t0tOI                    SIPt.A*
0. 7 o.^.    ns           U      ofX If     Cwt       n9ti       In        troc       *tO'        M,w       ftie      02w        ISOS      (ilS       lilt      not             stamttoN   -WOI   0t               so itO    to el           71010431.
.      'l' ;Ilj 8   f ns    ni-       x,Ilf    illt        (6Oot    wUr         vial    109t          ltol       m4 n        "t*nu      gs AIn   tSIU      fltee     *        11t     tI . t,O tl   tO TitO 110i    tO It            NiSSllWt.           t
I   o                                                                                                                                                     tO 09   ttO ttS   U  n       U   S      llltiOSttittt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%O0  t  0  %  n I  n )tm1"
r-     .s1EtT      s~~~~~eto,    ql      It4v       ills      ;694       10n        S70       tltS       IMt       ons        Gets       (9tS      onts       n{8l       tits     .IO lOO.ttof                        O tO    UXw    of  t        ItOIIOtof
r-   , *Ct       :g.        ;§X~~~~~~Q  Its      Gt(        Sao       999        10        1§         gig        Set            ts    ti         SO        sos        SOl       .    tWsitO7 .ItO el   ttO Ot  %U  Sl   U1 tl                     7tIot-
, ta1  s;;s  ns       70s1       vss~~~~lot  (099     ',Ito      IMs        Iuli      569o       It%,      SMs        I'(        tni        10b       (ob1    .            VA Gtr                                               0SSIlt.
"'.          IND T    t O,   tt t,   tt tv  itimSSi4Wmtf
,-1 7r        I I r      0161    nol I    stql    (lilt   ;sqI    vigil               milt    U t    Woool    91%01    6"01    ISQII    TOOL                    180       .IO mo                     ; .0 tOS OO   Ut  U9So  t            t"OIIOtfVU.
fell1       IT61      (10 I      lq;l      lit         9f 11               9t  t  sti  Rqtl      lit?      lilt       9971      4istl      qgv        soil       MOl    .        ivo SlttOwC      tO01t 101 t U  91   SG  tl                 mtoll-
K,,n.      'ttbl    '.., I    , ";I    II'm           19tt       q,rez     1911x      SIcoI    tlb         (16        oso6      006        Itill      91t0      tMO       *          wA S    ,tO I    Ist    %IC %t           1           tODISSIVN           I
. coez  tOU  OOU      SSSI       UFL ~~~961  (61s      *Sol      SSU1       *r61      lua1       UOI        ISSI      Ot1        SS          sl       {O  161it   lWZ                                              Sm    
.too        0;*t mo   60           n6      4661       S*lf      U66        *SSI       SSs1      ULl        ISSx        oli      SUI        ttSI      (161       99611           SPtICUBtIIiOt i  tftiltSD       11 loigtlWtSt 'NOeSSItiO.  ZtrJrn,s         lt,  Sim,
.,., ....... ttX ..,....................................,,,,,,..... ,I....... -,,...............................................................,,..,,,.......,,,,.,,,,,.....I 0.....................,.--....-..----.------.--.--.............@
TO rlal .I           sUnrt Ilioo ro IaN  Ill I0to PIIV   no sIII IBz I3 iVOS 1.   SII)SD    I Sm3iA       VNto   I I 'ItltlMls 1DI3s3 ISEh WMtSO   'INItW1  SIt:  IOD SWt  U lv              11 'GM    it                        '3J       fIv  :31     W      l/'llt,
3it3SIWI 13,110131)1bU.1*1  In             #ls.    m lih lg n 4"11                                   : lV1110011    : U)SAUOgs             WI 11113111111,          oltWit.
SITIVU; m          o n10INVIA)ul sna SrUlIKtO  SINNIII)I         VIo/u nt  ,SDt SIN m           lt)OSSIN  I (O"    n  oiLori giml             t a Y O (a  t1011i1tit1   01906  sifilXUim   nit tO %%SIAN              34t - 31101,0             :VInSTA.
11101 sxtsnw    311 - S1El0l11D  %TIotea3 11010hu                  :141               tl9|.
t o ...........,.,,,.,,.                              ,           ,            ,           .,.,,..,.,.,,........,,..,,.,,.,,,..,,.,.,,,.,., I..............,,..,,,.,,,-,.,.,,.,,,............,,,.-.-..-,.-.,........,.,..,..................I----I-.... -e@X
s OW                                                                                    htlwtOZ          11 tiittm o ll"(101nola #  aW3^ttl3IQno ttroilvntis 30 ll#ilt                                                                                    S 1           'titlVZ



M INE, 0 ('11' S                                                                                     MKL( K     IWAAIIGN DU 1)(111.0"(111111 DE t'fPU(AlJ0M P11111111121 tl UCOMAIIN                                                                                                                "V    6
......................................................................................... I............................ I..............................                                                           ..........                      ................
'K6103  -             fouits                    m ilctim    KS 1111"N111 Ill loulmAls
'Kfilfs :             MRIC - FolvE              DONKES De am                     Kt. 91,11KI411.11111;                IAUS MEWS to MIA?
luteeto               S111111161t In             W"tN[Ils                        pis of M u    VAUIION KS trAl6m t$                           KDtKTIOM OU [AUI AMAL Of KPflOillON It RAISM    Dt L'ARILICRA1108 015 COltDIlicaS D'tfiptCl
-KSOINS to toIA16M IS                                                            19L. BIIKSIUM S -                    to CRIDISSAW           kft  LE PairAlki. 14 DIAINTION DAn    LE ptw" lm                     El Li CMIRCIAL. slAsit Auk iuitts giviAUA
........................................... .................................................... .... .............. .......................... ....    ........
P&bKIKS              ACItKLS      CIBLES 0010SUKES    1 MM CTIM                          111,116     1"1         IIII        1919        lm          l"I         3192        199)        "%          1995        1996        191) .      IM          1919        2uoo        M I
1966      1"I        110%       m l    i                             1")         loss        Jill        1990        t"i         1992        1993        11%         1945        19%         I"?         1990        1994        ?DOO       2001        2002
0. "St    t                  P(01009 QUIWANUI I                      I   t              M low    OUIOAUME It                                       FIRIDOt QuIsM oof t lit
.........................    .....    ......   ....................................................
'KWIRS POW  LI ftIVAIK                                                               1111PICTIP's          4156M       6120585  4092442  4 10220    iiJIOU    t1800,62  4244696  4464208  46SSM                        49W ?l  21I406   5610)  MIS$'  69?W  b6.151  t9.1342
W IPHICLAIR          R  0       to, a      41 0      41.0   !
FM . /CLASS(         0 98       0 "       0 "        0.1101  I
ILM SIPROF           A? 6       60 A      41 II      41.6   ! EMMIGN. 11111[l. I110019    107149    1050?2    losal    tom i    102t2b    11,44sa    107911    1123"                                11WI    SM 31    1 It I ot    16 2, ze           tot:t    ltl)4    1091t
t CMIUM                                 -2S?P       - I 38 I     -SU          PS         2012        His        4W          6069         ?399       $269        ISIS        8106         408        25112       ?02
KPIIO        12.54    to. n         6.0       8 at    Ketimilim             I    lsho        12845       12012       IISS)       10141       twis         ""          9861        9831        "u         toob?       10?29       1 s S94     ..1042      1 ZIA?      13211
1111"In   ANKLSI    litio            10641       10650       iotil       1113h       12274       11345       1641)       ISOM        01"         13%         J"42        191100      196513      2026IJ    2090b                        00
.    ..    ..........................................   ....................   .............................    .                       .   .    ...........
'KSOIGS POW LI SIC fAMERK                                                         I (FlICIUS                 60300  621380  6191"   b6UU   WM    65SI06  03161I  WOM   648159  VWq  WM    66506S  681861  tqjo?o
ftfvtsicthsst    14 3           So 8       $8 0      38 6
PM        ICLASK     I 4k       1 41       1 it      A 41
Ittv[$11141111       21 S       d  S      21.5       It S       (WA 160   KAES           24321       1401        2468,       24161       2 M I y     216:6       2541B       14WJ.    21 io!         2, t" I         i S     M%          1.11,
CUISUIKI                    140         210         vis         36S           1         lut         106        219         no           ISO                                "t           18
KPERDI I I&$              3010        2M          2922        2644        .490        M l         221)        2-V         2126        205i        .49t        199.1       19S.,        au,        .06t
KSOINS #AVALSI            USA         USA         M I         2229        248)        M5          2sis        2411        WI          2i I,        tsl        1111t       .23.                    HI'S        su
..........    .    ......     ...  ....    ..    .    ................................................    ...
'NSOINS PM            LI SIC   400k                                               - EFI[ClIfS                glil(A      IM P        IMSt    W00             1 SA"       01293    J?628S    i i 991 S    111151    loisi)    it It                499ii                               S"tt        5 '8
ILLvt1'fCLAS$'    3) 4          34 0       35 0      35 0
ft0f RLAW            I 10    I 40    I 40    I 40
filvt$itw            2b ?       IS I       25 0      2$ 0       (AM 160   KUS              S2U         52h         5259        5149        $219       SIA.        49S9        4 216       4sis        '168        .2, ;       I q                                             1,99
0                      "i         dt          i'l                      9'.          ts           q
cmis$NK                     .14         .12                                                                     ,:          , ,                      3         ilL          10                                 260
1. m    DEP190       LZ St    10 ot        A 0%       a et    o(PE1111113 I ILS            661         6so                                                                     AS            9                      0
KSOIVS AW        LS'        64?         III         "i          $54         -12         361        2-A          2 10        221         211          11        1',1          It                                2?1
...      .....  .....                               ..      .     .   .   ..........   ...  .     ........     .
IRWIN$ toult ti  l(C    AN             a (Wm                                         IFICCIIFS                $5102       6.5u        8513i       8.11?       $2241       SIM         04105       atits       8,2tq       A1W         t                                                           9,61,
(LIVIiJUMf    &I 9             43 0       40 0       10 0
PROF JCLASS(         1 12       1 42      1 42       1 42
ttfv(Stp#*F          2q 5       16 2       It 2      26 2       INSt la    MC0             ?861        M 2         29Jq        imi         J069       3089        labo        30,14       299i        2ib,                                30J.                                )c I t
10 Ali Offteo        12 it    10 01        A          A        (KIPt, Nout IKI 1.                                   'bst       S "20                   .191         ,"           S S         11          10          .0                     1.                      It          69
291         2?1         262         2's          it                    40          A.          24!         24t
Ksoin    &m      ks,        $61,        19S         $98         5%          54 2        2 79        2V          244        251         2 S a       2ib         PS          Jb,         lbu            6        At
....      ....  ...     ..     ....     .                                ......     .... I  ..     ....  ........
'diSOINS tON    Lt IEC    W KS WC                                                    M W IFS                  1,401       16116       81392       M IC        SM12        M 33        A-491       920 7.      15612       94b 78                   ,to.    1."09II       :.'U                   t. , 1,
('i 0 SICI ASS!    $0 &         30 1      so a       SO
ftffl   jCtASSt      1 63       1 bi       1 66      1 66
(LtVISIPM            is I       is I       la I      is I       [851164    KCES             Ill       4$10        1191        66S2        67M         'W          046         SOMA        $284        $50         t NS        sIt;        "j          101         113.1       8. It
AK                  20,                                               2        lot         14 I        196         225         214         it,                     iit,
46         tot         804                               31  i4
to AN W M            12 51    to 0,        A C,       A        CE'"ISIDI I Io.             $15         11t:        'Ill.,     '"Olt        119'q       Ilk         0S          455         W           661         164         W                       t           t19         t 7 !
elll       460        104,                                .48i
cr,
'USOM          igMALS tOtAUX ft ENSEIGN"li                                          PRIMAii"                  tilia       1046?       10630       10,49       1001        MI,         l"'t        1"P         158)q       dsob        IWI,        19o..       IV=          'f'         24 V     :0166
S(CONDAIR(                a                                    a ,        $452,       Sbbt        SlIlb       5bil        $W          $661        SM          IZIO        3)61        , i ".       820
fusinki                  Iblul:      .15,1111,   .1:101    .413;t       1422        J %O       MAO         18244       19601       209? 1      2143l       231 j      2520       "120,       15069       2bbiG
........................................................................... A........................................................................................................................                                                                           ....................



AN N:EX 3--
-  79  -                                                        Page   I  of  3
Additional Budgeiarv Allocation/
Allocation b-lA-taire specifique additionnelle
A. Provision of school equipment
Apport de mat6riel didactique dans les etablissements.
ZAIRE                        PREVISION D'UNE ALLOCATION EN MATERIEL PEDAGOGIGUE PAR ELEVE
LIGNE BUDGETAIRE 'MATERIEL SPECIFIQUE DES ETA8LISSEMENTS
EN MILLIONS Z, PRIX CONSTANTS 1987 (1S   125 17
ANNEES                                1990          1991           1992          1993           1994          1995
PRIMAIRE
ALLOCATION/ELEVE (S)                  0.50          0.75           1.00          1.00          1.00           1.00
EFFECTIF NATIONAL                 4102265        4131054       4180662       6284696        4444208       4655804
LIGNE BUDGETAIRE (M Z)                 256            387           523           536            556           582
SECCNDAIRE
ALLO ATION/ELEVE (tl                  1.00          1.50           2.00          2.00          2.00           2.00
EFFECTIF NATIONAL                   972426        964548        962144         960124        958264        962781
LIGNE hIBtETAIRE (M Z)                 122            181           241           240            260           241
ENSEMBLE PRIMf.SEC. (N Z)              378            568           763           776            795           823



ANNEX 3-4
Page 2 of 3
-8(U -
B. Special gratification to experienced
primary school teachers/
Gratification pour la fidelisation des
enseignants du primaire.
1.1. Constat.
La mobilit6 des enseignants              est a l'heure actuelle
importante et particulierement marqu6e,dans lenseignement primal-
re,dans les premibres ann6es de la carriere des enseicnants.
Cela apparalt clairement quand on considere la distribution
des enseignants selon les Ochelons pour les grades 31 et 32 0D 6
et D 4)
Echelon     Anciennet6           D 6           D 4
0         0 A  3 ans        35 860        14 474
1         3 A  6 ans        11 616         6 146
2         6 A  9 ans        11 075         8 099
3         9 A 12 ans         6 292         9 625
4        12 A 15 ans         2 790         5 596
5        15 A 18 ans         1 180         4 468
6        18 A 21 ans           436         4 223
7        21 A 24 ans           129         3 654
8        24 a 27 ans            43         3 068
9        27 tt plus             65         6473
Cela est aussi 6vident si on considere le nombre d'agents
duittant annuellement le service de l'enseicnement (donn6es
des regions actuellement entieroment informatisees)
Regions              Aqents ayant c!uitt6 l'enseignement
1987   1988   198W  1987   1988   19890)
KINSHASA          1050   1079    846   366    391    245
KASAI OCC          491    883    839   172    348    344
BAS ZAIRE          272    872    897   108    393    472
1°)Les chiffres de l'ann6e 1989 sont trs2  nettement sous estimes
puisqu'ils no concernent que les dEparts au cours des 9 pre-
miers mois do l'annzeo  La majorit6 des dEparts onw en effet
lieu en d6but d'ann6e scolaire, une partie des "suspendus"
quittant l'enseignement pour s'inscrire au sup6rieur.
1.2. ConsEquences sur l'enseignement.
Ces departs nombreux d'enseignants apr0s moins de trois ans
dans l'enseignement a des consEquences particulibrement nefastes
sur  l'enseignement
- ces enseignants, desireux de quitter l'enseignement, ne s'im-
pliquent pas dans leur fonction puisqu'ils savent qu'ils la
quitteront dEs que l'occasion se presentera,
- toute action de formation continue en direction de ces ensei-
gnants est sans effet puisqu'ils ne sont pas appele'; A rester.
1.3. Conclusion.
Toute action visant A stabiliser les enseignants aura directement
un impact positif sur l'enseigneamnt.
C'est pourquoi                   une partie de la dotation budg6-
taire additionnelle sera destin6e A inciter cette fidilisation des
enseignants (Incitation A la fidelisation - I.F.)



A _X 3-
Page 3 of 3
- 81 -
2. Plan d'utilisation.
La part de 2,1 million de dollars affect6e en 1990 A 1'er.sei-
gnement prlmaire et secondaire sera destin6e A encourager les
enselgnants faisant carriOre  dans    le         primaire (ce niveau
d'enseignement constituant la priorit6 dans la strat6gie secto-
rielle).
Pour cela, une incitation financi6re A la fid6lisation sera
octroy6e aux enseignants primaires des grades 31 et 32 ayant
plus de 3 ans d'anciennete. Cette incitation sera croissante avec
l'anciennet6 dans le grade.
Une simulation a Ot6 effectuee par lea services du SECOPE
(Service de contrOle et de la paie des enseignants).
Un tri a 6t effectue sur l'ensemble des dossiers informatis6s
pour d§terminer pour ces grades (31 et 32) le nombre d'enseignants
de chaque 6chelon pr6sents A l'enseignement primaire. Une estima-
tion du nombre total d'enseignants par grade a et6 faite compte
tenu de la proportion d'informatis6s sur l'ensemble du secteur.
Une incitation de fid6lisation de 1 100 a par mois A 1 500 8
par mois a 6t6 prevue dans la simulation.
Le montant mensuel disponible avec la dotation budg6taire addi-
tiormelle est de :
2 100 000 dollars x 425 S /    : 12 mois - 74 375 000 I
La repartition se pr6senterait selon le tableau suivant
Grade/Echelon      Nombre       I.F.         Total
31       0         13 295        0                 0
31       1          4 307      1 100         4 737 729
31       2          4 106      1 200         4 927 737
31       3          2 332      1 300         3 032 130
31       4          1 034      1 400         1 447 692
31       5            438      1 500           656 625
31       6            137      1 500           205 343
31       7             48      1 500            71 456
31       8             16      1 500            24 069
31       9             24      1 500            36 104
32       0         11 579        0                 0
32       1          4 917      1 100         5 408 584
32       2          6 479      1 200         7 775 091
32       3          7 700      1 300        10 010 082
32       4          4 477      1 400         6 267 387
32       5          3 575      1 500         5 361 963
32       6          3 378      1 500         5 067 600
32       7          2 923      1500          4 384 547
32       8          2 455      1500          3 681 979
32       9          5 178      1 500         7 767 384
TOTAL                                    70 863 404
Il reste donc, compte tenu de la somme disponible et du
resultat de la simulation, une somme de 3 511 596 zalres
permettant de couvrir les approximations dues aux estimations
faites pour la simulation.
3.
La gestion de cette partie de la dotation budg6taire addition-
nelle sera assuree par les services SECOPE.
Un am6nagement du programme de traitement de la paie permettra
d'effectuer pour chaque agent un tri v6rifiant qu'il est bien
affect6 dans le primaire et octroyant l'incitation de fid6lisation
conformement au grade oa il se situe. L'I.F. sera int6gr6e A la
fiche de salaire.



ANNEX 3-5
:,-1 of '
Se;coral Strate4v Committee.
Comitj de Strat6vie Sectorielle
I1 est cree par les 'ommissaires d'-tat i l'Fnsezgnement ?r:ta::e
et Secondaire et i l'Fnseignement Supkrieur et Universitaire e-
i la Recherche  Sciene'.fique  un COM'TTF DP STRATFCIF SP¢R7'¢
r)F L'F\SF!GN N- vATrT(Ar., en s.Ile C.3.5.
Les aspects des objeccifs de la strat,;gie du secteur sont
a) la rigulation des flux d'el^Ives i l'entree des diffVrents cycles
et niveaux d'ktuees en fonction Oes capacites d'a-uell et des
previsions d'emploi
b) l'am4lioration de la qualite etr Se 1'efficacit6 interne i !o,s
les niveaux
c) la mobilisation des ressources et leur allocation et ut:Ilsa-
tion rationnelles e-ntre les diffAreits sous-secteurs et ca: -
gories de depencos
d) I'actualisarion des prAvisiont dce I'voJution du secteiir (effe.-
tif', entrants, sorrants et ressourcc-A.
Sens pr6judice des strat6gies des deux seous-sct,urs. 1Q Comit6
de str8tbgis sectorielle a pour mission de :
1) assurer l'actuolisation  r6gultire de la seret6gle du secteur
de l'Enseignnt NE1ational (strat6gle soctorielle de lenselgn.-
MOnt  primire et socondalre et de 1'enselgnoment sup6rjeur,
universitaire et recherche scientifique);
2) veiller A la coh6rence des strat6gies des deux sous-secteurs
entre *Iles at A lour conforwlt6 avec la strat4gle globeal
du secteur ;
3) assurer 1e suii.peruenont do Is else en oeuvre des strat6gies
des dAparements concern6s. lour ejuseemont aux changemonts
conjoncturels 6venltuels;
4) contr6ler i1appfication correcte des mosures dkeeraln6es per
ls sera8t6les des sous-secteurs:
5) falr 6etbllr annuelloaent un.Programe deo dip*nsos publiques
des  4fpereeuenes  concern6a et  les  traduire  en un  programe
global de l'Fnse.ln.e.nt ieolonal :
6) orienter lot itudes relatives    une planlflcatlon rationnelle
du seceour;
7) fair. aux Commissaires d'!tae concern6s toutes let propositlons
qu'il juge profeahbles A l'amlloratlon du systAmo (ucatif;
8) faire rapport ionsuoellont aux Comilsulres d'Ftet concernis
sur l'ivolueion do cheque secteur.



-  un  Consoillor  technique  4conooisto  norno  conjoinmement  ;ar
'e Co4issaire d'Etat i l'Ensaigneuont Promaire et Secondo2re
et par la Comissaire d'Ftat i lEnsaIgn@emnt Sup4rieur 'dniver-
sitaire et i la Recherche Sciontifique.
La Coeite pourra recourtr d la collaboration consultative d'n: er-
venants  extQriours,  chois±s  en  fonction  de  'eur competerce  et
de l'ordre du jour. Ces intervenants pourront assister aux seances
sur invitation du Comit6.
'a presidence du ComitQ sera assurAa alternativement par !es repr?-
sentants des Co=missaires d'Etat. La p4riodcicti de cette a:ter-
nance sera de 2 (deux) ans: la proamire presidence sera assuree
par Io representant du Commiswairo d'Etat i l'Enseignament Pr:-a:re
et Secondaire.
'e Comite sera assisti dans sa tAche par un Secr6tar:at 0er-anent
constitue :
-  du Conseil.er technique. chef de co necrttariat
- de deux membres (W'un appErtenent au r4partoment do 1'Ense:-
gnement  Primairo  et  SecOndairo,  l'autro  au  Dipartement  ie
lEnseigneeont  Sup6riur.  tTriversietairo  et  A  la  Recherc4e
Scientifique)  nomas.  parmi  les  webres  du Coemit6.  pr  es
Coemissaires d'Etat et d6tachia au C.S.S.
'I aura 'a responsabilitA de Is pr4paration du travail du Conxie
et cello de suivre la bonne execution des d6cisions prises.
La Cosit6 sera dotb d'un riglo.ent int6riour qu'il itablira et
qui sera sousis A l'approbtion des Cosissaires d'Etat concernes.
Co r6glooent ftixar  notaent 1I  pAriodicit6 des r6unions de tra-
vail du Comt6.
Le CJmict do strata6oe seceorlolle so cospos6 des mebros suivents:
- un ropr6sencant de chacun des Consasaires d'Etat concern6s
- les Secr6caires GWafrmux at les Directours de la Planification
des DpartoUCnen do   'Ensolipnmt Notiona1 concoerns ou lour
repr'seaia't
- l Pr6sldent do le Comission Rationale do Ia RWforse de
1 EnSi44ne ent Preimre *e Sacondalre
-  le Directoor des S*rvtcgs AcaduIques A V'Easelgnaent Sup6rieur
se Universnj:aro
- le Direceour deo Servlcee U n4rux A l'Enseigneoent Sup6rieur
oe Universutelre
-  pour chacun  des r4pareetents  concornds, doux  planficeatours.
dont l'un sp6cIalgtee des d6poanso  publiquos. noaAs sur proPo-
sition dos Sacr6taires G6n4rauu per 1* Comlesalros d'Etat
do tutelle
-  un repr6seneant du C*mIasairo d'Etat au Plan ayant l'Educatlon
dens see attributions, d4s1gn par is Comlssaire d'Etat au
Plan
- un repr6Asncane do I'ANFZA yoane I'Atude des besonsn do l'emplox
et/au In formation doar seo attrihutlons. nom.h par le Prost-
dene de cotta Associatton .



-C   Q                                                 Vt*t    fetft         33e9       0e99       *09t        Illt     i3       ISWI          30
IIf °t     It*       t9         9-         t9C                  I9 ns     ,   UM3S1A1SM
Sil        'ittz     99S'       sm         ss 09"        9      sill      , 1iw imll90d  ,                                                  )IS  3        SIlCI3 0    430.
M   a,                           ...                 .   .....~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~........................................................................... .................... ...... ......... .
4$        ss         0s         4s         $s         $s         $                   *13     '3110) *                                                              310.
INauwISSlIShia                                            3331313
6i t      cs         6S        60         4t         4's        *1        , 3lU33e0i3       i                                         31iulmi3101
Vs-u613 sUlan.
K  ISO   19       si         Sit         IS]"I0'13w                                                                 1"I3d30 $"lots
-     939        111        91C  SI              tot        ILU        CU ts       I3    13  *  1)00   i0S  S3 131                               3llU,M333MI0IM
D                '    tteb80      t60        d13       339        ns1        IIS        £*1      , £13331111341I i 00W   NUN    NUll 0e                    01 _  ns91u13r0
t                    I t            91         1     of 903     0           S" .3    sn u13;   9 K          *0et     *. f        Of n       1S3113*313
Ul                                                                                                                           .                                        399  3U009
1  9K     01    901!    9 0K    NS111)IS13311  031333
e  5                     t*b*S       m~~~~~~~~~~rst  It"n  OlSts    etStt     *IU1    t0tt1                SjJ111J1                                          )UlNS swing  lIl        10  MAllun.
v~~~~~~~~~. . .                      ...   ..... .... ...   .... ... .........,, ,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, ....................................   ................................. . . . . . .. . .. . ..
6    i                              09         elL         5          ?          *         IlL       1*1       * .4313130        1$*10,1                            0991       1* 9  kw31113     3U30    lo0.
°o                                   io,oi      r0ei      *9i tt1               si130t    to3         49)      , I*    I13331 *        0341 133301   331                                         00  XSWU/11834
CL     a,                            gtl        tOI-      '1-        113        Sll         9         lU          It,   SSlW 1131113   NOON   NOON   NOON   000003   3119313
U-        It        C.         U          9          it        Sl-       .I3t") I 1S1913         00 009       e     00? ol    *39       P1tSS1I113
U,                                                                            ,                   ~~~, 193tt1 _ 3*
W     w                                                                                                                                0 09      O-at    0e0?       *39    31S1S13IS33113 IO SSIIS*A1I.
91..4 0
s                                   *431       oil        Ill       1          tsl        Ot3        Ut3      , 3UO IIa        Oi i          S  lt U tt   ISO?    1C91        3*13130W  It3lI0           00Oj.
X %~~~~~~~~~~s -    IS.                          lt         ill  U-l             Ill        til         16 i 111 0  IXQ   i                                           wv         e IS    l ){|"}
m  un
o                                    911-                 uti        $3-        If-        qj     -         it.  i    3113313o     *  010000100000K  USmI USuAL   ri1311fle]0
ta)    0)                            Ul-.       g93-       43.        "-.        9t.        g         0t. ,-tlO3Ism)             3 SS  *  e      0s  O tt  0  t      * it    3 S/1S3313
-?           .^                                                                                                               9                       e c3 e ss          e r       b {t   nstl)S$bXll 39*3l00e
01St    0 St       0 9f      I it    )$$1913/A13*1   3033111313A3.
44*       fit        *11        34*        "91        (iL       O"1       * 3S1103330              Mt3*     1911     "t1    4911.         3*3113/3W   isi30333104.
I     0                              T10913   t1C9ft   $4,11tt   190*3    9t1tt1013    4t1           09391i    *       S 3134431                                               WA0    33% 1          s001133.
il.                            .     . ......   ...I. . . . . . . . . . . .....       .... .   ................................................. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
-a                                    ttCI      t4tt      i*31l       94         *91        list Ut       3t      ;1IS3WW11 0au 001                                               33)31S                 103.
t     ..U                            0$K oI       t        S         03$-       lot        w          oil      * 3133sils33131                   000000* _ U e_t    000000_   3SP111134300)
°                                    U          i          I          1*z-      1t        *691        st1       .110 3   S1S3   )   i' @        931 n      'K      I'm S      114S1313111
;                                                                                                               ,     
rV     4I                                                                                                                                                  O'I   i  tt  **  t  t91  t 9    3iS 3011 13333  .11
'44   --a                            $93011   t9tt 1         I$ t t$ l (411$t11 993           1 0el   t1i9l     .       1413il34      *t133 tt3t   331 M  I                      ilX        t l0i0       1x34.
v  9                        s~~~~~~~~~Mstnt  oCt%Ssq    MMn    ttS S   "W 9U        ntt    M99   .vp SJIMJ                                                                              111 t I nesYAun.
t-  tatt>%~~~~~~~~K                tIsi          1999       tiov       SO19       .Irto     t ,'l$W '  $1i311111tttlb  'l                                   tt                           l    e      .
n  etrX                     *a~~~~~~~~6t  061     it         ts        of         1-         adu-      . lsintsslsi$tl i Meu    6ese@    O,we   eetfw                  NSM11111113
a                             tOt 9 191  131t       D9SCI      U19         0lt      1919       4111t       I=) f SISS 11  i  t 49 t1        4       Q C9        it.         3 013W141131             0
401  041  La  91   03        91-        04-       * 113311111303  a~~~~~~~~~~~~% 00*    %O1* cc    O  f  0  00*   31111)194P10031
o                                                                                                        *,1                              0  IV      t  0 e9    e xt   ISSM1910131  lvmtSStISWI.
'0.t                          S91,       493        010        *39f      Oil        3t3-       NO-      .31503                   * 1311913   t el tl    tell  9l 9     3111/13*31311,o m i to,
tw                     Wzneg~~~~~911091   19,01   KotMelw  S91tol    tlt slb t CKt Il 1   9tlb           SJIDJIUI                                                    alitlu       im SlAUtUl
,                   ......~~~~~........... ..........I..................................................................................................................
[t"l      gtiE!      Iti4il     0ibl       tWl       outt         011                                      16001     101       00il
ot09l 1.                                                                                                    031       00?      041 116  011l  9I  toll)jrsw  ia sil)    S111 11  1130313t313
. ..  ..    ..   ............................   ....................................................................... ........................................................................
sD 4      si33Ql    MANI                                                         I 30 0  3                Si I          Ul  1911191 319INDN.
1403 litl) L44!  14     04) * l    *33        03 tti430                                                          II" 3IU  * )11W 0ISR10.
*4*3  3403    14*1       *043       0343       £003 91110114     l       10313M11014    $316,310311i   131133u 113131    1313311
..........1..3.......                  ...... t.. ...I....I3 .... .                  . . . .                               13.... ......  .         011...
............................................3.........................1..........4.......1.. .3...30...........3............11.....03....13......................*........1................3.--



n.e.,~~~~~~~~~~~...................I........ ...,om.....  o ..  ........... s........                                                                           .#...# ....  o...............
"C' '..                                                91**t      t          *i 1149   01,9       1019     S14         t(9      * ; 1131l * am0 
o 0                                                 1it       itt      t1         9-         391-       9t4      69           1131. 1 sl11t3l  .
"'I                                                $9S(        Milt     *snl       St99      n9         1160      $91       * l ]e lI200i                                                         Ulu    $1,11 01   t10.
>#~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,...    ... .. . .. .,.   ........ ..,,.,,,.,,,,.........  ... ...  ,,,,,,,,,.....................  ,..........................    ................................... 
'  ti                                                  i1s        $s         *s        4t         41        41         41       *'1011111    3US1J *101
.n   e                                                                                          i ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lU 3SItD lSItI  *                  au331t13II$B
n1        41         41        .$         41        4$         4        * 1U311101139.                                             slU3131.h3*S
6i~~ ~ 'i                                                                                                                        tNUl Slol6s I'  oowoi.
*   ns n  ts      sn          1        UU         U        i  wl 'IWJ                                  }*  *U   '13*61   1330'.
9tt       Ul(t      ttl        119       tt         It         t        *3 IlLlXl$W  _L _IUP   *'31                           _~    IS11169  'II311
u   n dr     t1         "          9t        W1        lr w        Eit   *  Gt          9r9*t31 Ct11634} 
3494      111(      £199       Stil      till       iII       t4iL l            16131 *la lS                                    336 Cftt1    331 *se  e1r3nU*3 631.S
.     .  .  ........................................................ .......... ............................. ...................... ............................... ................... ........................... ..........
09        its        OsI       141        gig       Sul        49       ;-imi .1*ini I1.31   9  ff09 '331                                                      Wall.
So        U0         il  l S*C                 IMts    ti              i tooml ^wlS  i ommislo                       mig    oun    mful                       wl
013        iii-       1-       ill        $11       ti         U-       * *UUIItISIISIin _* 1.00u3   _0.90003  1.609,31113I
o-                   It c-     go U        l        91         ge-     .is") 9 sissn1   .   e53t  'ela            00 oo              1110SI W IA131
;                   i                                      1139*13100
*  00O      009o    009        I t9    31131613113 t3 S/S1)   lII I.
oil       Ul         it%       got        6lI       9ti          1      .ot   &11t&ZA .Slt               lilt    &SOC    cm9                         leimi m3s llUSi.
1tiw      rtets      t,lv        oti,   trMls       ,suw       tit;     *       $JtllIiJl *                                     'ama    US'  311 '      00  3n1     1.
Os        II         tol       (II        II        tit        ILl      . ISI1I   *IU  i                                                 _  1101331            Wi.
9t-       111-       (tL-      ft-        sit       19         IL       i f1N311stl i              _01.   _163       coOll, .01 0      Nl)itW I ) 
tLl-      LtOi       49-        a9-       9S-        9I-      S3        .1*i) 9 11 13 * i  lt 0U11'                091 9t      1 *      3*13l9t3il3
*                                       119* 3 _               
1331011311:    ~~  III     091       9410   31111I1W3II  INW31lI31AI.
uC        ail        lit       til        WtAl      lit        lot         ifilmla ;  I          S1 i       3t?l     f 5I   331    11913133     19311t11*ixIJ
..... .  .... ..... ... . ...................................   ........................................... .. ..................... .............................. ........................   ...................... ...
t9 1        is       toe4       III       It        91-        trl       I 1331 5t13l *;                                             Tam1  3  01   w9,
9Sfl      tt-        dil       *s-        .M        fi         uti      i l"tm iuliwl i  so                _ e    Su        on r        il3lirs
(611      *911       910       919       Oti         t19-      1.3-     t S  9 S1S11913         O 1t 9   1t 4     599       999      11    3l*i)i
*                      0o9      69        669      D'it t n1-111315*31i  liU RitillSI
1491      1stu       lISt      lit         Ul        tn        Snt                              t UUil Nlo  ;   tt   "it9    $1t3UI      i" lw        l4il3mi.
1 ~ ~        ~       ~ ~ ne   tetCuKC tFt  twt    n    si "Ml   ttnu  "fill9                                          S1101jin;                                            lw3an '1   al sx XW,
4tit1      141       0491      434 u      6         LI S         ft694U      011111)*66  i   1i3i' 1li) 11I.
St1t  36                 1.               tit3*1    1t                                         I                 *1 "*    I6) sxs3l     t i  $'9 I         0 1 t n36131.i=}"
;*31113 3**1  31316  12001 11aS3  U3   tll1U  53113631  W@41  lt311303 laid  1*131  i11_  311941.
1bt   10001.1    13tt    8131*3   *     1  01  13119111.  ;116' Itl 1t9ll      3ll               I'M* 1'll  1* UOiI3310U6          11.               1     3 il SlA
.................................................................................... .             ............................................................
6u 04   1     U41    t*16      isZE       tOl       9%-        N.       i W                    foul      O        SPUN           Mug         1 1     6 3t   0 *
tlJJeS SItZt ' ISPJI ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~O tv ttt                               o  I'l S         'i ra     si"ltS   lin;;siol
911IIt foBI9         *1ti  sittei '    I        e19  siBlil G   I lz         wSA II)s ,s t"soollW                                     lsDitw        0  SKIUO.
.................................................................................................................................................



ANNEX 3-7
-                                Pdd  I of 10
Provision of textbooks'
Mise en place des Manuels
, 1.3, 1 . MI We W             place  de JA  DI V'"14J7
de 1 'eriweIgremer C ma tern e'1 e C
prItmaL e
Cette Division sera composee d'une quinzalne de personnes regroupant de
Mani6re Aquilibree des membres de l'Inspection de l'Enseignement primaire et
de personnes de la Direction IV.
Cette collule aura pour tgches :
- de promouvoir la r6daction ot 1'exp6rimentation des guides p6dagogiques.
- de mettre en oeuvre et de prester In premiAre op6ration lnt6gr6e de
formation llee A 18 distribution des guides p6dagogiques en vue de
redynamiser los structuros de formation continu6e.
- de conduire en collaboration avec la Commission Nationale de ia Retorme
des Programmos et avoc l'inspection une r6flexion destin6e A Jeter lea
bases d'une formation Initiale renov6e des maItres.
Pour co faire. Ia Division de l'enseignement maternel et primaire devra
b6niflcier d'une Assistance Technique.
Les actions A r6allser pour mettre en place cette Division sont les suivantes
a) Signature d'un arrft6 departemental. amenageant la Division de
l'enoeignoment maternel et primaire au sein de la Direction des Programmes
Scolaires et Hat6riels Didactiques. Cette Division est appel6e A integrer les
activit6s de conception do programmeos et d'61aboration de manuels
existants d6JA dens Is Direction ainsi que la formation dens l'enselgnement
primaire.
b) Nomination par arrWt d6partemental des membres de la Division de
l'enseignoment maternel et primaire . Le personnel technique dolt presenter
le profil *uivant:
- une exp;rience p6dagogique polyve.tente acquise sur le terrain A
dittfrents niveaux
- (Direction d'ecole. Inspection, Airainistration Centralo),
- des connalssances do niveau universitaire bion matris6oes et mobilisables
au service le probl6matiques concretes.
- le sons des contacts humains et une aptitude A travailler en 6quipe.
c) Nomination par arr4t6 d6partemental:
- du Chef de Division, chargA de la coordination. qul. en plus de crit6res
retenus pour In s6lection des membres. devra possider une experience et
dos connslasance dans le domaine de l'laboration des manuals scolaires,
soctour dont il soccupera spbcialement.



- du coordinateur-adjoint, qui, devra avoir travaille longtemps et bien a
tormer des enseignants du primaire,
- des 17 membres de la Division de l'enseignement maternel et primaire
repondant au profil susmentionne et repartis de la maniere suivante
3 didactiques de la langue franqaise,
3            du calcul (Math)
3             de 1'etude du Milieu (sciences. geographie)
2            de la langue Lingala
2                     "   Kikongo
2                     "   Ciluba
2              "      "   Swahili
- du personnel administratif:
1 secretaire-dactylographe.
I agent de bureau charge des tiches techniques,
2 chauffeurs
1 huissier
d) Equipement de la Division de l'enseignement maternel et primaire. Cette
Division devra etre dote. notamment
- de moyens de transport pour effectuer les deplacements Indispensables a
l1experimentatlon de ses documents pedagoriques dans les ecoles
- de moyens de dactylographie
- de production de documents en petit nombre
- d'une documentation minimale
- de moyens de fonctionnement en cours dans 6 annees du projFt
e) Collaboration de la Division de l'enseignement maternel et rrimaire et des
autres services.
Si la Division de 1'enseignement maternel et primaire constitue le centre de
conception, elle aura a s'entourer de 1i& collaboration des autres services
concernes par les operations p6dagogiques au primaire (CNR. Sernafor.
inspections decentralis@es, 6quipes p6dagogiques de la region pilote). Pour
cette ralson une concertation fonctionnelle sera mise en place par le
Secr6tariat g6n6ral sous fome d'un conseil pedagogique. Les participants
aux r6unions porcevront des Jetons de pr6sence pour ces reunions
le projet assurera donc
- Is mise en place de ces iqulpements ainsi que
- le budget de fonctionnement n6cessaire.
2. 1.3.2. vJelev6 a t ch ojx dFes
mn    Lz.i ae   d u  pri"m  ire
Pour effectuer parmi les manuels existants !e choix de ceux qui feront l'objet
d'une diffusion pour 1iensemble du pays. le D6partement a organise 4 sous-
commissions (Francals, Math6matique, Lingala et Swahili) qul ont, dans un
premier temps dress6 la liste la plus exhaustive possible des titres



ANNEX 3-7?
Pa.ge 3 ot 1t
- 88 -
disponibles et. dans un second temps. analyse leur conformite aux nouveaux
programmes Un classement a ainsl eee etabli manuels conformes et ne
necessitant aucune  ou  peu  de  modification.  manuels  necessitant  des
remaniements plus profonds.
Le choix detlnitlf des manuels qul teront l'objet de financement par le projet
reste a faire et devra conduire a proposer au moins deux titres par matiere
et par niveau & 1'exception des manuels pour lesquels les drolts appartiennent
au DNpartement et ou l'appel d'ottre ne porterait que sur l'impression.
B. .1 . 3. 3.   Drof tr      d a  u ta e   ru,  i u tori sI   jtlor7a
d "S d ap t t oel   . ce.. fora dee  d rol t
d '56df tior, dew i era ue                  e ten US
Ann d'eviter toute diMcult6 ulterieure. II sera n6cessalre, lorsque lea titres
j imprimer auront Wt6 d6tnitivement retenus.d'etudier les modalit6s de
l'accord qul devra intervenir entre lee autours. les 6diteurs et le DEPS. Pour
cela. des consultations entre ces ditffrents lntervenants seront organis6es
tUn expert international participera i ces rencontres. Des solutions d'ordre
juridique et financier devront etre trouv6es pour chacun des cas et teront
l'objet d'un contrat entre les parties concern6es.
Pour ce travail. le projet assurera
- le financement d'une mission de consultant d'un expert International
speciallete des questions de drolts d'auteurs et copyright. Cette mission
devrait etre de 1.5 mols
8. 1.3.4. Conceptifon.  Eboratior ePt
expErmiera tsm ti ora   des  Se'e-ra ora.s
a d ap t;Ees de ooi r'rea d ' Je.sw                     e t
des gjuifd es du inafre=o
La Division de l'enseignement maternel et primaire de la Direction IV chargee
de l'organisation et de la coordination de l'onsemble de ces op6rations devra
6tablir le calendrier pr6cis des ditt6rents travaux A effectuor au cours du
projet et r6partir les reosponsabliit6s au selin de 1'4quipe.
Au cours de cette periode. 11 faudra
a) identiner ls 6quipes d'onseignants primaires qul seront associles A la
cellule centrals dans les actions d'exp6rimentation.
b) organiser un s4minaire regroupant la Division de lenseignement maternel et
primaire et lee 6quipes associ6es. L'objectif de ce s6minaire sera double
- d'une part 11 sero l'occasion d'organiser les tAches au seln de la
Division. de d&tlnir lee orientations et le calendrier du travail ainsl que
les modallt6s do ls collaboration avec lse intervenants ext6rieurs A la
Division;
- d'autre part, i1 constituera 6ventuellement une tomustion A la tonction
d'auteur. on fournissant lintormation Indispensable relative i la
conception. A l'Maboratlon et i Vadaptatlon des mayens d'enseignoment
et d'apprentissage, et une initiation aux Imp6retif techniques de la
creation de manuels. II constituera 6galement l'occasion de r6pertorler



ANNEX 3-7
- 89 -                                  Page 4 of 10
les ditficult6s rencontrees per les enseignants lors -'e l'utilisation des
manuels experimentes et d6flnir ainsi l'objectif de la fonnation continue
i mettre en oeuvre pour y remedier.
c) etfectuer I'elaboration et l'exp6rimentation des fiches pedagogiques qui
constitueront les guides du mattre. et les adaptations necessaires dans les
manuels des eives en francals, en calcul et en Etude du milieu.
Ces travaux devront s'effectuer en etrolte collaboration entre les membres de
la Division et les membres des 6quipes enseignantes qui seront assoclees a
i experimentation.
La Division mettra d la disposition des lnstituteurs et des OlOves les manuels
retenus pour l'experimentation. ainsi que les documents d'adaptation dont elle
assurera la multiplication.
Les equipos enseignantes associ6es seront cholsies de manilre A constituer un
echantillon repr6sentatif des classes de milieu 6ducatit urbain et rural. Le
nombre de ces equipes sera choisi de maniAre A r6pondre au erit6re ci-dessus
et sera tonction egalement deo capacit6s d'encadrement de la Division pour
que des equipes solent constitu6es. regrouipant onseignants du primaire et
membres de Ia Division.
La participation des enseignants primaires i ce travail justifte qu'ils
perCoivent  une   compensation  pour  ces  tAches  suppi6mentaires.  Ces
compensations pourront 8tre de nature p6cunialre d'une part mals igalement
itre  constitu6es  par  un  all6gement  du  travail  en  doublant  l'equipe
enseignante  des  classes  choisles.  Cette  solution  pr6senterait  de  plus
lIavantage Indeniable et important de disposer en permanence dans ces classes
d'un observateur, participant actif  lI'laboration, qui pourra faire le compte
rendu de 1'experimentation.
Les tlches de ces equipes oenseignants primaires - membres de Ia Division
seront:
- d'6laborer si n6cessaire les ftches p6dagogiques.
- d'adapter si nicessaire le support p6dagogique de l'l1ve.
- d'exp6rimenter ces outils dans la situation r6elle de la classe. ce qul
necessitera une assistance des membrea do la Division A une partle des
lecons d'une part et une anslyse critique des fiches et deos observations
apris la mise en pratique d'autre part
- de ftinalser. en collaboration avee le Bureau d1dition le fruit de leur
travail pour cr*er ainal I. guide du mattre ou le livre de lI'leve adaptC.
En co qui concerne les manuels relatifs A lenseignement des 4 langues
nationales zalroises prises en compte au cours du projet. lo plan de travail
ci-dessus devra itre adapt6 do manl6re A pormettre une 6laboration dans
chacune des communaut6s linguistiques.
Une solution pourrait Itre do *sous-traitern avec une 6quipe rnglonale (equipe
organisie autour de la'uteur ou d'un inspecteur du primaire chevronne ou
d'une iquipe enseinante) qui sera charg6e do l'laboration du document
correspondant au livre de l'live retenu. Les coordinateurs de cos 6quipes
seront associs lore du s6minaire relatif A 1I'laboration des manuels d6crit
plus haut.



ANNEX 3-7
page 5 of 10
pour cols, Ie projet IV mettra A Is disposition de la cellule prinmaire et donc
des equipea de collaboration:
un budget de fonctionnement permettant d'assurer les compensations des
equipes associ6es et les per diem des membres de Is Division de
/enseignement maternel et primaire lors des visites de classes en milieu
rural.
- Ig prise en charge d'un spdcialiste de Is r6daction des manuels scolaires et
des tra6vtux relatifs A leur 6dition (seminaire d'auteurs),
- In prise en charge des frais d'organisation et de fonctionnemer.t de ce
se6mnfnlre,
- In prlse en charge de 4 voyages des coordinateurs des 6quipes r6gionales
chargees de l4laborarion des guides du maltre pour l'enseignement des
langues nationales,
- In prise en charge du financement du contrat conclu avec ces 6quipes
r6glonales.
- is prise en charge de 4 voyages par an d'un membre de V'dquipe centrale
dons les r6glons pour assurer 1I coordination et la suivi des 6quipes
d'6laboratlon des guldes en langue nationeJe.
N.8. :ces op4rations devront Etre prdvues au cours de 4 annhes successives
correspondant A la p6riode d'6laboratlon des guides pour les quatre
premieres ann6ea du primaire prise en considdration au cours du projet.
B.2?..45.  ,EWC9lo.rJu    vaJEamtior    dews  march6.
~ t alpr,ol orida @8ma.u ueis
a) EDMON
Ld Direction IV de la p4dagogle dispose d'ores et d6ji. grace A l'aide
bilat6rale belge, d'une cellule au soin du Ceredip charg6e de la pr6paration
dee raaquettes des documents produits par lee services p6dagoglques.
L'anniexe 8.1.4.6. pr6sente en d6tall l'6quipement actuellement disponible dans
cette cellule ainsi que see beboins en mat6riele et en formation supplbmen-
taireo qui d6couleront du projet.
Compte tenu du d6veloppement in6vitable de la cellule idition, il conviendra
de 11A donner une autonomie plus marqu6e dana la Direction & l'occasion de la
restructuration (cf. anne.e B.I .4.9).
Le projet devra done assurer
- I@ flnancement de 1 'qulpement complmentalre nicessaire A Is celiule
- un compl6ment de mobillor
- ea fongibles indipon ables
- .a maintenance du mobillor
- ;a formation locale et A l6tengor n6cessalre d Is mise en place d'un
personnel comp6tont: stage pour lea autcurs. stage pour leas diteurs.
t)i' PASSATION D   MACHE  ET           ON D  
Lik passatlon des march6s sera offectu6e par le sp6claliste du Bureau Projet
Education & partir du cahier des charges 6labor6 par Ia collule 6dltion



.991stee d'un  A1e :ai    I'          wi etabilra les specifications 1 cri,il
detalilees et ','. w;    ,                soumissions pour chaque  it U
a lappel d'offrr
L impression  IE". w, ,,,,,           iZee  soit  au  niveau  local  (peut ktre
regional dans ae *    e'  ir,t        des guides en langues nationales) quand
le nombre des tirar(F S               aux capacites de production  existantes,
soit a l'etranger p1o !    Ize.t 11t  * Iw: importants. Dans tous les cas, il s'agira
dasppel d'offres.
Ces operations concernfturOt des ,taukiels de franvais. de lingala, de swahili et
de calcul pour les  tX-VL  et des guides du maitre pour les mimes matieres et
jetude du milleu
Lors des trois prermieres annees du projet, pour r6pondre a l'urgence des
besoins, seuls des manuels repondant aux exigences des programmes mais ne
necessitant pas de modifications importantes seront pubilos.
Dans les trois annees suivarntes, compte tenu des travaux de la Division de
1'enseignement  maternel  et  primaire,  des  manuels  ayant  n6cessite  une
elaboration nouvelle pourront etre imprimes et distribu6s.
Le projet prevoira donc
le financement necessaire a I edition et A l'impresslon de
- pour les eleves . 4 mantvels de franqais, 4 manuels de calcul. 4 manuels de
lingals et 4 manuels de se,ahili
- pour les maR:ires  les fiches pedagogiques correspondantes
N.B. .11 a &e6 signa'e dans Il  presentation de Ia sous-composante que les
entreprises locales ne disposent pas de l'equipement permettant ls
finition des couvertures de manuels par lsminage ou vernissage. 11
coniviendra de s'assurer que cet equipement sers disponible pour confier
les travaux atix imprimeurs locaux.
B. 12.3. 6.                          49cgD   e   Ct  a ckamra emera t  de
mL e               rak 6PZZ  re60   jon s
Cette op6ratlon  constitue  l1une des tiches lee plus complexes et les plus
ditfciles de la chaine de mise en place des manuels.
Cette opOration  conotitue  l'une des t&ches les plus complexes et les plus
difficiles de la chaino de mise en place des manuels.
Une 6quipe sera conetltu6e, appuyee par une assistance technique, un an
avant le debut des operretvr's
a) La premi6re partle du travail consistera A
superviser les amenagements de rehabilltation de 1'entrep6t. la r4ception
et l'installation dea equipements et des fournitures de l1entrep6t. des
bureaux et du secretarlat,
* d6terminer, region par region et zone par zone. lee r6seaux de
distribution;
* Identifier lea cullaborateurs rOgionaux qul assureront. pour le compte de
l'6quipe centrAle, lo contr6le des op4rations aux diff6rents points
d'6clatemente



ANNEX 3-7
Page 7 of 10
* negocier les couits d'entreposage et de transport avec les diff6rents
intervenants dans 1'ensemble du reseau a travers le pays.
* organiser l'amenagement spatial et la disposition des stocks dans
I1entrep6t,
* mettre en place un syst6me de gestion des stocks et familiariser toute
l4quipe avec son fonctionnement;
* saisir sur ordinateur, en coordination avec le Secope, les donnees
precises relatives A Is clientele A desservir (annuellement, plus de 10000
ecoles, centres adminstsratits et centres de formation) pour accel6rer et
faciliter la tenue des dosslers, la preparation des bordereaux
d'exr dition et 1'6tiquetage d'environ 25000 colts par annee;
* preparer et roder le syst6me de r6ception, de colisage et d'exp6dition;
* preparer, imprimer et regrouper les documents d'information destin6s aux
lnteresses du terrain et qul devront itre inseres dans lee colts;
* assurer la pr6paration et la formation ad6quate des membres de l'quipe.
b) L'6quipe devralt 4tre constitu6e de 18 membres. La creation de cette
division et la nomination de ses membres devraient se faire par arrete
d6partemental.
Voicd la composition sugg6r6e
* un responsable national de Ia distribution (avec le titre de Chef de
Bureau) charg6 de la coordination;
*trois responsables regionaux ltin6rants qul verront, dans un premier
temps, & recuelilir sur le terrain l'information exacte n6cessaire a la
mise en place des op6rations. et dans un deuxieme temps i superviser et
a assurer le bon d6roulement des operations de distribution dans les
regions;
" un Chef de bureau responsable de la preparation des dossiers, des bons
d'expedition (facturation) et du controle des expeditions. des receptions
et des lnventaires;
* un Chef d'entrep6t (magasinier) responsable des stocks, du colisage. de
l'exp6dition et de la reception des marchandises;
* trots pr6parateurs de commandes;
' trois manutentionnairos;
* trois secr6taires travaillant sur ordinateur;
' deux chauffeurs;
* un huissier (bricolur) responsable de I'ontretien des locaux et de
1'6quipement m6canique.
La premilare phase sera constitu6e par la distribution dans les r6glons du
Bas-Zalre, de Kinshasa. de Bandundu.de l'Equateur et la partie occidentale du
Haut-Zaire accessible par vole fluviale. La seconde qui se d6roulera un an
plus tard concernera lee r6gions du Kasal-Occidental. du Kasat-Oriental. du
Shaba. du Maniema, du Sud-Kivu. du Nord-Kivu et de la orientale du Haut-
Zaire accessible par lee voies routl6res de 1'est du pays.
Pour mener t bien les op6rations et compte tenu de 1'exp6rience du troislime
projet. le colisage des livres devra etre effectu6 au d6p&rt du point de



,AN NEK 3-7
- 93 -                                  P.lve rs . f 10
dispatching central de Kinshasa ofu les manuels imprimes seront livres Les
colis a destination de chaque ecole contlendront l'ensemble des manuels qui
leur sont destines et porteront, sur le colls, les indications necessaires i leur
acheminement. Pour cola, le projet dolt doiic prevoir une aire d'entreposage de
800 m' permettant le stockage ordonne de pr6s de 2000 M3 de marchandises
et la place necessaire a la mise en colls. Pour garantir des conditions de
transport optimales. chaque colis sera enveloppe dans un emballage plastique
themoretractable.
Loexprltence du Projet Education III et l1'tude pr6llminaire de mise en place
du r6seau de distribution ont permis d'identiner davantage les besoins en
intrastructure et en personnel, de dresser des listes de transporteurs
regionaux avec leurs coOts et leurs capacit6s de transport. d'inventorier le6
entrep6ts potentlels aux points de chute probables, de tracer des itineraires
et d'evaluer les coOits de transport pour chaque zone du pays. I1 reste
maintenant la verification et la realisation.
Pour cela, le projet devra:
- proceder A la crstion de Ia cellule  distribution  et A Is nomination de ses
membres;
- financer Ia location et Is rdhabilitation du local retenu;
- financer les hquipements necessaires; mobiller de bureau. equipement
daentrepdt. equipement intormatique. conteneurs et v6hicule;
- tinancer la formation locale et A I etranger,
- flnancer 1assi stance technique requise;
- financer les frals de fonctionnement de lPentrep6t. de lexp6dition, des
bureaux. du secr6tariat et des v6hicules;
- financer le transport des livres de Kinshasa vers lea Icoles;
- financer Is supervision et los frais de mission dans 1.s diverses regions du
pays.
8.1].3R. 7t. Corwer%sa tiers de. man rU el
La miss en place des manuels dans les classes doit s'accompagner de
I'assurance qu'un moyen de stockage permnet d'6viter d6gradation et disparition
des manuels dans les 6coles.
Chaque ecole sera donc 6quip6e de 2 malles m6taliiques fem6es par des
cadenas qut permettront d'entreposer les manuels de faion sure dans un local
qul pourra etre une classe. le bureau du Directeur. son habitation ou tout
autre local pr6sentant les conditions suffisantes de s6curit6.
Pour cola. le Projet assurera
- Le tinancement des malles de rangement et des cadenas.
8.1 .03.. .Cog t;rbu t]ora  d. parera tA
La contribution parentale h la location des manuels sera lmlt6e et de l'ordre
de 50 i 100 zalres par manuel et par an.



.\N8-jN x3 - 7
-'   '.. 4  0. of   IC
DanS la region pilote (cf. B.3.) cette contribution sera utilisee dans le cadre
du ronds attribue a Ia mutuelle de sante. Dans le reste du pays sa gestion
sera laisse au niveau !ocal en attendant les propositions de gestion qui
decouleront de l[etude relative a la contribution des parents.
B         -V. MIe s    Aa dfsjpos <tJon  dl e
m  t6rljel dXda c ti}que
Grice ^ un m6canisme de conditionnallt6 de ses deboursements. le PASS
garantira une allocation budg6taire additionnelle en faveur du Departement,
destinee  A  1lequipement p4dagogique  des  etabilssements  scolaire.  Cette
allocation representera une somme 6quivalant a 12   millions de dollar des
Etats-Unis sur une periode cinq ans. Ce montant representera une partie de
Is participation  gouvernementale au  projet et service  A doter les ecoles
primaires  en  priorite  d'ardolses, des  tableaux  noirs  et  des  ustensiles
necessalres pour 6crlre sur les ardoises et les tableaux noirs. Le reseau de
distribution des manuels scolaires distribuera egalement cet equlpement
pedagogique.
2. 1.3. 10. A ctior's de Pormnatiori des
persworn  els:
A) SE1INAIRE DE FORMATION DES AUTEURS DE LA DIRECTION IV
Lequipe d'auteurs de la Division de lenselgnement maternel et primaire doit
commencer le plus rapidement possible i preparer des guides pedagogiques
correspondants aux manuels 6lves qul auront et selectionnes.
C'est pourquoi il semble souhaitable qu'un s6minaire d'initlatlon a la redaction
de manuscrits et aux techniques editoriales ait lieu dans le courant du [er
semestre 1990.
Ce s6minaire, qui se deroulera sur deux semaines (12 jours ouvrables)
comportera:
- Une etude d6talleo des ditt4rentes *tapes d dlaboration d'un manuel
* Ie manuscrit
1 .e travail d6ditlon
 la chatne graphique. Visite d'une imprimerle.
- Des notions de typographie et de mise en page avec des exemples concrets.
- Des travaux pratiques avec des groupes de 6 personnes (4 groupes) sur
 les etudes pr6liminalreos  l'61aboration d'un manuscrit.
* la mise en page,
 l'interaction entre les contraintes techniques et les contraintes
p6dagogiqueos.
Ditterents modeles seront propos6s et lanimation sere faite par
- un expert, sp6ciallste de l4dition.
- un maquettiste local.
- le responsable de la cellule technique d 6dition,



ANNEX 3-7
P101e I'i Of 10
- deux pedagogues du CEREDIP ayant deJa participe a lelaboration de inanuels
scolaires
Ce semnlaire sera prepare en, detail par les animateurs pendant le semaine
quI le precedera
11 faudra prevoir ['acquisition de manuels de documentation sutflsamment tot
afil qu ils souent disponibles au moment du stage, ainsi que la fourniture de
tongi bles
Le projet financera le per diem des participants et animateurs, le transport et
is restauratlon ainsi que la mission d'expertise.
B) STAGE DE FORMATION COMMUNE A TOUS LES MEMBRS DE LA CELLULE
EDITION.
La cellule technique deditlon aura un role d6terminant dans la realisatlon
des manuels qul dolvent etre prodults dans le cadre du Projet Education IV,
et particullerement des 28 guides pedagogiques qul sont tous A creer.
11 est souhaitable que le responsable de la cellule technique d editlon, lors du
recrutement des 10 personnes qul feront partie de cette cellule, leur fasse
passer des tests. 11 est en effet necessaire que les candidats alent
- une bonne connaissance de la dactylographle.
- une bonne maltrise de la langue franCaise et de l'orthographe,
- le sens du detall et beaucoup d'application.
Un stage de deux semalnes (12 jours ouvrables) reunira tout le personnel (10
personnes) et aura comme programme :
a) une Initiation et Introduction A I'lnformatique: notions de base,
principales fonctions d'un micro-ordinateur. syst6me d'exploitation MS-DOS;
b) Le traltement de texte 'Word"
- tonctions eilmentalres,
- mise en forme des paragraphes,
- techniques de perfectionnement,
techniques avancees pour 1'ditlon.
Ce seminalre sera anim6 par un expert-sp6cialiste de la formation en micro-
informatique et en traitement de texte.
II pourra se situor au premier semestre 1990. Des que le materlel necessaire
est arrivC.
Le projet flnancere le per diem des participants et animateurs. le transport et
la restauration. sinsi que la mission d'expertise.
C) STAGE DE FORMATION COMPLEMENTAIRE A LA P.A.O.
Apr6s quelques mols de pratique du traitement de texte et de la mise en
page, le responsable de la cellule technique de l dition choisira parmi lee
plus performants, six personnes qul se consacreront & la P.A.O proprement
dite: mise en page. utillsation des logiciele sp6cialls6s, du scanner. etc.
11 sera egalement anim6 par un expert-spcialilste de ls formation en P.A.O. et
comprendra:



96 -                               ANNEX 3-8
Tag~e 1of 3
P'rimary school teachers in service training/
Formation continue des maitres de l'enseignement primaire
p.2.3. .a .  F'ormas tiora   d e   1a   DIW vselSior   deF
1 'era.seigra em era C ma ter7raei e t
prims a re e C pr6-pa ra Ci or d eo
m od uleDa d '8anJim a] COA
IAnimstlon foMstion" qul constituera l'op6ration  finale de recyclage des
maitre doit d'abord &tre elaboree dans la Division de l1enseignement maternel
et primiire en collaboration avec le Sernafor.
pour cela, les membres de Is Division de lenseiorement maternel et primaire
primaire devront s'initier. 'auto-former i cette techniqw a qe'lls auront a
promouvoir ensuite au n'veau regional.
cette formation prendra place en alternance avec les phases de travail
correspondant aux tiches d6volues A cette unit6. Cette action de tormation
sors regulirement r66valu6e en tonction des difflcult6s rencontrees sur le
terrain.
Elie devra se reallser de Is mani6re suivante
- Doux operations d'animatlon seront organis6es dans une r6gion proche de
Kinshasa d6s qu'un nombre sutsant de guides p6dagogiques sera
disponible. Elles comporteront les phases d6crites au point B.2.4.6. en plus
d'une phase preparatoire. La premlere de ces operations sera condulte par
l'Animateur Principal. Is seconde, ult6rieuro, sera conduite en collaboration
par deux membres de la Division do l'enseignement maternel et primaire.
Chacune de ces op6rations sera observ6e par les autres membres de la
Division de l'enseignement maternel et primaire.
Cette observation sera suivie d'un travail d'6laboration en groupe, d'un
Inventaire de diffIcult6s rencontros et do reprises portant sur les
points-cls.
- Lee p6riodes de travail de la Division de l'ensoignement maternel et
primeire seront entrecoup6es & lntervalles r6gullers (toutes les trois
semaines par exemple) per des cycles do formation de 3 ou 4 jour3. Les
contenue seront dttermins, par l'ensemble du groupe. I1s devront comporter
des exercices syst6matlques portent sur
l Ia conduite de r6unions.
* Ia r6allsetlon de synth6ses orales aprAs d6bats.
* Ia conduits d'interviows,
I sa mise au point et le d6poulllement de questionnalres.
* les techniques dl6valuation.
* lee techniques de documentations.



A . . -8
- tJ 7 -                                 Page 2 of 3
Les moyens necessaires seront fournis par la Division de lenseignement
msternel et primaire.
B. 2.3.2. Corudules de4   opdra JIoIas a Mi
lu vo*  u rgJf on a)s
Les  operations   danitmation   formation   au   niveau   regtonal  (Ateliers
pedagoglQuss) concerneront progressivetment l'ensemble des Inspecteurs et des
coneleilers p6dagogiques des ditthrents reseaux. Elles s'effectueront en deux
vagues. La preminre concernera 6 r6gions. la seconde lo reste des regions (ttr
tableau ci-dessous). Elles se derouleront apr4s la mise A la disposition des
Ocoles d'un lot de manuels. Bien conduites. ces op6rations devront etre
consid6r6es comma suMsantes et ne devront pas itre reprises lors de Ia
distirbution des manuels des ann6es suivantes.
Ch&que atelier rassemblera une quarantaine de participants (Inspecteurs et
Cons*ilers pedagogiques) pour dix Jours calendriers.
DE3OULEMENT MT PONCTIONNEMENT
Cos op6rations se d6rouleront A des dates t1x6es par la Division de
lenseeignement maternel et primaire en liaison avec les Regeds (voir
calendrier) et conform6ment au tableau suivant
ire Vague
mckm    ano  ampeoLv  9011MAR   "NI- a4re 0    nmd
um- _ 
Ift-ae      Natku       KE           Linkl       mm.lia +
Tahmu       DM          tuwit        3o          DMa
Mt.        o          in          200          1o          so.         40
.m       a      "   I CM        ,  _I    .0.   1    .0.                 Z4 at
IbClo       U~          blrO  1fJ~               R_inimtu    kmua
Pu-.     60            0          200M        100          180         90
Chaque atelier sera assur6 par au momns deux animateurs de la Division de
l'enseignement maternel et primaire de telle sorts quo chacun d'eux assurera
en tout 4 Atellers.



x )t 3
5.  i    f    3
Le schema de fonctionnement porte en annexe 7               tt  i oieIw suivi, dans
l'ordre indique
Chaque operation  sera precedee  d'une phase  '1   , z.,i, gI-  dt' cinq jours
conduite sur le terrain par les deux animateurs enl    a      vec les Regeds et
les Sous-Regeds.
Les moy'ens techniques (polycopieurs, photocopipuir,)        aliK'. (lflx Regeds, sous-
Regeds et I.P R. seront mis a la disposition des arntnr,,(!
Les Inspecteurs et les Conselllers pedagoglques pTouiuhds twurIeron. pour
toute  la  duree  de l'atelier  pedagogique  un  per diefn. et une  indemnit6
compensatrice  pour couvrir  les  frals  divers.  Un  reirtuour5erment  (ou  une
avance) pour frais de voyage est egalement a prevoir
Les deplacement et les frals encourus par les animateurs soront prevus dans
le budget du projet.
B.2.s.3.      407 c Corwdu   C1&  <dlem                         LiSetlns
Conduites a un niveau tres proche du terrain. ces operations devront former
les Conseillers p6dagogiques, les Directeurs d'ecoles et les maltres afin:
- de mettre les instituteurs en mesure d'utillser au mieux les manuels et les
guides p6dagogtques,
- de mettre les Directeurs et les Conseillers pedagogiques des ecoles en
mesure d'assurer des actions de suivi.
Ces operatlons seront organisees et conduites par les Inspecteurs et les
Conseillers pedagogiques des reseaux qul travallleront par equipe de deux
conformement au schema de fonctlonnement figurant en annexe  B.2.4.6. Le
contenu et l'ordre des ditt4rentes phases seront strictement respectes. Chaque
atelier reunira  pour une  semaine  une vlngtaine de  participants. (Maitres,
Directeurs, Conseillers pedagogiques des ecoles).
La derniere journ6e de l'atelier pedagogique regroupera uniquement les
Directeurs et les Consoellers pedagogiques des ecoles afin de mettre au point
la procedure de suivi.
Les participants et les animateurs toucheront un per diem pendant la dur6e
du seminalre (hMbergement, nourriture, frais de voyage) ainsi qu'une indemnite
permettant de  couvrir  les  frais  divers.  Les Inspecteurs  auront  dii, au
prealable, 8tre dot6s d'un moyen de transport personnel.
SUIVI
La tenue des Ateliers dolt abautir A une revaiorisation des reunions
pedagogiques, c'est-d-dire A une meilleure prise en compte des circulaires
existantes portant sur les r6unions dans les ecoles. L'Unit6 d'encadrement
telle que conque par le Sernator dolt devenir operationnelle. ce qui implique
un contr8le par sondage et un appul de Is part des Inspecteurs et des
Conselllers  p6dagogiques   des  r6seaux   (contr6le   des   proces-verbaux,
apprwc1aklon annuelle du Directeur).



ANNEX 3-9
-    -                       ~~~~~~~~Page I of Z.
- 993 
Rehabilitation of Local Educational Environment
in Baq-Uele
Rehtabilitation locale de 1'environnement educationnel
dans le Bas-Uele
Deux Ecoles Normales de 4 classes, internat et logements pour les enseignants
devront etre aminagtes dans la regions pilote.
a) CRITERES
1. Les Ecoles Normalee no partageront pas de b&timents avec une autre
formation de type general ou technique.
En etfet, les Normailens bn6fncieront de conditions particuli6res puisqu'ils
seront internee A charge de I'Etat. La cohabitation avec d'autres oleves
syant pas cet avantage no pout etre que conflictuelle.
En second lieu, deux ralsons d'ordre p6dagogique militent en ce sens
- la formation de Nomalilens est une iducatlon qul ne vise pas seulement
lacquisition de connaissances mais aussl Iacqulsition de comportements
de futurs encadrours de jeunos  11 eat donc Indispensable que le regime
de lecole poermtte l'autodlscipiine, Is maltrise do l'organisatlon de son
temps et de son travail. Cette organisatlon de l'Eole Normale pout
dilcilement voisiner une 6cole g6n6rale od l'encadrement est
g6n6ralement plus diroctif.
- lorganisation d'une formation professionnalsieo od stages. lecons d'essal.
periode. en icoles d'appilcation alternent avoc des periodes de cours
demande une souplesos dans l'organisation de i'horaire scolaire qui peut
diMcilement slier de pair avec lea horalres plus nig6s d'une section
classique.
2. La mise en place des E.N. dens Is r6gion pUote devra s'aceompagner, dans
toute la sous-r6gion. de Ia suppression des sections d'Humanit6s
p6dagogiques et des 6colos D4 qul pourront tre transform6es en d'autres
ntrer.
3. Pour permettre l'organhsation de ia *ormation, loe 6coles comporteront outre
lea salles de clause une salle de pr6paration de Is didactique permettantr
le travail per petit group. et la fabrication du mat6riel didactique par les
6lives-mattres.
Le programme architectural et son estimation figurent 6 l'annexe 8.3.3.1.
b) IMPLAWATION
1. L'cole de Sondo soer construite dens la nouvelle concession protestante de
la zone de Zagill. L'coie de Banalia seo conhtrults sur le site
actuelloment Inoccup6 pr6s du quartlor Bodia et mts i la disposition du
projet et de la convention catholique par lea autorit6s locales.
Dane les deux c", los garantles do disponibillt des sites proposes seront
fournies au baillour do fondo.
C) MM  EN OaUVE
1. L'architecto sera chargi de Il'aboration des plans.
2. A Banalle la construction sora effoctu6e soit par les services deo I'conomat
WinOraW de j'Archevch, a'1l0 sont disponibles, soit per une entreprise de
construction de Kisangani. dans 1 cas contraire.
A Bondo. la construction sora effectu6e par leo techniciens de la Norad si



A   6 3-9
- 100 -                                  TPage 2 of 4
la convention protestante du CBBU obtient la cooperation de cet organisme
norv6gien. Dans le cas contraire 11 sera fait egalement appel A une
entreprise priv6e.
Dans les doux cas I'architecte sera responsable du suivi des chantiers et
sera le tonctionnaire dirigeant.
3. L'6quipement de coB 6coles sera assur6 par le projet. L'architecte. en
collaboration avoc 1'IFCEPS et les responsables regionaux, sera charge
d'6tablir Is cahler des charges. II assurera 6galement le suivi de la
fabrication 6ventuelle en r6glon.



ANNEX 3-9
Page 3 o f 4
- 101 -
FormaB tiara f rl  tiale
g) OBJECTIFS
1. Objectif g6ndraI
Mettre en place une ecole de formation des Instituteurs qul permet de
repondre i I'Vmp6rieuse n6cessite de disposer a terme d'instituteurs
qualitfis, stables, et en nombre sutfisant.
2. obioctif spdclflques
- pour atteindre l'objectif g6n6ral. 11 importe de mettre en oeuvre une
fomation qul met l'accent sur la competonces pedagogiques et
professlonnelle des 6l1ves-maftres.
- le pronl de l'6l1ve-mattre doit etre red6fini et comporter les competences
sulvantes
- 4tre capable d'affronter deos ditcult6s particull4res classes surpeuplees,
classes rurales A plusiours niveaux,
- avoir des connaissanceos de niveau sufsant dans lea mati6res A
enseigner.
- etre Initi & la construction et A i'utillsatlon des supports didactiques,
* maitriser leos langues d'enoeignement (une langue nationale et le franqais)
b) DOMAINE INSTITUTIONNEL
1. Ablaaaenta
Cr6ation d'6coles normales par regroupement en Internat des sections
numanit6s p6dagogiques selon un rythme & 6tudler region par region en
commencant par ls r6glon exp6rlmentale retenue.
2. Nlveau de ncrutawnt
Le recrutement actuol (Ire ann6o post-primaire) dans leo sections
p6dagogiques devralt pouvoir itre revu  les 4l*ves sont trop jeunes pour
suivre avec profit une formation p6dagogique. Cotte tormation, actuellement
report6e on 29 ann6o post-primairs. ou on 3. ann6e conduit les ENI A
fonctionner durant le 2 premi6res ann6es de scolarit6 comme des
etabllssoments d'enesignement ghn6ral co qui alt6re leur spkcifcit en tant
qu1tablissemont & vocation protessionnelle.
Un recrutemont au niveau do la 3o ann6e post-primaire pourralt Wre
envisag6 par is concours loreque leo adolescents ont attelnt un Age lour
permettant valablement d'envisager un avenir professionnel.
3. Durz  doe 6tudw
La dur6e des 4tudes serait fonction de I'Age du recrutement. Elle pourrait
itre de 4 ann6es. lncluant uns periode
4. Smctnd" des dtwd.s
11 convient de d6torminer la nature et le niveau du dipl8mo i l'issue do la
formation. (cortiflcst d'aptitude p6dagogique niveau D6)



ANNEX 3-9
Page . of 4
5. motlvation et engt4ement
Un engagement d'exercer le metier d'instituteur durant 3 ou 5 ans pourrait
etre envisag6 de la part des futurs maitres a leur entree a PEN. en liaison
avec une motivation qul serait souhaitable (bourse dinternat par exemple)
la sanction du non respect de 1[engagement etant le remboursement au taux
en vigueur lors de la demission.
. Coa  p,'feaeor
Une formation initiale specifique des professeure d'ENI pourralt etre
envisag6e (6 I'IFCEPS par exemple. avec intervention d'un tronc commun
avec la formation des Inspectours). Les professeurs d'ENI devralent
b6n4ncier d'une formation continue dont il conviendralt de d6terminer les
modailtie particullires. distincte. de cello des professeurs d'enseignement
g6n6ral.
e) EMTODOLOGIE DE LA POESIATION
1. La fonuation pourralt comporter des renforcoments dane les disciplines
enseign6a A I'6cole primaire (selon le niveau de recrutement) et une
formation en administration de 1'6ducatlon.
2. La formation profossionnelle pourrait comporter les Atapes suivantes
- une promiro phase d'intormation sur ['ecole primaire et sur la
probi6matique professionnello.
- des sijours d'observation dans des classes primaires rattachees A 1'cole
normale suivis de reprises sous tonne d'onhsignements plus theoriques
prentnt appul sir Ia problmuatiquo v6cue par les futurs maitres dans les
cleases (m6thodologle en alternance assurant une coh6rence avec les
actions de formation continue ult6rieure),
- does stages plue longs avoc un s6jour en reeponsablItU. luI-meme suivi
d'uno reprise.
3. Chaque 6cole normu-. devralt pouvoir disposer d'un r6seau d'ecoles
primairos rattach6a .
- uno bcole anneox d6pendant de ['6cole normale od~ exerceraient des
mattros tree quaiiflf6 capable. do jouer le role de Directeurs ue stages.
L'6cole annexo serait l1 lieu od so d6rouleralont des operations courtes
et ponctuollsoe  le0on-exompleo. leqono d'essal, travaux pratiques avec
des groups. d'6l1ves, ...
- un r6soau plus vasto comportant obligatoiromont des ecoles 'tout venant'
on particuller des bcoleo rurales avec des classes A plusleurs niveaux.
Ce r6seau oersit convu commG pr6oentant. A des fins d'apprentissage. les
diftlcult6a quo lee future maltres rencontroront A lour entr6e dans le
m6tier.
Certainos 6coles ruralos du soecteur rattach6 devraient comporter en annexe
une case de passage pouvant accueollir 5 nomalens pour Ia dur6e de leur
stage
LOs programmes seront finallso6 aprhs int6gration du resultat de cette
nouvello reflxion sur la formation initiale des mattres.



I i)
''! Sit  u CiJ !mlsabii itdat E
2   t Sitt tdi.n  s<,ites
3.¾ iI it ±t i.mn dos hureaux dSlc  '.it'S:
Sit. aL t.k  Is dues hu rcaux.
Xt    \X\ g~~~~'.-,. -
Wo '\ ~~~'s ''s ~~fW1 "''I ;
1. Slte du CommiSSOriat 4 Ete
2. Site do i'InspectiOfl
3. Slte dui Secr4tBFilet G6nfrl4U



11 I P u bi   I O u I  DU  I A I Ui ,
tS Dut8 11Ua041 P       *M
koucillI3U IV
2a16l 10  A SIUt4IGl  SWCIOkIilt p 14
Deta lId Cost lable
204ilARS tU  '0001
lota is Inc 2d .n  Coot rngbc as
O.anuly                                             Base CostIs  n $                              1USs '0001
Un 1   90   91   92   93   94   9S  bolat   Un-t Cost    90   91   92   93   94   9S  lotal    90   91   92   93   94   9S  1.1ta
I I2VES191NC Cosis
A IOUQIP2iNkl p 32
Nobil.or p 32              IDA       -                                             10 I           10                            10           I.                            IS
Informam sa p 26             IDA                                                4 ord-             52                             52          b3                             b3
Vth  C55                     ID*             I                             I          SIt,          16                            16           19                            t9
S*  local CQUIPCKtNi  p 32                                                                             78                            78           96                            9b
S  IONI21 02 p 14
lor   LOran                  104                                                   $4 IS                 4                        4                 b                        b4
tone  etran                  IDA                         -$90                                      53                             S3          65                             65                       *A
Sub lolal tCORUlIIO  p 34                                                                              53    4                       57           bS    b                        70                            0
C  ASSI  ICIIN  p  35                                                                                                                                                                                    C    tl
Plan  de I ed                IDA             I    I                              $130/en           137  137  137  137  137    bab             Ib8  177  18S  191  202    9273
Voyages                      I0D        I    3    3    3    3             IS         $2 S      a    8    8    8    8              40      9   10   10   11   11              Sl 
Arch/Icon                    IDA             1    I    13    $1 /mots                               16   16   16                  48           19   20   21                 6b                        0
Voyages                      IDA             2                             2         U  0            4                             4            S                             S                       '-0
(:3
Sub lolal 6551  ICH   p  315                                                                      8  16S6  161  161  145  137    778         9  202  208  217  204  202  1042                             H    H
0  455   IC1114  OC(8t p 3S 9
Plan de I educ               IDA      24   24   24   24   24   24   144  10 ?S/ioss    29   19   19   19   19   19    112    21   23   24   25   26   27    147
Sub Tolal ASS  IIC11'  IOCAit p 35                                                                19   19   19   19   19   19    112    21   23   24   25   26   27    147
t  lONCIIDNEI*hI   p 36
CSSS                         IDA                                                    $76 S           16   l6   26   16   16        Si           :0   22   22   23   24    109                           0
ItSdes CSSS                  ID4                            I                        SISO                       -                ISS          190                            190
lon/Rae/PDP                  IA                                                     $385            8    8 a       8    8         * 41         10   11   It   11   12        SS                       .
Voyages                      IDA                                                    $231 S           S          S    5    5       24            6    6    7    7    7        33                             Z
z  a
5. total IOaS II UClOmNhl  p 36                                                                       285   29   29   29   29    302             226   38   39   42   43    3l7
I  PAIl OVl p32                 Crl                                                      341  312                                   352   401                                  401
lotal IWVCSIICII COSIS                                                                            379  S00  213  209  193  289  1.679   412  bil  276  282  272  272  2 144
lola                                                                                                379  S00  213  209  193  186   I 679   432  611  276  282  272  272  2 144                                z
Jan-ary 30. 1990  08 44
Z
i M
X2
-*1



It t P U 8  I Q u I 4U I  I a t1
IOUC4IG4 IV
lfabe 20 81 AUIIL*iBRS DI0ACI p43
Dela led Cost lable
1001t6R  tU   0001
losals 1,K14d.ng Lonl-ng og~os
Ogant sty                                              oase Costs in $                                          IU1SS 0001
Unit    90   91   92   93   94   95  loal  Unit Lost    90              91      92      93    94   9S  lotat         90     91      92      93       94    96  Iota!
.... . .   . . . .   . . .   . . ... ..   .....:..  
IllvisIItul cOSis
A  Rt"A88 LIlIN  RiBAPI p b6          la&        -                                            160                       26      26                 52                        34      35                   69
B 8142 NOIIIli p b6
Lefl:.Ile dilf                      3*        -                                             525       26                                         2b       J0                                            30
CeIl.le Id                          10*       -                                            27 4               28                                 28               35                                   3i
S  lolal 8142 NOO81tiR p 66                                                                              26      28                                  S4       30      it                                   b4
C 0142 ViItiICUIS p 67
Unitle Prig.                        IDA        I                                  I         S6s       69                                         69       79                                            7
Celli1l Idol                        I"         I                                  I       I veh       21                                         21       24                                            24
Cellul6 Dili                        ID4                                               CaVa Dh                lOb                                106              129                                   '29
b  1olal 8142 VIlILCUItS p 67                                                                            90    lOb                                 19b       103     129                                  2JJ
0 8142 ORD0INAI9URS p 6t
Unite Prismera                      108             I                                      $10               II                                 I3
Col6lde ta                          loo             I                             1     $203 S               216                                21b              264                                   2b4
Sub total 8142  R011141EURS p 67                                                                                226                                226              276                                   276
I t(QUI P'NOI 
Cellulo Dill                        ID D                                          I          S3                       53                         53                       b8                            b8
Cell.le Dlft                        IDA                                                 S117 5               125                                125              IS2                                   152
S,b lotal IQUIP(EtNI                                                                                            12S      S3                        178              1'2      68                           221
I  8 143 OR1111tAIIi p 70
lois  tran                          IO9                                                  $99 6               52      52                         104               b3      b7                           110
lors  loc                           104                                                  $14 2                 3       3       3    3    3       IS                4       4       4       4    4       20
%,*b loual 8 143 lOMAIIOW  p 70                                                                                  SS      SS       3    3    3    118                 67      71       4       4    4      10o
C  68 144 ASSISTIMCt I1CN9  p 72
Cowme adre                          IDA                                                  $75 75       80                                        B0        91                                           91
Al 8.143 pSS                       811of I      G   S          6    6 S         30          106     528    528    568    S228   68  528  3 168           602    646    662    712    743  176  4 *61
Al fAC p65                          IAC       2    4    4    4    4             18          106     211    422    422    422  422             1 901      241    Sib    546    670    696            2 467
Al oCO                             8t(Ct      S    S                            10          63       31t    317                                634       3S1     387                                  748
S.h lotal  8 144 A6SSIINCt ItCt41   p 72                                                              I 136  1.267    960    960  960  628  6 782    1 294  I 548  1 228  1 282  1 338  77b  I 467
Gouvern                             GlI                                                   $143                30      30      30   30   30    148                 36      38      40      42   44    200
5 .  lotfl 518411RS                                                                                              30      30      30   30   30    148                 36      18      40      42   44    200
loalo  IIIVISIRIIIN  COSIS                                                                               I 262  1 837  1 114  1 009  981  Sbl  6 755   1 427  2 244   1 439   1 3bl  1 364  624  8 679
total                                                                                                     I 262  1 837  1 114  1 009  983  561  6 766    I 427  2 244  I 439  1 361   1 3e4  824  8 b79
Januaty 30  19S0  08 44                                                                                                        tD X.
0 1



III  (U81  I  lOh IV            Il
lablo 21  B1 AUiX LIIIACI    SUIll   pbb
061.100le Cost 14bl0
Q  t,. sy                                                               fiae L.%t$ s                                           1,4)   *l~ ~i'~*  Qz       l'oI   
Ur,sl     90    91       92         93          94         95       lo.l6    lj-1 Cost         90       91       92       93      94       95    loI,s         90       9)       91       II       '14     'I
I M"V1I1INI  01
A  8 14%  8*uletS p 74
at Oro,ls                    IDA                -                                                                   200       (04      (04                                          207        11I     :27 
billets  N..                 IDA                -                                                                  4486                  9        9        9        9       9        46                  ti       2        13      Ii       '4       L1
cl Indsm  UPP                IDA          -                                                                         137                 29       29      29       29       29       14 3                 IS       37      is       40      42 
di longibles UIP             IDA                                                                                   $120                 25       26   5       2     5      25        127                 11      33       34       36       1'
a) Op   VMh, UP              IDA                                                                                 1628                   II1      13       13       13       13       65                  lb       I?       is      i8       is        Im
II Semn   aevki.l            IDA                                                                                 137 6                   A        8        a       a        a        39                  t0       to      II       n1       1
gI  long  Call Id            IDA                                                                                    172         It.     IS       IS       Is       I5                 7b        17       19       20      2'       21                 S
hi Pr.c   Cot id             ICA                                                                                    172                  Is      I   IS       is  lb        Is        75)                l8       19      20       2)       2to,
S..loIt I08  a 1453 88811115 p 74                                                                                                 119      218      Ila      114     114       99       379        351    )b6       1O       1%4       6i      141    IC
B 111P8155l08 p 17
locale                       IDA                                                                                $2 0 .,                424      424     424      424      424    2  20                   Id8    548      51,      59      1. 
locale                     $10811                                                                               12 0.o                 424      424     424      424      424    2 120                 lIe      548      51)2     59       WI1      8%ft
Ifir&. IDA                   IDA                                                                                 12 la                 530      530    5330      530      50 0    2 OD0                 647     685      7 )5     746      779    1 5 
[Iran, IDA                  10811                                                                                S3 s                  742      742      742     742      742    3 710                 906      959i     00)    045,    09)    O0C
liran #AC                    IacI 10.                                                                                     00 I1060  1b t208                                                                                                        I20,,
S..A  bloat  I8PR1115111  p 77                                                                                                  I 060   2 120  2 120  2 120  2 120  2 120   1I bb0    I 208                b4 J9    ? 79     tit 859  38    I III  I') 4511
C OlSIllI/C1185189 p?7
Easiers                      IDA                     is 000    IS 000    IS 000    Ib. 000    60 000                112                         191      191      191      19)      7531                        246      251      29       280       D
boldt InirepIs               IDA                I          I           I          I           I          s    175 S/an                  79       79       79       79      79       393                 96b      10?      106     II       I1 sb"IC
1r,61  de trarsop            IDA                I          I           I          I                      4    ?c/.-.                   16        67      167      167               667                204      215      22       2) 18'R.
Sals"es             ~~GYI                                                                                  9867                 Igo      too      180     Ig0      Ig0       898                2)9      232      2~       253 i    b4l      2'
%.   lota1  0lSIRI/COOISI8V p77                                                                                                            425     6ob      bib      616      449    2 722                 5 19     l9b      oi'      S67     660    ib
0  AC00I5 84AII11  p 78
long-bles                    IDA                            I          I          I                      J          160                          21       21       21                64                                             so., 3            111
Ran lectw.                   108                                                                                                        95       9S.      9%      95       95.      477                 117      123      129     '14      140      54l
%..  luI*l ACQUJIS  ANAlUtiS p 78                                                                                                           95        ? 117II        117       9.       -541t              II?      IS)      IS?5    6b4      140
1,1.1 I8SIMIlhI  LOSIS                                                                                                         I 139  2 858  2 9167   2 96  72 967   2 764   51 702    I 141   i 492   1 8313   4 30.  4  18  4 Ob1
A Il                                                                                                                               I 139   2 858   2 967   2 967   2 967   2 764   I-) 102    ) (4    3 492   J 811   4 03.   417 4 01 .'4 Ot,               
44.-.ary (0 1990 on 44
01



ANNEX 3-1 1
-  107  -                                            ~~~~~~Page  4 o f  12
-             3.    . |  °.0   0
*           .rc r  A 0   0   40
*~ ~~   ~~~~ 4'  O.-~      - _ 
*           .003. A.   o   o
_ S' ._                .
!~0Q                       _   _    
Ac                00 _      . _ _
-                  o00S        3.   -
r
_                           _   _  ,.,0   3.  ,
0~~~~ .                                  .0 
0~~~                  ~~~~ o- .0   -    -
3.                  -J          0Ss         S
d                                3..rZ  
... ~   ~      ~      4 _                              0,_ ZXoC
!~~~~                      AS S     -
> ~    ~     ~      ' _0 . 
~-2                         0 r°
3 ~~     _0-    -  oe
"~~ . .
_ ~        ~~                       -o



R i P U ai  I  u Ilt DlU I  I R t
loULAIiOh IV
fable 40 63 RtCIOl PltO1t p 103
Dl,bl.Id Cost lable
1o0LiaCS tu   0001
Quanlilty                                            6a-. Losis in S                                   W.'P  000'
Unit    90   91    9^    93    94   9S  1i1.1    U.,- Lost   90    9t    92   91  94  9S  lolal    90    91                     92    93   g4   gb  lut.1
IVIbSilllNi  C0515
A  63 11lR85AIRUCIURt p 111t
I  L0N1SIR pib
Classes P.l00  -6 I,                            -                                       5300             b33     6   b3  b3  63    314              77    8a   8$   ad   32          423
So.s Reg. 8t.O 1011                   -     -      -                                    $120             63   b3                     126             77     A1                       166
ft B6naIsa                 1A                                                           S785   411      411                         82?   468    602                                 970
1l  Bond                   ID                -                                          S710            372  372                     743           454    460                        934
tnspSRule                  It2 S                                                                         S    525 66                               6b                                 67
Sub local C0tSIA pII6                                                                              411    963  497   63  63  63  2 ObO   468  1  77    642   8b   88   32  2 663
2  KOfluliIRp 117
It                         IDl                                                          $170                  ISO                    180                   231                       233
Soul; Roged               1li1                                                           530                   32                     32                     41                       41
Mob Archl                  IDA                                                           510     10                                   10    12                                         12
St lotlal 10Bilia p It7                                                                              10          212                    222     12             274                      28b
3  &QUIPtiLKI pill
tt p II?                  IDA                                                          $135                        143              143                         193                 193
velicole IN               10511t            2                                  2    $30/7eh              64                           64             78                               70
olos   lons.g.l            IDA            600 S   00   400                1 400  $250/oeIo              133  133  106                371            16?     171  14;                 47b
"Dios stages km            108                            6                    6          S3                         19               19                          2b                  26                              X
Vshic Arch                 ID8        I                                        I         $30    32                                    32    3b                                        36
tq  .onst, tP              IDA                                                           SSO             10   10   10  10  10         b2             13      13   14   15   l6        70
Sub lotal tQUIPiLNII pill                                                                            32    207  143  279  10  10    b81         3b    2b2      186  376   Ib   lb    079
Sub lotal 83 ItiRASIRUClURI p tlS                                                                      453  1 170  8S2  341  13  73  2 963   516  1 429  1 101  460  103  108  3 717
lolal IVIfSIt41 COSIS                                                                                    463  1. 170  852  341  73  73  2 963   616  1 429  1 101  460  103  108  3 717
Iotl                                                                                                       453  1 170 t62  341  73  73  2.963  516   1 429   1 101  4bO  103  106             J 717
485n,ry 30. 1990  08 44
20 Z
01
1t1 -



R I P u B I I 0 U t DU I A I a I
tDUCAIIUO IV
lable Yi  84 tC11tS PR1M  UR088NtS9  p 120
Delailed Cosil lble
10D9t1iS EU   0001
lotals  r  xr       r   r    n
Quantity                                           Baose tols L s    S                             lusS  0001
Unit    90   91   92   93   94   95  lot1 l  unit Coil  90   91   92   93    94            9%   lo1l.   90   91   92   93    94         91   lots,
I    VItsfSli0iv  COltS
A CO0SIRuC p 134
tcolis prim   rb   ID411             -    -20%0                                                  429    a"f   lit  2 146                      t79   1 20Y   I .2  0J 0
Classis srec        ID8l                -       -                         S201                            43    173    217                             bl    255    31b
Sut lolal COISIRUC  p 134                                                                            429    902  1 032  2 363                     S79  1 270  l 517  3 365
a  nOIIOR41RtS          ID011           -130                                                          b?      67            113                    91     95             18b
C 0t8111e0 pl35
Icolos Prim          10411                                                723%                           12%    125    249                            175    let    158
Classes S%c          IDI                   -                               120                             1'     It      2)                           1s      lb      31
Sub lot6l IIO1B  ItR pl36                                                                                   138    IIE    270                            190    199    J89
o  GCI p 201             CVI                                                1116s         244  244  244    244    244  1 220           298  315  329    343    359  I b44
lotal IWYISI  MIO  COSIS                                                                     244  244  740  1 348  1 411  3987            298  31%  999  1 898  2 074  % l4
[ials                                                                                         244  244  740  1 346  1 411  3 907           298  315  999  I 898  2 074  5 %04
January 30. 1990  08 44
OQ Z
a'
0s
ro



R    P U6 b         IQUI  DU       I R 
tDUC4110t IV
labl  bO     I ao6ill   CihIRA4t pI3?
De*taled Cott lable
400IDOIRS tU   0001
Q.anlity                                                6se Costs in S                                       IUs5  0001
Unit    90   91   92   93   94   95  losal  Unit Lost   90   91   92   93   94                    9b    Istal     90   91    92      93       94      9b    lolal
A  R1118tl 1liA4lo  plS4
Consir                    0DAlt                   -I 3 a                                                       408  544      405  1 3bl                          b9t     767      bOO     911
honor                     ID*II             -102                                                          67   40    13        13     135                 8?      5S       19      20      lao
b.l.*r                    1l0*l                -    -                                $660                                     700     700                                       I 026   1 020
Sub loial Rt82282212 AIOU plS4                                                                                b7  449  SS8   1 121  2 199                    87     60S      789   1 646  3 22b
8 tQUlPtNu2i pl29
tqt.spamern               ID5II97                                                                               60                     60                        8a                        81
Re6. lot                   IDA                    -           -ISO                                             IS9                    IS9                        214                      214
Ordre2te,urs              ID81I                                                       $17            18                                I8           22                                      22
*Sb lobaS  JOUIP(1681 plSS                                                                              la        219                    237            22           296                      318
C   OBMIIOU p 2I6              I0D                                                     549 3                  26   26                     51                  33      35                       b6
0 ASSISI 2I8C2l pIS?
9.crgltare                82It GI                             I     1      3      56"/an                        62   62       62      187                         84       88      91     2bl
Inform                     104                                                      5200      42   42   42   42   42                  211     48   b2  5bb        b7      b9              271
Gest Soci.lCP2l0             *:C                                                      590      is   11    it   11    11                9l     12   13   14         14      1b               68
t2..ss plb8                I04                                                        S49     72                                       S2    b9                                            bS
Sub loIla; A       SSISI  IItBC it p?                                                            209 IOS 3    53   1 19   2IS     b2     S02    I19  6b    b8        19b     102      91    .bbO
I   lONlIIO2   pl60
jISer-   inform           I0411                                                                9    9    17   17   17          27      89     10   10   22        21       24      '1
bli.norm   region         IDAII                                                                                        10      10      21                                  I')     I        SO
Cltnn  Sla1               ID2II                                                                      17   I?   17   17         17      87           2'   22       23       24      2b      257
OlfonI Clr Ar-h-,    ID*II                                                                          l26   lb   lb   16         lb      78           19   20       21       22        J     tell
ehhoFOKl  Inlend          IDW0I                                                                       I    I    I       I I             S            I     I        t       1       2        7
2I sQ Reg.on              IDAII                                                                7     7    7    7       7        7      44      e    9    9         o       ,o     I,I      .1
g911  DPSS                IDAII                                                                      6     b     6    6         6      31            8    8        8        9       4      42
hl tlI A                  IDAII                                *3                                                                      33     38                  S8
Sub loIta  103110110   p160                                                                      49   9b   b69    b       79      79     Je9     9b   b9   8.        o1      IsOb    It o
I  982AI*8S pl60
&I Primes tSDA            IDA11                                                                      8    8      8    8        6       41           10    it      'I        2      1.      91
b1  Prils DPSS            ID0I*                                                               10   10   10   10   20           10      62     12   13    It       14       ,,      '        8
cI Pr,m   Sorn Go.b       ID412                                                                      3     3    3    3          3      29            4    4        4        4       b      21
dllialres                  G8I                                                        S21            4    4      4    4        4       22            9     6       6        6       b      21
9.b lolal S41A2RIS p160                                                                           10   2b   2b   2b   26          2b     140      22   J2   34        2       17       18     18'
lolal 1682912147   COSIS                                                                            2b4   9I2  2Jb  899  774   1 289   3 92t   187  187  J09   I I:1    I 030 O          2SO 1  A 80C
202.                                                                                                 Me4  293  236  899   774   ' .89          I 91   687   117  20S   I ?13   I 090      Y882   4 1)0
J4n..Ay 10  1940  08 44
cin



III PU ;  I 00     IV 28 
louc,ilEc lv I
labl  70  C2 INIIII. OtCEi31116iIStIS plb6
OelteId CoSt lable
C3011 8RS E U   0001
lota43  Inc  .,d-ng Lqo   rS.l  O
Q.6nl;ty                                                ase Costs  -n S                                luSS  000)
S3nr1    90   91    92    93    94   95  total   Us;t Cosl   90   91   92    93    94  g9  lolal   90   91   92    93    94   95  wal
I  I 4V 5I stA"3  COSI S
h  Rel  p 175
Regsds                 10'11             .                  4    3    10  $52 S/rOegd                          165  220  lib      SiO                      222  sO0  242       14
's.1 lotal Rehab p  175                                                                                           165  220  165    550                         222  J10  242      774
8  EQUIPIWItIS p 176
flo;Id                 10411                                                        $218                       116  116           231            t56  lbs                      '13
Vels  4.4             loll                           It                11         ?25/t                      292                292                       193                393
Jeeps 4.4             1OI11                          90                 90        $22/si                    2 099               2 099                    28 ai                 all
8;cycletIe             IU*II                        160                760    10 21..elo                       201                201                      272                 272
lirs Bard              0I*AI                          10                 0      S2 58h b                        27                 27                        3h                 Ib
041 I/p 6              I IOiPII                                                     S200                            lOb  10b    212                              149  Sib    Job
Bedios                 10811                         8t                 81   $2 5/radio                        215                215                      290                 290
Valise Pods            10411           400   4S50                      8O0              0         64   72                          135         78   92                         170
Eq..p  de bsuraas      1011                                                                                   215  215           430                      290  301            S93
SUO  lolal IQUIpt214IS p 176                                                                          b4   72  1 I64  437  lOb  J 841             78   92  4 267  biS  i,ob  5 208
C  IORI3II08 p177
locale  Rred            lih                                                         S178   17   37   37         37   37           185   42  4*   41         50 S     2         231
Ssb lolal IOIEUAIIO  pit?                                                                       37   37   37       37   37            185   42   4t   48        50   S 2          237
0  I04C I I UIISENEWtlI
Prep slages             IDA                                                          S10           10                               10         13                               3J
Su  lotal IOGlCIIOlieit731                                                                            10                               10         It                                13
lolal IRVIS1IN1II1 COSIS                                                                         37  III  109  3 16S  694  211  4 586   42  136  140  4 539  977  J983  6 212
lolal                                                                                               37  III  109  3 365  694  271  4 386   42  136  140  4 i39  977   398  b 232
arn.ary 30. I1990  08 44
00Z



a   P u t I I O U I  DU  I A I a t
I UC61 Ito  IV
lable 80  0 AD8INSIR8813011 DU Pr3Ji1 p 184
Delailood Cost lable
t00131 1  Su  000)
1o0t3 IS cIC Ing L.tt -ptu i,s.
IV Bil                                        .so Cost% us                                      3uss  0001
Unil   90   91   92   93   94   95  lotat  Urit CusI   90   91   92    93    94   9S  lotal                 90   91   92    93        94    S.  IssIAI
A  apt KINSHASA Pl91
Nobil er               IDA                                                     S20            4    4       4    4    4        21           b    b        b       b    6       is
iqupipnl               IDA                  '    -      -                      $30      b    b    6        6    6             32      7    8    8        9       9            41
Ord.nratos             tDtt                  -    -                  3    $15/oed           48                                48          68                                  68
Veh c                  IDA       3 t                  1                     2 -  6  28/h    69            89                 378   101                 120                  f22
Rodeos                 ID8             -    -                                  S20          21                                21          26                                  26
Voy Otobs              IDA             I    I    I    1             4      S7froy             7    7       7    7             30           9   10       10      to            39
Worm                  IDA             $--                                                     3    3       3    3    3        lb           4    4        4       4            21
Salatres               IDA       I    I    I    I    I    1         6      S60/an      62   62   62       62   62   62    372    71   76   80           84      8?   91    488
foncleon               IDA       I    I    I    I    I    I         6      $40/an    42   42   42         42   42   42    250    48   Sl   54           St      t9   bi    329
Voy rogbons            IDA       2    2    2    2    2    2         12           2      3    3    3        3    3    3        19     4    4    4         4       4    5       25
Sub lotal BPI KitlIASA P191                                                              202  197  128    217  128  114    986   230  240  3b6    293             380  3b8   I 27b
a dP IICIPS
conleact p 19S       I08                                                  $60/6n    53   63   53         53   S3           2bS    bO   b8   b6         73      75           J40
vohi   IICEPS          IDA                                                     $S0                        63                  S3                        71                    73
Sob total 8Pt IIfCPS                                                                      S3   53   S3       106   53           318    bO  b6   68        143      75           413
C  SUP /itlUtS
AchsveBnl              IDAt                                                    5bO                                    63      63                                      9J      93
I.portiso              IDA                  6                       6   $SS/00ts                  96                          96               123                           123
As loch Ponct          IDlt      S    S    S    S    S    5    30   $16/moss    79   79   79              79   79   79    476    90   97  102    '07    112  116    624
Voy As lech            108       6    6    6    6    6    6    36    $2/aoy            13   13   13       13   13   13        76    14   3S   16        37      18   19    100
Aedots                 IOt       I    I    I    I    I    I         6   IS6/adit    16   16   16          16   16   16        95     18   19   20       21      22   23      12S
IlItus                 IDtt                                                  $400                        207  207           414                        279    292           571
Salaires              ClI                                                      $16            3    3       3    3    3        17           4    4        4       S    6       22
lance ion p 201       CVI                                                   S1700          360  3bO      360  360  J60  I 802            440  466    486    b07  $70  2 429
Sub lolal SUPtRfIIUDOIS                                                                  108  471  S66    679  679  535  3 038    121  S76  732    918    Yb6  78b  4 08
Iolat  I18StlStit  COSIS                                                                    363  721  747   1 002  860  649  4 341   414  881  96b6    3 63   1 210  964           7 77Y
total                                                                                        363  721  747  1 002  860  649  4 341   414  881  96b    1 351  3 210  954  b 775
Jansary 30  1990  08 44
cw  z
NJ



a t puBi a I      ut 0   41 D au I A It
S3mamy Acco.ni by Projec C~ownan2
(90022A8 LU '000?
A  21 SIA      ic)                        S  04A8i224 Di i tNSl2G8liNTM                              C   ADM2hu152A1108t bke~        0   £098 IOI 1tiJJI
As 0918       El A~.-It  Otdact    82 lorm                  831 l.2rasl2'I.cras                  CI  Ct8lIRAi2      L2 kIWl2.u           apt
CSSS. gep       82322214    8235           82       8331 2       83.33   8323/5/6                   131      Clii            C2       Di         1)2                L,~m ngeri, .ao
Phaem,lifisas,on.  Prop    idit/Prod   formal,on  (co2           [Coles   Co.,d,    (colas Pr                  fit lln
pop         Peftg    flafals        Nastras  liar" als Primatres (nsa.gn          Urb       ilegro..*   *a..n        8eOQ.~. IL fd   8a  dl,.  2..s2             I     Ali ,
I UvES2NtUi1 CO1JS
A GENIE clvii
IC  Prim /Regads etc                                                                  I S6O        324        282       3.5112                                550                         b 244   10 0        6?4
D&PS                                        -                                                                                          361                                                 1 3b'   20 0       236
S.h lol1 latt82  CIVIL                          -         2                              2. 565        324       318       3 582       2 361                     5)50                         7 bft   It0 o      36
(q2t2pimn#22/21     /(ow.n                           122       1.020                    162                   322         270         229                   I 008     I 855t      265    5 29,   to0 0        520
VsIehc.les                                 16        90          206                     32         64                                                     2 602        2,8        53      3 141    t00       324
pe  I sl                                            542       I2. 660                                                                                                                     12 202    to0 0 2220
Ordhnlou..rs                               52       228                                                                                28i                               48                  344    200        34
St&~ lotal 80221P811                           661      962      12.706                     194         64       372          270        237                   3 010    2 082         sib   20 982    100   .2098
C mSlt(im
le4POrT I                                                                                                    22?                      700                    232                           I 243   I0 00      124
local                                     I20        20           26                    I20                                                                              22                   9b    2 00       1 0 
SUh total   611t8t                             20        26          26                      20                  212                     700                     231         21               1 239   20 0        224        -
o caosut 28222
Co22s.d2ernt Inqorn                       77S.782                             634                                                               31                      805               8314   200          822
Cons.1a.2t 8.2                            222        148       2. 361                                                      135                  28                        7                I 97    20 0       19
8tc1122.c20, etc                                                                                                                      235                                                    235,   200        2
(todes                                    155                                                                                                                           414                 5,70   20 0        5'
sib Iola) CO$3II8flS                      4. 045       146       7.152          634                                          225        235       502                   2 236               20 988    20 0   2 099i
Ioreation 8.2                              53                                                                                                                            Jo                   83    2o0         a
beaum  I0on locale                          4       It6           39       5.923                                                      .5 I       83                       6               6 320,   200        8,33
S.O  total lOllallOm                           57       I28           39      5.213                                                       SI        lei                     45                6 409    0o0       64t
I OP&801l05
Kelartal etc                              122                                                                                                                                                 22   20o0         2
salatires                                 3512                                                                                                  140                     372                 865    to0 0       8
Gorsea                                     3 4                 2 228                     52                                                     385,           20       269                28ebb    200       i87
S.* blot&  OPt8&Iiou$                        499                  2 122                     52                                                     525            20       642                2 853    t00       285,
lota  l 280i1182n  COSIS                       1 679     1.3129     22 1220       6.5S46     28622        378I      764        3 987      2 484      2 212        4 401    4 023         JIB  tO0 072   200   5 007
204*1 88$(t288 Costs                            2 679     1.329      22  226       65b48      2 622        378        764       3.987      2 484      2212         4 402      4 022       328   50 072    200   5007
Physcalt Conllng.ncies                         268       233       2 22           655s       28          38        78          399        248        222          440       402         32    5, 007    0 0          0
Pr IC* ComInlsngaIcies                         297       25        4 635        2 883       236          06        235         2198       779        262        2 2153      9s8         61    it 22      91        O 206
20282  8MACI COSIS                              2 144     2 714      27 676       8a884    2 242           502       975        tU54       3 512      2 596        5 995,   5)  64        422    86 796      91 2       072
la..s                              ~~~       ~~~         ~~~~        ~~~~       ~~43  34  558  278  45  10  Is     22           0         3            2          0                236          2      222   t
to,t..gn tiichtnge                          2 324      2.372      24 0453       3200      23143         322       860        3209       2 44        693        t55140     2 991        403   48750,    92    4 42)
jo.,,&'  30  2990  06 44                                                                                                                                                                                                               2



R    P U 8 I I O u  I  DU  I A I R k
loucAtaom IV
SUNARIY ACCWUNlS COS) SUIMIARY
100114tl tUI  0001             fuSs  000)           1             tot6 l
local  tors.pn lola        local  lore.gn lot)    F.,.hAng         Cosls
I  Itl1t3M1ttt  COSIS
A 0t36l CiWil
Ic  Prim /A.geds eic         2. 767   3. 47    6. 244    2. 767   3. 477   6.244          56        12
t)PS                            603      SIN   .1          603      758   1 361           Sb         3
8ij  ItOl GENII cItit            3.370                      1. 3.370   4.235   7.60S         56        15
B IUIPANRBI
Iquspenenl/Jtl /lou.n           106   S. N O     2IL       106   5 189   5 295            98        11
vehic.les                        63   3. on    3. 341       63   3.078   3. 141           98         6
tbnAnIls                        244    . 119t  It.20       244  11. 97  12.201            98        24
nrdsnal...rs                      t     33t      344         7      337      344         9so 
SiL  lotal IQ@IIPtNRIII            420  20.56ti  20.;98       420  20. 61  20.981            98        42
C tt811 Itk
lzpore                          23   1 120   1 143          23   1 120   1 143            98         2
local                           67       29       16        67       29      96           31         0
Si  looal 60311t6i                  90   1. 149   1. 239       90   1. 149   1 239           93         2
*  COttSttIIAAS4S
Cons.utana Intern             1. 220   7.094   8.314    1.220   7.094    . 314           6S         17
Conslutant tbt                I1S6S     403   1.967    1.565        403   1 967           20         4
Archbt.ctes otc                 30?      28      135       107       28      335          20         0
iljdi                         *453      Ill     570       453      It?      570          20         1
Sub total CONSul3111tS          3. 346   7 640  10. 966    3.346   7 640  10.986            70        22                                                                                                           X
tlOtiltlOtt
loraet on t.t                     2      81       83         2       8a       83          98         0
lorml ton locate             4. 390   1.936   6.326    4.390   I 936   6.326              31        13
Sb lotal tOR83IlOlt           4 392   2. 017   6. 409    4.392   2.017   6. 40'            31        13
f  OPfAATIOlS
att all etc                       2      119     122         2      119      122          98         0
Salatres                       776       89      865       776       89     865           10        2
Genral                        1107      759   1866    1107          759   1 866           41         4
*-ti lotal OPtR1l$Ot             I 886     967   2 853      1 886      967   2 853           34         6
$*lat B1Stil41 COSIS                13 502  3b 570  50 072   13 502  16 570  56 072              73       P00
Physical Contingencies            1 350   3 657   5oa7    1 350   3 657   S.007               73        10
Price Contingen ies               3. 194   8 523  t1 717    3 194   8 523  it 7t7             73        23
lo1l  PROJtCI 'OSIS                18 046  48 750  b6 796   18 046  4d 750  6b 796              73 1      il
January 30. 1990  08 44
D z
2C  Z
_0 r
C -
1o..'



8 i Ottt  0  2 I  I     16 I  I
20IL62202s IV
I sn.nc nq P2.n By ODsb,.sa$tl Catago0'
luss 0002
10        ICA Pt 2    COOP  6BILG         fAC      G02V26itfi*2N   Go4errc*nO       lolal
io~a l  2.cl s          D  SI
e.*22    1   Sou2    I       2AD.n   I    moMn2    I    11wn0i   I   bAot  I   AMDut   1        or  I.ch       12ao3i       laes
A  COuSIB R                2.257  S3        142   3                                 1 bil   38       256   6    4 2b6    b          2 376           1 805         at
a  COlSItR 2                             S. 6?  94                                                   390   6    6 057    9          3373           2563          121
C  i4O/1O/811AI/VIIt/    tO 9t6  73        220   t                    1 184   8    2 381   t6        364   2   23 0S    23        14 635             19         30C
O  feAW82                    210   t   14. tSS  91                                                   294   2   14.699   22         24 405               0        2'4
f  COUSUlIA8IS            4.434  33       3PA    8    5.931  44   2. 44   t8                         270   2   t3.477   20          9 746           3 4b2        2?0
I  fOWI ION                7.042  98                 -                                               1 -60   2    8 002   12        2 S39          3 323         260
G  fOtCI                   t.859 7?         W                -                                        48   2    2.40S    4            9?9           1380          48
tt S3t2lRtS                  168   6        85              - -                     2.453   87        S7   2    2 833    4            717           20O9          b7
iaS  0stwSamoI             27 685  42   2t.28   #2    4 .3    9   3 668   5    6 445   10   1 839   3   66.796  100                  40 750          lb 710        33b
..a.                 a ::.   . .:          . :  . . . . . ... .. ...   . ... 
Jarnary 30. 2990  08 44
.   -



I                 ~~~~A.4.4.b. Idvesmont pLooann  sa           Par,       an               1           606  3740                        I00               684 7 000  IDA                                    <     r
2                         A.14.4.b. Schooleo   Eok  nomist cx           arecnt un it             -I1                             3    4   0         15000         22 5000 IUA                                      <
4                    fl.IAA4.a. Corn.riAhsia Spcalis.                 Diri Orccaaoa  IV           I            11                1    2 000         15 000        17 000 IDA                                              -
II                    B.I.4.4I.dA. Mnainhtenac f     pr               Daecaaoaa IV                1           60                60        PM           jPMp   A0.18)
I3              B~~~.2I .44.  On Tchnei dotva y  buingExpern  Dirnectioan IV   NFO         2           60               1201         an1           a1            a MI C4) (IB
(sub-totalhe)T                                                                           117EsDaecac  I1I3                         500        15000         47 5001 ID                               '~
9.2   FORMATION                                                                                                                                         pi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~____  1  U)   i
16       ~      ~         8.32.44b. CiiL  Wa   za                      lnsa  aae                   1          48                48AF60   12 15000   mn,20         2000    IWLDIB I)A
14                       8.A . teaher obtrainang Exe ii               Hu   ar                                  414                          a              nnAC(B                                                     
IS                 C~~~~~~~.IA44.a.H Te Levr T ereiintsEpe      Dca  A     /ect.o IV ru                 3                 36I__             pnsO            18047  00 IAG('(IB. IA 
191                      D. 3.4,.b. Pro raWorln Lxpen                 Diareca  Isfocna                                          4 . U112  2050001   150400       200 000 IGD,(B)+IA               a-L e0           ID    I
271                      C.3A4.c. Inacentr Tmintsg        pen        I Har. Serves  1e44s1x()                   j3                         a            pan            pm1 PM  C(hl]1t1           ,-               rl 
A.D PR OIS T.   A D(D' _                                                                                 _     _   _  _  _   _   _   _  _    _   _  _                                                           '    a
OR.Procureaea                          Diftrect                  T            ISaiqea1          IS   36000           is5000      200 000 IDA
21                C. 1~D.4a4. Hducain Resorce a       r         NFPS                       2           IS         S          364000           is5000      261000 IDA
21                04~~A.a  Procuaeaaa   Expert               IIPE                        I            6i6                                   15000        9610000  IDA                                      -     2.
TYOTAL                __   _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _   39                       1301.5     _  _  _   _  _  _  _        3  .5   0  _  _   _  _  __.'
F.A.C   Foos dAadc  i de Cooorauno (Eauce) -    O.C 0..Ageocc Geaaerale de Cooperataon ea Developpeaentr (Belgiumi) - LB    Balsersl andarekai1



LOWc.rnt                      Aftoe           btii*    attn                   frlavirst           fteb       owlattn CotSswd lolJl    Inds-id. 1014l              l0a^;          lltlDifC  1111           '
letXln@ o0                                                                               lotal    Irdwej   fe  diet Fw   aeUe   PA SDo,Os (ICt i on   S
Docusnts                                                           bi3entfiar.           Sictine Cost                             Cfost
Isavtl ilt/0ap)    4 ill       I1)         it)         ll1           is I
1I S0r4tqt
S.A.a.         p.lammn  V iltit SIMI                  tilO                  IS        1        3      15 WS3sta f4 Is 2  '14O0U                                  124 4    ^4I
S.bloto. A                                                                                                             IS                 315         0      't00      043000             O    3¢1o.00       1 >          *1X
0.1   baoli I gsiaI
2                                    *......... I..4.3..l .  Authors,   otKk.l IV    Varim                       20         12      240          0     300       eb"o          2000       94b0        2d i. 'A
S                                    3.l.4.S.a.2.  LiN., *..uII. Eltt,                                            1l n lo dS2tI      142         I      300o    510toOo 230400 l90 000                 119t4u        3040
4                                     3...3.a.3.  6014,  Cl1 oEditiots'                                                                                                                                             4
5Atct. b.1                                                                                                             3         24       432          0              t440U00        S140      1OWo           2%96400    se10
3.2 Im-swlcse
s                                     F.2.9.3.o.    111osabi loaaue    CIA           c.01Ieitiut                110        10      1200         u      3m0      3300lo Ss                                          11 00
5                                                    bqwbaI Iat,Wa t die              Wide   it.l               Is"0        10    IS   1l300000         lOw0   9lo0eo                                '0408ow   146
S                                                    ml                                                         1410               14100 11OO000                "43000,0 14                     0    1219D0W1   *406O
O                                     9.2.4.3.b.    Priwpt lItbEttUteff               go4      i              91l_n          5   4 e                                                                1453    0    4 0                     r
F)l,iojt. F.Z.                                                                                                      9l0410             449100                                                             151600*Ot    32456i 6          0   0
8.3.   OoatolI
1                                    0.3.4.3.a.I    jUde, traanlq ProIf,.ws                                      40        s3      1200    0000         3000    36000 00        w    l20    ooo00    1   o44       2O3              O  '             -
a ft.3.4.s .... 2.  0.Ilita                                    to e   rbdiA s                                      0        12       30    4nso         300o    t10            120eo       11600       216.060      9:0. V
I                                     S.3.4.la.3.s. 'n.u ktpioe  3909189 19U                                      20         4        so  3s000         3         2000         210000                     00oo       25no           -
SWttl.  3.                                                                                                             90                 640  I3 ]W                  4920000      s3m30       253s00       il1          f.2b 
LI1      Clae60cI*
Adttairntrlis.
10                                   C. U.4. S.a.I.    9S teal Sevicun st.a4f   tPt                               5        20       too                30        3oo0                                       *       Itli
subtc. C.1.                                                                                                             5                 IN0                                                                3tObo        IFJ'
C.2        btaI
llIttbtI C.2.'.                    tqus 0* SJo   eds1    4StS staff   I ot.   U                 I         25      252   700*0(0  5ooo          1o75000      2s2e000     4306        4%l%kvO    1b*'A'
l2                                   E.2.4.1.&.2.  4lds. $ KFS  irKt.oft             MPSstaff Snt.               It        It       tlO   100          5000      sX*00        1100000     111100      29271-        9513
I                                                    O.2.M....  0 LCh  StNIAA           S skill                   4 r0              240   520000       40o0      06000                                120( *        tb7
-.tot,. C.t                                                                                                          116                20t.l                                                             3 4i21(       eal07
6...   *h IttI
4J* ..g*trthJ8t
-ft                 iZ  ;tt ecis .4  .A.  Wi, *141 jewel h ,                                     3-                                                                                               1. 
Lb   . ...     tOF,    watill   ffCi't,fl  itd'                              I   tO'           %4P   Zw  i                                                             .       3..,
4                420   !',vu,, 4,,
0 Z
rw -
*.1   ktOtt t Stlit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*.
P..



SUMMARY OF TRAINING ABROAD    (Costs in USS)
ANNEX                                   Dtrnt.  Tot.               Total    Total
COMPONENT    WortLie          1 BENEFICIARIES      Nbr           Durat. Meoatb   Scholar. Trasel Training  TOTAI.                  ksstgned
Doe.mml                                   engts  (wooal (br          ship      Cost    Cost        C(<ST         Depariment
Abip
A. STRArl;Y        A 4 3 b.1 Education pbnners        3         6       18    1500      27000    6000       9000   42000    _        hi ('latl w  s'
A.4.3.b.2 Architects/lnvesi.spec.    I       31      3    1500       4500    2000        1500     8000      I)ij.I'an.f ,. ( Onstr Sc
B1 4.3 b I Edlors,"Bur. Fdition"    2         3       6    1200        7200    4000    24000    35200               "Ituteau h-d2t%on
R BOOXCS AND      R.1.4 3 b.2 Authors                 4         3       12    1200      14400    8000      12000    34400        t),v iEns Mat et t'rim
GUIDFS         B 1.4.3 b.3 stocks gestion           I        4        4    1500       6000    2000        7000    15000          Btureau D)rstfhul.on 
B. 1.4 3.b.3 GAO.                   1         4       4    1500        6000    2000       7000    15(000         Bureau D)strlbution
('.ADMINISTRAT.  C.1.4.3.b. I Statistigcans            4        6       24    1200      28800    8000        7200   44000         D[r Plan et stat scol
D.B.P.l              D.4.3.b. BPI. Staff              4          I       4    5000      20000    8000           .    28000                       B P 1
TOTAL                   |-                            2 --- |  20    -.'  -- I         1139001 400001   677001 221600| 
r , -.
'm
rtF'
- 3
o' .c-
_~~ ? O
_t t't
3  ~     0



- 11 H                               ANNEX 1-13
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE/REPUBLIQ!!.
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATIC'N Lt< EC:/
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DU SECTEUR DE :'E>'JCATION
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE/TABLEAU DE DECAISSE!IENTS
Fiscal     Quarter   Disbursement    Accumuloted   Undisbureed       Percent
Year                                                                Disbursed
Annie     Trimestre  DMcaissement   D&csissementa   Sold. non    Pourcontage
Budg6taire                             Accumul6s     D6caiss6      DMceoss6
USs     DTS     USS    DTS    USS   OTS
FY90          4       2.0              2.0                               4
FY91          1       0.0              2.0                               4
2       0.6             2.6                                5
3       0.0             2.6                                6
4       0.5             3.0                               8
FY92          1       2.0              6.0                              10
2       2.0             7.0                              14
a       2.0             9.0                              18
4       2.0            11.0                              22
FY93          1       3.0             14.0                              29
2       3.0            17.0                              3S
3       3.0            20.0                              41
4       4.0            24.0                              49
FY94          1       3.0             27.0                              6S
2       3.0            30.0                               el
3       3.0            33.0                              87
4       3.0            38.0                              73
FY95          1       3.0             39.0                              80
2       2.0            41.0                              85
3       2.0            43.0                              88
4       1.0            44.0                              90
FY98          1       2.0             48.0                              94
2       2.0            48.0                              98
3       2.0            49.0                             100
Estimated date of effectiveness/Date estim6e d'entr6o en vigusur: June 1990
Estimated Closing Date/Date estim40 de ciSture: December 1998



M A P



N~~~~~~~-AD
fG'G'.A      ..    fi A'    I N
\  _t    X-*--                                          SllDAN
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I 4                                                   _5.                    -~                  ' .,| ZAf n0                                 -               ,I
f  ~         ~~~                                                               ~ ~ ~ _  II Al   'A~                                                                   8A\   r'lf-i  "         ,
I -'Al1l                             \                  A,   /
X f -i - \ X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.                                                           .         ,        ;         B~>URUNDI *
4 >S' A.,' A,@                                                                                                     IAEI              \                                            'I
A,                             _                ~~~~~~~~~~TANZANIA
o       00            r 200  300                                                          1°     *7K                                                                                 .
o     5o    '60  -0    200                                                                                                                                           H A     A
ZAIR3~
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJET DE REHABILITA TION DU SECTEUR EDUCA TIF
ANGOLA 5  100   150   2
EDUCATION  SECTOR  REHABILITATION  PROJECT                I     ?!                '     +            J             g;    .                     >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTOBR19
40_tE ousIS   -; #  1                             *           >         \          >  A               I   i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~140A00 o 0141110
-                * .   ,~f r.   ''                                                                                                       OS=; 01.8510.1.   Ih,ll.Es  
i _, -.- .2 . ' . P ! . N ' - . K. _ ' N a | . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/                                                                                         bllemIl@donl erceC,v*8010.0a( h
, 3 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-5.-->.                                                                _      _  ^ZAMBIA                               A1;iIAA,IAAAI,O,.I
_  .  ...  _  __  _ ....  .  _ _ ] 7. 1 2$! 28' 0CrO8ER 198< .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CTOER 98



