I)ocument of-
The World Bank
FOR  ,'Fl('lA. L.  SE ONLY'
.k If 4  cv  7  / S  g- /<?   Report So. 914D-ZI)
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
January 30, 1991
Population and Human Resources Division
South Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and maN he used bs recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents ma- not otherwiwe be disclosed without * orld Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =     Zaire (Z)
US$ 1.00            =     Z 1950 (January 1991)
Z 1000              =     US$ 0.51 (January 1991)
SDR 1.00            =     US$ 1.4 (Jan. 1991, Negot.)
MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1st - December 31st
ACADEMIC YEAR
September - June
ABBREVIATIONS
AFDB      African Development Bank
AGCD      Administration Generale de la Cooperation au Developpement
(Belgian Cooperation Agency)
BPE       Bureau des Projets Education (Project Implementation Unit)
CEREDIP  Centre de Recherche et de Diffusion de l'Information Pedagogique
(Center for Pedagogical Affairs)
CSS       Comite de Strategie Sectorielle (Sectoral Strategy Committee)
DEPM      Direction de l'Enseignement Primaire et Maternel (Unit of pre-
primary and primary education)
DPSMD    Direction des Programmes Scolaires et des Materiels Didactiques
(Directorate for Pedagogy)
DPSS      Direction de la Planification et des Statistiques Scolaires
(Directorate for Plann'ng and Statistics)
FAC       Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation (French Cooperation Agency)
IFCEPS   Istitut de Formation des Cadres de l'Enseignement erimaire et
Secondaire (Institute for Training of Education Staff)
MEPSP    Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire, Secondaire et Professionnel
(Ministry of primary, secondary and vocational education)
MESURS   Ministare de l'Enseignement Superieur, Universitaire et de la
Recherche Scientifique (Ministry for higher education)
PEP       Public Expenditure Program
PRESED   Projet de Rationalisation du Secteur Educatif (Education Sector
Rehabilitation Project)
PRAIGEFI Projet d'Appui aux Institutions de Gestion Economique et
Financiere (Assistance to Economic Management)
REGED    Regional Representative of the DEPS
SDA       Social Dimension of Adjustment
SBA       Special Budgetary Allocation
SECOPE   Service de Controle et de la Paie des Enseignants (Teacher Pay
Service)
SERNAFOR Service National de la Formation (Training Insti-ute)
SSP       Social Sector Project
WWF       World Wildlife Fund
This report is based on the findings of a post-appraisal mission which visited Zaire from
September 23 to October 9, 1990, comprising Messrs. BenoTt Millot (economist, mission
leader), Gustave Chene (consultant, educator), and Jean-Christophe Laederach (implementation
specialist). Mr. Antoine Swartz (Sr. Economist) was the lead advisor. Messrs. Alain Colliou
and Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa are the managing Division Chief and the Department Director,
respectively for the operation.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                ........................ii
I.  INTRODUCTION .1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR.                                                           2
A. Overview...                                                     2
1. Organization of the Sector.                                 2
2. Main Enrollment Patterns.                                   4
B. Sectoral Issues .                      .                        4
1.  Decline in the Quality of Education.                       4
2. Low Efficiency.                                             6
3.  Underfinancing of the Education Sector.                    7
4.  Lack of Planning and Managerial Capacities                 9
C. The Goverrment's Sectoral Objectives and Strategy.  10
D. The Bank's Role .11
III. THE PROJECT .15
A. Project Objectives and Description .15
1. Sectoral Adjustment Support .15
2. Restoring the Quality of Instruction .19
3. Reinforcing Managerial Capacities .23
B. Project Cost and Financing Plan  . .24
C. Project Implementation .                   .                   27
1. Project Preparation and Management .27
2. Procurement .29
3. Disbursements, Special Account and
Project Account .30
4. Auditing and Monitoring .31
IV.   PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS .32
V.    AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS .33
This report replaces report No. 8124-ZR of February 7, 1990 which was transmitted to the
Board but not discussed. While the project objectives remain the same, project components
have been reduced in scope and limited to core activities in line with the country strategy
approved by the Board on September 11, 1990.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizatior.



(li)
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
ANNEXES
1-1      Comparative Education Data
1-2      Basic Data
2-1      Structure of the Education System
2-2      MEPSP (Ministry of Primary, Secondary and Vocational Education):
Organizational Chart, 1990
2-3      MEPSP : Regional Organization, 1990
2-4      Enrollments in Primary Education by Grade and Region, 1987/88
2-5      Enrollments in Primary Education by Type of Institution, 1987/88
2-6      Enrollments in Secondary Education by Grade, Stream and Region,
1987/88
2-7      Enrollments in Secondary Education by Type of Institution, 1986/87
2-8      Enrollments in Higher Education, by Type of Institution, 1971/1972
to 1988/89
2-9      Primary and Secondary School Teachers' Monthly Salaries, 1988-
1990
2-10     Repetition Rates, by Level of Education, 1986/87
2-11     Results of the Final Secondary School Examination ("Examen
d'Etat"), 1985 to 1987
2-12     Current and Capital Expenditures in Education, 1980-87
2-13     Current Expenditures by Category:  State and MEPSP, 1980-87
2-14     Execution Rate of the MEPSP Budget, 1980-86
2-15     Unit Private Expenditures by Level and Category, 1987
2-16     External Assistance to Education:  Selected Sub-Saharan Africa
Countries, 1980-85
3-1      Sectoral Strategy Letter
3-2      Draft Monitoring Table
3-3      Scenario of Development of the Educational Sector
3-4      Special Budgetary Allocation
3-5      Sectoral Strategy Committee
3-6      Draft Sectoral Public Expenditures Program
3-7      Provision of Textbooks
3-8      Primary School Teachers In-Service Training
3-9      Rehabilitation of Local Educational Environment
3-10     MEPSP Office Consolidation
3-11     Project Costs and Financing Plan
3-12     Specialist Services
3-13     Training: Local and Abroad
3-14     Disbursement Schedules
3-15     Supervision Plan
Map IBRD 21959iNJanuary 1991)



( iii)
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:       Republic of Zaire
Beneficiary:   Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire, Secondaire et
Professionnel (MEPSP) (Ministry of Primary, Secondary and
Vocational Education)
Amount:         US$ 21.0 million equivalent (SDR 15.0 million)
Terms:          Standard IDA, with 40 years repayment
Description:   The credit has two main objectives:
(a)         to stop the deterioration and improve the quality of primary
education, by taking immediate steps to increase the
availability of main educational inputs, and
(b)         to help the Government implement its sector education
strategy to restore the conditions needed for long-term
balanced development of a more viable and adequately
financed education sector.
Policy Measures:
The education strategy includes the following policy
measures:
(a)         encouragement of NGOs (in particular church networks) to be
more involved in school management,
(b)         reallocation of incremental budgetary resources for
recurrent expenditures in the sector,
(c)         creation of the Sectoral Strategy Committee (CSS), with
representatives from both the MEPSP and the Ministry of
Higher Education (MESURS), to monitor sectoral developments,
(d)         control and adjustment of enrollments (through admission,
transition and examinations), based on educational
priorities and financial constraints,
(e)         organization of a progressive scaling down of repetition at
the primary level, and
(f)         continuous preparation and monitoring of sectoral public
expenditure programs (PEP).



(iv)
Key Components:
The project will have three components:
(1)   Support to the Government's Sectoral Strategy through:
(a)   Technical assistance to the CSS,
(b)   Strengthening of MEPSP planning and programming
capabilities (including PEP).
(2)   Promotion of quality, efficiency and coverage of primary
education through:
(a)   the provision of basic textbooks and teacher guides in
primary education,
(b)   in-service training related to the textbooks,
(c)   rehabilitation of the local education environment
(multi-level classrooms in rural areas, a pilot
teacher training school and incentive schemes for
teachers) in Haut-Zaire, and
(d)   construction of about five primary schools in the
crowded periphery of Kinshasa.
(3)   Institutional reinforcement by:
(a)   rationalizing the working conditions of the central
administrative staff (office consolidation, training,
computerization, and support to the office of
statistics), and
(b)   improving the working conditions at local levels
(equipment and training of regional and subregional
admininistrators and supervisors).
Justification and Risks:
The project will ultimately boost student achievement at all
levels, and help prevent the deterioration of Zaire's human
capital base. The risks stem from the fact that Government
may not make sufficient budgetary allocation to the sector,
and from MEPSP's weak managerial performance. The project
addresses these risks by strengthening the Ministry's
planning, programming and budgeting capacities with external
assistance, equipment, and training and by sectoral policy
measures, including a special budgetary allocation. Other
risks are associated with textbook distribution in a large
country with poor communication. Relying on well-organized
church networks will help reduce this risk.



(v)
Project Cost Summary
Estimated Costs
US$ Million               % Base Cost
Project Component              Local      Foreign   Total
1. Sector Strategy                   0.2       0.7      0.9                4
2. Quality of Instruction            6.4       9.7      16.1              72
3. Administrative Capacity           3.1       3.4       6.5              16
4. Incremental Operating Costs    0.9          1.1       2.0               8
Total Base Costs (1-4)           10.6      14.9     25.5              100
5. Contingencies                     1.7       2.5       4.2
TOTAL PROJECT COST (1-5) 1/   12.3        17.4      29.7
Financing Plan
US$ Million
Local      Foreign    Total
IDA                        8.4         12.6         21.0
FAC                        0.4          3.8          4.2
UNDP                       0.1          0.4          0.5
UNICEF                     0.2          0.4          0.6
WWF                        0.1          0.2          0.3
Government                 3.1           -           3.1
Total 1/                   12.3         17.4         29.7
1/ Including taxes and duties estimated at US$0.6 million.
Estimated IDA Disbursement
IDA Fiscal Year
US$ Million
Years           1992          1993         1994         1995         1996
Annual           2.0          5.0           5.0          5.0          4.0
Cummulative      2.0          7.0          12.0         17.0         21.0



REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01  Although richly endowed with natural resources, Zaire, with 32
million inhabitants, remains one of the poorest countries in Africa, with a
stagnating per capita GDP of US$170. A period of civil strife followed
Independence in 1960; then economic and financial reform triggered expansion
from 1967 to 1974. But an attempt to radicalize and "zairianize" the
economy, a badly considered investment program financed largely with
commercial funds, and a sharp decline in copper prices ended this relative
prosperity. What followed was a fall in private investment, the
deterioration of the country's infrastructure and an intractable debt
burden, which in turn led to a decline in real per capita GDP, loss cf
credit worthiness, huge budget deficits and high inflation rates.
1.02 In 1983, Zaire launched a stabilization program and reform of the
price and exchange rate system, to eliminate the main distortions in the
economy. In 1987, the authorities began implementing a structural adjustment
program with the support of IDA (SAL) and the Fund (SAF). In the following
years however, government spending was excessive and tax collection
declined, which derailed the program. Early in 1988, both institutions had
to decide to withhold temporarily further balance of payments aid.
Agreement was reached in early 1989 on a new macroeconomic framework,
including a three-year public expenditure program and a limit on current
expenditures by the administration. Credible efforts were made to
strengthen fiscal mobilization and to liberalize exchange rates, prices and
interest rates. As a result, disbursements by the Bretton Woods
institutions were resumed.
1.03 However, in 1990, the government has discontinued its
pursuit of improved management of public expenditure, putting the adjustment
program off track again. Political uncertainties, labor unrest,
accelerating inflation, drastic increases in the civil service wage bill,
high public spending for non-developmental purposes, higher debt service
obligations and mining falling output from the state copper enterprise
(Gecamines) concur to make the short term outlook rather poor.
1.04 The social sectors have been hurt by this on-and-off commitment on
the part of the Government to stimulate growth and basic infrastructure.
The demand for health and education services increased as a result of strong
population growth (3% a year) and because of low initial delivery levels,
but resources to finance these services became less available. Public
expenditures to education and health have dropped to about 10% of the
current budget, and despite enormous household financial efforts, the



- 2 -
decline in coverage and quality of services has been unavoidable. Given the
high labor intensity of social sector activities, the drastic erosion of
civil servants' wages played an important role in the decline in social
se:vices. This is particularly true of education, where severe
u:.derfinancing makes it quite difficult to retaJn teachers and to purchase
even minimum teaching materials. A study recently completed by the Social
Dimension of Adjustment Unit in the Bank (SDA) concludes that, although the
population has so far coped with the situation through informal and
unrecorded activities, its capacity to pay for needed social services is
reaching a limit (SDA Country Assessment Paper: Aspects of Poverty in Zaire,
1990).
1.05 The government has recently expressed concern about population issues
and about the threats posed by the deterioration of the social
infrastructure. The government has recognized the need to mobilize
substantially more resources for social services, and is designing an
overall social sector policy which aims at redressing public expenditures
for the social sectors, while improving the quality, efficiency, and equity
of services in these sectors -- thus re-establishing the social conditions
important for economic recovery.
1.06 In this context, the government has requested IDA's assistance in
financing a project aimed at taking the urgent actions needed to start
rehabilitating primary education, and restoring the conditions for long-
term development of a more efficient education sector. Total project costs
are estimated at US$30.0 million equivalent, with a foreign exchange
component of US$17.5 million (58%). The project would be exempt from taxes
and duties. The government would contribute about US$3.3 million
equivalent, of which US$0.6 million for taxes and duties and IDA would
finance about US$21.0 million. The project would also rely on technical
assistance already provided and to be further developed by France (US$4.5
million equivalent). UNDP and UNICEF would also co-finance the project for
US$0.6 each respectively.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.    Overview
1.   Organization of the Sector
2.01 The formal education system consists of 6 years of primary education,
and 3 to 6 years of secondary education, including general, technical and
professional streams (e.g. Ecoles d'Art et Metiers, 3 years, and Cycles
Professionnels, 4 years) and teacher training (Ecoles Normales, 6 years).
Upon completion of primary education, students receive a "Certificat de Fin
d'Etudes Primaires", while they take the "Examen d'Etat" at the end of
seccndary school. Higher education is delivered in three sorts of public
institutions: universities (Kinshasa, Lubumbashi and Kisangani), structured



-3-
into three cycles ("graduat", 3 years; "licence", 2 years; and doctorate),
18 institu.es of technology ("Instituts Superieurs Techniques", with two
cycles), and 14 secondary education teacher training institutes (Instituts
Superieurs Pedagogiques, with two cycles). In addition, the private sector
operates about thirty technical institutes. Annex 2-1 shows the structure of
the education system.
2.02 Although the State retains its sovereignty over the entire system of
education, a variety of institutions deliver educational services. First,
more than 95% of the students in both primary and secondary education are
enrolled in public education. This sub-sector consists of (i) purely public
schools (these enroll a sixth of the total primary and a third of the
secondary education student population), which are operated entirely by the
"Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire, Secondaire et Professionnel" (MEPSP,
Ministry of Primary, Secondary and Vocational Education), and (ii)
subsidized schools, administered by the main religious organizations
(Catholic, Protestant, Kimbanguist and Muslim) which have national school
networks ("reseaux") and a longstanding historical involvement in the
sector. After a long period of confusion (including the nationalization of
all church properties), the division of administrative, pedagogic and
financial responsibilities between the State and the churches has been
redefined in the Loi-Cadre of 1986.   Second, purely private, (non-
subsidized) schools enroll less than 4% of the students at both primary and
secondary levels, and are mostly run by churches (e.g. Jesuits) or, in the
case of professional training, by large corporations (e.g. Gecamines). The
"Ministere de l'Enseignement Superieur et Universitaire et de la Recherche
Scientifique" (MESURS, Ministry of Higher Education) handles matters related
to post-secordary education.
2.03 The MEPSP is structured into nine "Directions" (Directorates), under
the control of the permanent secretary ("Secretaire General"' as shown in
Annex 2-2. The "Direction des Programmes Scolaires et des Materiels
Didactiques" (DPSMD, Directorate for Pedagogy) plays a key role in
developing curricula and disseminating pedagogic advice and information.
Supervision services are in a single directorate ("Inspection Generale de
l'Enseignement"). In addition, various other services are semi-autonomous:
among them, the "Service de Controle de la Paie des Enseignants" (SECOPE,
Teacher Pay Service) manages the teachers' wage bill and has undertaken a
comprehensive census of (real and fictitious) teachers, under the direct
control of the minister. The MEPSP has 11 regional offices (headed by a
Regional Representative -- "Reged"), and sub-regional offices (headed by a
"Sous-Reged"). Supervision is regionalized (one "Inspecteur Principal
Regional," or Chief Regional Supervisor, leads a group of supervisors), and
so is the SECOPE (Annex 2-3 charts the decentralized structure of the
Ministry). Schools have relative de facto autonomy, because the country is
so immense.
2.04 The higher education sector is administered by three bodies: (i) the
MESURS, which has its own specialized services such as the "Commission
Permanente des Etudes" (Permanent Studies Commission) and a distinct
planning service (Direction de la Planification), (ii) one administration
board for each of the three sets of institutions (Universities, Institutes



4-
of Technology and Secondary Teacher Training Centers) and (iii) the
institutions themselves, which, formally, have an autonomous management.
2.05 In the public primary and secondary schools administerea by religious
Non-government Organizations (NGOs), a parallel hierarchy is to be found: at
the top, the "Coordinations Nationales" directly emanate from the four main
churches. At the regional level, local "Coordinateurs" (paid out of the
state budget, like the administrative and teaching staff of these schools)
complement the work of the supervisors, and ensure adherence to the
objectives of their respective churches.
2.   Main Enrollment Patterns
2.06 Quantitative educational achievements in primary education, measured
in either gross or net enrollment rates (79% and 61%, respectively in
1987/88), are comparable to the average in other countries of Sub-Saharan
Africa. Enrollments at this level (Annexes 2-4 and 2-5 provide detailed
statistics) -- presently 4.4 million -- have been leveling off for the last
decade, and have failed to keep pace with population growth (enrollment
rates dropped from 92% in 1978/79 to their current level). Gender
inequities at the primary level are less marked on average than in other
countries of Sub-Saharan Africa (enrollment rates were an estimated 90% for
boys and 64% for girls in 1986/87). Geographical disparities persist,
however. Primary enrollment rates approach universality in some regions
(such as Kinshasa and Bas-Zaire), but have remained less satisfactory in
relatively disadvantaged regions such as Kivu and Bandudu (64% and 69%,
respectively). These regional averages probably mask even wider disparities
at the sub-regional level, but current statistics do not allow to
substantiate them precisely.
2.07 At the secondary level, enrollment (see Annexes 2-6 and 2-7) has
expanded moderately since 1978/79, up to about 1.1 million students, and the
gross enrollment rate reaches 23% (the Sub-Saharan average is 24%). This
expansion is entirely accounted for by technical and vocaticnal education,
in which 27% of secondary students are currently enrolled. bender and
geographical disparities are greater than at the primary level, with male
enrollment nearly three times that of female, and close to fouriold
differences among regions (Kinshasa enrolls 40%, and Haut Zaire 11% of their
respective cohorts). Private, unsubsidized schools are principally geared
toward well-to-do segments of the urban population. Enrollment in higher
education has soared from 15,000 in 1971/72 to 41,000 in 1985/86, and 61,000
in 1988/89, mostly as a result of the development of technical institutes
which r-'presented 32% of total enrollments in 1988/89 compared with 12%
fiftee.. years earlier (Annex 2-8).
B.    Sectoral Issues
1.   Decline in the Quality of Education
2.08 The quality of instructional services provided in public schools has
fallen to an unacceptable level. Most inputE. are either insufficient or in



-5-
poor condition mostly because of lack of funds to buy/maintain them. There
are strong indications that the pedagogic value of the education received
has dangerously deteriorated. High rates of repetition in primary education
(paras. 2.14 and 2.15) show that the problem starts at this level, and gets
worse as students progress to secondary and higher education. Students
leaving the system after completing primary school often are 1ll-prepared to
benefit from vocational training in skills needed in the ,modern sector, and
often have not mastered basic skills necessary to be more productive in the
informal sector. In short, despite relatively high enrollment rates, there
is a serious risk of under-educating the current generation of Zairian
youths and of eroding the country's human capital base.
2.09 Shortages of textbooks and teacher guides have reached crisis
proportions, hindering the effectiveness of teachers and student
performance. Notable exceptions are unsubsidized private schools and some
church-operated public schools that have access to external funds. Parents
are responsible for purchasing textbooks in primary education. This practice
raises a serious issue of equity as students from underDrivileged families
invariably lack access to textbooks. Also of concern is the limited
institutional capacity for developing texLbooks and teaching materials.
Even when educational materials are available, lengthy distribution delays
occur, especially in rural areas. When books are in the classroom, teachers
often may not make the best use of them, because of improper training. In
higher education, libraries lack books and laboratories lack basic
scientific equipment.
2.10 Zaire's roughly 180,000 teachers are under-qualified and underpaid;
they are highly unstable and unprepared to make up for the lack of teaching
materials.  Initial salaries are low (about US$240 a year in 1988 for a
qualified primary school teacher) and earning profiles are flat (the
maximum/minimnum ratio does not exceed 1.9), giving teachers little incentive
to stay in the trade, and even less to perform well. Average wages (US$ 350
and US$ 650 for primary and secondary school teachers, or 2 and 3.1 times
per capita GNP, respectively, in 1988), are not competitive with those
offered for equivalent levels of training in the modern sector.
2.11 The dramatic erosion in public salaries (the index of real salaries
plunmmeted from 100 in 1975 to 16 in 1985) has resulted in low productivity,
high absenteeism and attrition, and unethical practices -- including
extortion of contributions from students. With salaries accounting for less
than a fourth of urban households' basic expenditures, teachers commonly
pursue alternative income-generating activities, which hurts the quality of
their services. In Kinshasa, 39% of the 10,200 primary school teachers on
the payroll in 1987 had resigned by October 1989. Teacher salaries in some
church-operated schools are topped with private funds collected by the
churches. Teachers' unrest led the government to grant massive salary
increases in October 1989 and July 1990, thus partiallv restoring the loss
of purchasing power: between October 1988 and October 1990, salaries have
increased by 650% for primary school teachers and by 570% for secondary
schcnl teachers, bringing their average annual earnings at about US$ 700 and
US$ 1,000, respectively (Annex 2.9). As inflation accelerates, pressures
for further raises are mounting.



- 6 -
2.12 The other major issue concerniing teachers is their low level of
qualification. There are no genuir.e teacher training institutes at the
primary level. Future teachers enroll in the "pedagogic" stream of
secondary schools, which are considered more as a relatively easy route to
university than as professional schools. There, only general curricula are
taught, and there are few opportunities for classroom teaching experience.
'r[is iniadequate training is compounded by a lack of well-developed in-
service training programs and poor supervision (para. 2.24).  Becauise of
thiese poor conditions, it is increasingly difficult to recruit thle best
students in the ISP for the training of secondary sch( ' teachers.
Student/teacher ratios are rather low (1:35 and !:22 in primary and
secondary schools, respectively), but these are averages.  Some rutal
(primary) schools have fewer than 30 pupils per teacl-er, but there may be as
many as 180 students per teacher in highly populated urban areas.
2.13 Physical facilities are generally ill-maintained and often
overcrowded. The financial disengagement of the state in recent years has
meant an increased reliance on parents and local communities for school
construction and maintenance. The result has been poor maintenance of
existing capital stock by local communities with limited resources and
uneven access to educational facilities -- with remote rural areas falling
further behind. Recent efforts by the MEPSP to assess the status of
physical facilities (12,000 primary and 4,200 secondary schools), and to
rationalize their use reveal that some schools have deteriorated beyond
repair, and many others are in need of immediate rehabilitation to prevent
further non-recuperable losses. In urban areas, where population pressures
are particularly acute, the salient issue is overcrowding (150 students per
class is not uncommon in Kinshasa) and the need to expand classroom
capacity. In highe- education, overcrowding of existing buildings (44% over
capacity at the Univeraity of Kinshasa in 1985/86) greatly reduces the
quality of teaching, let alone research.
2.   Low Efficiency
2.14 An internally inefficient education system. The pedagogical and
financial burden of repetition and the waste of dropouts have reached
intolerable levels and divert scarce resources from the normal processing of
students through the system. The poor quality of education services
contributes to high repetition and dropout rates. At the primary level,
repetition rates reach about 19% (the average in other countries of Sub-
Saharan Africa is 14%). On average, an estimated 795,000 students repeat
each year in primary education (Annex 2-10). These repeaters occupy scarce
school places and prevent eligible candidates from entering the school
system. As a result of cumulative repetition, 54% of the 6th graders in
primary schools are above normal age. The cost per graduate is 60% higher
than it would be without repetition. Another sign of low efficiency in
primary schools is that dropouts represented a sub-population of 487,000 in
1986/87. Factors contributing to high repetition and dropout rates include:
seasonal demands for child labor and a negative perception of the utility of
education in some rural areas (the low economic status of teachers does not
help), inability to pay school fees, and the poor nutritional/health status



of students. In addition, teachers are inadequately prepared to deal with
students of different endowments.
2.15  ln secondary education, repetition rates average 22% in general
streams, 17% in teacher training and technical and commercial streams, and
14% in technical/engineering streams. Data suggest that repetition at the
secondary level has worsened significantly in the last decade; it currentiy
affects 195,000 students. The highest rates are found in sixth grade,
because many students fail the "Examen d'Etat," the examination that paves
the way to higher education. While repetition is kept below 20% in Kinshasa
and Haut-Zaire, it exceeds 25% in Kasai Oriental.
2.16 No control of student flows. The selection of students at various
entry points in the educational hierarchy and their orientation through the
system, are not harmonized. They do not prevent the movement upward of an
education sector which is almost entirely targeted toward the university,
nor do they reflect a policy linking enrollments and costs.  As many as 76%
of the primary education 6th gr.½ers pass the exam and continue in secondary
schools, jamming the general/teacher training streams. The high failure
rate at the "Examen d'Etat" (which is taken at the end of secondary
education) reflects the inadequate preparation of most students: in 1985,
46% of candidates passed the exam without distinction, and only 3% received
a score entitling them to proceed to higher education in the stream of their
choice- (Annex 2-11). The screening device has been somewhat softened,
however, as the pass rate reached 56% in 1988, and internal efficiency in
tertiary education is dangerously low: the success rate at the end of the
primary year of university was 68% in 1986 and 37% of students admitted
dropped out before graduating.
2.17 Poor external efficiency. Each year, about 90,000 students leave
primary school, having failed the terminal exam. About 10,000 students
enter the labor market after completion of a six-years general secondary
schools, while four-years vocational secondary schools produce about 4,500
graduates annually. Education/job matrixes computed by the UNDP/World Bank
human resources study (para. 2.33) show worrisome and aggravating imbalances
in the production of the education system: shortages of middle-level skilled
workers coexist with surpluses of high-level educated generalists. Deficits
are particularly acute in some sectors/spec:ialties such as electro-
mechanics in industry and accountants in most sectors. Qualitative
disequilibrium exist as well: employers blame encyclopedic knowledge, end a
lack of skills most needed to be an efficient employee.
3.   Underfinancing of the Education Sector
2.18 Public expenditures in education, have eroded both in real terms and
as a share of total expenditures. This has thwarted improvements in
quality, and prevented enrollments from keeping up with population growth.
Education's share of the government's total recurrent budget (including debt
servicing) was reduced from about 24% in 1980 to less than 10% in 1989, so
public financing of primary and secondary education in Zaire has declined in
real terms to one of the lowest levels in Africa (Annex 2-12). This
disinvestment in human capital is likely to harm productivity and economic



growth in the long run. iL is probably the single most important issue
facing the education sector. Its resolution requires a commitment to a
radical revision of the current allocation of public resources. A chief
reason for the drastic reduction in education resources was the country's
large debt servicing payments, which during 1984-88 claimed more than 50% of
the government's recurrent budget. In addition, other, non-developmental
heLtors have consistentlv been aiven priority over education and other
social services. Another important factor accounting for the declining
share of education in public expenditures is the shrinking of teachers
wages.
2.19 Although insufficient (paras. 2.10 and 2.11), teachers' salaries
absorb more than 90% of education's current budget, leaving only meager
amounts for non-salary expenditures (Annex 2-13), and resulting in an
increased reliance on alternative sources of financing. Investment
execution rates in the sector typically fall below 50%, and physical
implementation of development programs remains far behind schedule (Annex 2-
14). The intra-sectoral allocation of public resources is markedly
detrimental to primary and secondary education, which, in 1986, together
received only 66% of the total education budget (the Sub-Saharan average
was 75%), compared with 34% received by higher education. Public
expenditures alone represented only US$8 per capita in primary education,
and less than US$20 in secondary education in 1987. Low unit costs (an
estimated US$22 for primary education, US$55 for general education, and
US$96 for technical secondary education) reflect this underfinancing and
suggest limited possibilitieb for further cost reduction. Unit costs in
higher education reach only US$350 (two times per capita GNP, as compared
with a median eight times per capita GNP in Sub-Saharan Africa), suggesting
that even in this relatively advantaged sub-sector, there is little room for
savings (with the possible exception of reducing the scholarship budget).
Regional resources are limited. They do not allow local administrators to
count on even min.'mum materials to operate. Further deterioration of the
education system will be avoided only if education's share in the government
budget is restored to a viable level, allowing decent teachers' salaries and
the purchase of basic materials.
2.20 Public underfinancing of education is unlikely to be compensated for
by an increase in users' contributions, which are already among the highest
in Sub-Saharan Africa and are probably already prohibitive for most
households. Parents' contributions represent an estimated 60% of total
primary and 67% of secondary education expenditures. Parents' contributions
take three forms: (i) compulsory financial fees ("minerval," "frais de
fonctionnement," and "intervention ponctuelle"), aimed mainly to support
operating and administrative costs; (ii) student-related expenses
(transportation, uniforms, textbooks) and (iii) financial or in-kind
supplementary payments to teachers. All together, in 1987 these payments
represented roughly US$13 a pupil per year at the primary level, and three
times as much at the secondary level. There is limited scope for expanding
parental contributions, without creating gross inequities (Annex 2.15). In
fact, both stagnating enrollments and high drop-out rates found in some
regions appear to stem in part from families' inability to pay school fees.
Moreover, the collection and use of parental  .ontributions are often



- 9 -
inefficient and unstandardized. In a recent political move, the President
of the Republic has decided to budgetize the minerval. P'owever, the
modalities and consequences of this decision have not yet been analyzed.
The situation is different in private schools, where student fees twenty
times higher than those charged in the public sector have been observed. In
higher education, parental contributions represent a smaller share of
current expenditures. An increase in university fees is desirable for
efficiency and possibly equity, but no initiative has been taken in this
direction.
2.21 External assistance, which also favors higher education, is grossly
insufficient, both as compared with other sectors in Zaire and with the same
sector in other African countries (see Annex 2.16). Education's share in
international concessional aid to Zaire, presently less than 20%, has been
steadily declining. External assistance is predominantly directed toward
higher education (which absorbed 40% of the assistance allocated to the
sector in 1981-86) and vocational secondary education, virtua:ly by-passing
primary education. Most official aid is channelled through the technical
assistance programs of a few bilateral agencies, subject to political
factors, as evidenced by the recent withdrawal of Belgian technical
assistance. The recurrent budget situation and the subsequent lack of
governmental counterpart funds severely constrain external financing of
investment. NGOs, especially international religious groups, seem to play a
more and more important role, but little is known of their mode of operation
and their financial contributions.
4.   Lack of Planning and Managerial Capacities
2.22 The central administration for primary and secondary education lacks
mechanisms for planning, programming and monitoring sectoral long-term
development. Political decisions are taken at the highest levels of the
MEPSP without enough input from technical divisions.  These decisions are
more often a reaction to the pressure of facts than the translation of a
well-defined long-term sectoral strategy. Investment budget preparation is
done in isolation by political appointees, without standardized methods.
The resulting problems are compounded by the unreliable curren_. expenditure
forecasts for the medium term. The ministry does not have well-established,
transparent criteria for valiAly selecting from the requests forwarded by
its various services for current and investment expenditures. As a result,
the MEPSP is typically in a weak bargaining position in budget negotiations,
and is often short cut by either the ministry of finance (current budget) or
that of planning (investment budget).
2.23 Duplicate efforts and the lack of communication between services
(especially the planning division, the teacher pay unit, or SECOPE, the
computer division, and the general services division) also hinder
administrative efficiency. Similarly, the MESURS does not perform well in
staff management, sectoral programming and the production of statistics.
Furthermore, lack of systematic coordination between the planning divisions
of the two ministries hinders the development of coherent sector-wide
policies on overlapping or common issues such as the transition from
secondary to higher education, or secondary school teacher training.



- 10 -
2.24 Poor working conditions at the central and regional levels hamper
intra-departmental communications, generate attitudes and practices that are
prejudiciatle to productivity, and prevent the full operation of both
administrative decentralization and pedagogic supervision mechanisms.
Lacking transport, too many MEPSP civil servants arrive late to work, leave
early, and spend a good deal of time traveling between the 22 ill-maintained
buildings located in five sites .cattered around the capital -- thus
devoting only a few hours to their actual duties. Isolated and without the
basic infrastructure to work and travel in their administrative territory,
the MEPSP representatives in the provinces ("Reged") and at the sub-
provincial level ("Sous-Reged") play only a passive role in the management
of the school system, which remains highly centralized. Likewise,
supervisors and "coordinateurs", their local counterparts from church
hierarchies, rarely visit their schools; thus, they cannot exert
significant pedagogic role, and often limit themselves to purely
bureaucratic activities. In higher education, administrators and
technicians at all levels are widely under-qualified.
C.    The Government's Sectoral Objectives and Strategy
2.25 To make up for the virtual absence of university graduates needed to
staff its higher administration after Independence, Zaire invested in higher
education at the expense of primary and secondary education, which were
somewhat abandoned to religious missions.  Nationalization in 1974 marked an
abrupt reversal of church involvement in education, with neither a
corresponding increase in state involvement, nor a larger allocation of
public resources. In the early 80s, a National Committee for Primary and
Secondary Education was created, and started working c.in new structures and
programs to professionalize primary and secondary education.
2.26 More recently, the MEPSP has taken a few corrective actions. The
most important of these have been (1) the streamlining of the teacher force,
(2) the rationalization of the teacher pay system and p:ocedures, and (3)
the progressive and systematic implementation of the school map. Other
significant actions include the adoption of four national languages as
teaching languages in the first four years of primary school, and the
strengthening of syllabus preparation and textbook development capabilities
within MEPSP. But language practices still vary greatly depending on the
teachers, the area, and the social compr ition of the classroom. Textbook
development is limited mostly to secondt   education.  The government
promulgated a "Loi-Cadre" in 1986 to lay out the legal framework covering
the education system from pre-primary to higher levels. This law defines
the responsibilities of the State and private operators (mostly the churches
and their networks), as well as those of parents. However, delineations
remain ambiguous and the former system of "conventions" has not really been
replaced by a clear-cut structure. Uncertainties left by the law hamper the
restoration of a climate favorable to private education initiatives. In a
new development, the government has decided to take me .res to enhance the
role of NGOs and is considering to relinquish properties t&, en away from
churches during the nationalization of nationalizations of the mid 1970s.



- 11 -
2.27 The government's policy regarding cost recovery in the education
sector is also characterized by contradictory moves. On the one hand, the
MESURS took steps to increase student participation for welfare services in
higher education. Subsidies for student lodging, food and transportation
were discontinued in 1986/87, but growing student dissatisfaction diverted
the government from this policy.   As a result, alchough officially closed,
student lodgings are fully occupied and subsidized transport is again being
provided. Following a recent presidential decision (September 1990)
apparently taken on political grounds only, the minerval has been shifted
from parents' responsibility to the state budget.
2.28 With the quality and quantity of primary and secondary education
seriously deteriorating, .-inancial resources shrinking, and social pressures
increasing, the government has come to recognize the need for a long-term,
financially sustainable sectoral strategy. The ministry has prepared a
strategy that is closely in line with the conclusions and recommendations of
the 1988 Bank Sector Review. It has been extensively discussed with the
project preparation team, in close coordination with general macroeconomic
discussions. Simultaneously, the government has initiated a multi-sectoral
public expenditures review. In the education sector, this review should
reflect macroeconomic constraints and budget priorities on the one hand, and
technical parameters specific to education, on the other.
2.29 The sectoral strategy, presented in more detail in paras. 3.02 to
3.12 and in Annex 3.1, is the product of a concentrated effort. It reflects
a consensus within the government and among nongovernment educators that
education, along with other social activities, should regain its position as
a top priority investment, and thus should benefit from incremental
financing and be made more efficient. The strategy specifies the most
realistic development scenario within which to achieve clearly defined and
sectoral objectives compatible with budgetary constraints and consistent
with labor market absorptive capacities. The strategy is organized around
four themes: (i) adjusting enrollment targets (intakes, transitions, and
outputs) at each level and in each stream, according to priorities, taking
into account financial, physical and human resources, needs and equity;
(ii) improving the quality and internal efficiency of education, starting
with primary education, on which the entire system rests; (iii) co-
ordinating and rationalizing the work of all constituencies active in
education (including NGOs), and upgrading staff working conditions; and
(iv) mobilizing additional resources in the education sector and
strengthening their programming and management. The document lays out
objectives, measures to be implemented, and indicators for monitoring and
evaluation.
D.    The Bank's Role
The Lending Program
2.30 Since 1951, the Bank has signed ten loans with Zaire (for a total
amount of US$300 million, while IDA has granted 54 credits (for a total
amount of US$1,240 million). The Bank Group has financed projects in



- 12 -
agriculture (9%), transport (34%), mining and industry (32%), energy (6%),
social sectors (8%) and structural adjustment operations (11%). The current
portfolio is composed of 25 IDA credits and the TBRD-financed Gecamines
rehabilitation project. IFC has invested in nine operations and holds an
equity participation.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Sector
2.31 IDA has supported Zaire's education sector through four credits. The
first project (Credit 272-ZR, approved in 1971 and closed in 1981) provided
US$6.5 million, mainly to help train teachers for primary, secondary, and
technical education. Lack of timely provision of counterpart funds, a
considerable rise in construction costs and widespread civil strife reduced
the scope of the project by half, a result described as positive but mixed
in the project completion report prepared by Unesco/government.  The Second
Project (Credit 624-ZR, for US$21.0 million), was approved in 1976 and
closed in 1982.  It aimed to construct and equip primary teacher training
schools, agricultural technician training schools and one higher
agricultural institute, and to provide technical assistance to these
institutions. The rising costs of civil works, and government's failure to
carry out measures that would have allowed continuation of the amended
project resulted in cancellation of a large undisbursed balance. The project
performance audit report (Report No.5678) pointed out that project
preparation and appraisal were unnecessarily rushed.
2.32 The third project (Education Technical Assistance and Training
Project - Credit 1519-ZR - approved in 1984 for US$9.0 million and about to
be closed) helped the MEPSP improve its planning, management, ar.d
administrative capacity. In particular, the project aimed to (i) strergthen
education planning through systematic data collection and a pilot program of
school mapping, (ii) improve the relevance of education by preparing
programs to upgrade technical teachers, a pilot textbooks operation and a
survey of technical schools, and (iii) strengthen education management and
administration (e.g., through training of MEPSP staff, school principals,
and supervisors and providing better communication and transportation
equipment). Various delays -- particularly of counterpart funds -- have
weakened implementation, which is nevertheless more satisfactory than in the
previous projects. Some operations, such as the textbook experience and the
gathering of education statistics, suggest that sustainable activities can
be undertaken in the current framework. The third project has been
instrumental in facilitating the preparation of the proposed operation, and
has permitted to launch activities to be eventually supported by the new
credit. All three projects show that: (i) the department's managerial
capacity is still weak, (ii) project implementation can be jeopardized by
the unavailability of counterpart funds, and (iii) operations must be
paralleled by sectoral measures.
2.33 The higher education rationalization project (credit 1839-ZR, signed
in 1987) aims to formulate a long-term strategy and supports independently
justified, high-priority measures. The project is implemented by the
MESURS, and comprises: (i) improving administration and management, (ii)
upgradi.og teaching/learning, (iii) strategy development, and (iv) providing



- 13 -
teaching materials. Another important element in Bank assistance to the
sector is the work on Public Expenditure Program (PEP) currently being
executed under the technical assistance project to improve the management of
central ministries, which has already helped clarify budget classifications
and identify clear-cut criteria on specific sectoral grounds. Finally, the
UNDP-financed, Bank-executed study on human resources (released in July
1989) is a key input in the analysis of long-term changes in Zaire's labor
market. Based on a representative sample of employers from the modern
sector, the study provides ar. accuLate breakdown of modern employment, and
forecasts skilled manpower needs by level and type of qualification, and by
sector and sub-sector, for the next 15 years. Findings suggest large and
deepening shortages in middle-level technicians in many fields and an
increase in the oversupply of high-level generalists.
Lending Objectives and Policy Dialogue
2.34  Assistance Objectives.   The main objective of the Bank Group is to
promote equitable and sustainable growth of income. The policy advice and
dialogue focus on: (i) sound macroeconomic policies (exchange rate, public
expenditures and incentive structure), (ii) improving governance in the area
of public expenditures and Gecamines, and (iii) preserving Zaire's long term
development potential, particularly human capital, essential infrastructure,
and environment. A corollary objective is to help develop a donor's
consensus on Zaire's development priorities and policy options, and help
mobilize the external financing required to realize the country's
development potential.
2.35 In response to deteriorating country performance, and public
expenditure management in particular, the Bank has scaled back its lending
program. This includes indefinitely postponing the preparation of new
quick-disbursing operations and on large investments which are predicated on
improved public expenditure management. The current assistance strategy
consists of a core program of high priority investment and institution
building projects which address long-term development issues, and whose
benefits would continue to accrue even in the absence of a satisfactory
macroeconomic framework.
2.36 Policy Dialogue. Policy dialogue between the Bank and Zaire has gone
through several periods of ups and downs over the last decade, reflecting
the uneven management of the country's economy and the authorities'
inability to implement sustained structural adjustment policies. Over the
last twelve months, the dialogue has focused primarily on the size and the
composition of public expenditures, as it is recognized that growth
prospects will not improve without a substantial shift in public expenditure
allocation and control.
2.37 Political considerations will be high on Zaire's agenda in the next
twelve months, including the introduction of a multi-party system, a
revision of the Constitution and general elections. In the meantime, the
dialogue between the Bank and Zaire will be pursued through discussions on
public expenditures and through preparation of core investment projects,
including social sectors and infrastructure maintenance.



- 14 -
Sectoral Objectives, Strategy, and Dialogue
2.38 The Bank's objective in social sectors is to prevent any further
degradation, to preserve main infrastructure and institutions and to
strengthen the potential for a long-term development of Zaire's human
capital basis. In the long run, the education sector is of paramount
importance in Zaire's recovery efforts and to sustain the well-being of its
people. A stronger social infrastructure and a sound basic education system
are prerequisites for sustainable development. Efficient and equitable
education services not only permit direct productivity gains, but also help
to alleviate poverty and are critical to long-term progress on the status of
health and nutrition. In addition, schools are proven vehicles for
improving the status of women, for curbing population excessive growth and
for promoting awareness of environment problems, all key issues in Zaire.
2.39 IDA should therefore give its support to rehabilitation and reform of
the education sector through financing the "Projet de Rehabilitation du
Secteur Educatif"-- PRESED. Like the Social Sector Project (SSP) recently
negotiated, the proposed education sector rehabilitation project would
reflect and support the sectoral strategy of the government, and address
both urgent needs and long-term issues. The current state of emergency in
the education sector and the weakness of administration call for immediate
action under the proposed investment operation to restore the quality of
basic education, while supporting the definition and launching of
rationalization measures needed to trigger the adjustment. in the sector.
Because of the long-term nature of adjustment, IDA assistance to the sector
will be needed well beyond the proposed project to ensure the sustainability
of the measures.
2.40 The proposed operation will build upon previous IDA involvement in
the sector (education technical assistance and training project -- credit
1519-ZR), and would complement the ongoing higher education rationalization
project (credit 1839-ZR). In particular, it will intensify efforts to
strengthen planning activities in the MEPSP, and bolster collaboration
between the MEPSP and the MESURS, to harmonize control of students flows and
resource allocation policy in the two education sub-sectors.
2.41 The project will foster NGO involvement in the sector and encourage
the government to make the sector more attractive to these organizations
which often have extensive experience and expertise in the field. It will
also encourage an increase in and a restructuring of public spending on
education and health. To this end, it will promote public expenditures
programming as a tool to boost and monitor spending on social
infrastructure. Under the project, the government would also allocate
targeted incremental public resources to the education sector as of the 1990
budget. These specific allocations, which already took place in the 1990
budget, are meant to finance non-salary recurrent costs in the field, at the
school level.
2.42 Finally, IDA should catalyze other donors' contributions, which have
been quite modest so far and decreasing, to help mobilize the resources



- 15 -
needed for rehabilitatiotn of the sector, especially at the primary level.
The Round Table on Social Sectors, held in Kinshasa in October 1989 with the
active help of UNDP, was a good opportunity for coordination among donors.
III.    THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives and Description
3.01 The proposed investment project is part of a core program which,
together with the Social Sector Project (SSP), aims at responding to the
most urgent needs of the population and at restoring Zaire's human capital
basis. The project has two objectives: (i) to take immediate actions to
stop the deterioration of primary education and to start -ehabilitating the
basic system of instruction, and (ii) to help the government restore the
conditions needed for long-term, balanced development of a more efficient
education sector. To this end, the project will include the following
actions: (a) help the government gradually implement sectoral adjustment
measures aimed at regenerating internal efficiency and financial relevance
in the sector and mobilizing necessary resources from private and public
sources; (b) promote the quality, coverage, and internal efficiency of
primary education by providing textbooks and teacher guides, organizing in-
service training, and launching pilot actions to improve initial teacher
training in the region of Haut-Zaire, and (c) strengthen the MEPSP' ability
to perform its basic tasks at both central and regional levels by
rationalizing and key services and improving work conditions.
1.   Sectoral Adjustment Support
3.02 The government has adopted a strategy for development of the
education sector. The strategy (Annex 3-1) was reviewed and agreed by IDA.
It provides for a redirection of resources toward the education sector, with
a special emphasis on primary education. The strategy contains a series of
policy measures described below and spells out the educational priorities
that the proposed operation, along with other projects, intends to support.
The most crucial adjustment measures in the strategy, condition the
financing of investments by the credit, both at the effectiveness stage, and
during implementation. The strategy is based on a development scenario,
which meshes financial and technical parameters with enrollment objectives
and key performance indicators. Implementation of the strategy will be
reviewed on an annual basis (para. 5.03b).   A comprehensive list of
measures to be implemented is synthesized in Annex 3-2, and the scenario is
shown in Annex 3-3.
3.03 However, a significant effort has also to be made by the government
on the budget side, so as to mobilize necessary resources for the sector.
This is why the government is asked to allocate incremental recurrent
resources to the sector (measure no.1 of the sectoral strategy). This
Special Budgetary Allocation (SBA), to come from the central government,
will be programmed and spent according to precise mechanisms to be monitored



- 16 -
by the Project Coordination Unit of the SSP, and reviewed by IDA. Proof of
the annual inscription of the SBA and presentation of its utilization scheme
is incorporatedl in the conditionality of the proposed operation, as well as
in that of the SSP (para. 5.03a).
3.04 Adlusting Student Enrollment Under Clear Priorities. One of the
government's first priorities is to stop the decline in primary education
enrollment rates and to allow enrollments to increase at the same pace as
demographic growth (3% a year), paying special attention to rural areas.
Student flows will be monitored throughout the system so that enrollment in
each stream and at each level is adjusted to existing capacity, financial
constraints, the need for teacher training, and known absorptive capacities
of both the modern and informal sectors. Measures to be implemented
include:
(a) creating multi-grade classes in rural areas -- to be
started under the proposed project (para. 3.19a);
(b) keeping intakes in secondary general education at their current
level;
(C) limiting enrollment in primary school teacher training to
projected needs -- this measure to be under special scrutiny
during joint IDA/government reviews;
(d) encouraging enrollment in short vocational courses; and
(e) strengthening the selection nature of the "Examen d'Etat", to
keep intakes into higher education in line with the limits set
up in the higher education rationalization project anJ to
prevent an over-production of graduates.
3.05 Raising Internal Efficiency by Improving the Quality of Education.
School attendance without books and skilled teachers serves little purpose.
Similarly, repetition without the inputs that assure quality of instruction
is not worthwhile. The ministry will thus ensure that enrolled students
receive more, move faster and perform better. Measures to this end will be
taken at all levels, but primary education will be a priority since most
youths will not go beyond this level and the achievements of those who
continue in the education system will depend on what and how well they
learned in primary school. Improving the quality of instruction will
ultimately boost internal efficiency; but, for efficiency to be increased
without long delays, administrative steps will have to be taken. Measures
to be implemented include:
(a) departmental measures limiting the repetition rates in primary
and secondary education, especially in intermediate grades that
are not at "knowledge thresholds" (1st, 3rd and 5th grades);
(b) reinforcement of pedagogic discipline and practical experience
in primary school teacher training classes;



- 17 -
(c)  stabilization of thci number of primary school teachers by
1imiting access by graduates from teacher training colleges to
hiigher education, and career promotioni after minimurn in-service
training;
(d)  providing textbooks and teacher guides in primary and secondary
education. The first generation of books and teacher guides
will be organized under the proposed project at the primary
education level (para. 3.14); and
(e)  providing basic classroom equipment in primary and secondary
schools through the special budget line (SBA) to be credited to
the MEPSP regularly on a progressive basis (para. 3.08).
3.06 Improving Cooperation and Working Conditions. The ministry will take
steps to improve management of the education system. The thrust of these
actions will be to define more clearly the responsibilities of
constituencies and to bolster the productivity of better equipped staff.
The ministry will:
(a) pursue the dialogue the MEPSP initiated with its partners of
NGOs (notably church-affiliated "reseaux") by finalizing
official documents, completing the 1986 Loi-Cadre, and clearly
mapping each party's responsibilities and roles for the
management, financing, and operation of schools. Documents
should provide incentives encouraging private initiatives in
education. In this context, the government is considering to
retrocede church properties used for educational purposes, and
nationalized in the mid-seventies;
(b) complete a detailed inventory of the staff needed to
efficiently operate key divisions of the ministry (to be
undertaken by an external agency/consultant). The study and its
recommendations will be transmitted to IDA for comments before
their implementation (p'ras. 3.23a and 5.04c);
(c) continue the inventory of teachers, elimination of fictitious
staff and improvement and computerization of the payroll, as
successfully undertaken by the SECOPE; and
(d) upgrade qualification and working condition of the regional and
sub-regional administrative staff.
3.07  Resource Mobilization, Programming and Budgeting.  To compensate for
the current underfinancing of educ tion and allow its revitalization, the
government will show its commitment to the sector through appropriate budget
reallocations. Meanwhile, the two ministries in charge of the sector will
jointly improve sectoral planning and the MEPSP will program and rationalize
expenditure allocation. To achieve the quantitative and qualitative
objectives set forth in the program, the MEPSP budget will be increased by
at least 4% a year in real terms and the intra-sectoral budget allocation
will be modified to reflect the new priority given to basic education. By



- 18 -
1997, 75% of the budget of the government should be alloctated to primary
education, 18% to secondary general education and teacher ttaining, and 7%
to secondary, technical and vocational education.
3.08  To allow the schools to function, the ministry's budget will be
allocated a special credit line (SBA) which will supplement regular
recurrenit resources, and be used to buy imore non-salary Inputs for schools,
mnainly blackboards and chalks (AQNnex 3-4).  Funuds thus collected  thiough
thAe SBA (about US$3.5 nmillion in 1990) are to be clhanneled entirely to
schools for the purchase of basic teaching materials.  This allocation,
linked to projected enrollments, will be based on a progressive per pupil
budgetary entitlemnent, as follows:
Primary education:    US$0.50 equivalent per pupil in 1990
US$0.75    ""   in 1991
US$1.00                    It  in 1992 and thereafter.
Secondary education: US$1.00 equivalent  per pupil in 1990
US$1.50    "         "     1   in 1991
US$2.00             I"    "    in 1992 and thereafter.
3.09  These measures are expected to have a direct impact on the quality of
instruction.  An operational plan of physical and financial execution of the
SBA during the 1990-92 period was transmitted to IDA as a condition of
negotiations of the present project (para. 5.01e). Implementation of these
measures will be entrusted to the SSP Coordination Unit, with the assistance
of the "SBA Committee" recently created by the MEPSP, and the SECOPE, which
has an efficient regional network (SECOPER), and successfully manages the
teacher salary system. These incremental resources will be reflected in the
Public Expenditures Program (PEP). They have bLen budgeted and entirely
committed in 1990 (para. 5.01k). The SBA shows the government's commitment
to finance the mix of inputs needed to produce primary and secondary school
graduates. It will also prepare the MEPSP to progressively pay for books
and guides, the first provision of which will be financed by the proposed
project. By 1992, the allotment for pedagogic input would amount to US$2.50
equivalent per primary pupil, assuming that books will be made available
undar the proposed project at a cost of US$1.50. This amount is only half
the provision considered minimum by African standards. To pursue this
effort beyond the scope of the SSP, and to maintain the government's
commitment to education, annual renewal of the government's commitment will
be sought, and is also included in the SSP system of conditionality (para.
5.03a).
3.10 A sectoral committee ("Comite de Strategie Sectorielle", CSS) will be
instituted under the joint responsibility of the MEPSP and the MESURS, but
hosted by the MEPSP, with assistance from the proposed project. This
committee will ensure that the sectoral strategy is implemented. It will be
responsible for monitoring overall sector performance and evolution. It
will coumnission specific studies and recommend corrective measures of an
institutional, financial and pedagogic nature. The committee is already in
place. The nomination of its three high-level permanent staff (one



- 19-
cconomI;t-caordinator to be recruited interniationlally, one M[PSP staff, and
one MESURS staff, both to be seconded by thieir respective admii1I;t rat Ion)
should follow fhoi tly (para. 3.12 and Annex 3-5).
3.11  Under supervision of the CSS, the Planning Unilt of the t1EPSP will
prepare annually a three-year sectoral PEP includinig recurrent and
investment, items, witlh a financing sclhedule brokeni down by public and
private domestic sources, ancl foreigni sources.  The program will be
presented each year to IDA for discussion (para. 5.03c). A draft PEP was
submitted at negotiations for review, anid will be updated shor-2y (paLa.
5.011 and Aninex 3-6). The investment budget will be prepared by the
Direction de la Planification et des Statistiques Scolaires under
supervision of the CSS, following strict, transparent criteria agreed upon
with the ministry of planning. Both investment and current budgets will be
prepared and expenditures managed by the general administration services of
the MEPSP with a methodology and procedures to be monitored by the CSS.
3.12 Support for Implementation of the Strategy. The project will help
the government, especially the MEPSP and the MESURS, monitor progress in
application of the strategy and the balanced and rational dcvelopment of the
sector. To this end, the project will finance technical assistance for a
high level economist!education planner who will act as coordinator of the
CSS for the duration of the project. The expert's draft terms of reference
were transmitted to IDA and international search has been undertaken before
negotiations (para. 5.01b). Effective recruitment of the coordinator,
secondment of two high level staff from the MEPSP and the MESLRS and
availability of already selected offices is a condition of credit
effectiveness (para. 5.02a). In addition, the project will assist the CSS
with basic equipment. It will contribute to the equipment of the planning
unit and to overseas training for selected staff of this unit. The
government has requested the UNDP to finance technical assistance (para.
5.01i); evidence of this commitment will condition credit effectiveness
(para. 5.02d).
2.   Restoring the Quality of Instruction
3.13 To improve student achievement and reduce repetition, the project
will help authorities increase and improve the factors most important to the
education process. To have a full impact, activities and investments
financed under this first component by IDA, other donors and the government
will be paralleled by the various measures designed for the same purpose in
the sectoral strategy as described in the Education Sector Strategies letter
of January 18, 1991 (measures no. 4 to 14, Annex 3-1).
3.14 Provision of Textbooks and Teacher Guides in Primary Education. The
project will make available one set of textbooks in basic subjects (math,
French and national languages) for each two pupils in one sub-region
selected by the ministry in each of the eleven regions (representing about a
third of total primary enrollments). It will also provide guides for every
teacher (in the same and additional subjects), throughout the country. To
this end, the unit responsible for selecting and adapting textbooks
(Division de l'Enseignemunt Primaire et Maternel--DEPM) will be reinforced,



- 20 -
and its functions redefined (para. 3.18). The project will also strengthen
the editing capacJty of the MEPSP (Cellule Edition). The staffing of these
units has already started. Only books deemed printable without major
changes will be financed by the credit. A special committee was appoint i
to make a final selection of books to be printed. A list of readily
printable books presented by the MEPSP as a condition of negotiations (para.
5.01c) was discussed and agreed. Books will not be produced on government
printing facilities, unless they are demonstrated to be competitive. To
make sure that the books selected and bought will be appropriate for the
programs entire lifespan, the ministry has promul6ated the programs that are
the basis for book evaluation and selection and has committed itself not to
modify these programs during the project.
3.15 The project will also finance textbook distribution to the schools.
Distribution will be entrusted to NGOs end private transporters whose
capacities have been demonstrated by the textbook experience undertaken by
the recently completed project (Annex 3-7). Full cost recovery will not be
a goal, given the level of resources in most Zairian households and the cost
of other basic (primarily health) services they must contribute to, but
parental contributions will be sought and allocated under the authority of
local school committees to improve teachers' conditions. The proceeds of
the contributions will be managed, and their use determined by local school
committees, under the authority of each school director, who will see that
they are allocated to operations that improve teachers' living conditions.
Final decisions on the amount, allocation and management of the proceeds
will be made after completion of a study on student fees.
3.16  The project will finance the printing, distributior.  -Ld storage of
books and teacher guides, as well as equipment and increnmeat.i  operating
costs of the Division de l'Enseignement Primaire et Materne.' and of the
Cellule Edition. French Cooperation Agency (FAC) already pxovides technical
assistance for the first of these units (2 education speciali3ts), and is
likely to expand it (4 others units mijht join the two alrec-y in place in
the next two years).  Until July 1990, the Belgium Cooperati.n. Agency (AGCD)
offered technical assistance to the Cellule Edition. AGCD experts
previously working at either CEREDIP (Centre de Recherche et a. Diffusion de
l'Information Pedagogigue) or SERNAFOR (Service National de 1n A,rmation)
played a key role in the functioning of those institutions ane t,teir
withdrawal, following a recent political decision, might affect tb-e quality
of the work. Therefore, the credit will finance technical assistance
necessary to maintain the core activities of these units running and to
undertake the additional operations linked to the implementatior of the
component. As a condition of negotiations, the government has addressed a
request to the FAC to continue/reinforce its cooperation in these sp.cific
activities (para. 5.01i). A firm commitment by the FAC is a condition of
credit effectiveness (para. 5.02d).
3.17 At the same time, the government will finance basic school material,
on the special budget line (SBA) to be opened cn behalf of the MEPSP under
the proposed project and the SSP (paras. 3.08 and 3.09). The spending
program under this incremental budget will be monitored by the SSP
Coordinating Unit and the MEPSP (through a special committee involving



- . L-
SECOPE), and will be suoject to review by IDA. Distribution of the
fungibles will be organized by the unit responsible for book distribution
and supervised by the SECOPE, in collaboration with the SSP Coordinating
Unit.
3.18 In-Service Training for the Use of Textbooks. To ensure that
teachers can make the best possible use of the books as teaching tools, the
project will support a targeted in-service tra.ning operation designed to
help teachers adapt their teaching to the pupils' use of books. The
principle and structure of the training could be replicated later, on a
larger scale and more systematically. The operation will be triggered at
the central level of the ministry, by the "Division de l'Enseignement
Primaire et Maternel" in collabcration with the SERNAFOR. Once its own
training is completed (through several rounds of "animation-formation"), the
central unit will then disseminate its experience with books to supervisors
(inspecteurs and conseillers pedagogiques) at the regional level 'n
interactive workshops (ateliers pedagogiques). Supervisors will then
organize workshops for school directors and teachers at the school level
(nearly 30,000 people). The project will finance per diem and travel
expenses of the "animateurs", and technical assistance to SERNAFOR, to
partially compensate for AGCD experts' departure (Annex 3-8). To ensure the
proper management of these tasks, the ministry had to restructure its
"Direction de la Pedagogie," and to redefine the respective roles of the
"Division de l'Enseignement Primaire et Maternel and of the "Cellule
Edition." Restructuration of these two key se-vices is in progress. The
"Comite Pedagogique", created at IDA's request, will coordinate all
pedagogical activities.
3.19 Rehabilitation of the Local Education Environment. Improving the
quality of instruction requires mobilizing many complementary factor.s. The
project will assist operations aimed at enhancing the overall education
environment, by focusing on teachers's skill acquisition and awareness as
well as on their work conditions. These experimental operations will be
launched in the zone of Yangambi, in the region of Haut-Zaire. They will
include:
(a) organizing (and when necessary, building or rehabilitating)
about 20 multi-grade classrooms or schools to allow pupils of
different levels to gather in a single teaching session. This
would both reduce the likelihood of repetition and alleviate the
strain of crowded classes by making better use of existing
facilities.
(b) launching a pilot primary school teacher training center ("Ecole
Normale") in Haut-Zaire, to provide more professionally oriented
training and to equip teachers with the skills and awareness
needed in a multi-grade classroom. The ministry has confirmed
the availability of appropriate buildings in the Yangambi
agricultural research complex. These buildings would be
refurbished for the Ecole Normale, so that no construction would
be needed. At negotiations, the ministry committed itself to
release texts defining student recruitment and status (paras.



- 22 -
5.04c and 5.04d.  Annex 3-9 describes the principles of the
Ecole Normale);
(c)  implementing an incentive package for teachers to encourage
their stability and productivity. This package would include:
(i) teacher housing in multi-grade schools; (ii) provision of
bicycles for teachers of thie pilot primary schools; and (1ii)
provisioni of basic school materials, as scheduled in the
countrywide operation to accompany textbook distribution, and to
be financed by the special budgetary allocation;
(d) the project will capitalise on the presence of the pilot Ecole
Normale and its peripheral primary schools to reinforce the
pivotal situalion of schools in promoting basic health,
nutrition, hygiene, environment and family planning knowledge,
behavior and services. Teachers will be the first targets of
this action which will also involve students, their parents and
neighboring communities. UNICEF would play a leading role in
this operation, and the ministry has requested this agency's
commitment before negotiations (para. 5.01i) and would get it as
a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 5.02d). The World
Wildlife Fund (WWF) would contribute to the introduction of
environment themes in the curricula; and
(e) development of a maintenance system aimed at maintaining, as a
pilot experiment, education facilities financed by IDA since
1985. The BPE would coordinate and set up the required system.
Activities in the pilot zone will be supervised by Institut de Formation des
Cadres de l'Enseignement Primaire et Secondaire (IFCEPS); the ministry will
reach a formal agreement with this institution (paras. 3.36 and 5.02b).
Local communities will help build primary schools.
3.20 Rehabilitation of Urban Education Facilities. The project will
finance the construction of about 5 primary schools on the periphery of
Kinshasa, where dwellings have been soaring without a parallel development
of basic infrastructure, so that scarce existing facilities are saturated.
(Sites and standard layout plans should be made available within 12 months
after the date of the credit agreement -- para. 5.04e).
3.21 Education of Girls. Operations to be financed by the project are
mainly focused on primary education, where gender distortions are relatively
small in terms of enrollment. But because it emphasizes internal
efficiency (by improving the quality of instruction and by relaxing
repetition regulations and practices), the project would mostly benefit
girls -- who are affected more than boys by school attrition. The ministry
will be encouraged to introduce population, health and family planning units
in secondary school curricula. The project will finance studies judged
necessary for this purpose (for example, a study of why there is more
repetition among girls). It will also, with UNICEF's expertise, launch
operations aiming at strengthen teachers' awareness in these fields.



- 23 -
3.   Reinforcing Managerial Capacities
3.22 Achievements from the recently completed project need reinforcement
to yield full and lasting effects. The proposed project will therefore
develop the most important aspects of IDA assistance to the ministry, both
in central administration and in decentralized units, whose responsibilities
need to be strengthenee, to improve MEPSP's outreach services. At the same
time, rationalization measures spelled out in the sectoral strategy will be
implemented, to complement the envisioned assistance and to give it long-
term significance.
3.23 Restoring Minimum Working Conditions in Central Administration. In
an effort to raise central staff's productivity, the project will improve
working conditions and standards through:
(a) the consolidation, rehabilitation/partial reconstruction and
equipment of the ministry's currently scattered administrative
offices on three sites in the Gombe district of Kinshasa, where
several ministry's services are already concentrated (Annex 3-
10). Not later than twelve months after the date of the Credit
Agreement, the ministry will commission a study on human
resources management aimed at identifying the number and type of
personnel needed to staff the main services (DPSS, Division de
l'Informatique, and General Services). After review by IDA, the
government will adjust its staff as recommended by the study
(condition is spelled out in para. 5.04a);
(b) technical assistance in the SECOPE. The sudden withdrawal of
all Belgian experts in July 1990 from the unit responsible for
managing the pay of 180,000 teachers poses serious and immediate
threats on the quality of the work undertaken. Computerization
of the teacher force is not completed yet, nor is the census of
schools, and any interruption in these activities is likely to
translate into a durable breakdown. To avoid such a risk, the
credit will finance limited and focused technical assistance,
with a mandate to ensure knowledge transfer to local staff. The
ministry has already recruited two experts financed by Credit
1519-ZR (para. 5.01f);
(c) support to the planning unit (Directioni de la Planification et
des Statistiques Scolaires - DPSS) so that this service can
sustain such key activities as organizing the annual education
survey, producing basic education statistics, and preparing
studies, as requested by the sectoral committee. The project
will contribute office equipment and staff training; and
(d) technical assistance in the computer center, created under the
recently completed project (and recently upgraded as the
Direction de l'Informatique), and for the progressive
computerization of the ministry, following a coordinated and
rational development path (Central data bank, interface with the
data base of SECOPE).



- 24 -
3.24 Strengthening Local Administration. Minimum working tools must be
put at the disposal of the local administration to recapture a significant
role appropriate in so vast a country. This is why the project will assist
operations geared toward staff in the eleven subregions selected for the
textbook component: (a) minimal equipment and in-service training for
administrators and (b) basic equipment for supervisors (to complement their
role in the prinmary school teacher in-service training component).
3.25 Environmental Issues. Civil works to be completed under the project
(r-habilitation of a building in the Yangambi campus, for the teacher
training college, construction of about 20 primary level classrooms in the
Haut-Zaire region, and about five primary schools on the periphery of
Kinshasa, rehabilitation of MEPSP offices in Kinshasa-Gombe) will have a
minimal environment impact. Rural primary schools will be built using
traditional techniques and will be located along the main road in already
inhabited areas. The concentration of MEPSP offices in a few buildings will
alleviate much of the day-time commuting presently endured by the ministry's
personnel. Introduction of environment themes in school curricula (para.
3.19d) will help rising awareness of environmental issues.
B.     Proiect Cost and Financing Plan
3.26 Project Cost. Project costs have been calculated in US dollars
equivalent. The total project cost is estimated at US$29.7 million
equivalent with a foreign exchange component of US$17.4 million (58%).
Taxes and duties amount to US$0.6 million (2%). Base cost estimates have
been calculated in US dollar equivalent on the basis of October 1990 prices
adjusted to January 1991 (negotiations). The estimated project costs, given
in Annex 3-11, are summarized below.



- 25 -
US$ Million           X Base Cost
Local     Foreign                   Total
1. Sector Strategy                0.2         0.7       0.9            4
2. Quality of Instruction
Teacher training               1.1         0.5        1.6           6
Textbooks/educ. material       3.9         7.7      11.6           45
Pilot region                   0.9         1.0       1.9            8
Urban primary schools          0.5         0.5        1.0           4
3. Administration Efficiency
Central administration         2.8         2.7       5.5           22
Regional administration        0.3         0.7       1.0            4
4. Operating Costs                0.9         1.1       2.0            7
Total base cost (1-4)         10.6        14.9      25.5          100
April 1989
5. Contingencies
a. Physical (10%)              0.6         0.9       1.5
b. Price increase (10%)        1.1         1.6       2.7
Sub-total                      1.7         2.5       4.2
TOTAL rWJECT COST                12.3        17.4       29.7
of which taxes                  0.6         0.0       0.6
3.27 Contingency Allowances. An average of 6% (US$1.5 million) for
physical contingencies has been applied to project costs. Price
contingencies are based on the implementation schedule and an expected
annual price increase of 3.6 percent per year.
3.28 Financing Plan. The project would be financed by an IDA credit of
SDR 15.0 million (US$21.0 million equivalent). UNDP would provide technical
assistance for about US$0.5 million and UNICEF, training and materials for
another US$0.6 million equivalent. France would proviee technical
assistance estimated at US$4.2 million and WWF US$0.3 million for studies
and publications. The government would finance the balance of US$3.1
million equivalent, including US$0.6 million in taxes (not taking into
account the incremental budgetary allocation to benefit the MEPSP which
amounted to about US$2.5 million in 1990 and would be about twice that in
1995). The ministry has already requested UNDP's, UNICEF's and FAC's
commitment to participate to the operations of the project. As a condition
of credit effectiveness, the government would submit to IDA signed
agreements confirming the availability of the co-financing (para. 5.02d).
The government would contribute about US$2.5 million equivalent to include
cash for local salaries, project administration, cash-in-kind contributions



- 26 -
of local communities for unskilled labor and local materials, and about
US$200,000 million equivalent in cash, to be deposited in a project account
(para. 3.47). The financing plan would be as follows:
US$ Million
Local     Foreign    Total
IDA                              8.4       12.6       21.0
FAC                              0.4        3.8        4.2
UNDP                             0.1        0.4        0.5
UNICEF                           0.2        0.4        0.6
WWF                              0.1        0.2        0.3
Government                       3.1         -         3.1
Total 1/                       12.3       17.4       29.7
1/    Including taxes and duties estimated at US$0.6 million.
3.29 Recurrent Cost Implications. The project's investment components
will entail minimal recurrent costs at the primary school level, since the
project will not finance any additional capacity beyond the approximately 20
primary level classrooms to be built in the pilot zone, and 5 primary
schools on the periphery of Kinshasa. Teachers will be recruited for these
schools at well within the current pace as the multilevel class system
allows a higher pupil/teacher ratio. Recurrent costs at the secondary level
will also be minimized because recruitment in teacher training schools
(other than the pilot Ecole Normale to be financed under the project) will
be discontinued in the pilot zone (para. 5.04d).
3.30 Recurrent costs arising from the book provision component will be far
more important. A second round of books will have to be financed for the
following reasons: (i) book availability is not a passing need, but a
permanent one in any primary school system, (ii) the lifespan of textbooks
is limited, (iii) the proposed project does not envision a replenishment
plan, and (iv) the proposed project will not make books available for the
entire primary education cycle, nor for the entire country. Pursuit of the
book operation would represent annually about 5% of the ministry's after-
project current budget. If the experimental teacher incentive scheme
associated with the introduction of textbooks were to be renewed, it would
not put additional pressure on the current budget, since the idea of the
experiment is to encourage parental participation, however small.
3.31 One of the most important adjustment measures supported by the
project is the promotion of public spending for education (para. 3.08).
This is reflected in the incremental 1990 budget allocation that benefits
the MEPSP. This allocation will eventually be increased from 10% of the
recurrent government budget at base year to 15% at the end of the project.
Its aim is sustainability, so that the ministry will be able to provide the
resources needed to operate public schools with a minimum of equipment.



- 27 -
Therefore, the allocation will have to be programmed in the sectoral PEP,
well beyond completion of the proposed project. Adjustment measures aiming
at increasing internal efficiency in the system will tend to reduce public
spending on education. By reducing money currently wasted because of
repetition, efficiency gains will increase the amount available to students
who might not otherwise have been enrolled.
C.     Project Implementation
1.   Project Preparation and Management
3.32 Status of Preparation. Project preparation, which was financed under
the credit about to be closed (1519-ZR), is completed.   Working papers have
been transmitted to IDA (para. 5.01a). They were prepared by government
officials representing a wide array of skills and competence, from
technicians up to the minister's closest staff. Working teams were set up
for each component, with subgroups for more specific activities, and
consultants were called when needed. Civil servants who participated in the
teams regularly reported to the ministry executives, especially the
permanent secretary, to ensure political awareness and commitment. A high-
level steering committee, including main department decision makers
(especially cabinet members), was created to prepare the sectoral strategy
and adjustment measures and discuss the conditions linked to the project.
This group regularly reported to the minister. Thorough involvement of the
ministry staff in project preparation was sought to increase incentives for
the personnel to participate in implementation. It has already yielded
positive effects, as reflected in the quality and organization of the
working papers.
3.33 Funds from the Credit 1519-ZR have been partially reallocated to
allow starting some key activities and an acceptable progress report has
been sent to IDA as a condition of negotiations (para. 5.01g). The
government has requested a Project Preparation Facility Advance, in order to
bridge the financing gap before credit effectiveness (para. 5.01j).
3.34 The ministry has selected a sample of experimental schools in order
to allow the DEPM to start designing "fiches pedagogiques' (para. 5.01d).
As a condition of negotiation (5.01e) the government proposed adequate
facilities to be made available to the MEPSP for the proposed teacher
training college to be located on the former agricultural science institute
in Yangambi. Sites for the new multi-grade primary schools will be made
available by the government free of cost and will be located in accordance
with a school map under preparation. The selection of professional service
consultants is well advanced.
3.35 Management. The existing education project unit (BPE) will be
reorganized, strengthened and moved to the ministry of education
headquarters site. The BPE will be responsible for coordinating



- 28 -
implementatiotn of all aspects of the project.  To help the BPE with specific
tasks, the project includes short-term consultancies (one architect, one
educator and one financial controller) for the duration of the project.
Draft terms of reference including draft agreements for these experts have
been already submitted to the Association, and found acceptable. Based on
past performances, the procurement capacity of the BPE is deemed adequate.
3.36 The "Institut de Formation des Cadres de l'Enseigrement Primaire et
Secondaire" (IFCEPS) in Kisangani, will coordinate the major educational
actions in the pilot zone. A contract will be signed between the BPE and
the IFCEPS, in order to formalize which duties are expected from the
institute (para. 5.02b). Construction activities in the pilot zone will be
supervised by an architect recruited on a competitive basis by the BPE. The
architect will also design the other civil work components of the project,
including the central administration buildings. Before the appointment of
key personnel (including consultants) to the BPE, the government will submit
to IDA the curriculum vitae of recommended candidates, for review and
comments.
3.37 Staff needed to implement project activities in the ministry is
concentrated in two services (DEPM adid Direction de l'Informatique), and an
inventory of personnel needed has been identified before negotiations (para.
5.01h). Before credit effectiveness, the BPE will sign a contract with each
of these units (para. 5.02c). These units would introduce an incentive
framework to reward staff performance. Consistency of payment procedures
and amounts will be constantly controlled in order to avoid major
distortions with other Bank financed projects and with other international
agencies. Monitoring of this experimental incentive scheme will be made in
collaboration with the Project for Economic Management (PRAEGEFI).
3.38 Finally, the government has submitted before negotiations a salary
structure to be applied to the staff of the BPE. Contribution of the
Association to salaries of the BPE staff will be limited, and remain
consistent with the practices followed in other projects financed by the
Association. IDA contribution to salaries of the BPE high level staff (as
agreed upon at negotiations) will stay in line with the amounts agreed for
the higher education project at the time of negotiations of this project,
for staff of a comparable profile.
3.39 Specialist services and fellowships. The project will provide 368
man-years of specialist services (not including time MEPSP staff will spend
in the nationwide retraining of primary school teachers): of those, 90% will
be local, and account for 31% of corresponding expenditures (Annex 3-12).
It will also include 409 man-years of training, of which 99% locally, and
mostly for teacher training activities (Annex 3-13). Terms of reference for
local and international technical assistance to serve in the CSS, the DEPM,
the BPE, and other concerned units of the ministry were agreed upon during
negotiations (para. 5.02c).



- 29 -
2.   Procurement
3.40 Procurement Methods. The project procurement arrangements are
summarized below:
Project Element           Procurement Method            N.A.      Total Costs
ICB*      LCB**    Other
(US$ million)
Civil Works:
(a) Primary and                   1.7                                   1.7
secondary educ.              (1.7)                                 (1.7)
(b) Bldg. materials   0.3                    0.4                        0.7
(0.3)                (0.3)                      (0.6)
(c) MEPSP                         1.0                                   1.0
(1.0)                                 (1.0)
Furniture, equip.,    6.0         1.5        0.5        0.4             8.4
vehicles, mater.,    ( 6.0)      (1.5)      (0.4)      ( - )          ( 7.9)
textbooks
Textbook                          0.9                   1.0              1.9
Distribution                     (0.9)                 ( - )           (0.9)
Technical assistance                         3.8        5.3             9.1
and studies                                 (3.8)      ( - )           (3.8)
Training                                     2.1        0.7             2.8
(2.1)     ( _ )            (2.1)
Incremental Operating                         -         4.1 ***         4.1
Costs                                         -        (3.0)           (3.0)
TOTAL                   6.3      5.1         6.8       11.5            29.7
(6.3)    (5.1)       (6.6)      (3.0)          (21.0)
Note: Figures in parenthesis represent the amounts financed by IDA.
* ICB = International Competitive Bidding
** LCB = Local Competitive Bidding
= Procurement through regular government procedures.
3.41 Primary Schools and Teacher Training College (TTC). Construction of
about 5 urban primary schools (US$200,000 per school), and the
rehabilitation of one rural teacher training college (US$0.7 million) would
be awarded after local competitive bidding (LCB) acceptable by IDA. LCB



- 30 -
requiremenitfs would include local advertising, public bid opening, clal ty of
evaluattiorn criteria and a:;ard to the lowest evaluated biddet .  itterec;toed
foreign finms would be allowed to participate and thie fii;t l.(.B doculmlients
would need to he cleared by IDA.  The 20 small, scattered prim:laiy schools
(US$35,000 per nchooi) -- to be constiucted or rehabilitated in remote areas
-- may not interest maior contractors because of the low value of the wortk
involved.  Neither local nor foreignl firm.s would be Interested in such
constructioll.  %oI-P for- the rural prilary schools would therefore  be
undertaken by thle coa:iunities under the supervision of a private architect.
Building materials would be procured by the BPE and awarded on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with IDA guidelines
for procurem.ent (US$0.3 million cquivalent). The Credit would also finance
locally available materials (sucn as crushed stones and sand, US$0.3
million), including transport costs, with prudent shopping from local
sources with three quotations.
3.42 MEPSP Rehabilitation. The civil works contract for the
rehabilitation (roof repairs, electrical, water, sewerage, painting) of the
MEPSP facilities would be awarded after LCB (US$1.0 million).
3.43 Contracts for furniture, equipment, materials, and the printing of
textbooks would be awarded after ICB except for contracts of less than
US$100,000 equivalent each, which would be awarded after LCB. The aggregate
total of such contracts is not expected to exceed US$1.5 million equivalent.
Transport contracts for textbooks distribution would be awarded on the basis
of LCB (US$0.9 million). When ICB procedures are used, domestic
manufacturers would be allowed a 15% margin of preference over the c.i.f.
price of competing foreign suppliers or the existing applicable rate of
import duties, whichever is lower. Items that cannot be grouped, or groups
of items, estimated to cost less than the equivalent of US$50,000 per
contract up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$400,000 may be procured
on the basis of international or local shopping with a minimum of three
bids. Technical assistance and training would be awarded in accordance with
IDA guidelines. Operating costs would be financed through statements of
expenditures (SOEs).
3.44 IDA Review. Sketches of plans, draft bid documents and master lists
of furniture, equipment and vehicles, including grouping and cost estimates,
would be reviewed by IDA. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable
to encourage competitive bidding and permit bulk procurement. Prior IDA
review of documents would be required for contracts exceeding US$200,000
equivalent for civil works, and US$100,000 for furniture, equipment,
vehicles, and building materials. As a result, about 75% of the contracts
would be submitted to IDA for prior review.
3.   Disbursements, Special Account and Project Account
3.45 Disbursements under the proposed IDA credit will be made on the basis
of (a) 100% of total expenditures for civil works contracts excluding taxes
and duties; (b) 100% of total expenditures for vehicles, equipment,
materials and furnishings; and (c) 100% of total expenditures for the



- 31 -
product inn zitd t ,e d i t r ib ut ioon of texttbooks antd manua I;; onI a C1IF/lex-
fact ory bo.u',s exci us;ion of all taxes and duties, etc ; arid (d) 1005% of
expenditu r  e(xcludinrg duties and taxes for consultantts' and ;specialI1sts'
serv ice; , auid for t raIIilI rg and operat, ing costs (the  ct. iriate d quart. er ly
disburseru11elt s;chedule list. is shoWn in Annex 3. 14).  All disbur-semcnts would
be fully documcented cxccpt fox: (a) civil works done thlrough conumunity
participatI,on; (!, ) contracts for civil works, furniture, equipment,
materia.ls and vehicles Costing lcss than US$20,000 equtivalent; (c) training
costing less; than US$20,000; and (d) operating costs, for which
dlshur';emetits would be made against SOEs whichi would be certified by the
project director.  Thc docum.entation of SOEs would not be submitted to IDA
for review, buit would be retained by the government and made available for
review by !DA during prolect supervision.
3.46 Special Account. To ensure that funds for the education project unit
would be available when needed, a special account in US dollars run by BPE
will be established in a commercial institution acceptable to IDA, with an
initial deposit of about US$1,000,000 equivalent to cover about four months
of expenditures, which would be withdrawn from the credit account after
credit effectiveness. The special account would be replenished on the basis
of documentary evidence, provided to IDA by BPE, of payments made from the
account for goods and services required for the project that are eligible
for financing under the credit.
3.47 A Proiect Account in local currency, operated by the BPE, will be
established in a commercial institution acceprable to IDA, with an initial
deposit by the government of about US$200,000 equivalent to cover the
government's contribution to the project expenditures. Evidence of the
initial deposit is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 5.02e). This
account will be replenished by the government as and when needed to ensure
that the balance will at no time be lower than about Y1SS70,000 equivalent.
This account would be subject to the project audit.
4.   Auditing and Monitoring
3.48 Auditing. BPE would maintain separate accounts for all project
activities, in line with national accounting practices. These accounts
would be controlled in accordance with normal government financial control
procedures, which are satisfactory. BPE would prepare and submit to IDA an
annual report summarizing the financial situation on all project operations.
Annual audits would be required for all expenditures financed under the
project, with particular attention to those reimbursed under SOEs (para.
3.43). Auditing would be performed by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA, within six months following the end of the government fiscal year, and
would be financed under the project.
3.49 Monitoring and Evaluation. Annual progress reports on project
implementation would be submitted to IDA by BPE by July 31 each year,
following credit effectiveness (para. 5.03b). The format of the reports
would be similar to those routinely used for comparable Bank group education
projects. The reports would briefly identify any major problems and



- 32 -
recommend solutions; review the performance of implementing authorities and
agencies; and maintain key performance indicators in reaching project goals.
Annual review will cover not only project implementation, but also progress
made in impleimiettirig the sectoral strategy (para. 5.03b-i) and the state of
maintenance of buildings constructed or rehabilitated with past and current
IDA funding (para. 5.03b-ii). Each year of project implementation, the BPE
will make available all documents necessary for a review meeting attended by
IDA staff and representative of other contributing agencies (UNDP, UNICEF,
FAC, and WWF) and it will make arrangements for such a meeting to take place
during the last trimester (para. 5.03d). In addition, each year by mid-
October, IDA would perform a review of the sectoral public expenditures
program --PEP (para. 5.03c).
3.50 In addition, the government would prepare and send to IDA for
comment, no later than six months after final disbursements from the credit
account, a completion report assessing the attainment of project objectives,
project implementation and initial operation, its cost and the benefits
derived, the performance of the government, IDA and other agencies involved,
and the significant lessons learned. IDA will supervise the implementation
of the project on a regular basis (Annex 3.15).
3.51 Environmental Impact. This project has been rated Category C and
consequently no environmental analysis has been conducted. Most project
components will not significantly affect the physical environment. Site
selection and design of rural schools will take into account local social
and environmental factors. In selecting sites for urban schools, planners
will identify households currently living and/or working on those sites and
will plan for relocation of these activities as part of the project. A
relocation plan, if needed, will be furnished to IDA together with the
report on site selection and availability to be provided within 12 months of
credit signature (para. 5.04e).
IV.     PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
4.01 Benefits. By making basic inputs available to schools, the project
would boost the quality of instruction and upgrade student achievement,
especially at the primary school level, with delayed effects in secondary
and ultimately higher education. About 1.5 million pupils at the primary
level will have access to textbooks. New or rehabilitated primary schools
will accommodate about 4,000 children. Over 30,000 primary school teachers
will benefit from in-service training, and about 2,000 civil servants will
find better work conditions. The project will alleviate the pedagogical
strain and financial burden of repetition. It will help restore Zaire's
education base, which would make labor more productive, and will lndirectly
improve health, nutrition, and family planning awareness, thus revitalizing
the human capital stock of the country. By helping organize administration
and encourage adjustment and rationalization measures, the project will
allow controlled development of the education sector, drawing on both public
and private partners. Finally, the project will help make allocation and



- 33 -
matiageml:ent of curient expeniditures more efficient anid investment
expenditux e; liuo e relevan,t, both within the sector and In relation to
macr roeconioini c framework.
4.02  Risk..  Ihe maini risks associated with the project are: (a) the
ministry's poor managerial perfortnance, (b) the diff'.culty of distributing
textbool; to thie schools level In an inunense country with poor communication
and weak local administration, (c) the potential demobilization of civil
servants because of their poor living conditions, and (d) the possibility
that government not allocate enough budget funds for complementary inputs in
the education sector. To reduce these risks, the project will: (a)
strengthen the MEPSP planning, programming and implementing capacities
through human resources rationalization, trainintg, and equipment, both
centrally and at the local level, (b) rely on well-organized church
networks, whose efficiency was shown in the recently completed education
project, and equip local administrators and supervisors, (c) design an
experimental incentive scheme based on actual participation and performance,
and monitored in coordination with the IDA-supported TA Project for Economic
Management (PRAIGEFI) to restore civil servants' commitment, and (d)
encourage appropric,e and consistent sectoral measures to rationalize public
spending in education, and ensure the actual spending of the sectoral SBA.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01  Before negotiations, the government had:
(a)  furnished to IDA revised Project Working Documents (para. 3.32);
(b)  furnished to IDA the text of the vacancy announcement for the
CSS's economist position (para. 3.12);
(c)  furnished to IDA for comment the final list of textbooks
eligible for distribution under the project (para. 3.14);
(d)  furnished to IDA the list of experimental schools to prepare the
textbook operation (para. 3.34);
(e)  furnished to IDA the p. posed site for the experimental teacher
training school --Ecole Normale (para. 3.34);
(f)  recruited two international experts in SECOPE (para. 3.23b);
(g)  furnished to IDA a progress report of activities undertaken for
the preparation of the project (para. 3.33);
(h)  furnished to IDA an inventory of personnel needed in concerned
units of the MEPSP to implement the project (para. 3.37);



- 3 -
(i)  addressed a request to potential co-financiers (UNDP, FAC and
UNICEF) (paras. 3.12, 3.16, and 3.19d);
(j)  addressed to IDA a request for an advance project preparation
fund for an amount of US$500,000, and open an account in foreign
currency in a comnercial bank acceptable to IDA (para. 3.33);
(k)  conmmitted the funds foL the education sector 1990 SBA (para.
3.09); and
(1)  furnished to IDA the plan of execution of the education sector
SBA for the 1990-92 period (para. 3.09).
5.02 Conditions of Credit Effectiveness. The government would:
(a)  recruit the economist in charge of the permanent secretary of
,he CSS, second two education planners (one from the MESURS and
one from the MEPSP) to the CSS, and make available secure and
appropriate office space for the CSS (para. 3.12);
(b)  have the BPE sign a letter of understanding between the BPE and
the management of the IFCEPS as to how this institution will
contribute to the coordination of pilot activities of the
project (paras. 3.19, 3.35, and 3.36);
(c)  sign program contracts between the BPE on the one hand, the DEPM
and the Direction de l'Informatique, on the other hand (para.
3.37);
(d)  obtain a firm commitment from UNDP, FAC, and UNICEF on their
contribution to che project (paras. 3.12, 3.16, 3.19d, and
3.28); and
(e)  make an initial deposit of US$200,000 equivalent in the project
account opened in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA (para.
3.47).
5.03 During negotiations, the government gave assurances that:
(a)  the amount and composition of the education SBA for the next
year will be discussed with IDA not later than July 31 of each
year of project implementation, and execution of the education
SBA of the previous year will be reviewed by IDA, according to
the same schedule (paras. 3.03, 3.09, 3.46);
(b)  not later than July 31 of each year of project implementation,
the BPE will make available to IDA the necessary  docu,nents and
evidence for a revi2w of (i) project implementation, including
policy measures (as stipalatad in the Sectoral Strategy), and
(ii) the state of maintenance of buildings constructed or
rehabilitated with IDA credits (paras. 3.02, 3.49);



- 35 -
(c)  not latcr than September 30 of each year of project
implementation, a draft three-year education PEP will be
transmitted to IDA, for review (paras. 3.11, 3.49); and
(d) during the last quarter of each year of project implementation,
the BPE will organize a joint meeting with IDA and the co-
financiers --UNDP, FAC, UNICEF, and WWF for the review of
project implementation and policy measures (para. 3.49).
5.04 Other covenants. During negotiations, it was agreed that:
(a) within 12 months after the date of the credit agreement, a study
on human resources management in the ministry aimed at
identifying its needs for the efficient staffing of the
directorate for school planning and statistics, general services
and general secretari5at, be completed, utilizing the services of
independent specialists acceptable to IDA (para. 3.23a);
(b) within 12 months after the date of the credit agreement, a study
on the level, collection, utilization and management of students
fees (including parental contribution to books to be distributed
under the project), be completed (para. 3.15);
(c) within 12 months after the date of the credit agreement, a draft
description of career stream of the primary school teachers
trained in the experimental Ecole Normale, including procedures
for the recruitment of students and determination of the
conditions of their remuneration and their entry into higher
education, be furnished to IDA, for its comment (para. 3.19b);
(d) within 12 months after the date of the credit agreement, a plan
for the adaptation of secondary teaching streams in the pilot
zone, to take into account the creation of the Ecole Normale and
the necessity to maintain a proper balance between training
activities and the demand for primary teachers, be furnished to
IDA for comments (paras. 3.19b, 3.29); and
(e) within 12 months after the date of the credit agreement, a list
of sites and the confirmation of their availability, for the
construction of the five primary schools to be carried out in
the periphery of Kinshasa, including a plan for relocation of
any residential, commercial and/or industrial activities that
may have occupied the sites, be furnished to IDA (para. 3.20).



- 36 -
5.05 Recommendation. Subject to the agreements and conditions set forth
in paras. 5.01 to 5.04 above, the project is suitable as a basis for an IDA
credit of US$ 21.0 million equivalent to the Republic of Zaire.



ANNEX I
WWAAATIVt IDUCATIOP :NDICATORS                                                                                T         0 f    2
.989
CENtRAL
GCVCLKKLNT
ILPKMOITUU        EMCATION                                oompLgTlom                  LLCULPLM
Oil tDUCATION   LtCULLtPrf          AMI.T                 OLATlt PO4.                 VNIT CDS't  PUCILLSSIou
cgr PM                    As " RCINT        E%YVMIrJW          LITILCT fA1-1A.RY.PR.1.ART         P 01 -AST   PRIKARY        OLATt FWN    SgCOMDAAT S109DAAY
SAS%   POP.  CAY ITApticinT GNP TOTAL CZWTVAL .&LILDCAT10 110' LArt                       tHULL. SCRWI.            ST.DM S. 9DUCATtON   FRIMAXT M    CNKOLL,    ST091"S  E-ROLL
JEAN NtLLS. (U$S   DEVOIED M    GOVttgnttT                 PLI  ItC   KI:   1)           LArtO    CYCU            PLA          AS PERCINT-SECOKDAXY    RATIO              PtA.         RATIO
(Vgi (1919)    MUCATIOJI  CXFt"LIVL9                                                             ti)       TtACKU    CAF'CAJ-ITA,           (11)         't)        TEAC%9k          ti
(10)           (11)
119VIL01to On ":                        -.110        6.3-           1'.6          -        -      -     -          1032
W.H.                                                                                                                           loo           II                            9t                                   :0."
CANADA                 Si          lb  9.6500         ?.I&          1:.$:l        30-- 31-- 23-t    99:            ioo         ioo           11                           loo
F.           7,     ":                                                                                              100-                                       loos
CCAAAJR      1.                6, 2    2.200          4.6              .9                                           Sea
NITKIIJANCG            11                                            S             0            2,                                            -           7 3               9
- to        .9                         I      I              "I
NCW ZEAlAgO            w        ).lb  6  Sib          ;.5-          13.!          3      11.   1.                  '14         I'S           ;1.                                         !2,
I                               00          00                                         00
.9       6.3   0.250          4.0           .6.2           1.    1.    1.        9q.         I 0        Do             a-         ;9.9                             9           1.1
tASTZRP AY%ItA
SOTSWAPA               83       1.0b       920b      6.0                          .1    16    '2        10         !00          77            32          10.0             .0             20          2.            *A
autumIll               el       4 .2b      23$        2.:bv         A-0           43    26    27         25         211         )5            )7          20.2              2              3.
COKOILOS               94       0 4        34S        3                 0         .      2,                                      o            30          -                .5             )b
oi I soLrn             86       0:4         60        )'O                          9,           11.                             16           .0           67.0              0
miortA                                                                                                                             A         61                                           :10
S         0       110        1:6            9.5           SS    25              30          37         30                           .3
KMA                    :2      17.4b       .20b       S -                         t.5    i6    1        -ab       ii)          w             36                           35             is
LCSOTW                 82       1.4b       435b                                   .       Z    "         5)b       ;16.                      44                                           't          2 1           IC
I -            6'9                                                        41
WAGASCAR               77       S.$        330        . 0.          4 0          53    26    19         50         4'b-        31            5sb          ..O             1:             14
4ALAVI                          6.1b       230b       3:5           z1:4          36    1       2       256        62          23           65            5.6             4
WKLTIUS                         I.Ob   4.17.         ..3            ...O          46    ):       .       gob        93          12            23          13.0            100             50          2
RwAiMA                          $.lb       alob       3.6,          .7.4          71    16    0          31b        fis         30           -0           16.0              9              5          tb           ..G
ItYCKZLLES              S       0                                                  14    ))a   10.                                            25
SOPALt                 Si                                                         sob  - 0    6t,    Soo              2         sob           :S b         9 ob            gob             20         22            00
MAIN                   0       19.1b       380         :O           -             66            .. .     32         5t:.        68            u            I:4             411           116
SVAIILAND              63       0.7b       9.0b       ).SPb         20.4          St    34    15         65         93          50            33          Ii.0                            29          ;6.        3.w
!04        n.)o
I     o    I:
.AiMunk                so                                           ;.,            l
;,          ,.b        :1           as            :O             I96             3
UGAIM                                                                                      I              2          56           2           3.              SS           3 1            19b          2          '.6ot
ZALUA                  et      29.6b       ziob       7:7           26 :04         -     -      I0       54 b        16         25            30          21.0             -0             is          Is
LAMItA                 w        5:;b       566:       6.51'         H.L           .8    23    22           0        95          to            As          12.9             19             16          .2          ..80
ZIKSAM                 SI       7b         700        5.1           19.5          b2    12       6          b       90          55            39          20.0             as             IS          23            5f)
WtSnRil AFRICA
79       3          320b      6.5.          1S.0           .3    II       5     ILb          4a          10           46          14.0             30             LI          43          1.00,
:QgNK11q1IA            a3       6:6"       Zlob         I -         21.7          .3    21    26         9           .6         15            57          24.3             16              3          24          1.111
cAnKooll               64      10          "'ob                     -              33    38    28       ZO           et           5b          so          -                -              23          is
C.A.                              :06 b    .0.        1:'P,                                                          1,         45            65 'Y           0            -              is          67
el                                                                                           44          39           60                           35               74
CRAJ)                           1.2        ITS        Z.:           I 9                   46,   11'.    =                                                                                            17
Comm                   76    1.5    670    9.0-T                                          -                          -           -            56by                         so             -           0&            S4004
IOUAT. GUIOEA          115      O:,31       ,Ob        :,             3.6y         47    24             job          13          10           so           S.I             .0             25          I-y        --
'AW"                   I        O        ". 20        I , gy                                                                                  A, bi       -                --             -           lgt-v       :.So.
CAMIA                           O..        220        3. 3"           6.5b                574    64    job            Oby                     27bT        44.74            .0             j2bW7       17
GUMA                   16       11:3        oop       :.07           15.Ib                                           I I                      27          -                -              36b.y       2 1
GU"'ILA                Ib        S'        "'O         .' .0        -              T, A   7-   28-0    20-          3A          X            38          20.0-P           95             IS          29          1.30-
GUIqgA                 ga        ..qb       jlob      -               9.6          46    12    -        15(l)        sa          10           26           2.0                            -           16          --
EVOIT ODAIT            :1       1-3b       I'loo      :.1                          5 i,   -0    29      35-7         ;2         ;9                                         I             21"        10          1-86
0       I.9                   .6                                                                         2                                        1:                         Z
Lit'lliA                                   5                        j9             4      23     4      )O            2                       3s          ZO:o                                         0
.LI                    et        1.0b       I"         .2-          21.10          340    21    it      10           20          60           -4          15.7             66              1          11
-AVRIT491A             86                  410b       5.0           12.4           32    40    25       17           55          115          so          10.0             6A             16          13           Ao
ta                 64        'T                   26
c                             S 2        300                      Z             10    25    20        14          25           0            36                                                     28          -).50
b         b          P                                                                                                I                              2 36        10         2.1)0
1      m            93          1                        11:0
.1 tItA                63      43.                    7                                                                          I0           36              5            1
3           0               0          .6-b           eb
':O      - "                                                                                                                                 A
stnGAL                 64         ..          0       S,b                                               'O           S           1.           4           26.              L94            16          !4
SICRBA  L&M            77        3.4       250        4,0           16.3b          -                    jb           17                       is          25.01i           $a             1'.         :2            bO
I                                                                                            I                                                                                  b
TOGO                    a        2.6       4m         6.54V         26.51          304   264   Zia    Is              4          40           $.by        38.0             S2             31bxy       .0
1AT&nILICA AID 7 CALLI
I43"OLM              Z.1           10.9           -36   314   164    93b            09          SI           17          -                97             31           4        21.)c
SAKAKAS                7:       0 2    2 770          5.7           19.1           36    A      [I      9)b                      97           24          -                97             75          19
BARMOIDS               7        0:2    2: "O          8. 5 WY       12.16          434   314   164    ba b          locy         Sea          27Y         19.94            994            ?81         207
SOLI t                 so    5                                      30.54          -   -   -    63                   47         -            lor         -                --             15Y         --
BRAZILA                79    116:',    ..,T lo                        6.2          5 I    -     I 4     76           '3-T        -            2367         6.Sb            61-            1541        -61       "..2r
ctiLt                  76                                 by        13.Ob          -      -                         119bl?       -            3, by
I O        31                                                                                                                                                         :O by     11.900
COLDIOtA                        .::b   L:' b                                                                                                                                              55blY
T.                                        0         0             0.0          -0    30    20       68           So-         '2           29           $.O             -              so'         20            i O t
-003    U CA            so        2.2b   1.8job        S.4            11.1          Q      27    3 3     90           93          ? 1          33           5.5             77             60          ?        ".no
cv"                    76                                           ;'I , 00       ;.-   T.-   -        16.         112"T        qe            :by       -                               Ijb.7         5        10 "b
22     bS           W           IL           S            .Z
DMINICO   Up.          so                ..030        Z                                                                                                                                  30            3
PI                                         Ito                                            SI    I                                                                                                               t 0
NAM                   so       6.4b   1,            SAS            )6:7          6s             6     et           Os          -            116         12.6             66            0            1 6       ".J100
CL SALVADOR            77       4.4        640        3             2 3. 1 by      64      a    27      62            2b.7       .1
1:4bl                                                                                       1,         -                                                          .45t,
UATtPALA              I                   010                          4,                                           qbxy                     3
6.6    1,                                                                                                     5by                                       is            9by
CU't AN                                    610            07                                                         "b-y                                                                   .7
oy
I        0.8                                 11b,                                                                     ZbT                                       59'                     3.
ItAITt                 60       I,:O'      11        I,:1             1:111        61.    9.    1       23b          So          20           41         0.0              626             4.         27          1.60
"WoUR"                 74          6       $20                       43by                                           :69b.7       )O&          41by       12.               11
13.7          "I      I    "I    960                        94                          80            1, A                      2             00
JAPAICA                60        2.1    1,110         6.1                          17    .1    Zo        0                                                   Zj                           j, 'T      i's        ,,:Jo,
axico                                                                                                                                         40          2.              11             a
A            60      as S    ' SSO                        I  CIA        1.    31    11       12           :6          5)           44"          9.5             66            S
te...                 74       Z:,.       610b       ,O.            ::C.         -      -     -       90            5 an       24           $7         -                                  b,        17        lo. 30
1AMAAA                 ?$        1.610  1.5sob        s.Sb-y        21 Sby         -28   13#   13       ezb          95by       -             JSby       11.6                            1:          30b        ---
F,                                                                                                                                                                        W              so          .7by      :,).,Ob
NA   Al              79       3                        v          ,4:1         42    117    20      6A            3          32                                        76            22          12
UV                    so      I :'.   :`                                                                                                   Z:                           69                         22        11 40T
3         53      1    11      go                       56
TRINIDAD 4 TIM.    ;7            L.1    1,9jo          .$by           S.Aby        44    32    20       ts                      ot            )O         10.51            44             62          26        ---
uwjruAv                                    Soo        2 5                                                           05b.                      260                         -              64b.        -
vtnut                                      440                       i::4b                -   -    B-2              :06bu
LA            T:       !:.'  '3                                ob                                                                                                                                         60-1
28                                                     17        1I.,OY



ANNI X I
38
toomiTu"         9DUCATtON                              COWL CT I on              "CULLINT
.08 CDU    Tias   ucuuiyt           AMLT                 ItAll POA                 jely COFT   "mass,,-
cn    m:                 AS  P"CcAvn       9KPDMtTqrU$  W20.60   PliVAT Pttft%AT                t2l,AAT   FALOAAV        L.Vt ntom    AcI.O.Al sl-Qa- --la
6AJI. for.  CA# M       PICICIDIff             CWTILAA.."LOWIDD TO. LAIT              ex  ". SCHOOL,          STIJOEM    90VCATION   P t I MA."  10   9140L.            u t Wt   e1wL,
ftAA. M11.0. III   OOOIU   I'a  40TICUM011tr              Fat  NC  ml         (t)     LATIO    CTCU           Itl         oj  Ft&CW. ICCO.CAAY    KATI             "I           "'i,
'.    , 1                                                                                                                                                    I                L,
914    lgt       WUCATIOO    gutpmtTVIA                (t)          (19,61      t)          (t)       TLA(X9A   CgP'W tl-             t
CAST -.$LA "D rAt F.jjjE                 009                      1.1         L)                                                                    S.j                                                    6
FA I MA                   I DNO.                                                                                                        15
tq" tst.                                                          1.1          10    1.      6
C                                                  LI.           I  I
OUA                          '40         '06-     ,'             0.           34   LA              No          49                                     0
ts     I7           60      4               I0                 19     1                  4
"at                                                                                  .0                          I         1:          LI
IALATSIA              66      16 1-  1.46 a        67            16L                        12
A C.;_           41       ).a.      $100       $'h          19'a          .0    17    .1                   10                                  :".J)
I p p t ns       It     la.)*       t.-O      LI-           1. 'O         6-    34                                    O 11        11:
00      I..       .1        I.,             6.,         It    'o      6                                                                       C.
SOLIO-M    M.           I      1) it     6,0       6.6p.         It ON         41    LA    ;O                              11A                      'O "I                                      4
TXACLAIM              :1      .0 ob      6006      I..                         i*    11    10                                                        0. J-
-MRJATU               46                 -         S.)           13.5          St   21                         ;O.,        .0
SOVrN 451A
6AMCLAD93M            46                 40                                                                     6)                      .41
IKVTAP                                                                                                O
t-MLA                       650,6                                                                   36
HIPAL.                $1       500      i $006    t..                                      -        19         10                      Is
FACLSTAX              62                 MO        1.0             '.O         'A           24       12        -4                       ul              C
"'.  "       .r                                                                                                       I;b                          I
P                    I                            1
CCTP                                     ,O-                      7.9          31   3'.                        Is.                                                  41.
cRig"                            'i                                    P        17   16    it                   olov        00-         "b                                                                   4
cl                        N.                                                                    io        ol"
2:6 I.,10
ULAJM                         3.0   4.460         6.                                                                                                                9
L: ::o
JOWAO                          I-$  1,4200                        10.1          9                    pob        NIS        1111         i 2                                         ON
LSSAJION                                                          Is.6-7   -    -    -
1-6 -0          4,
"DROCOD                       IL         "ob       S                                                                                                                                                        4,
OKAM                   4s        .,.                 :,.,              NO                                                               n.                           qo
fttrx"                86           Oi.9                          It            io   i7      L L      "O         Z5          'O                      I N- I
,?." I , 'OM
RCMAAIA                "      L-                                 I*.4y         -        -     -                   b,
1    IA                           a    1.                                                                                  SO                       -                66
'a                                        0                                                                               6;
TURESIA               S?       ? .$    1.210         :.p             O         .5                     l                                             11.0                                       .9
TUMST                 63       0.5  1.1)0           L.3                        so    u      14                 .10                      il
e-le"M   .R.         11-      *.)O      siob      '...                        00    la    11        ;,:       i,                      't           ,:&'            so
82      2.00      4ZOb       7.6            9.1         616  144    1-        S3         ta          u           II           22.0-                                     2
- -- --------                               - -------- . ..........  ........  ---
c1n.1M!.11c                         CA                 93        To    64    61        III                                                              11           0!
(23-  (6-   (5-       (8-
ON,   46)  13)        So,        It%,       NO            11,                                        A.
M                                                                                                           60                       'Lo,                           --a
4.                  L
I               it'n        16    I L            Zs         4n                                    S
Q.611t to                                         1.3               S..      6.1  1.$    .S    28,0          it..,      ,Z.$
IN---                                              A..             17.0       46    20    to        il         16          AN
SI..d.td 0.1t.ti..                                1.9               8.1       la    io      7       as         1,
-.0              16.0       41    to    19       '11        4)
-- ----------- ---------------------                       ........... ........  .. .........
SYNDOLS.                                                                            FOOTHOM    :
DATUM UNA-ALLAALt                                                     A-OAMP PRIOR TO  SAJE TEAK                                                    P  Wc.rt-            -c    .I,
NAGNITUDC KL 09 It"IGISLA                                             I-04"K 4M              41CtXT rAAM USC fEAR                 r   ID9 MD fT.T1 111O-W                  -L'
D.IUM QU"TtONAALS                                                     I-CULKOff  FILCtS                                               ftlt.IC 9LPEAO(TtU    -,I
tNCLOO92 tAtT-TIPM  fMvr"                                             9 NW   502014041131'r OATIO                                      I.CLJO(3    El-CIE TIJOt.T,
r cws   gmtoLL.-Mff  RAtIl                                               1110c"
P(Mr
soutcts:            4:41:=         1 -4"2:  W-lid I-K 44.1-    Or Cd             NSCC. 1J.1d .18. I",
L      I                             _.,       :CoCj..
C.          t.    ,   Wf 4 1.0   U           ON      w        NO.-toetS.            G_fC*G
.CNI/Nc th. ONN.ft st.cittt"I Te.ft"K.
-   ------------------------ ................................  .........
C.."'AC12   td.",901"   O.C.t6l.  ::.L tA.Ch.,-    I-Ifit-                  tt-       d.ootcl    eytte"   -d ortSlyst.        I. L..  C a..   I
*"C 'L..       "  .I   -m   b. oNoNN        I                                    ch. b"t. d   th. PrONNAt d.                                 :    rt:..
-C                                                                                                                                     S
.h-JA b. N,p-Chd                                                            'INS " . C ". %N_    ... -IL.C                    -L,
ft..                                                                      S,  .t. ""'U ......  9tf6fCO 4"   O                   -4-
.1 .        d4::;,.Mo1.101I1:C.       11 11
..      IL                         _,:.   , ":,:C
..... .                                                        t        S   S      it      et.                           !t,.. L            to
f Ch.. dt.. t4 fallWittg 4"Ittil.t9jeot. sk-ld bpbrpt' L. OEM-.-
(L)    'td.-Ct"' AN "ft-4  L. tht                                LI  d.-ti-    wok Cf.t.lft#. 10th fOlftL d W-f.fftt.
(1)    -tri                              14` Ol.-CLON or C            ttr: II&-.I   "W    oN-4.TT'jNd Coet.- rof.l. W    LL Nd ... ti..
SC C:   NO   W."   t. .1            ISN'Setrp. I. 6. . I    Cat. ; .4toot"t. sortelo t.11.1 .
(31   _LICGf ANY tbt"' (COL. 6)  ft   0too, Obt.L."    fr"   C-tetrY COU.SNO.   EN NO                     -.tlt-   th-   .1. -LT
'I     SM. "   LA                                                               .!?              .L
Oppm.4ft    ONS                &-btf.1 0.9 my Lfars 44IM96"   of 'tit-.                        b"   U".       L-4 c ... tat..tl,.
L.)    'P :.Ltg -1.44tc."    L. Od                                       f.1. t. CIL -ott.1 Md MC.".AC                              d...,.& 1.
I                                  (-!;..4
Od:     .4  VT M.6119  Md 1- 11-V.W.
(5)    -Itlerollote"     .etob, (C.L..       11 S     14) rot
,:d               to I  -1 "I                          -1              I'll,
-ro   .4  1:,I-             th. op,  ,      C.            p.4L,:I-d                                                2116.n. S
Z,g t. otttc... L. t.  d.,  ""   4-'    -   ""'I C. .-Vt-qt:N"                                       S# b""  4 t.
".1.    pp.L. ,.  NA :L ,.LL   ,:'I'   91    It t                            -CLV .. kifftr CM. CZ
SN.C# OCt"Llp t. Se. l.                                        6. t-I    d IN the"   11119.1-   .,A                          .......
0-



- 39 -
ANNEX 1-2
Basic data/
Donn6es de base
General
Land area                                                 2,345 million sq.km
Population  (1988)                                        33.4 million
GNP per capita (1988)                                     US$170
Average GNP per capita annual growth (1965-88)            - 2.1%
Average GDP annual growth (1980-88)                       1.9%
External Debt Service as a % of Exports (1988)            6.9%
Total Current Government Revenue as a % of GNP (1988)  15.3%
Agriculture as a % of total GDP (1988)                    31%
Urban population as a % of total population (1988)        39%
Average annual population growth rate (1980-88)           3.1%
Infant mortality rate (1988)                              96
Education: Enrollments (1987/88)
Primary   -absolute enrollments                           4,357,000
-gross enrollment rate                         79%
-net enrollment rate (6-11 years)              61%
-female participation                          42%
-share of enrollments in private schools       4%
-number of teachers (1985/86)                  111,000
Secondary -absolute enrollments                           1,066,000
-gross enrollment rate                         23%
-net enrollment rate  (12-17 years)            16%
-female participation                          32%
-share of teacher training                     25%
-share of technical streams                    27%
-numDer of teachers (1985/86)                  41,600
Higher Education
-absolute enrollments                          52,800
-gross enrollment rate                         2%
Education: Expenditures
-Public expenditures on education as a share of total public expenditures (1987)
7.9%
-Share of primary and secondary education in total public expenditures for education (1987)
77°%



ANNF-X 2-1
tt lI ttmre  of  the  lAiucatioll System/
Xt rm-t ure de  I' I .&sei ,twne1(i(lt
Aye
243
23 i
2± I
20            L-
1i        9          - jGraduat
Dipl^onc d'Etat
J. 63
7  -         _        Enseigne-          Enseigne-
nent              nont               Ensoign,
1 6  -                  egin6ral          technique         Iprofess,
1 5-                    t                 cycle              cycle             Enseign,
u                           lon         a      Dure t
i 4-  L"                L     I~~~lon             cut        -      protes-             Arts
U)
sionnl               aet
71 2 
± 2
I 0                     Enseignement   i
Drimaire  1I
9-                        'pca                          Enseignement  Pr ima ire
7
6
5
Enseilynement Maternel
4
3
i   D i   1    fi e



MEPSP (Ministry of Primary, Secondary, and Vocational Education):
Organizational Chart!
Organigramme du Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire,
SeLondaire et Professionnel, 1990
MINISTRE
SEr-Lj - E                        .          'E ' ETRIFE n'ETT
G EC ETIf.E .ENEF.tl|EL
13-13
l.ExED lEh3ED |F.ErE |              E      EREDI                                                   F.    | '
EiIl        S E.Z.         E(J    |  | H.Za                       L    m                           !i     1|| EE J |                 2



ANNFL\ 2-3
R1,'<   (-.,ion.,tl (rOanmi;atimt/
$';tr mct re Re xJionalo, 19n1()
I  liiiislleX  1'P"1'P
CeNi  atl
G o ti e r II eii rt~itt  a 
|SI§C() I'I   |    Stec.  G,  l                
II I(L(1A)~~~~~~~~~~~~~  %eIII
Secoper  I.I'| S (^X e 5.1'                  x S I'S
1'uul     I, sp.
I r     o .tI_I__s
S)0t11  I,t 11)I
LSw - (111
I   l                             ll(zg~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i'l;l
1;j 3Ij 



ANNl.Y 2-4
Enroll-ments  in  lPrimary  Edlucation  by  Grade  and  Region,  1987/88
EFFECTIFS DE L'ENSEIGNEHENT PRIAIRE (1981 -1988)
PAR  ANNER, PAR REGION ET PAR SEXE
I en                TOTAL
6e par
REGIONS         lire        2eme      3 ene      0me       Seme      6 ime    rap. a
la ie    C * F         FILLES    S
annee                             F
KINSHASA           88.640    82.446    83.819    11.564    10.256    58.316        66       461.101      231.905    50
BAS IAIRE          85.153    65.003    63.248    55,110   48.165    40.433         47        358.312     160.511    45
BANDUNDU          115.109    88.101    82.181    12.046    65.096    51.403        50       481.142    208.882   43
EQUATEUR          120.555    90,046    19.552   64.936    54.442   45,696          38       455.221      116.103   39
HAUT-ZAIRE        165.453   126.802  113.311    88.241    69.842   54.041          33        611.108     260.038    42
KIVU              156.519   129.213   114.103    90.184    15.645    12.313        46       638.691      250.811    39
SHABA             163.401   121.518   124.503   101.667   81.981    68.392         42       661.462      281.641    42
KASAI-ORIENT.      93.114    10.348   62.555    52.134   43.852   36.946           40        358.949     148.660    41
KASAIOCCID.       83.081    66.177   51.133    44.044   38.961    33.249          40        317.257     125.526   40
TOTAUX G * F  1.071.691  846.320   115.611   641.192  548.846  466.855             43  41.356.515   1.844.149    42
DORT FILLES       483.613  366.195   336.563   266.686   220.362  110.130
I DE FILLES         45,1       43,3       43,3      41,2       40,1      36,6
Source: MIEPSP, Annuaire Statisique 1897/88



Enrollments in Primary Education by Type of Institution, 1987/88 /
Inscriptions dans l'Enseignement Primaire par Regime de gestion, 1987/88
.  1ERE   ANNEE   .  2EME   ANNEE   .  3Ef  ANNEE   .  4EME   ANMmEE   .  SEME  ANNEE  .  6EME   ANNEE  .                     IOTAL
.    GF  .   F                    GF  . F    .                  CF  .   F  G 6    .    F  GF.?  F                      .   GF .   F  6F  -   F
-------------------------------------------------------------------------__--__-------------------------------------------_
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~ ~ ~ ~             ~ ~       ~ ~       ~ ~       ~ ~ ~~             ~ ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ .  4051 .C 27 .  .  2 .  2 .  791. 3.  .
E.N-C.   . 189547.   a4394.  148609.   64371.  145910.   6483a.  122969.   4eoe5.  103591.  40451.   scs27,   32821. 796153.  33  a
*  E.~.C .     58c751.  262Z45.  457994.  196613. 3      11581. 177079.  33f383.  141345.  286203.  116776. 23C683.  88C12.Z306595. 982Z70.
i            .  33 .   15515.   25 .   11 .  2 4 4.   106I 4.   21I .    8551.   18733.    7255. 2                  I3C4.   577. 7     45I5'.   56:0C.
.    34.    1488.    2743.    1227.   230.                  30.   2CO9.    7.    1589.    5.    1333.               '. 3       .         .
4.3. 19.   19762.   32550.   15 . 9         1205. 2   4;61.   25305.   11943. 9     C23 9. 2334.   151.    67L8. '6t943.    F69C
TOTAL    .1071691.   .  185513. 84319.  366776.  771511.  336562.  5411S6   266684.  s'a ' .                                                    422C36.   '.. .4.7.  '
.   .   .         .         .         .         .         .         .         .        .         .         .        .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~633 5 2. 64.71Z d e4    .eI           2C 6 . (6t            7C7 8 3t
E.N.C.   Enseignement  non conventionn6
E.U.C,   Enseignement  conventionn6  cathiolique
E.C. P.   Enseignement  conventionn.   protestant
E.C.K.   Enseignement  conv. ntionn. kimbanguiste
E.C.I.   Enseignement  conventionn                    e islamique
E.PR.   Enseignement prive
Source: MEPSP, Annuaire Statistique 1987/88



0  '                    4                                         4                                                           .   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-    -     Z              -  - -         - -   --                                                                                                                                        ,-Z
*  .                                                                     ,           ~~          ~                ~           ~         ~~~~~.4...      .   .   .                 4...,                                                             ...-  .  -..                                     .'--
-                                                      -                                         -                                                          .                                        ,                                                                                   IT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---          ----Ir  r
*    -                  ,                                                                                                                            .                                         .                                                                                                                         .- -   - -. -         - -           -0                                                      D2
-   .                                                                                 ,                                          ,    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                               . . . . .              .. . . . . .                                             . . . ...                                   .. 
400~~~~                          ,..44~~~~~                   ~       ~ ~                                             4~~4                  ~ ~ ~                 44--  --      ' -   -     -                                                              -...  - - -  - -  -                                                                                                                     -
.                 . .           . .       .... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... .4. .0                    .0                                 4      .          .           . . .                . .                     . . .                        . ...          .      4~- . . . . . . . . ....4 .                              . . .                0.    .      0.. .  .       .        .    . .                                                -
5-. 



Enrollments in Secondary Education by Type of Institution
19866/87 /
Inscripcions dans l'Enseignemenc Secondaire par type dtInstitucion, 1986187
C-.4. 1                0.4. 2                 C      3d  S             -4.. 4                C-.4. S                 C-.4. A                                  T          T.. 2 ..          T 7l..
r~.....  I..
7,.4,,..  5......  4.1670     20122     29474        13.931    12917        14099       8403        10693       £741       !8356       6217       10ts.   109099         79526    r8626-.              720cl    25)6.2
C...        1~~~~~~~~.1 ~~ 6.4.8   8a"           4201      3178         414         5s2         2.6.8      1072         106        869         6172    20265        21677       I .152            .937 6     1
8.,.          ~~~~~~~29144  13700    27411           9750      4739         "SI1      4921         7825       6669         7350      S=82         8292    '88.2.        568.8    135687             5.07..   ;8.2
P7.42..   9...,.. ~~~  1.390  4.280     72019        349=1    =2106         24 112     22118        18L379     162-96       14276     14649        j49..s   72 ?21,9     24.50 26   928455             0087 75   5771,
C..                2861 7I5I50    21344                 106567     8035         9585       410          607.0LO   2744         2',,       20...      .2221     ?'287        50569o   !279'6              27.79    65.55 t!
86,.                7777         2-.5      81474         1*36'    24070         15127     18673        1229       Ulu552       10560      1260        1 1715   196112        9432.7   290.4 I             71 226   261 7 25
64054       32821      54714        13950    17147         114.34     11162         7832      8A44         5156       7256        5.171   226569        66505    203075               59278   27170.2
C.,.                19257        101 42     1030          5867      4.30         6309      2446         2264       1530         law0       109.        ISO7    28922          7e869     66752             7282-    88606                         Z
86,                 34187        1.2469    24.409         so"5    12544          4227      8717          4668      8924         2644      6973         261.4    97646        ..8627    132828             J.1?..4   172697?
47002l      146460    220k78        131667    12374        20350      8320          7923      6639         6641 I     6158        7434   311872         19969    1718-1               47221   721.67 
C, I.          16~~~ ~ ~~37£  690      Y799          779       3148        2.412      1)706        2143       1031        4.61        834          32      38.          81         90                .723.     62
86,.                31635        10666    279             7704       9           9848      6614         6180       56.40        50        5624         6096   a8078          418.6      =e2.2.             _9987   lt7.2826
10388        4084       8.40         259       2401         350         53         2053       1124         152...     1051        1601     =1898        14621      27119               5067-   .2581
7,,.            2~~~ ~ ~~~72 4  1257   2042          744       6.44         734        329          1.35       16S         292        12          2.1      6944         208       176                 2620     22.288
86,.                  864"        279        4540         214a      186          14         1207         1518       969         1221        9125       12.      15950        1081       26.62              .27      729
1.'....           95~~~~~O7   753        83I5 I2                148          4.4        163         6.71        88          597         84         724      2100         39,20      6020              2099      8119
C.,..            3~~~ ~ ~~~5.4  3221     1791         17         34          16.8       28           o 108       a          I114        1.         126      5,22         899       1421                692      2112
6.'.                   703          637       444          40         I44         484        135          463         64         e83         83         620o     1578         3021       4599               t*08      600?
7,,.....          3~~~    ~ ~~292  747   1842          710        701         678'       667          631        414         504        292         197      boos         3667       95)7.              959      189l.2
1006         283        62           3         2354         2 17       255          189       10           146.        9          178      -2228        1311       2529              7461       600
8.,.            ~~~          ~~~~120  44.4  14       390        444          359       412          3.62       310         360        2'93        421       3690        2334.f     6036               6498     12934
.21AL                1834.9        64A09    104535        4364.      46735       39387       03=1        29603    23460O        24138      212!94      25707   3884-6         =720      6.566.             18403   8031.1
C.,2                 1.420       24.316     5064 &U       51018    1I4          1350        425           08       3920         1960       202         1279   109480         73677    183.5?              59241   2.270.2
B6..-              108839        4064       780           444      34274        25437     24004        256        150           8370      18=2        20428   2784          1135       3219,:81                    5424
Source: Mission Estimates, from MEP'SP data



'I 
ANNEX 2-8
Enrottments in Higher Education, by Type of Institution, 1971/72 to 1988/89 /
Effcctifs dans t'Enseignement Superieur par type dinstitution, 1971/72 - 1988/89
1971/72  1980/81  1985/86  1988/89  growth   growth
1971/72  1985/86
1980/81 1988/89
Universities                              10442     9927    16239    27166          -5%      67%
Technical Institutes                       1809    10045    13678    19931        455%       46%
(IST)
Second. Teacher Trng Instit.               2743     8521    10896    14325         211%      31%
(ISP)
TOTAL                                     14994    28493    40813    61422          C i      50%



- 4 8 -
ANNEX 2 9
Primary ard Secondary School Teachers' Monthly Salaries, 198.8-1990
Saaires mensuels des enseignants du primfaire et du secondaire, 1988-1990
A. Salary Increases, May 1988/October 1990
May    1988            Oct. 1989   July 1990   October   1990    1988/90 increase
Z.     USS a/          Z.                        Z.      USS b/      2.        USS
Primary
(1)         uiderqual  (D4)          5357        27        10575        40520        77250       109      1342X      306X
(2)         qualified  (D6)          5798        29        11375        43420        88450       125      1426X      330X
Secondary
(3)          gradue                  8588        43        15175        57720        99950       141      1064X      228X
(4)          licencie               10838        54        18925        72720       126050       178      1063X      228X
(5)          second. sch. dir.    13000          65        30000       107000       153400       216      1080S      232X
(6)=(5)/(1) min/Max                   2.4       2.4          2.8          2.6          2.0       2.0
ratio
a/ USS1 ' -  10        b/ USS1 * 2.710
Source: HEPSe
8. Salary Structure, October 1990
Level      category           minimmn   naximum    ratio           average    average    average
initial    final       Max/min    salary        salary      salary/
salary      salary                  (categ.5)  (categ.5)  GNP per cap
i.         2.                       Z.        USS a/
Primary
Underqual. (04)         52000       97450        1.87       77250          109         7.7
Qualified  (06)         59500      111610        1.88       88450          125         8.8
Ratio                    1.14        1.15        1.00         1.14
Secondary
Sradue                  67400      125990        1.87       99950          141         9.9
Licencie                84800      159050        1.88      126050          178        12.5
Ratio                    1.26        1.26        1.00         1.26
a/          USSI * 2.710
Note:       Housing and family alloweances not included
Source:    MEPSP



ANNEX 2-10
Ie('Vt iti(>I1 i  ih¢,  l)  I        I I   Iclit. it tionl,  17/7V7   ainId  1986/87   /
Tlatx  (It(  rk dOlII)I(.!.t 1 ,I  I  U 1'  ive'ttl (I'l,iitcat ioi,  1'978/7q  et  1986/87
PPtAIrft /PRIMARY
Rodwbl"mt(tttuj)/Ropotitior (rst-)
1)  per ann4  d64tu4d/by gr'dc
I          1          3           4 4                   6           Totsl
1978/79   21,2        1907        27 ,       19,2       17,7        14,7
19/g667   19,1        16,1        21,1 11 ,6            17,2        12,3      1,4
2) per esoe (1936/67)/by gender (1906/e7)
goronot 116,4
f111*4    lo's
3)  par r.glone (1904/87)/by rogion (1986/67)
*andundut               19,7                 Des  ZaTros            1902
Equat.ur:               20,0                 Heut Zaires            23,6
Ksose  Occid.ntsli    17,?                   Knoo; Oriontalt    1I'
Klnashoaa               10,1                 Klvut                  21,7
Shebat                 21,4
4)  par typ  d'6t4abileaewnt (19J8/67)/by type of Instltution
Public non conventloenin4         13,4
Public lconvoatlonnV              19,2
deontt  Catholique            19,6
Prot,etant             16,7
Kia tgulst.           16,?
Ilala.io              16,9
relV6                              6,4
Alba t (per  nnn4- d4e  ie)/    -out (by grade)
I         I          8           4         9
1973/ 7*     198,       S,S        16,2        7,7       47,
1944/67      10,4       6,0         *,1        9,1       0,2
StCtCDAMRt /SECONOARY
Rodoubl*  q.s/Ropatl ti on
1) per sa" 4'Kade/by grade
I          I          8           4          6           0          Total
1976/79                     6,6        7,4         6,7 t,3                9,4        15,1       6,7
1986/67                     1J,?       14,9        II,'       16,2        16,7       26,5       16,9
2) per fillel/by atreee
-  a  at
nOrmal/genoral   10,2         15,1        11,9       17T,        17,0       21,7       17,7
and podag.
Tochnilqt   et
profe..ionnel/   15,7         14,9        1t,6       12,7        14,0       16,4       14,4
technical and
vocatlonal
Souree: 
Red.ubl niltt donm6e  OEPS
Abandon.l e.tlaatlone milsion I portlr doe donn4. ODEPS



Results of the Final Secondary School Examination (*Examen d'Etati),
1985 to  1987/
Muteelta * I EzOis 4Etet peibe type d6tablt aeot, 196, 1967
(1)                       (t)                       (3)                        (4)                       (6)
m  en   d-                ba br  da                 aoebr  de                   tauti de                  t sa  de
ca"didaei                 4iPI.w&q                   dipion" 4       1      1       se Iple              solectioc
m,mb.e *o                 nu ber of                6ligible_                         a 1U/                den-
appi Icacto              g9raduat..                   doesi   .trat.'aegmt
*?Plesiq"c-%                 rate gtof      u       o lup6riewri'ate of s- -ction
-up6rier !//       c        ucco--                            to highor  d.oc.
nOumbr of graduate-e                                        3  1 SO
el1gible to highor oduc.                                  ()
196          1967         1965            1967        1965           1967      196c        1967        196       9I87
Aut,odidactm                 0 82          7 418        2 653         2 221           102         8B        4C,0         38,0         1,6       1,2
Mo ca"VeNtlOA66             26 674        28 174       12 014        12 446          S6           449       46,2         44,2        2,3        1,8
Catbolique              2e ON         20 499      12 279         13 493         1 e2e      1 co8        81,1        06,8         8,1          1
Frator-itla                84U           78Y    U      40           378            20          43       64,1         48,0        3,1        6,6
l. aique                 1 965         1 784         512            841            i8         11        28,1        3e,3         0,9       0.8
Ki.bangui"               a 839         3 582        1 13         1 428            28         4S        31,3        39,a         0,7        1,3
Protestant              23 589        21 130       a 738         1f 646           326        368        38,3        43,7         1,4        1,6
Autree (Gecaiae ...)          524    n      .d.          468     o     .d.            94    n     .d.      49,6         nd.        Is,'        nd.
Total                       as 437        69,236       U 157         41 9n9         2 64       2 776        45,6         47,e        3,4        3,1
Noto: 1/ Los 6ligiblee *ont le- diploe   *yant obtenu am mine 881 doe points.
Soorce: 1966: DEPS/Centro National de Correction.
1987: Coeweotico Nationa-l dos Ecol-- Conwentionado Catholiquo..



Current and Capital Expenditures in Education, 1980--87/
D     _pasaa cousreet,. bedga a naxes et
bud,ata 4Ie- ntlat  DEtS. DESU ot Etat
:196-8  (as m I  lr  Z. ca.rata)
AhtEISJ                    O40m. CareaaAS            8Udigs         F.#ctIei5  -ntJ         B.doot                  TOTAL/                 Pert iduct.on
ae awle   £ S8taWV          *65"                              loweetios.at4                                  dons budget  ot,IV (2)
Y"P                             (1)                     (2)        (Z)n- l)*(2)               (4)                (6)L (3}§(4)                   (a)
Central curreat ezp. Ot6.r cu,@xp.Total car. bud ot                Inv.at.ent           Totg I bud  t  Share of oduc. In tottl bidgot
196          DEtS                 09  709                       6        99 7"6            14 644                      706 404                1Is'
r6.ll        DESU                 29  29                S 117           307 O               2 723                     369 723                   7.4
Actual        TOTAL                909 643               S 717           997 760            17 387                   1 fIg 127                  24,2
ETAT               a  t4 S91             2  137          3 947 216           248 683                   4319 9l1
1961         DEtS               a 12i  977                 sa7        1 123 414            26 628                   1 160 042                  17,7
.4.11        OESU                 291 411             12S 899           39? "I                 365                     397 602                  0,1
*ctual       TOTAL              I 34 *4                336 233        1  29 721             26 983                   1  47 794                 23,3
(TAT                  23  US      U       91 2"          5 8229              6089 490                  a611l 93
1962         OEFrS              1 249                      1 9        1 259 063            63 338                    1seU369
.6011        DESJ                 434 116             138  11           687 116               a                       567 115
actual       TOTAL              2 20668               13a 19         2 392 160            63 330                    2 466 564
* TAT              7J9t  467               -                -                   -                        960 86 6
19 8         DEtS               I am a9                    167        1 39  220            01 322                    107 U4O                   11,2
r6.lj        DESU                 U4  321             126 652           077 173             8 183                      a   3b8                  S,0
TOTAL              1640a"        1J        1 939         1 983 J99            84 606                   2047 904                   16.8
actual       ETAT              19 647 7                532 M9        11 397 16             883 141                  12 2" 18
1964         PEUS               11 8S 146                38* 2        1 18  670            74 462                    1648 322                   6,9
..11    O     ES        V         120 23S              5967             177 800    *                                   577                      2,4
actual        TOTAL             2 6 C721                6  449        2 146 176             74 462                   22260  2                    9,3
ETAT             22 38  242              618 961        22 970  3W7    9      46 507                  23 832 814
1965         DErS               2 37 129                J 394         2 819 424            43 26                    235363 2                    6,2
r6el         DfS9                 *26 9on             392 o3            939 74              9woo                       937 746                  2,1
actual       TOTAL              a 1a3 62               19  142        3 239 179             62 268                   3 291 428                  7,3
ETAT             43 13U 649              799 677        44 337 825           020 734                  46 168 869
1900         DEtS               2 8"1U1                 12 079        2 832 861             34 eo                    26 6o63                    5.1
.4.11        DESU                 828 442             866 365         1 183 797              12 076                  1196 472                   2,1
actual       TOTAL              811 40 026             388 626        4 616  s9              40 876                  4 063 326                 7?2
ETAT               394 416             15690 647           493 193          1012 340                  6  "6 443
1987         DfPS               J 971 477                6 176        3 978 063          1 146 720                   5 122 373                  6,s
Pr-a;/       DE9J               1 16E  Ge3             798 375        1 964 638            622 386                   2 476 423                  2,8
TOTAL              6 127 140             u63 51         S 930 691           1 6es 1I                  7 598 e82                   e,6
Votd         ETAT              71 783 659              835 529       76 169 167         13 263 161                  86 442 336
19"          DEPtS              8 O 9646                9988          8 914 137            647 ooo                  * 601 137                   6,3
Pr6wuf       D(-11()            2 68  716            1926 170         a 031 667            732 s60                   4363 687                   3.2                     1
TOTAL             16 813 784           1 032 26S       11 046 224           1 279 600                 12 926 624                   9,e
voted        (TAT             120 623 456           8 07  753       127 302 211          7 624 481                136 126 692
Mot..:        1909-1960: p;met.
1967-1688: credit
(a) bewrs.. s.-i.clcua.        Source: 06psrt.sat doe Fia.nce*



' l  pt '11.i"': ,- i ' -
!k'.  w Hls   . I  IIIl,- ,  ,t ' " ' ' ' "
I KLL, S  .r It .' Ii
A. Evolution d*3 d4ponews  de fonctloieneint
du DEPS per cat4gorlt, 1,86-87
(e6  Z couronto)c//
OEPS current *xp "J;turwo
by catagory, 1968,87
REMUNERATION -- -Fr        rIt,E.4T         TTTAL.
VALEUR              VAtFLR    %           VAI FI"  
Salaries   (2)       Other   (4)           Iotal        ()
______________ (1)  __ _ _ __ _ _ _   (3)            (56)
1980          662610   95,9    28.6e       4,1       3Je7e          100,0
1981         1087803   96,0    56811       s,0      1123414        100,0
1982         1699190   93,1   125763       6,9      1824953        100,0
1983         12d1300   96,0    64926       5,0      13e5226         1e0,o
1984         1630629   97,0    38341       2,4      1568870         100,0
1996        2239164   96,9    71280        3,1      2310424         100,0
1986        2707836   96,0   112347        4,0      2820183         100,0
1987b/      3506666   88,3   464811    11,7         3971477         100,0
1988b/       7611049   96,0   397000       6,0      8008049         100B,
Not.; s/ Budgots annexes non compris
/ Pr4visiono
Source: OEPS at DApart***nt des Finances
B. R6portitlon dee d4pense.e di fo-cntionn-emet
de PlEtat per cat*gorl-, 19M-0 !,/ (2)
State current expenditures
by cat*gory, 1968/07/
1983       1964       1985    1986
RlmunArotiorn                       40,7        36,8       32,9      35,3
Ddpense. de materlel                 4,6         4,7        4,2       8,2
Frole financiers                      7.O      1i,3        3b,8      22,6
Polltlqu*t                          11,2        13,J         ,  9,      8 '
Autree                             3u,a         32,2       ^2,P      26,2
Total budget hore-dett.            10,9       104,6      100,6    100,0
Notet !I Budgete annexee non comprls
/ Pr6eldence * d6pnosee Etat et Politique (pour 1983, 84 et 95)
* Consell
LUglolatif Notional * Buroau 1br Conott
Soureet DApcrtaeeee doe Fi'cncoc, roddlticn dca conpt-,a



\NNIN 2-14
C(.mparalson Aes 'u"dge   tevisionneis et des dupenses
elles 1  :a '.8PS , 1980-86
(enrt Mliirs de Z. coulrants)
Actual use
Creditod t,       Paid                  of rosourcee/
> (  * t  . d.e& t          3s se!e nt ( )+  Non consomm6 (-)
ANNEES            BUL0E,                                                Valeur              (2)
1980         Ordinaire                I  t          13 7SS              350 709           103,1
Investissemrent        qi WI           '.. 5               -26 751           -64,5
Total                 381 - f              ..              323 958            84.9
1981         Ordinaire              67S  3.      1 23  1.               447 333            66.2
Investissement         27 ill          25 628               -1 173            _4.2
Total                 703 882       ; 153 042              446 160            63.4
1982         Ordinsire           1 2d2 ;10       1 824 953              662 849            51,8
Investissem.ent        S7 226          63 336                3 890            -5.8
Total               1 269 333       . 888 289              626 739            ',6,0
1983         Ordinsire            1 265 2.1      1 306 226               40 985             3,2
Investissment          38 667          61 322               22 655            58.6
Total               1 303 908       1 367 548               63 640             4.9
1984         Ordinaire           1 673 953       1 568 870             -105 083            -6.3
Investisaement         99 000          74 452             -24 548            -24,8
Total               1 772 953       1 643 322            -129 631             -7.3
1985         Ordinaire           1 726 807       2 310 424              583 617            33.8
Investissement         95 300          43 258             -51 742           -54.5
Total               1 821 807       Z 353 682              531 875            29.2
1986         Ordinaire           2 716 143       2 832 853              116 710             4,3
lnvestinsement        204 368          34 000            -170 368           -83.4
Total               2 929 511       2 866 853             -53 658             -1.8
Notot La budget ordinaire inclut lea d6p.nsoe courantes des services cuntraux et les
budgets annexes maii pas lee budgetz r6gionaux. ni lea budgets pour ordre.
-SouEcez D6partement des Finencen



Unit Private Expenditures by Level and Category, 19871
D4s-oe-e  prlv4.c weltalres deas l'oe.aele_emat public per
...... OPr 4a4latI. 1ini (Z.)
prIm.lr./                               General Secondaire *t Normalf                             S       rl
Primary                              General Secondary and Pedagogical                             lchiS@1b /
____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ____ ___ ___ Secondary    Technicai
D4"wm ~ b4 "Po"             64"b"            ip bafs        bjpeow          DiS-ss          e4pah- * Afts                    D-pORSO
Obi et ir,,  Fcaltativ..        Total..       0bi gat ir      FacmItati7e-      Totalo.       Obl I"tolrca   facultotl...   lTotale
Permoamel          *           2U0            260              a               26              266                a             25U            256
Adeisistration   49             -              49             78                -               73              144              -             144
Eatt-ti.bet     100            -             I96            142                -              142              890              -             898
Ecol-m
Fouraltures       31           40             430             47               S *47                           299             OOO           1i99
El 4vea
aif*rme           -            OU             0U               ^               088             080               -              OB0            C80
lr.oports         -             64             64              -               863             063               -              836            838
T0TAL            166          1388           1171            268              2383            2061             1344             2380          3711
Source: Eotimatlmee als.l...



ANNEX 2-16
Eiternal      Assistance   to Education:
Low incose Selected Sub-Sahara Atrica Ccuntries, I964-96/
Aile exterieure a I eiucdtion
Pais a faible revenu, Airtiue su3-saharienne, 164-65
Tecnnical    Capitai         Total         Poculation   Fer capita
Assistance         Aio       Asslstanl:e                  tot, ass;st,
it sillion)  (t iilion) (S  iillion) 'million)                (3I
Oall                                                 13.2            4.i          16.1              a           2.0
vurkina                                              13.4            9.8          23.2              a           78i
il er                                                13.4           10.2          23.6              7            3.4
6aabia                                                   2           2.6           4.6            0.8           5.8
-o.alia                                                 15           1.7           2.1              6            3.8
Tchad                                                 8.2              1           9.2              5            1.8
Total Low Income Semiarid                            65.2           34.2          95.4           34.6           2.9
Ethiopia                                             21.6            6.5          A.B              43            (.7
iaire                                                30.4            4.4          34.8             32            1.1
Maiawl                                                5.2           10.5          15.7              7            2.2
Suinea-Bissau                                         3.4            1.8           5.2            0.9            5.8
Tanzania                                             27.3           12.6          39.9             23            1.7
burundL                                              18.5            6.8          25.3              5           5.1
0uganda                                               6.6            8.9           15.5            15            1.0
logo                                                  9.2            2.5          11.7              3           3.9
CentrafrLque                                          9.2            2.!          11.3              3            3.8
madaqascar                      I8.1                                 1.3          19.4             11            1.8
Eenin                                                 9.1            4.1          13.2              4            3.3
;iandj                                               12.6            6.5          19.1              6            3.2
Totil Low Income Other                              171.2             68         239.2          152.9            1.6
rOtal Low Incoee                                    236.4          102.2         338.6          181.7            I.P
Sources: Aid data froe Sergent: Laide exterivure a I1education en Afrique SJb-Saharienre;
Faits et probleets. IREDU, Dijon, 1969
Population data troa World Sank Qevelopaent Report, 1969



REPUBLIOUE DU ZAIRE                                                          ANNFX 3-1
Paige 1 of 10
g                          ...  :- to1.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iw . i ,.L-r 1991
Myo MIN,EPSPICABMINIOO01
M1IN-STERE DE LENSEIL,NEYEN- .Q:'
SECONDAIPr E  PP3F S.2\.'
CABINET DU MINISTRE
8 P. 3163
KINSHASA/ GO MB E
,    /,
R:f
Objet    Strategie du Secteur d ' t'':.t!
Anne.e
Messieurs,
Une educatiion dt zuialitC e.t    ½ ' aso de Ia promotion du potentiel
humain et au centre du redrtss:czinL *R in:fr.lstru(tures sociales au Zaire.
Or Ia situati on de i 'nei: I'QIVt .             des actions 6nergiques
et coordonnees pour dCvelopper (  sc. ,r L. '½1i permettre d'assumer le role
central que le pavs atte!-i de l:i          -;on t :.)rt d'a justUmenit et de
croissance.
Le Gouvernement a dc!i ir< t          orientations generales a donner
a 1'6ducation, et une serie d. tex.i    alor.    ½  voi  a suivre, tandis que la
Loi-Cadre de 1986 fixe le re-4inme   irK       arnl riiDabl  aux activites
d'enseignement.  Enfin, une Cornri-io'  de  i Rxforme a et  instituee pour
adapter l'education aux realit½ o  .
Les grands o'jectifs rtt.    , t ;i s&olari sation primaire
universelle, I'alpha;bCt isation .t                 ..r.. :.. isit ion do I 'onseignement
exigent, pour etre atteints, q:'n  -  t    . tariotl- claire et realiste
soit mise en oeuvre.  Le ?r,a2reT:7 7     nt-   .i-.: ssous oxaliite les
priorites du secteur, ut il reonsk  ! L  2ct1iot i    L t ,3es mnosures
institutionnelles, opCrationnelles k't  :in:wcroL   qu'il convient de prendre
pour respecter ces priorites,  o-0-3@ta ten'.: des rssourcLs interieures
(publiques et privees) .t extert-sr(visil'los.
La stratI:6i-  .3t'>Kd  .-          o:s   h:-tifie cinq arandes directions
pour le redressemcnt  ': secte;:r .         !  1i  %Kr.,it L crt'tiser le
septennat du social.   Ca-as  cIL': ic*    'In ar  r1 e  .3. de la situation
precede le detail des  lnioct!if.  t  '.  :<oi        , nrvudr.
Centree sur  'enso   u :'      ni3i   -t e3    c euairo, la strat6gie
d4veloppie a a.issi .r:i.i '  .                          ;   Ci-i  a-.  Les
ministercs conct r-.k       .                                   no - ssee des plans
de d6t-elop1cmp.nt  k..



ANNEX 3-1
Page 2 of IC-
A.  LE TRANSFERT DES RESSP-;.-- -']B    rS HN FA';E"R DU SECTEUR DE
L'EDUCATION
Situation
Le sous-financement    sec-t*r 6'J._at:f c_nstitue un obstacle majeur
au developpemert de ce secteu: et eM_e en grande partie que
l'enseignement se soit degroJ1,  es   -         ' ;effort financier consid6rable
consenti par les familles.  Le r  ressr-m?.t du secteur educatif est
conditionne d'abord par un accrc.s,.ent -'s resscurces publiques en sa
faveur.
Objectifs
1.    La r6alisation des                              u
d'efficacite assign6s au secte::r *.'qe des financements budgetaires
suppl6mentaires, en particulier ncur assurer aux etablissements des moyens
de fonctionnement minimu*.
2.    La priorite accord6e par les pouvoirs publics a la restauration d'un
enseignement primaire de Cual'te se tradsira par des reallocations
budgetaires en :aveur de ce sous-secteur.
Mesures
1.    Une dotation budgetaire additionnelle sera inscrite au profit du
Ministere de l'Enseignement Primaire, Secondaire et Professionnel (EPSP)
pour mettre a la disposition des etablissements les ressources minimum
necessaires a leur fonctionnement. Cette allocation permettra d'equiper les
Ocoles du materiel de base (tatleaux noirs et craies ....); calculee sur la
base de coQts unitaires. elle sera progressivement augment6e. Ces
allocations budgetaires seront comptabilis6es independamment des lignes
budgetaires dej& existantes dans le budget de 1'EPSP qui devra s'accroitre
d'au moins 42 par an en termes r6els (sans tenir compte d'eventuels
reajustements salariaux) pendant la prochaine d6cennie.
2.    Le budget courant alloue a l'education primaire et secondaire fera
l'objet d'une reallocation en faveur de l'enseignement de base, de faqon a
permettre a ce niveau d'enseignement un r6tablissement en termes
quantitatifs aussi bien que qua,itatifs.
B.    LA MOBILISATION DE T-'S LES ?ARTE':A:RES A LIA TACHE EDUCATIVE
Situation
Les moyens humains et financiers de 'B'tat ne lui suffisent pas pour
assurer seul la tAche de r4hailbitation du secteur de l'education.  Or les
conditions actuelles de jartic`paticn des partenaires de l'Etat ne les
incitent pas a accroitre  eur contribution au secteur.  En particulier les
4glises, qui gerent la ma-crit6 des (tab'issements scolaires et qui ont une
longue experience dans le de.naine de l'enseignement, hesitent a s'engager



-   ..                                 1\.NNIX 3-I
3  of   I ()
davantage dans des activites scolaires du fait des ambigult6s et des
incertitudes pesant sur les modalites de leur intervention.
Obiectifs
3.    Explicitation des responsabilites respectives de l'Etat et des ONG
Le Gouvernement a deja defini dans la Loi-Cadre de 1986 les principes
gen6raux de la cooperation avec les differents organismes concourant a
l'activite educative (nota.'nent les reseaux constitues par les eglises): les
droits, les obligations, les responsabilites et les domaines d'intervention
de chacun des partenaires seront precises a travers une large concertation.
Par ailleurs, l'Etat encouragera l'initiative privee par la d6finition d'un
cadre reglementaire precis et durable.
Etant donne l'importance, non seulement des ressources
supplementaires de l'Etat, mais egalement des ressources non-
gouvernementales a mettre a la disposition du secteur de l1'ducation, le
gouvernement reconnait la necessite d'encourager toutes les initiatives
privees. Dans ce contexte, le gouvernement reconnait l'importance d'une
dventuelle retrocession aux niveaux conventionnes des etablissements
scolaires nationalises en 1974.
Mesures
Apres revision de la Loi-Cadre, le Ministere promulguera les arretes
et decrets portant mesures d'application apres concertation avec les divers
intervenants (coordinations et prives) pour leur permettre une veritable
autonomie de gestion des etablissements scolaires, tout en laissant au
gouvernement la responsabilite des orientations pedagogiques.
C.    LA RESTAURATION DE LA QUALITE DE L'ENSEIGNEMENT ET L'AMELIORATION DE
L'EFFICACITE INTERNE
Situation
Malgre les efforts dej& entrepris, la qualite de l'enseignement
dispense A tous les niveaux du systeme scolaire se degrade gravement; en
meme temps, 1,s redoublements s'accroissent dans des proportions alarmantes,
accaparant des ressources precieuses. Parmi les causes de cette evolution,
il faut citer la faiblesse de la remuneration des enseignants, qui compromet
le serieux de leur travail, et se repercute sur 1'ensemble de I'activite
scolaire. Ce probleme fera l'objet d'une reflexion specifique du
Gouvernement. D'autres facteurs sont a l'origine de la baisse de la qualite
et sont directement du ressort du HEPSP; ce sont notamment le manque de
preparation pedagogique des maitres, leurs conditions de travail
defavorables, le blocage du systeme de supervision, la quasi-absence de
manuels et de livres du maitre et de fournitures scolaires, ainsi qu'un
environnement pedagogique peu favorable.



- 59 -                                   ANNEX 3-1
PageoZ&T 10
Objectifs
4     Adaptation de l'enseignement aux r6alit6s socio-culturelles du pays
L'enseignement a tous les niveaux doit repondre aux specificites
zalroises, tant dans leurs dimensions culturelles et sociales que par
rapport aux besoins economiques.
5.    Diminution des redoublements au primaire et au secondaire.
Les redoublements seront considerablement reduits tant dans le
primaire que dans le secondaire, afin de d6gager des places supplementaires,
et donner leurs chances a un plus grand nombre d'61eves d'accomplir une
scolarite complete.
6.    Encouragement des classes a deux niveaux (ecole rurale et groupes de
rattrapage).
L'implantation puis la systematisation des classes & deux niveaux
permettra de repondre aux difficultes de la scolarisation en milieu rural en
oper'ant des regroupements d'eleves; ces classes induiront en outre
l'amelioration de l1efficacit4 interne (pedagogie differentielle).
7.    Amelioration de la formation des maitres.
Le Ministere assurera aux maitres une formation adaptee aux exigences
de l1'ducation de base. Dans ce but, la formation dispensee sera reellement
professionnelle. Elle associera l'enseignement theorique des matieres de
base, celui de la pedagogie et les exercices d'application. Ces acquis
seront renforces par le recours plus systematique a la formation continue.
8.    Introduction d'auxiliaires p6dagogigues.
a) Pour le niveau primaire, mettre a la disposition des e1lves les
outils pedagogiques essentiels que sont les manuels et fournir aux
instituteurs des guides pedagogiques correspondant aux manuels des eleves;
ces guides faciliteront la tache des enseignants et allegeront ainsi leur
travail.
b) Pour le secondaire, les efforts engages par les services
pedagogiques seront intensifies, et la disponibilite de manuels sera
egalement accrue.
9.    Amelioration de l'environnement pedagogique.
Dans ce domaine, on veillera a la fois A l'amelioration des
conditions de vic et de travail de l'eleve et de l'enseignant, ainsi qu'a
celle de l'environnement pedagogique de l'cole.



ANNIX 3-1
13age 5 of 10
10.   Education pour Pam6l   ration de  a_ sarit6_ de la nutrition, et des
questions de population.
Le Ministere s'associera aux pr gra;:es d'&(3ucation, de sante et de
population en introduisant dans la fori:,ation qiu'il dispenise, des modules
relatifs a ces themes.
Mesures
L'amelioration de la qualit6 et de 1'efficacit6 internes sera
recherchee de deux fa,ons compl6mentaires: d'une part, directement par
action sur les mecanismes de s6lecti'n et les taux de redoublement, et
d'autre part, grAce a des actions p6dagogiques qui auront un impact positif
sur les performances des maitres et des 616ves. Les mesures de restauration
de la qualite (programmes, maitres et manuels) ressortent des
recommandations de la Commission de la R6forme.
4.    Poursuite de la mise en oeuvre de la Reforne Scolaire, et en
particulier de l'elaboration et/ou l'adaptation des programmes d'etudes et
des materiels didactiques.
5.    Promulgation d'un texte amenageant la r6glementation relative aux
redoublements dans le primaire: les redoublements seront autorises
uniquement en derniere annee de chaque degre, et resteront inferieurs a 202.
Le Departement e1aborera des textes reglementant les conditions de passage.
6.    Promulgation de textes amenageant la reglementation relative aux
orientations en cours de scolarite dans le secondaire et limitant & 10% le
taux de redoublement en premiere annee, de maniere A acc6l6rer les flux et A
lutter contre les abandons.
7.    Introduction de modules de pedagogie dans le programme de formation
des maitres pour les preparer A la pedagogie de la classe A plusieurs
niveaux ainsi qu'A celle des grands groupes pour repondre aux contraintes
actuelles du systeme educatif.
8.    Rpnforcement des apprentissages et de la pratique professionnelle
dans les programmes de formation des instituteurs.
9.    Definition des modalit6s d'acces pour les instituteurs A
l'enseignement post-secondaire apres une p6riode minlmale de trois annees
d'activite professionnelle continue.
10.   Les manuels scolaires dans les disciplines fondamentales seront
disponibles A raison d'un manuel pour deux 6l6ies. La mise en place des
manuels necessitera toute une serie de mesures aff6rentes aux operations
suivantes: selection, et, si necessaire, adaptation et redaction, edition,
impression, distribution; A plus long terme, et lorsque les conditions le
permettront, la recuperation des coQts sera recherchee.
11.   Les fournitures scolaires feront l'objet d'une dotation budgetaire
equivalant dans un premier temps A environ 0,5 S par eleve et par an, et



ANNEX 3-1
Ilagc 6 of 1()
progressant                                             1 ,; .  (  .:.,':ti1     ire, et de 1 puis 2 $
par eIeve et  dL) A.               .         '  £an,-ement de ces fournitures
sera assut6 dans  ,                           I ,  i*, iis m e alIouee au
d(6parteent (vt: I 
12.   Lebs .dt*' ¾                                    r;:nt sensibi'ises et
mnobil     ; i    '                           .   -  '   t ro-s equiipements dans le
cadre d u Sa I,
13.   Les e:,;'  ::.                       A ..  :.-H. n! de (arri6re apres avoir
accumu'.  un n.::2       :          * ,         : .:..
14.   Le N-ir*  t I>  . :                          ;airos pour systematiser
l'education d.  -.t         'd e                      :'ation, et pour favoriser
la scolarisat      '                 .     *A  a  enovation des internats
delabres, pout eon    A       :        ,       .'s  c- ves originaires de regions
eloignees.
D.    LE CONTRCL> r'7-. '.. '.A -. _               E DE LA SCOLARISATION DANS
LE PRIKAIRE ET PJ*'R A ^.::   ' l.T           ?&ST.-PRI.AIRES AUX BESOINS ET AUX
CAPACITES
Situation
En d6pit du dt:. :es  lX 'e sco'arisation dans le primaire (de 921
en 1978/79 A 762 en                   le5e _r   dcsr.s ie;eI Sont scolarises plus de 4 millions
d'eleves, une forte   r-      . S'e>.ce sur l'er.seignement secondaire general
et normal, et corrIt: .ignem. *r5&Ignenent sup6rieur.  Les taux de
scolarisation a tous  'S:. . . x Sent .rtenment disparates d'une region a
l'autre.  Dans le p, >..aire  r.x  , _.ans le secondaire et dans le sup6rieur,
_es effectifs depasse:,        :..e:  'eS  -apacit6s d'accueil.  L'6tude recente
sur les ressources :air.-, a : vvtI. par ai.leurs des d6sequilibres graves
dans la structure de, s. :dn.s d  sysr&me scola:re: excedentaires par
rapport aux besoins             2i:>,:.  specnlaire general, normal et
commercial, et da-.s L''.:.,.-; t6, 'es   plCcms du technique court sont
insuffisants pour  -cvr:r .[s >ose ns.
Objectifs
11.    Priorit6 a;     '. u'a 9.-.                n en Dremlere annee du
Prima ire .
Le prem4ier Oes -7 £e I          - est . dans la perspective d'une
scolarisation pri a  e         r. s-S  e, et   om t e tenu des contraintes
budgetaires, d'enraye- I   ' :1.    'a scr'larisation, de maintenir les taux
d'admission en pre:T.r Ar     :   :.-s   a .e 4ans !es zones favorisees, et de
les ameliorer dans 'es a                 .ues  ns scolarisees pour que les
entrees evoluent gill              s...-e ry:.-e qoe la croissance d6mographique.



- 62 -                               ANNIX 3-]
P,ige 7 of 10
12.   Stabilisation des entr6es dans l1enseignement secondaire.
Actuellement, 75Z des sortants du primaire ont acces a l'enseignement
secondaire. En vue de r6all-uer plus de ressources vers la poursuite de la
scolarisation primaire. et d'eviter une surproduction de diplomes au niveau
secondaire, les effectifs globaux entrant a ce niveau dans le secteur public
seront stabilises.
13.   Orientation des effectirs du secondaire en faveur des filieres
professionnalisees.
Il faudra en premier lieu orienter une part importante des finalistes
du primaire de facon A r6qvuilibrer l'enseignement secondaire au profit des
filieres professionnalisees vivement n6cessaires A l'economie, et A reduire
les pressions ascer.sionnelles s'exer,ant sur l'enseignement superieur.
Apres les deux premieres annees de l'enseignement secondaire general, une
deuxieme phase d'orientation guidera les eleves, soit vers '.'enseignement
general, soit vers les formations normales ou techniques.
14.         Reeguilibrage de l'enseignement technique et professionnel en
faveur des filieres courtes.
Les effectifs dans l'enseignement technique et professionnel court
seront progressivement accrus pour repondre aux besoins en personnel semi-
qualifi6 et en ouvriers qualifies (A3) ainsi qu'en personnel au niveau A2
dans le secteur moderne.
15.   Ajustement des effectifs de l'enseignement secondaire normal aux
besoins en enseignants.
Les entrees dans l'enseignement normal seront contr6lees et ajustees
aux besoins en enseignants decoulant de l'objectif de scolarisation dans le
primaire (voir objectif no. 10) et compte tenu de l'accroissement prevu du
ratio eleves/maitres.
16.   Limitation des entrees dans l'enseignement sup6rieur.
Une concertation sera entamee avec les Ministeres de l'Enseignement
Superieur et du Plan pour ramener les effectifs de l'enseignement superieur
aux capacites existantes et pour ne pas aggraver le chomage des diplf6rs.
17.   Lutte contre l'analphabetisme.
Parallelement & ses actions dans 1'enseignement formel, le Ministere
encouragera les efforts d'enseignement non formel diriges en faveur des
adultes.
Mesures
15.   Accroissement progressif des capacites d'accueil dans l'enseignement
primaire avec un effort particulier pour les r6gions sous-scolarisees.



-'i -                               A.NNLX 3-I
'w' 8 of 1o
'6.   Implantation de classes primaires a plusieurs niveaux dans des zones
a faible densit6 de population.
17.   Dans les dix prochaines annees, ouverture de nouvelles classes de
premiere annee de cycle long de l'enseignement secondaire, dans 'es limites
fix6es par la carte scolaire.
18.   Fixation des nouvelies inscriptiorns dans l'enseignement normal en
fonction des projections de besoins en maitres et instauration d'un concoa.rs
de recrutement.
19.   Augmentation des capacit6s d'accueil des fili6res d'enseignement
professionnel court, et etablissement d''n plan directeur de reconversion
des anciens cycles d'orientation en ecoles d'arts et metiers,
professionnelles 2t techniques.
20.   Etudes preliminaires et Odiction de mesures incitatoires pour
l'ouverture de formations professionnelles sous 1'egide des entreprises.
21.   Les Ministeres de 1'EPSP et de l'Enseignement Superieur se
concerteront pour definir de nouvelles mesures d'acces & 1'enseignement
superieur qui sera ouvert sous la forme de concours aux laureats de l'Examen
d'Etat en fonction de leurs aptitudes. Le nombre d'admis sera reevalue
chaque annee en fonction des perspectives d'emplois et sera limite aux
capacites d'accueil.
22.   Le MEPSP se concertera avec le Minist6re des Affaires Sociales pour
developper les Centres d'Alphabetisation.
E.    LA PROGRMIMATION ET LA GESTION RIGOUREUSE DES RESSOURCES, ET UNE
DECENTRALISATICN PLUS POUSSEE.
Situation
La maitrise de l'appareil educatif par le MEPSP impose a
l'administration centrale et decentralisee un mode de fonctionnement plus
efficace. A ltheure actuelle, diverses raisons viennent entraver une
utilisation optim,ale du personnel (enseignant et non enseignant) travaillant
au service de l1education. Par ailleurs, il n'existe pas de mecanismes de
pilotage rigoureux de l'education, et les fonctions de planification, de
programmation des depenses et de budget isation sont insuffisamment
d6veloppOes.
Objectifs
18.   Decentralisation accrue.
Le Ministere concr6tisera .es dispositions legales relatives aux competences
administratives, financibres et p6dagogiques des entit6s d6centralistes.



.; XJ.X 3-1
o9 of 1 0
19.    Poursuite de la l at.:         .
L'effort entretpr is p     a,, :    .-,.
enseignants sera poursuivi.
20.    Rationalisatio.n de I ad'.n
Pour accroitre le±fi.a.:-e    '1            :'           .1,  Q
Ministere ajusterd les effectifs `e         ;x-.  -x  r. -'s
soigneusement defir s.  ,! ar:e'i                      ... :.    ' ses
agents.
21.    La programm.ation s y s                                        .    res a
1'esducation.
Pour atteindre les ce;ect:ts .;_                .:
sectorielle, le Ministe,re re-forcera < e~S. ;_    '      '..-:S'..,e
programmation et de budg6tisat -- de  ea;a                         .t    >  tu   :r.: . er de
mani6re suivie le d6veloppement du seeto:r.
Mesures
23.   Le Ministere assurera la formation. des res-; -nsa''es r6 aionaux et
sous-regionaux et leur fournira les moyens ir.di per.sat; es pour ass=n.er leurs
fonctions.
24.    Le recensement des enseignants entrepi.s >ra.  e '          sE2-E  -era poursuivi
et etendu a 1'ensemble de l'enseigne..ent pr ,.a re (< secen_ai:e.
25.    Le Ministere etabl.ra 1' inventa ire d_es 's- 'S;sant ''a 'is et
qualitatifs de chacun de ses services en fnCt:.. n dts to-hes _u  ,eur seront
attribuees.  Les effectifs seront ajust6s en c.s&/nce.
26.   Le r6tablissement des condit ons  phys` es   r..aes ,        e_r un trava l
efficace de l'administration sera opere par '  r:e  eg>:P-.  des services,
l'amelioration des infrastructures, et 'a                 z .:re _es -q .;_-enents et
moyens de fonctionnement indispensables.
27.   II sera constitue un organe cc.zon a, '-'Pi    P    a_ -. hre de
l'Enseignement Superieur: l  Co...te de Strat(c:c>>'               ;n-.t :a  'ss on
sera d'effectuer un suivi analytiqu&                                   s sil.t r  ,  .   s'osa rera, su
base d'indicateurs et d'etudes four:. s ,ar                               st'.::' s:::'.   *_s de
planification, de la conform.it6 de lI'vo._ti' n du st<te,u;r avee :es ob,ectifs
de la strategie.  Ce Cormit6 avisera les auLr a   ts  m''.pr   e!     nesures a
prendre en cas de deviation ou de changemte-_-                          - :.  sera sous
la tutelle directe des Ministeres, et sera .              St   ;e:t e... 're de
responsables designes par ces derniers.
28.   Le r6le de la planificaticon sera  :n-->           ^fa  ,      `-n des
statistiques scolaires qui lui sont n:cessa :s  'e;.t
essentielle et reguliere.  La Division de :a r-:.;-G ;n ..'a 'a'onalis6e
et ses moyens materiels renforces.



- (r                              ANNI:X 3-1
I'ge 10 of 10
29.   La Direction de la Planification se livrera a une programmation
sectorielle des depenses publiques tri-annuelle et glissante, incorporant
les depenses recurrentes et d'investissement, et prenant en compte les
sources de financement domestiques et externes.
30.   L'elaboration des budgets, le suivi financier et physique des
depenses et des projets seront rendus plus efficaces et plus transparents.
En particulier, la preparation des budgets courants et la gestion des moyens
de fonctionnement de l'administration seront coordonnes par la Direction des
Services Generaux. La Direction de la Planification assurera la preparation
technique du Budget d'investissement du Departement. Les procedures
budgetaires seront ameliorees et feront l'objet de textes reglementaires.
Le 1I j-nvicr, 1991
Le Ministre de L'Enseignement Primaire,
Secondair   t Pr fessionnel
Kol   tin e



IX~~~~~~~~~~~~~-                                 I
ir                    - 
(A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
-    .    -    .   *      *   * .     .     .   .s    V.. . . . . . . . . . .
.           . ..   .    .   .                                                         
:. -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~' I   .1t 



4.   Iia       tiee  *.    ie ir.P      ebis         t.   l 'tol.. de  toesis  I                   lai   IItn     Stwlteet   d                      .  I.Aa    * 1110     I   ..s.  us                                 ICI
lo 1t1 i   0i e ,  3..s et *(      S  aw n   d *_          laiil e                            .   t-.,  34..,   d .,
1.   l.4.isi  lee  d..s  Iiid's         sr.i        .      t(igttsee  dis to,1     Ieit  au     A  III  It oe dm&IrrAe                               ties l*b s*c1              . i1ua               IR               1,2
pdSagotq..                       t              e. ils   .e is ealcdsfe                                                                        . I5he ed
e,._.e,.t F$p*(.qgs                        . gltiwi   a,ee. i f et I.et pe*inm  A  4pet-'X4                                                   . (ItI+ib4lt                . cttfi.e$e  c'lt4ul {*'iq  (t,4)I
* isetst.Iu't,  deds ..$..ltsatt                                                                             "
*. 1i.¢sz _ 1& t. ...-  --.....-...................................-....-.-...............-.-.........  ..............  ......   .   ........
I.  mtu1 10 it 1m. it I  p. uBaliee  . 1.b4  ewet   de   delet deeepe it A     Is tis                                                           .                            . MO                NE               ma
. glirtxl_u4nsell     "to Its p                                fielam  A,                         .  .elh                      . cslff1mbI  (Bi#f,ebe  rffra&t,
* Imittedmee, qIhS  Otaplsievoai 
* .  N4iuII   bes ww                    It * -itmc                                                * .stinut.                   *                                                        *emem
.                               ..                       ..         .     .. ........................................................ ................. . ..........  ............ ........  ..  .  ..........
lw dnsspmllos*  im  Ws p,l                  pmi@         a  ftsth *n                                                          cb#'bbq -14oafcofr
. dm *titis. finams                                                                              . *i-4a  a
.I..                             .......                               ..... .................................................................. ...........  ........................  .  .
.1.  Miattlow en  W.Ml s                               - irt    I'aintlaemoo                    .                            .an                 a"
*  pU9sewe.  pow              . la   Eatmwm.4  rft   Ovileisaai  eek                                                         .                                                                                    H 1 81  Iiif6l   1faiie 
II.  kmatl,AIIem de olsmmi a                           hamo   pm                              * mIre 1In
.httmil   i-,-dsk
I...........                        ............................... .                                     ............   :.
I.2.  bstwt.et  an_t i tlitm tt tir ewt    ltm  p                                             . d.i. .M.S.                    t.l#. 1.1   t.4. 1.1.1. i.t  1.1.  .                                   .            C
boluepmliedfe    eI ka.mo uI .I.   m .sI.)                                                                                   
.       . ...   ..    i     ....te               . _  . ...It _    h .     ...dtm .              . .         .         .              . . ..            ..             s.
II.   1              .           oni*selatl   o s _im      blin                               . _i
IImiillm o..n ps, Ieum   A    us&ialf  pmii   tS,    .A tCI iA s"".                                                            " tnt            se              m19 um:
at ypm  atim a   p.igts, lb  "WS  tanew   ha                                                  . be lIlieM
.                     be film 1        te2_tttt_2                                               . sam li .s r,e                                                                                                         _
C.~~~ MATRS  DESl .UJ                                                                                                                                *                                                        .~ .'JAT   Lb2 QaTr                                             _.L.SOLRSfON
.            ...................................... .                 .......................  . . .. ......  .-.  ..... -                                 -                                                       r-
1ee1. aisa * .  Ii i         l        I fiMhC    bC  t. t. Saidg 1.3i.2. I.*.L                                                .      . m I..1      .f.              C.),
ii.!taslsatt' f*  fat                   ..I;alie At   1                  d1_ ites  p..uu I-t_           m.t... .2eitmI.bi               .                            . is               _,
17se  l*  ,@nii.*  i  SI  f t  1. e s 2ite     itI,,t#       .f    fllffi  I                  .                            .                                                                                                                       I 1M  >
12.   P .,.lIie.   Etc#lfyjjfj        .  I.......................................                             ...............e        .   1. ........ ....   . .................... ...... *,                                                                 >
A   eeorsfitiav.                           o :1    an  * t is  ei.w. .  _                           :.   ' lVWio               .
. *1  de fmwi2ll2
.  ................................................................................... . ....................... . .............. ....................I...   . ....................... ......
, 3.  10t@o1t2to josw122 6Z I'lo2tssll2 VW2  la S2tW                                        ,   tog 6 "Si|.   list                              sells              W
21,4"m| 14 la 2pomparlift, et PM  fa_Irwt I&                                                    an fil
. tulavst isom2|   Ilrt tllnr                                                                  .     -  I s      Scoosil.-
.  ................................................................................... .  ....................... . ..........  ........................  ........ . ..........................
C. iATTISISF D'% .:11  EN 'J''  D'EZRAYF2 I-A G'UTE DE LA SCOLARISAneNS DANsS
LE PRlt1J.E, Er D'AJUSIER LrS EF=,IFS  POST-'rRIM1AIRES AUX BESOINS-  .;
............  ..........  .... ............I...,,.,,...................   .   .                          .........   ...........   ....... .  .............  r. ......
e~~~~~~~~~.                               .      ... . . .  .  .  . .   .  . .   .  .  .  ..  .  . .   .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  .  .      .  .t2 X...............        . 4 ..........    .........       ...                     ........t1 2 Is# 2itssr  
11   ft       Itlste                              $M11 ',   1  IL2**^110    P"    111044flOlf2  2 X-2     *w^2   * tit                               e     2s
~~~~~~~~~~.                            .  .   '    . .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ...........            .     .. ..............       .     ... .  . .  .  .  .  .  ...    ...       .. .   ..      .. . .



M 0
Zz                          ao la
LL
Z t!
T Z
Z c
0.    .0
E E
o-                                                                            M                                               CY
.        .      .      .      .       .      .      .      .      .      .      .      .       .      .      .      .      .       .      .                                 .        .      .      .      .      .      .      .       .      .      .      .      .      .      .      .       .      .      .      .      .      .      .       .      .
100
. . . . . . . . . .
.        .      .      .      .      .      .       .      .      .      .      .      .       .      .      .      .      .      .           .        .       .      .      .      .      .      .      .      .       .      .      .



Scenario of Development of the Education Sector!
huff.  C C P 5   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8*r                             t   0.0 S*9N4411N   o CC 0(ltVP3M4i  0   L3'4iCCAI    CIRIAII  (9  541*SItti                                                                                                            *399
012.        AlIC  * 95241            DOWi         K  14$1 f7F(2 IllS  21184/U       AS   SIAI   DO   C I P S         pro)  0I440     Cit Milk  Ii 5240   0              S    22I2(35t  1 8       1144.t iS II(9i'    4(110*0'S1    i':
MOit4iiC              SM44(1E iPS               f?*Tfl(AS(           (*100(5                            (KCC0  (I  *IIUiniCC.A (*41 Ot   DU4 912412   QV2.0*MAI.,    W1210740'u               If 41 Atot       DASS 4042523  O   t0.   ".l      P.-p  -.1*      .t  :".3 ' 51. '9~f4.
uill t-ri            911au10                                         P. P503   ii  390                 tf0iXI203  b(4  9100.UASL f i       lt 42     tOE  CCLE. 4NLVtIO fr5O.   PtoOIisiI,os t Palle3 Du CCiM9  Ii  0u0                      '30I1. 00  tleu-   .a'.u.)
*     LilAll    (2*441  CCOAinA4i$twllo                                                               fill8 q5   2990        liti        III[        Jill        2194       it's        It"i         n~                      ,,..
*         2184       1991        99,~~~~~11  1m2                         4*      'A85    L32                     9 CIcOo*et   I                   I                         Orie    CiomESa.   I0 I'i                                  .   44
*           .22 4o 45          *   1I  ILO 10    80  1n    80 2            D9 .v.11              23I0'A9    II,20,1                 III *132      I  IC 2..  419101      II1'-     9*2l:,;   21902         01,9.0      .2:            4a.a                                     
'flS#CI2K            42  49    ii  IS    all Ca    As OA       !i..                   1*04* ~    120h1t        22351    4023210    990,15   '9102                                   iWl: 0UO 312  29:3;   <.5            .             .::  'l. . 
*         '41fl                is 20    24  it       5at       ID09
t -I  IOC.t         01  '4     3,'       21s SIN2C'    r2-ei.                         Ill-40     64.39L       tO'll4*                  *.'      .Li-: A.      S9'9       o.         OOils                                                At2 44,* .
DoLil,       11 91    I:                      A   u.                100V 102I3              ,80        105.        :8 19..   .              .    1    s,".alli    '  "C.' L2    *0821      t                      '..  .         , 
fItUVI D.          ,U  It    $4          3.zo      I Al 9A at                         029         OCCI'    941o !         421        t,i,          2 4       ' :,0.l? Is                                .         * '               9                                                                         
low, 44              91 09      ¶ it    .0 C       V           ISi..~,1
'.ll00,.    422il[                   t...019     5.W,    A 41.. .                   ..4         .i.         10041K      025..                          .       4          8,        .*           '.
3110.4.16                         C'2 40      i     .00       It0(D991A''               t190      l0090                   M U  1004    220'- 1' .'o           14'l-        ,8..        oI        12049           .2       4.                     ..           9...-
loom, 'O.           )a 2*    04 ~t    Is I%    us ot           Sot.l5009                         498         .39023      t492        49''        4,.           4>9l    52-01        529041    fl2.          4.  81         .         .         I '
P801440I31                                                 . OC.&.22                               203       420          25,2)    42.100    l910           ... is,     '9'o1    -.409          .322l40    222'u           '' *        .,      *' : .          2
AG*S. INIbait       820        820IN at      49    flQ0 C
*         'in   223l                                                     't Doug,
004..0 ..........u...   ...    ........                                  l...        ....  ............0           ....         ...t.2  . .0.....,0.0.4.4.13.4..2.......... 1* .14 ....04 ......421    92*                                              99        4:.)    9    .
'I   fKCI2    04s  mU  iftA s 't                                                                              9  1.21  120"O 99      04 7         5124                                       -,44 0  9 0,0% 2    20  a' -00  04*i 00 05        '   4        9*0         94             2 
I.,,5  04  521A3          ?i IS       7*  4)      10  II     S9  10      4* 0%       ,.19       4*  10      *6 *,       41 *1       41 43       II At                   '4   4       I 24       '  40      32ll
.50D18442  DV91*213 1            4511A00E' tE       0 10400                              fliS[              90415       9934        912,*9      90965       9490      150211    '04222        222232     0249*1      121141      1421,0      X.012    2-2;           :02         .   :
552 20              00  LIt    02  it      22 20       22 20       01 00       02 90      04 *9       IS II~2   4 2            5 4   12 i  10  9          99 I         tA % 4   N:  44   I1.
CJ  I
Cl'



_               -                                                                ANNEX 3-3
Page 2 of 6
. ..............                .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .    .         . .   .    .   .   .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .    .   .   ............................ ................. 
. 7 _ * _ # n > ~ ' e ¢- ~ _ ! o 4 2    ' * °
. ~~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ _  x   x                                             _ @          _ ° _            4       .
_    w;   _  ~  ~ e P < - _t  z  v X 
It~~~~~~~~
*        _     -__.                   -._.
*~~~~ ,                                             a                ,                it               _                                                _-° a.  -°    -°
I~~~~~I55
-i                                              .   .O          .. .                              .    . ,_    .   .   . .       .   .  .   .   .   .                     .   .   .   .   .   .   .            . .   .   .
-~~~~~~~~~~~ .   .   .   .                                                                        .   .   .   .   .   .  .   .                     .
2~~~~~~~ *                                                   Z A V                             Z _ j ° t     _-_t IM   Z   A    
g  :~~F 
.   .   .   .        .   .   .             .   . . .  .   . .           .   . .   .   . . .-                                                                -
.f .   .   I   .   .   .   .   .   ..               . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .
I                                                ... .             -an    X         _0               _Q               _s              _          
~    ;8t$        oJ      
a                                                                        a                        -                                     ^_. _-              
a                                        .                                     o       . _z....... ,~                                       .                   .                  .a.... 



71f   -                                         ANNEX   3-3
Page   3 of  6
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
t
2~~~~~~~ 
a                                   2 ~                          ~        :       
I                         a   a      -~~~~~~~~i a,  A 
a      I~~~~~~a  
*                                -.  -  -   -~~~~~~   ~~~~. a..  .   .   -   .  .   .   .   -        
*5'.~~~~~~   Ca        ~        Z 
B                                                       .    .    . - .                  . . . . . . . . .                  



0 ~    f  6
*                                  *.          .~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~z -.
3  ~  ~   ~           -   - -          - .          -   - -     -  -,
S ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~z
-                       . . . . . . .                  . . . . . ...    .    - .                    . . . . . . . .   .                 



I'   or  o f  6
-   -  -  -   -  -  -"   -           -.  -~~~~   -~        - - .A                               .   . 0 .   0         
'4J                                                                                        .1  IS~~~~~~- - 
8  8~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t 
t - . 
.,.w~~-.    ~ZZ.-   a.-      -      .- . . .- .  .     -   .....      .          . ..- .A-     ..'
U                                                    I!i   ih   ~~~L  a
.                                                                                        
99         g r
I     t          5t                        2       C5O                                   St 
z ~   ~      ~     ~     -                      -:                    . -                       :U~
r~~~~ a.                               --Aa a
gw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~z
U                U~                        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                                      



ANINEX 3- 3
. . . . . . . . . . .
t t                                                         y
72 A
z:z
Z                       r Z
I              A
i 3
5t                            g                                                                                                                                            2 2
is
.   .    .   .     .   .     .          .    .    .    .    .
.    .     .   .   .   .     .   .   .   .   .                                                                           .     .   .   .    .   .   .   .   .   .    .    .   .     .   .    .   .    .   .    .   .   .     .    .   .    .    .   .    .



ANNEX 3-4
Page 1 of 2
Special  Budgetary  Allocatio[1  (SBA)  /
Allocation   budg6t a ire  additioonnelie
A. 1990 Budget
Lb iget 89      b>iget 90           L..xlget 90
sec-cha  rubriques                                                 vote 6            ot#          Is6ve. (proJetl8)
31         FuNCTION PU8OUt                                     114 750.000        2M9.17M.000        209.I75.000
32         lwfORHAIION El PRESS                               155.000.000      '.71S.SO0.000        275.500.000
3S         ENVIRONNEKEki                                        96.000.000        124.800.000        124.800.000
34         OROIIS El LIBERIES 0U CITOYEN                       250.000.000       4'5.000.000         425.000.000
Sous lotal Adninistrn tion generate                595.750.000      2.7S4.475.000      1.074.475.000
41         FINANCES                                            807 358.87'      1.6.9.566.532      1.649.566.532
42         BUOGET                                              800.000.000      1.250.000.000      1.230.000.000
CCFHMISSION BUOGEIAIRE                                                400.000.000      1.200.000.000
43         PLAWIFICAIION                                       296.000.000        65$.923.289        652,923.289
44         ECONHCIIE NATIONALE                                 104.299.285        351.885.877        351.885.877
46         AFFAIRES FONCIERES                                  128.000.000        266.400.000        266.400.000
47         AMENAGEHENI DU IERRIlOIRE                            11.793.814      1 515.331.958         15.331.958
Sous-totat Affaires econor. et financieres    2.147.451.970         6.066.107.656      5.366.107.656
51         TRANSPORIS ET CCOMuNICATIONS                        147.901.926        495.803.852        495.803.852
52         POSIES El TELECOMMUNICATIONS                        108.000.000      1.667.400.000         167.400.000
53          TRAVAUX PUBLICS                                    810.019.587      3.553.025.463      1.053.025.463
54         ENERCIE                                              91.708.381        169.220.895         169.220.895
55         URBANISHE                                            '0 400.000         52.520.000          52.520.000
............. I..............................................................................................
Sous totat Infrastructures                       1.198.029.894      5.937.970.210       1.937.970.210
61          AGRICULIURE                                        288.062.908        474.481.780         474.481.780
APPUI AU SECTEUR AGRICOLE                                           8.031.421.853       8.031.421.853
62          PROOUCTION AUIMALE                                  19.317.092        125.112.220         125.112.220
63         DEVELOPPEMENI RURAL                                 224.000.000      1.029.200.000       1.029.200.000
64         HINES                                                96.000.000        224.800.000         224.800.000
65          INOUSIRIE                                          113.935.478        151.819.315         151.819.315
66         CCOMMERCE EXIERIEUR                                 210.880.000        668.288.000         668.288.000
67          IOURISME El HOIELLERIE                               6.389.338         58.306.139          58.306.139
68         ARTISAhAT                                                                                  250.000.000
Sous-total Production                              958.584.816    10.763.429.307    11.013.429.307
71         E.P.S.                                            1.235.200.000      1.605.760.000      1.605.760.000
PASS E.P.S.                                                         2.550.000.000      2.550.000.000 .= 7  a           i
72         ENSEIGNEMEWI SUPERIEUR El UNIVERSIIAIRE             605.609.899      1.387.292.869      1.387.292.869   %   uQ     catiOn
73         CULTURE El ARTS                                     129.611.062      1.740.188.392        540.188.392
74         SPORTS El LOISIRS                                   440.000.000      1.330.000.000      1.449.350.633
75         RECHERCHE SCIENILFIQUE                              191.040.000        448.352.000        448.352.000
76         ETABLISSEMENTS E.P.S. A REHABILITATER                                2.206.563.137      2.206.563.137
77         ETABLISSEMENTS E.S.U.R.S. A REHABILITER                                700.000.000        700.000.000
Sous-totat Education r Formation                 2.601.460.961    11.968.156.398    10,887.507.031
81         SANTE PUBLIQUE                                    1.256.449.389      1.633.384.208      1.633.384.208            SB
PASS SANTE                                                          1.500.000.000       1.500.00.000          sa n
82         TRAVAIL                                             109.699.362        242.609.171        242.609.171
83         AFFAIRES SOCIALES                                   160.000.000        308.000.000        308.000.000            l
84         CONDIFFA                                                                                   100.000.000
85         ANCIEuS CO4BATTANTS                                  74.250.000        146.525.000         146.525.000
86         HABITAT                                             119.600.000        184.398.318        184.398.318
87         PREVOYANCE SOCIALE                                                     100.000.000         100.000.000
88         ETABLISSEMENTS SANITAIRES A REHABILITER                              2.000.000.000      2.000.000.000
89         JEUNESSE                                                                                   100.000.000
.................................. ..............................................................
Sous-totat Sante & Action sociate                1.719.998.751      6.114.916.697       6.314.916.697
............................................................................. .............................
IC]US DEPARIEMEhTS                                36.172 2'2.946    90 347 550 343    67.648.278.114
............................. . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . ....... . ...................................... . ......... . . . ............ . . . . . . . ............. . . . . . . . ........ . .................



- 76 -                       ANNEX  3-4
Page 2 of 2
B. Breakdown by level and category
1990      1991          1992           1993          1994
Primiaire
Allocat/elve           0,5        0,75           1,00           1,00          1,00
(S US)
Effectif 6elves                  4.180.662   4.284.696    4.444.208    4.65S.804
3.135.496   4.284.696    4.444.208    4.655.804
Secondaire
Alloct/e16ve            1,0         1,50          2,00           2?00          2,00
($ US)
Effectif 6hlvc.                    962 144       960.124        958.245       962.781
1.443.216   1.920.248    1.916.490    1.925.562
SBA                             4.578.712   6.204.944    6.360.698    6.581.366
TOTAL          ($) 5.100.000                  10.489.640   10.804.906   11.237.166
1990       1991         1992           1993          1994
Total  SBA            2.550    3.857 1        5.244,8      5.402,5         5.618,6
(million Z)
(I % = Soo Z)



-77 -                                 ANNEX 3-5
Page I of 2
Sectoral Strategy Committee/
Comit6 de Strategie Sectorielle
I1 est cree par les Commissaires d'rtat a 1'Fnseignenent Primaire
et Secondaire et i l'Fnseignement Superieur et Universitaire et
i la Recherche Scientifique un COTITTF OF STRATFCTF SFCTORFLI.
r)F L'E\SEIGNrK-NT Y'ATT(lAI_ en sigle C.S.5.
Les aspects des objectifs de la strat;gie du secteur sont
a) la regulation des flux d'41ves A l'entree des diff"rents cycles
et niveaux d'ituc4es en fonction (es capacites d'accueil et des
previsions d'emploi
b) I'am4lioration de la qualiti et ec l'cfficacite interne i tous
les niveaux
c) la mobilisatton des ressources et leur allocation et utilisa-
tion rationnelles entre  les 0iffrrenits sous-secteurs et cat-
gories dp d"pences
d) I'actualisation ees prAvisions de I 'vnlution du sectetir (effc:-
tifs, entrants, sorrants et ressourccee.
Sans pr6judico dos strat6gies des deux sous-soectours, lo Couit&
do strat6gl  sectorlelle a pour ais4ion do
1) assurer l'actual±sation r6guli#ro de la strat6gio du secteur
de l'Enseigneomnt National (strat6gle sottoriell* do l'enseoigne-
ment primairo et secondaire *t do l'enseignement sup6rleur,
universitaire et rechorche sciontifique) ;
2) voillor A la coh6rence d*s strat6gies des deux sous-secteurs
enero elles et i leur conforult avoc In stratAgie global.
du secteur ;
3) assurer lo suirl.peraonent de la mis* on oeuvre des stratigies
des ddpartoments concern6sh lour ajusteoent aux changements
conjoncturols  ivontuals
4) controlar l'appfication corrects des mosures dktermin4os par
les stret6gies des sous-secteurs
5) fairs Atablir annuollomont un.Prograuwo des deponses publlques
dos dtpartemonts concorn6s et les traduiro en un progra=e
global do l'FnseiVn#ount National
6) orienter los Atudes relatives A une planification rationnolle
du sectour
7) fair. aux Commissaires d'Etat con rn6s to'tes loe propositions
qu'll Juge profitahles A l'ainliora.  on du s)ltAwe 6Lucaitf:
8) faire rappo--t mensuellemort aux Comissaires 'Ftet concernAs
sur ,'4volution de chsque sectour.



ih  -                        ANNE X  3-_
P a i:e  of 2
-  un  ^onsoill@r  technique  AconouIste  no=0    conjointemont  ;er
'e Cosissaire d'Etat a 1'Ensoigneo nt Primaire et Secondaire
et par le Comissaire d'Ftat i l'Enseignemnft Suporieur, Univer-
sicaire et i la Rechercho Scjentifiqug.
Le Comict pourra recourir i la collaboration consultative d'vnter-
venants  excerleurs.  croists  en  fonction  de  leur  competence  et
de 1'ordre du sour. Ces intervenancs pourront assister aux seances
sur invitation du Comiti.
La presidence du Comitt sara assur'  alternativement par les repre-
sentants des Comitssaires d'Etat. LA periodicitA de cetce alter-
nance sera de 2 (deux) ans; le promi4re, presidence sera assuree
par le rapresentant du Commissaire d'Etat i l'Enseignemant Primaire
et Secondaire.
Le ComirA sera assistA dans sa tlche par un Secretariat Oermanent
constitue
- du Consoillar technique. ch*f de co secretariat
- de daux membres (Iun appertenant au ipartoement de l'Ensei-
gnament  Primaire  et  Secondaire    la'utre  au  Dipartement  de
l'Erseignament  Sup6rleur,  t'niversitaira  et  A  la  Recherc'e
Scientifique)  nommes. parmi  les  smabres du  Comiti,  par  les
Commissalres d'Etat et ditachhs au C.S.S.
!1 aura la responsabilit* do Ia priparation du travail du Comire
et ce.ie do suivre 1I bonne execution des d4cisions prises.
Le Comiti sera dot& d'un riglemont intiriour qu'il itablira ec
qui sara soumis i l'approbation des CowissaIres d'Etat concernes.
Co reglao*nt fixers nocament la p6riodicit6 des riunions de tra-
vail du Comic.
Lo Comuci  de stratAgis setorrllle so compose  des moebres suivents:
- un reprisontanc do chacun dos Coaidssaires d'Etat concern6s
-  lee Sccreitsir  GUniraux eat le  DirKctsurs do la Plantfication
des DUpertements de I'Ensaignesont National concern6s ou leur
r*pr4santsa4t
- le President de la Comsisuaon Nationals do la Rtforma de
l'Ensoigno nt Primoire et Sacondaire
- lo Directaur des Services Aced6miquas A l'Enseigne%ent Supirieur
ot Universitaire
- ie Directour des Services Q4nAraux A l'Ensaignament Sup4riaur
et Univarsitaire
-  pour chaeun  des rApartesents  conce?nia. deux  planiftcateurs.
dont l'un p0cialitsce des dpena-is publiques, noaa4s sur propo-
sition  des  Secritaires  Cn4rauz  -ar  lea  Comisassirss  d'Etat
do tutelle
-  Un ropr4santant du C*=Iassaire d'F.tt as, Plan cyant V'Education
dans ses attributions, d6siln4 per 1e Commissai?r d'Etat au
Plan
- un repr6sentant de 1'ANFZA cyant I'Atude des bosoins de l'emploi
*t/ou Is formstion dans saes attrhutlons. nommn par le Prest-
dent do ceate Asaociat1on



OC2N             TOUTES                  PROIECTION DES  EOEN9SES 0'ECUCATIONi                 PRIX  NITAIRES EN          2       2 EPENSEO EN         1022
'REGI'¶E .          PUBLIC  * PRIVE         PRIX CONSTANTS          1987                          DE0ENSES P.92(5 EN COPPIC., rONC'. . PUBLIC. ETA:, CE'2:RAL
-SCENARIO           SJRAIEGIE  EPS           I US S -.125 2                                                                        INVEST.: lOVIES SOU2CES
*             ~~~~~~PARAMETRES    ACIUELS    CIBLES GUINOUENNALES        PROJECTIONS              1906       1902       :9B8       1989       1990       oQq:        :~q        :"
*                            I~~~~~~~~~~B6~~18  1991  1996  2001                             1q67       1930        1959       19q0       5Q93       jq4,       :Q,3        qt
AN  BASE   IPERIODE OUINQUENNALE 
lOEPENSES Du      P*15AIRS                                                    EFtE'C'IFS           '156329    WO2055   40O2652   1:2:65 4iC5i4!ICOCb:  i''S.c    .6..,
ROFCTN!INhr!%' ANNEE/C.~EVE           1042      1.1B      :2B2.    1340       FONCTIONNE.!ENT         &32:        k39q      &40'        4615E     '175        &C'.:   1t,'c 
* INVES':SSEOE ~'4 LEVES/2LASSS   :  3      40.3      &I 0      4: 0                                                                                                                                                          i
*             T~~~~~~DOUSLE VACAI    22 S   :2.  1    22 3t    22 Ct
I             E~~~~~~LEVES/SALLE  ii 4      48.0      4q 2      iT.2      CASSAOS:                -503       .513         1          619       :22C       ::s    ::2            2' 
*            ~~~~~~COUIiCLASSE   37220    07500    0752O   5T500          INVESTU2SEIPENT           -TO7       -S4         :0         S          q          47                   2
P91"A2RE                                ' tcvc: * ~~~~~~~~       ~~~~~:NvEST.  4251  6.,45  4 522   7t.2       'Ot'           : 2 2S             7                                              ,.
'2EPEN5sE  Lu     !E2  1EN!RA,                                                rFrECJ IFS            661933      20         'VA        s&A         53         .7k      t.: *
*rC9:I::N9c.~%IA%'4EE/EL[vE       *77        7422               29         ON7ONN!11Et            j1?         :_74                             : V 21 , 
* NV(STI2St%'  ~E-EEStCLASSE    30 0        33 3       8 B      "!.0
*             1023:0CB'.  VALMA. 
*             0:09(5/~~'.EESSALLE  38.0     la a      33.8      33       C 2A520   A CONS'           55        79        *2          'a7                    -           .         '
':44552255-5%'  2:EVESCLASSE      37'       3s        322N 352                                                   P
*             tO~~~~~ICABLENfRk'                                                    .hS             "lb                               "I
*             SL~~~~~MEVESSALLE   274       162           2     35        CL&ASSES A CONST          _23         :'         :          4 2        IQ        : -        2 
*             :S~~~~'UTICLASSE   2202:00  2030000C 2C::oo:   C:0:2        !NVESTISSEI~ENT           -2          '           :-:'                                       ;
"CIAL        '.E,  NOA9AL                                                 FON27  * 1NVES:           *: 32                 :            7                     .         ,.-
20~.'    2   '(    ADr  B  2Er::S32152                                                                     !'S0       5.:6:                  73        52:      ~     7 s~
*r%'Z%%...%   A%NEEE:ELVE         :,S57     2351,    2222       225        ONC:                                16         -          12         ::                     ¼ hT
:;v522S?E'2  SLVESC,A525    &:9      43.3      'cO       '23                                                                                                                                                                 .
*             t3003)OULE  AACA                                                                                                                                                                                                 C 
*        (LEA(S!SA:LE        tI~~~~~6  9  '0.0   42.0      40        CILASSES A CONSI          -25          4          i          0         *                      '         -
*             021~~~~~%/CL~ASSE'  4002220   022200  48025C0  4502202      INVESTJSSEMENT            -22         62        ::s       123         -2         ::         ..                                                         .-I-
'-A     2     A,r.. B 22P                                           909C1  * INVEST            59        2:2        2t0        79         145         -18
*3055        If'~E   AUTREC  SPU                                       (:''~                    '4493    72114        (:130      I'll:,     3*':;,    s:::          ¾7 
''CN:''0%N'-5N:ANN(E!(.EVE        260       'c"M 3                        FCN.r''~NNo'NT            il9       '¼           '                     '                      -
* 26522555!N~EL  YLEVS/ CLA2S     2  4      Z2  &     32 4      :0 k
*             t~~~OOUO:E VACAM
*            ~~~~~~E:EVYES/SALLE  30 &      30     30.4         32 4     CLASSES A CONSI'          12          :2          52         as         3      ~               5 
*             :~~~~~~CUT/CLASSC   4803022  '002230 4022003  0022          JNvfSIl~SffN:,f           52T!                   3          1           '        :           7           6C 
''0TAL             'EC. 'AIRES SPE:                                           F3NT . INVEST             2,75        '25       6:2        t53         k34                              sittt 54.j 
'AUINES CEPENSES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   -
1INCTIONNEMENT                             ~~~~~~FONCTIONNiEMENT       5           59        59          59         5q         5Q         29         59                                                         0
*            ~~~~~~INVESTISSEITENT                                        INVESTISS(IMENT                                                                                                                                                        Q
:TOTAL                                                                        Foncr.. INVest.'           59         59         5q         59         59         59-9)qr
'0EP  TO01*05    PRII. -SEC.                                                  F0NCTI0NNEhE5I           6145       6290       6460       66,45       WES       71111       2365       7693
IINVESTISSEtMENT          568         247      -261          -6         61        2:2        271        qC
FaNCG.. INVEST.'        6213       2045       6202       6640       6915        22,23      2:36       0595
~~~~...........                                    ......................................................



- 80 -                                                      ANNFX 3-6
Page7-of 2
Draft Sectoral PLiblic Expenditures Program
Programme Sectoriel de D6penses Publiques (pr6liminaire)
%
ZI
;e Zl      9 n
A z           Z
---  - - - -  - ---  -  - -    - - - - -  - - -                                                      -  - - --- - - ---  - -
t %       t t        t       ti t
V V    V                     g
n        t; ZC               Z;      L; za z:;   r,
- - - -  -  - - - -  - -  -    - - - -  - -  - - - -  - - -                                          - - - - --- -  -  -
V
2
t     Z
!E!
ix
ZZ 9    ' 7;
A             2
. . . . . . . .              . . .  . . . .  . .  . . .                         . . . .  . .                                      . . . . . . .  . .  . .
&     L4



- 81 -                        ANNEX 3-7
Page 1 of 5
Provision of Textbooks /
MIise en place des manuels
Les sous-regions selectionnees et le nombre de
ma ituels a  distribuer.
Le monltanit du credit envisageable a conduit A ne consid6rer qu'une distribution limit&
d'auxiliaires didactiques.
A) PRINCIIIES RE] ENUS POU'R LA SPLECTION  DES SOUS-REGIONS.
Le choix des zones g6ographiques de distribution a e  guide par les principes suivants:
- eviter le "saupoudrage" dans la distribution en considdrant des entites suffisamment
grandes pour correspondre A des entites decentralis&es de I'administration scolaire et de
l'encadrement pedagogique.
- veiller A une accessibilite des zones geographiques retenues de maniere A limiter les
couts de distribution qui seraient considerablement accrus dans des zones difficiles.
- toucher, A travers cette distribution, 1'ensemble des regions de maniere A ce que les
formations qui accompagneront la mise en place des auxiliaires didactiques concernent
l'ensemble des personnels d'inspection et d'encadrement: cela permettra d'une part de
faciliter les operations dans une phase ulterieure de generalisation puisque le personnel
sera dejA forme et d'autre part cette formation constituera un recyclage de 1'ensemble
du personnel d'encadrement , ce qui aura certainement un impact positif y compris sur
les zones ou les auxiliaires didactiques ne seront pas distribues.
- veiller A un 6quilibre entre les regions en essayant qu'environ un tiers de la population
scolarisee de chaque region soit concerne par la distribution d'auxiliaires didactiques.
B) SOUS-RWGIONS ET ZONES REI'ENUS.
Le choix des sous-regions et des zones a e  effectu6 en se basant sur les donnees du
SECOPE relatives aux etablissements scolaires et aux effectifs.
Les choix et les donn&es relatives A chacune des Regions figurent dans le tableau en fin
de cette annexe.
C) NONMBRE DE MIANUELS NECESSAIRES POUR L'OPtRATION DE NIISE EN
PLACE D'AUXILIAIRES DIDACTIQUES.
Deux approches ont ete faites de maniere A s'assurer de la fiabilite des donn6es.
La premiere est baske sur une approche partant des effectifs de la base de donn&es du
SECOPE. Ces donnees sont recentes et contr6lees par les cellules SECOPER des
regions.
La seconde est basee sur les donnees statistiques de la Direction informatique et prend
le nombre de classes comme base de calcul . Cette approche se justifie du fait que lors
de la distribution, le colisage et les expeditions devront etre standardises et prendront
effectiveinent comme base les classes et le nombre moyen d'eleves par classe. Compte
tenu du fait que les donnees disponibles A la Direction de l'informatique sont plus



-     -                 ANNEIIX 3-7
Page 2 of 5
Provision of Textbooks /
Ylise en place (1es manuels
anciennes et (qie totis les 6talflissements n'orit pas repondus A 1'enquete statistique, un
ajustement a et effectu6 qui, en prenant en conipte le nombre moyen dc'l1ves par
classe dans chaque region, a perinis de d6termiiner le nonmbre de classes existantes pour
l'effectif actuel pris en compte dans la premiere approche.
a) Appr(liche par les effe'ctifs.
Nombre d'61bves dans les sous-regions s6lectionn&es: 1 450 ()K) eleves
Repartition par niveaux scolaires:   Iere ann&e    26 %  soit  377 000 eleves
2eme annee   21 %  soit  304 500 Mlves
3me ann&    21 %  soit  304 500 elves
4emeannee   15 %  soit  217 500 elves
5emeannee   13,5% soit   195 750 elves
6emeannee   11 %  soit   159 500 elves
N.B.: le pourcentage par niveau est le pourcentage moyen le plus e1eve trouv6 dans les
11 regions.
Les manuels etant distribues A raison d'l livre pour 2 eleves mais la distribution devant
etre colisee de maniere standarchsee, une estimation du nombre de livres necessaires par
ann6e est faite en estimant qu'il correspond au 2/3 du nombre d'elves.
De plus, si les manuels ne sont distribues que dans les 11 r6gions selectionnees, un
manuiels sera fourni A chaque enseignant du pays A titre de livre de reference. Une
marge de 20% est enfin prise par rapport A ces totaux.
Pour les guides du maitre, 25 000 manuels sont estimes suffisants en Mem annee, 20
000 en 2eme, 18 000 en 3eme et 17 000 pour les 3 dernieres annees pour fournir un
manuel A chaque enseignant du pays et pourvoir les services centraux ou d6centralises.
On obtient donc les valeurs suivantes:
Niveau scolaire     Nombre de livres Nbr. de livres neces. TOTAL(y compris
n&essaires (2/3)    pour les enseignants  les 20% suppl6m.)
lere annee               251 000              25 000             330 000
Ume ann6e                203 000              25 000             275 000
2eme annee               203 000              25 000             275 000
4eme annee               145 000              25 000             205 000
5emenannee               132 000              25 000              190 000
6emeannee                107 000              25 000              160 000



ANNEX 3-7
Pa'e 3 of 5
Provision of V xtlxoJks /
'lise o -1ae1  d(.s nlavlm ls
Nomlbre (dc n1u1Lels a pren(dre en compte selon les ann(6es du projet:
Ann&cs          I-IVRES DE L'ELEVE              LIV RES D)U MlAITRE
de distribution     TI tres        Noimbre           l itre        Nombre
1992       rdI1lais 3Mme      275.000()   Frandais 3Rne        24.000
(CIcul 3ine        275.000      Calcul 3eme         24.000
C4alcul lee        330 000)    Eveil 3dme           24.000
Calcul lre         29.000
1993      Francais 4rne       205.000      F'ranyiis 4eme      22.000
Calcul 4eme        205.0()0    Calcul 4eme          22.000
Eveil 4eme          22.000
1994      Franvais Snem       190.000     Franr.ais 5Sme       22.000
Calcul 5eme        190.000      Calcul 5Sme         22.000
Eveil 5Sme          22.000
1995      Francais 6eme       160.000     Francais 6eme        22.000
Calcul 64me        160.000      Calcul 6dme         22.000
Eveil 6&!ie         22.000
TOTAUX                            1.990.)00                        299.000
b) Approclhe par le nomibre de classes estimees.
Dans cette approche, le nombre de classes et le nombre d'eleves par classe a ete
recherche dans la base de donn&es de la Direction de l'informatique.
Etant donne la population scolaire totale dans chacun. des sous regions repertori&e lors
de cette enquete statistique et l1effectif reel en 1990 tel qu'il apparait dans le dernier
recensement effectue par le SECOPE, le nombre de classes estime dans chacune des
sous regions a Ut6 calcule.
Le nombre moyen d'elves par classe et par niveau est nettement different dans les
sous-regions retenues pour Kinshasa, le Nord Kivu et le Sud Kivu (nbre d'eleves
moyen superieur a 55) de celui des sous-regions des 8 autres regions (nbre moyen entre
30 et 45),. Compte tenu de la standardisation du colisage, deux types de colis ont &6
pris comme base pour le calcul: 26 livres par colis pour les classes des sous-regions a
moyenne basse et 30 manuels pour les classes des sous regions a moyenne forte.
Le tableau suivant presente les donnees par region pour les sous-regions selectionnees.



-  84  -                        ANNEX  3-7
Page 4 of 5
Provision of Textbooks /
Mise en place des manuels
Ki (GIlNS      (I dl le (I  . de 2e  ('i. de 3e  Cl de 4e  Cl. de 5e  Cl de 6e
BAND)IINI)MI        186()     15M0       1375      1190       1065       965
HAS ZAIRE            935       790        715       635       585        535
LQUIAll:IIR          945       75         715       630       535        490
liAAiT17AIRE        1245       1045       915       820       715        645
KASAA! O(C(          550       475        410       385       365        340
KASAI OR             865       715        615       545       510        490
NotRI) KIVII          85        80         75        60        60         55
S811) KIVlI          180        160       150       130        120       120
MANiU-NiR            300       250        2(X)      180        155       130
SiIAlIA              990       820        725       615       580        545
KINSI4ASA            4t6       415        375       345       315        290
Nbie IOIAI.         8415      7095       630tl     5535      5005       4605
de classes
Nbr. A hit effec     725       655        600       535       495        465
L.ivres ntcess    21 750    19 650    18 0)0    16 050    14 850    13 950
(30/colis)                                     _
Nbr. A bas effac    7690      6440       5700      5000      4510       4140
Invres necess   199 940   167 440   148 200   130 000   117 260   107 640
(26/colis)
Nbr. total de   225 000   190 000   170 000   150 000   135 000   125 000
livres par ann6e
Nbre de Iivres
pour enseignt.   16 500    13 000    12 000    12 000    12 000    12 000
de tout le pays
Nbre TOTAL, y
compris %  de   270000   225000   210000   190000   170000   160000
marge
Les tirages n6cessaires par annee du projet sont donc:
Annees         L IVRES DE L'ELEVE             LtVRt-S DU MAITRE
de distnbunon       litres        Nombre           Titre         Nombre
1992      Franqais 3eme      210 000     Franais 3eme        24.000
Calcul 3eme       210 000      Calcul 3eme        24.000
Calcul Ilre        275 000     Evetl 3eme         24.000
Calcul lere        29.000
1993      Francais 4eme      190 000     Franccs 4eme        22.000
Calcul 4eme        190.000     Calcul 4eme        22.000
Eveil 4eme         22.000
1994      Franmas 5eme       170 000     FrancAus 5eme       22.000
Calcul 5eme        170.000     Calcul 5eme        22.000
Evetl 5eme         22.000
1995      Franiais 6eme      160.000     Fran9als 6eme       22.000
Calcul 6eme .      160.000     Calctil &me        22.000
Eveil 6eme         22.000
TOTAUX                           1.730.000                       299.000
11 existe donc une bonne correlation entre les nombres obtenus selon les deux
approches, cela signifie donc qu'on peut se baser sur ces donn6es pour Clablir les
previsions. Des etudes plus fines en cours de projet, par les services du SECOPE et par
les services de statistiques permettront d'affiner les valeurs pour les commandes de
manuels.
Dans les estimations les nombres retenus ont donc ete, pour lensemble du projet:
2 000 000 de manuels d'eleves
et 300 000 livres du maitre.
Source: Documents de travail



- 85 -                    ANNEX 3-7
Page 5 of 5
LISTE DES SOUS-REGIONS DE DISTRIBUTION
DES MANUELS SCOLAIRES
--------------------------------------
1.   VILLE DE GOMA
2.   VILLE DE BKVU
3.   VILLE DE KINDU
4.   HT. LOMAMI
5.   S/DIV. TSHANGU
6.   KWILU
7.   CATARACTES
8.   MONGALA
9.   HAUT-OUELE ET TSHOPO
10.   VILLE DE KANANGA ET DIMBELENGE
11.   TSHILENGE



- tf, _                            A-N.\ .3-x
P'i"T, J ol 3
Pr i :arv x    tuul d  I       IthL-r     I  i-.    i    I r   i nI,./
It i,:.;   I cotILi Iitit d( s r..titr( - dI.iwsl, li.l    .l  prlir<iire
.1. Prepar)(atJ(ion  des moduiles  d'Ufliifl(tiorl par  la  D)ivision
de  lenseigniementt mtatertel et prirnaire
l"'Animuanonl f(tiiiutiona' qlti conltilulefa Vop6iaation fliinale de recwclarc dls iniaitne (loit
d'al)o[d  ltc eldlIxne danlsla l)s sio l(IClcscilgcnenilt materilel Ctprllac eei (ollaho
ration a%ec Ie Seilafor.
Pour ccla. les nmemhies de la D)i'.iion dc l'enseigitelneint naterncl et pfillnaire priniiaire
deviorit s'initier, sauto-knino er A cette technique qu'ils auront A promiious(irt esuite au
niveau lcgioial.
Ie sclinila de la struciulre de l'aniinationi formation est d6crit dans l'annexe 13.2.3.6.
E'lle sotganse autoiur d un nodule unitaire contitu6 de trois phases
- Phase I: Observation d'une situation d'enseigneimient
- Phase 2  Reflexion - discussion par le groupe
Plhase 3  s) ntilhse et reprise par l'aniiateur.
Ptlusieurs modules constitucronit les sessions de formationl. ChaqLue module peut etre pre-
csde d'unre phase preparatoire (par exeniple: etude et analyse des livres et guides corres-
pondants A la situation d enseignemilenit qui sera observee ensuite)
La preparation et la conduite de des sessions d'animiiation/foriiiatioln iniplique que les
membres de la D.E.M,P. se fainiliarisenit avec diverses techniiques d'aniamtioll et de for-
mationi. Les contenus de ces formations internes A la I)EMP seront d6termin6s par
l'ensemble du groupe; les themes suioants constitue des sujets possibles de cette
formation intere:
- la conduiLe de r6unions,
 la realisation de synthcses orales apres debats,
* la conduite d'interviews,
- la mise au point et le depouillement de questionnaires,
* les techniques d'valuation,
* les techniques de documentations.
La D.F.M.P. devra donc au cours de la premiere annee du PRSEDI) d6ternliner les
diff6rents nodules qui constitueront le cycle dce formation des instituteurs, preparer les
documents d'appui aux encadreurs.
Les moyens nJcessaires d ces operations seront pris suir Ics mroyens defoicluionnen:enr
mis a la disposihion de la VDEMP. (cf Sous-composante BJ)
.2. Coitduite  des  operations  au  niveau  regiorial
Les operations d'ainiation formation au niveau regional (Ateliers p6dagogiques)
concerneront progressivement l'ensemble des Inspecteurs et des Conseillers
pedagogiques des differents reseaux. Elles s'effectueront sur deux annees. Au cours de la



-  87  -                         ANN I X- i-i;
l'Pa'e 2 of 3
l'ri!:Ki .;, ' :;,hool I(Giers  ] I-.(rv ice  1'r illilw: /
'rIit ioll COiIt i IIt  (lks ma it res (dills I'e(lsei -iwiieipit  pri ii ire
premiii'le wimiiee, Ii forriationi couiceiriera les inspMemis el anililateUrs nkessaires pour
lanioin;loll daims les II sous r6gionis s6lec( ion n6es regionls; au cours (le la seconidc, la
t(if amaon selia d(oille atns autres ispecleurs des r6gions. Files se d6(1ouleroni des que
des mauiueIs seoit (dipsixmbles (5acances pr&(Ienit la reliti&c o) les livies qR'lolt dwuis les
&coles). liieii (ondunies, ces op6rations de ront etfe consider ees coriniie sutfisantes et tie
dcvIOlt pias 'tlericinses lors de la distributtoi des manuels des almncs sisilntes.
(liaque atelher rassem)ltera onie qu(arailtainie de participants (InspecteLts ct ('onseillers
pedagogiques) porur (lix jours calenid iers.
IK-IoUlellilt'lt et follCtiOIllelileiit
(Ces opdraiiols se d&rouleront a dcs dtates fix6es rpal la l)ivision (ic 1'eiseisnenegienit mater-
nlel et primaire en liaison avec les Sous-Regeds des sous-regions s6lectionn6es pour la
prelilmere ann6e et as ec les RKgeds pour la forinatioii de la deuxierne ann6e.
Ure Annee.
Li nombre d'inspecteurs et conseillers p&Ldigogiques a forn1er pour les differentes sous-
regions est d6lermiin6 par le noniibre d'instituteurs a former ult6fieurement. I hypothtse
faite est que les encadreurs r6gionaux animeronlt annuellement deux sessions regroupant
une vinglaine d'instituteurs. Cliaque session sera encadree par deux personnes. Le ta-
bleau sulvanit founit ces donnees par Region (pour les Sous-Regions selecfionnees)
REGIONS                   Nombre approximaiii'de  Nombre d'aniateurs  Nortbre de sessions de
classes pour un niveau     A forrner       formation A organiser
BANDLIN[)U                        1400                   70                   4
BAS ZAIRE                          750                   40                   2
EQUAI EUR                          750                   40                   2
IIAU r ZAIRE                       950                   50                   3
KASAI OCCIDENT-AL                  420                   25                   t
KASAI ORIEN [AL                    620                   35                   2
NORD KIVU                          80                    4
SUDKIVU                            180                   10
NIANIENtA                          200                   10
SIIABA                             750                   40                   2
KINSFIASA                          380                   20                   1
TOTAL                             6480                  344                   18
Chiaque atelier sera assure par au moins deux animateurs de la Division de l'enseignement
materniel el primaire de telle sorte que chacun d'eux assurera en tout 2 Ateliers (soit pour
l'ensemble des ateliers a encadrer, necessite de disposer de 20 anitnaeturs centraux)
Chaque operation sera precdee d'une pliase de prEparation de cinq jours conduite sur le
terrain par les deux animiiateurs en liaison avec les Regeds et les Sous-Regeds.



- 88 -                     ANNEX 3-8
Page 3 of 3
Primary School Teachers In-Service Training /
Formation continue des maitres dans l'enseignement primnaire
Les moyens techniques (polycopieurs, pholocopieurs) fournis aux entites decentralisees
seront mis A la disposition des animateurs (cf. Sous-composante C 2).
LIes Inspecteurs et les Conseillers pedagogiques participants touclieront pour toute la du-
ree de l'atelier pedagogique un per diem, et une indemnMt compensatrice pour couvrir les
frais divers. Un remboursement (ou une avance) pour frais de voyage est 6galement A
pr6voir.
Les deplacement et les frais encourus par les animateurs seront prevus dans le budget du
projet.
2enie awnne
La DERMP assurera, au cours de lann6e suivant les premiers stages de formation
d'encadreurs, un nombre identique par region.
Les procedures et les moyens mis en oeuvre seront identiques A ceux de la premiere an-
nee.
.3. Cornduile des opdrations au  nireau  local   l'aiiimiiationl
inter-ecoles
Conduites A un niveau tres proche du terrain, ces operations devront former les
Conseillers p6dagogiques des ecoles. Ies Directeurs dcoles et les maitres arm:
- de mettre les instituteurs en mesure d'utiliser au mieux les manuels et les guides peda-
gogiques,
- de mettre les Directeurs et les Conseillers pedagogiques des ecoles en mesure d'assurer
des actions de suivi.
Ces ooerations seront organisees et conduites par les Inspecteurs et les Conseillers peda-
gogiques des reseaux qui travailleront par equipe de deux conform6ment au schema de
fonctionnement figurant en annexe B.2.4.6. Le contenu et l'ordre des diff6rentes phases
seront strictement respect6s. Chaque atelier reunira pour une semaine une vingtaine de
participants. (Maitres, Directeurs, Conseillers pedagogiques des ecoles).
La dernire journee de I'atelier pedagogique regroupera uniquement les Directeurs et les
Conseillers pedagogiques des ecoles afin de mettre au point la procedure de suivi.
Les participants et les animateurs toucheront un per diem pendant la duree du seminaire
(h6bergement, nourriture, frais de voyage) ainsi qu'une indemnite permettant de couvrir
les frais divers. Les Inspecteurs auront dO, au prtaJable &tre dotes d'un moyen de trans-
port personnel.
SUIvi
La tenue des Ateliers doit aboutir A une revalorisation des reunions pedagogiques, c'est-A-
dire A une meilleure pfise en compte des circulaires existantes portant stir les reunions
dans les ecoles. L'Unite d'encadrement telle que concue par le Sernafor doit devenir op-
rationnelle, ce qui implique un contr6le par sondage et un appui de la part des Inspecteurs
et des Conseillers pedagogiques des reseaux (contr6le des proces-verbaux, appr&iation
annuelle du Directeur).
Source: documents de travail



_ 89 -
ANNEX 3-9
Page 1 of 2
Rehabilitation  of Local lEducationa.3l Etnvironment
RcWiabilitation  de  l'environencent   LdIcatif local
.1.  IRehabilitation  de  locaux  poir raccuicallii- l'Lcole
Notr,n ale I'ilote.
ILe programme arcliitectuRl de cet ttablissemilenit a 616 elabli par les services du Minist6re
et figure A l'annexe B.3.4. I.
Plour prlearer et conduire la iilise eni oeuvre des op6iatiois (le g6nie civil, le projet fera
appel A un bumeau prive d'architecture. Ce bureau sera aussi ciiarfe deq autres operations
de construction et de rehabilitation (cf. B.3.3.3..) de la sous-comiosatie.
L'implanitation de i'Ecole Normale Pilote sera d6cide apr-s v*rification par une mission
de i'ad6quation (le locaux actuellerimenil inioccupes danis la zone de 13analia oo dans ses
environis inin6diats. Ie site de Yangamilbi pourrail, selon les estimations actuelles,
presenter des locaux adequats.
Le projet assurera:
- Ic financemnen du bureau d'arcliitecrture quii sera respon.sable des operations de genie
citil                                 I
- la reliabilitawion et I'eqiiipectieiu de l'ecole no07nale piloie.
.2. Otgantiser la fortiationt  itnitiale  d  dispeits'r daons les
ecoles tiorinales
L'organisation de cetle formation va n6cessiter dans tin premier teinps, uine reflexion A
conduire au sein de lunit6 pedagogique pfimaire (cf.13. 1) quli, en partanit des conclusionis
de la C.N.R, finalisera les programmes et horaires des ecoles norimiales en tenianit comipte
des eieinents de reflexion qui figurent dans l'anitexe B.3.4.7.
Des rencontres (deux an cours de lannee de pr6parationi des prograimnIes de formation)
seront organisees A I'ICEPS de Kisangani. Flles perrnetironit non seulenient tine
sensibilisation des cadres regionaux, futirs mnaitres d'oeuvre de celle formnalion mais
aussi seront une occasion suppl6inentaire pour les cherciteurs (le itJnile centrale de
confronter les resultats de leurs travaux aux avis de personniels suir le terrain.
En second lieu, au cours (les vacances precedent l'ouverture de 'F.cole normale un
s6ininaire de recyclage des enseignanits de E.N. et des instituteuTrs tles classes
d'application sera organise. 11 se deroulera en regine d'interinat A l'IFCEI'S de
Kisangani. 11 scra encadre par des meimbres de l'unile pedagogique prinmaire, les cadres
regionaux de l'ducation; un expert participera A son encadreniienit nolainienlt en ce qui
concenie la pedagogie de la classe A niveaux multiples.
Lorsque la formationi aura debute, le projet assurera tiie partie (iu fonctioliolement (le ces
eoles, il prendra notamment en charge les frais d'interinat des 61Eves en formation; cette
charge sera progressivement degressive: le budget de l'Etat prendra le relais.
Le suivi des stages ou periodes de pratique professioninelle dans les &oles d'application
sera assure par les enseignants de l'E.N. lln suivi des ecoles A niveaux multiples sera
egalemcnt assure par les encadreurs des E.N.
Le projet delvra dote financer
- un conrrat avec l'f CEPS qui sera chargee (le collalborer aux eiuides prOlininaires
necessaires d l'organisarion de la fotrnation iruiiiale et ensuiie d'assuirer le suivi de
lexperitnenf(uion de certefonnarioni d J'U-N. ilofte,
- lorganisaiio,m et les intde,nriites des reneirories de Kisatig(uni
- l'orgawnisation et les indenminits dii stage de lancement des E N.
- paniellement lefonctionnement des E N.
- la mission de 1'expern necessaire poutr le stage de laticeetnernt.
- lafourniture de inotos potur le suivi des stagiaiies des E.N. er des Ecoles rurales et les
frais definctionnement y a6iSrents.



- 90 -
ANN'l-N'3; -(
,1}'   |l(of 2
(IvdIl)i ] it at ionl of I oc',Il  lilticIt iomal  1iv  -olil r ilo   t /
R(Alt.)ib itt. ll.ioll  io  I'elCOi -olnlme(1ilt (ItICatif  local
BI. Ilclailitutioll (de  localx  pol lf' accltcillil  IV'lFole
No,nmale  P'ilo(e.
Le progiaminme achiltectural de cel 6tablissmencnt a W  etabli par les services do Nlinist6e
et figure a A'annne\  B.3.4. 1.
Pour pr6palCet cl Collidlliic li lrinse cn (cuvie des op6ratinos de gt4nie civil, le ponjet fera
appel a Iu (It)oa) pL iv6 d a(ci Icci (Ctire. ('e  tiureauL se Ia aussi ciarge (des auties olperations
de conisifrictioni et de reihabilitation (cf. 13.3.3.3..) de la sous-comiposanlte.
I 'inmplanitation de I' Ecole Norm-ile Plilote sera dicid6 apres v6rification par onie imiission
de lad&ltiation (le locaux actuellenient inoccupes dans la zone de 13analia oi dans ses
enivironis inini6edials. 1k site de Yangamlibi Io)rTait, selon les estimationis actuelles,
presenter (les locaux ad&qUats.
Le projet astotera:
- lef inaurcelnem dio mnriau d'atcritecirne qui ser.i res x115able des ol)etations de genie
Civil
- Il cwtiralidutioii et 1'equipenieut c l Vcole nomolle piloue.
.2.  Otrgan iser la  firm hiiiaiorn  iniitiale  a  dispenser  danis  les
ecoles  niormnales
L'orgaiiisation de celite formation va necessiter dans no premiier tenlps, une rellexion a
coonduire au sin de l'unmti pedagogiqcle priniaire (cf.13.1) qui, en partant des conclusions
de la C.N.R, finalisera les lprogrammles et horaires des ecoles norinales en tenant comspte
des elminenis de rl7lexion qui figurent dans lIannexe 13.3.4.7.
IJes rencoitres (deux ali cours (le Vannie de pr5pIaration dec prograiilies de formation)
seront organiskes a l'IFCI-S de IKisangani. .llies perniettront lion seklenieilt tine
sensibilisation des cadres regionau x, fultrs nmaitres d'oeuvre de celte fornmation mais
aussi seront une occasion supplenentaire poor les clierclieurs (le lUni(e centrale de
confronier Ies resultaLs de leurs trasaux aux avis de personinels sur le terraini.
En second lieu, au cours des vacances pr6cede;ii l'ooverture de l'Ecole normLale on
sCmIinaire de recyclage des enseignants de E.N. et des instituteurs des classes
d'application  sera organis6. It se deroulera en reginie dinlernat a   lIECHIS  de
Kisanigaiii. 11 sera enca(lre lar des niemobres de luninM  p6dagogiqcuc pimiiiaire, les cadres
regionaux de l'duc;tion; un expeit pariticipera a son encacleineti notaiimmenit en ce qui
coiicerine la p6dagogie de la classe a niveaux multiples.
Lersque la foririatioii aura dfbull[, le pioJet assurera uie parfie du fonctionnemlsenl de ces
ecoles, il prendia notammnent en charge les frais d'initernat des WlPves en formation; cette
cliarge sera progressivement d6gressive: le budget de l'Etat prendra le relais.
Le suivi des stages ou periodes de pratique professionnelle dans les ecoles d'application
sera assure par les enseignents de l'E N. tIn suivi des ecoles a niveaux multiples sera
egaleinent assure par les encadreurs des E.N.
Le proJtrt devra dotlc firraiirer
- an coititrct alec It CEPS qui 5cra chargeede co/laborer alt etuide  pril-nminaires
necessclies d l'orga'risation (le la fonrmarion Itiuale et ensiuire d'a.ssu1rer le suivi de
Ie.xpenfiment( ion de fc c   tnreiM   ( i '. VN. I'dlote,
- Ilorgamrnfanioui cf les indcmirints deS renicorrt cs (le 19aNErr7wri
- lorgamsaroon et les imiem,nif cs (ht smrae de la,rcemient des E. N.
- pairtrellereiftt le forircotmonemrrew d(e F ,V
- Ia 111i' SI1(11fl c IC I'fit I n(l  c i lt /II  r p f II r  I IC  (ni c(, roI( c
- Il forumnlle(if' m/ ?(l: Jll 1 0 /('   j(1 J(-5 . oci(ill(s (dn EfN'. c' d(/e IF oliS irurales et ces
Jras /C JOif j(W'l,Cn'OIt I (1/( c!1fk



91 -              ANNEX 3-10
MEPSP Office Rehabilitation /
R6habilitation des locaux du MEPSP
,
NS:,,',\\- A- BWX ,1._
*        .*  'r N,    _rml AOIf                           /
1. Site du Cabinet
2. Site de l'Insprt i,nn
3. Site du Secretariat G6n6ral



R EP U OL  I QU E   DU  I.           i
Simmry kccount by Project Comonent
(DOLLARS LI    00
A StOAT  SECT                           8  QUALITE DE I ENSEIGNENENI                                                               0  EDIN
..   . . ..      . . ..       . .  . . . . . .. . . . ... .       . .. . . . ..           . .    C   AENIN      DEPS          PRO.JET
A Operat        81 Menuals  82 Formaltmon                 A3 Infrastructures......                                                                       Pthysical
-...         ..  -..             ....I.e   CENIRALE                                                           C2 RfGIONS       opt                Conling.rnc'es
CSS /Ptgnin  Production            Form      Ecol       Ecoles    Condit    Ecoles Pr                                                                 --
POP      Distribuation        Maitres Normales Primaires Ensemgn             iirb       Regroup  SECOPE          RegionS  Ainshiasa Tota           I     Affunt
IINVESTRENI COSTS
A GENIE CIVIL
EC  Prim /RoEap   etc                        -50                                    471         160          -          940                     -528                           2. 199    tO 0      220
K PS                                                                                                                                850                                          850    to o        85
Sub-Ttold  GENIE CIVIL                                         50                       471         160                    940         850                     578                3 049    tO 0        305
8 EQIIIPENENT
Equipamat/Rat /Fourn                                      760                        70                    tOO                      904                     264          30   2 128    .50          106
Vef.Ci*cls                                  IS                                       30          60                                                                     130      235     5 0         12
Rentals                                                 5 680                                                                                                                  5 680      5 0      284
Ordinatews                                  43                                                                                                                           30        73    5   
Sth Total LOUIPERENI                           58          6,440                        t00          60        100                     904                     264         190   8 116    5 0          406
C ROSILIfR
Importa                                                                                                    TOO                      400                     tIO                  610    10 0        S1
Local                                       to             53                                                                                                            20       83    tOO          5 
S-t  Total NOBILIR                              10             53                                              tOO                     '00                      ItO         20       693    10 0        69
0 CONSULtANTS
Consultant Intern                         550             264                        33                                                      669                        845    2361       5 0      i1s                                   IN)
Consultant nat                              72          3.930                       215                                  40                  460                               4.71?    5 0        236
Archi'tactes etc                                                                                                                     80                                            s0     5 0         4 
Etudes                                     120             50               -                                                                                                     170    5 0         9
Sib Tolta  CONSUL 18N15                       742          4.244                        248                                  40          80   I, 129                       845    7 327    5 0         366
6 IORNATION
Formation 1st                               28                                                                                       44                                  28      ¶00    10 0         10
formatI-on Locale                            4            132          1.533        520                                                                                  12   2301    10 0         230
Sut Total FORMAT ION                           32             132          I 633        520                                              44                                  40   2 401    10 0        240
FOPERAT IONS
Matereal et,                                70                                                                                                                                     70    100          7
Salaires                                                   26               -2 018                                                              -641   2685                               0 0         0
General                                                   585                        1531                                                     177                       239    1 152    10 0        115
Sub~ lotal OPERATIONS                          20             611                       151                                          2.0t8       177                       880    3 906      2 I       '22
total INIVESTINNt COSTS                          912          Il 530          1.633      1.490         220        200          980      4.295    1.306             952       1.975  25 492       5 9    1 509
Itotl EASEIIlm  COSTS                              912         11 530          1'633      1 490         220        200          980       4 295    1.306            952       1 975  25 492    159    1 509
Physical Contingencies                           SI            616             163       132          19         15           96         129        74            82          82    I 509      0 0        0
Price Cooltingencies                             78          1 224             169       150          23         t8          732         457       95            128         210   2 684      5 7       154
bloat  PROJECt  COSTS                            1.041         13. 369          I 965     I 722         262        233        1.206       4 930    1 475          1. 161     2 267  29 684        5 6    i 662
lakes                                           21             267             39         35           5          5           24          99       29             23          45      594     556        33                              I 
Foreign lichanga                               255          8.830             589        764         173        228          649      2. 367      818           830       1 283   17 287      5 6    I 000                                it Ei
January 23.  1991  13 43                                                                                                                                                                                                                      C



B E P UaL  I Q u 6 D  I6       A IR E
PRESU
financing Plan by Su.mery Accounts
IDA      . fAC             PMUIJ        UNICEF         Ilf        Goverrinwt        Idotl
60Unt    I   Amunt           Amoun~t  %I  munt         I'mount  I   blountl  I        wyn1 t         for  Each         Tastesi       Taxes
A GENIE CIVIL
IC  Prim/R1egeses etc          2.464  91                             -        .233   9    2.696                                9        1.483            1 159          54
DiPS                           1.033  98          -.21   2                                                           1.OSS    4           580              452         21
Sub-Total GENIE CIVIL              3.497  93                                          -254   7    3.751    13                               2.063           I 613          75
Equspiwnn,/Nat /Fourn          2.401  90          -                                                      49   2    2.450    8           2.40?                0          49
ReAuculas                        259  98                                                                  5   2        254     1          259                0           5
Nanuels                        6.169  95                                                  225   3       130   2    6.524   22           6.394                0         130
Ord,snte..s                        s0  98                                                                 2   2         St     0            s0               0           2
Sub-Total EQUJIPERNLi              a909  9b                                                  225   2       186   2    9.320   31            9 134                0        186
C MOSItER
lsports                          712  96                                                                37   5         749     3          734                0          IS
Local                              of  85                                                                is  IS         96    0             29              65           2
SubTlotal  IOBILIER                  794  94                                                        -       S    6        845     3           763               65         17
o  CONSUL TARS
Consultant Intern              2. 135  29                    439  16                       65   2        54   2    2,692       9        2.289              350          54
Consultant Rlat                1. 162  21   4. 112  75                                                 2015   4    S. 478    18         I 096           4 223          110
Arch'tectes etc                    6b  98                            .        .2   2                                    sit    0            18              69           2
ElIudces,                         137 70                                                  64 28           4   2        196     I            39             15            A
Sull-Total CONSULTANTS             3.520  42   4. 112  49        439   5          -          119    1      264   3    8.454   28            3.441           4.844         169
S FONISAIioN
formatton Ext                     Ila  98                            .2   2                                            121    0            Ila               0           2
formtl son Locale              2. 125  77?                                 591  21                       ss   2    2.771    9             831            1.885          55
S.h-loial  FORMATION               2.243  78                            .      591  20                      SS   2    2.892    10             950           1.885          58
F  OPE Rh I I ON
Nserattl etc                       83  98                                                                 2   2         64    0             83               0           2
Sals,res                         716  24                        .2.222  76    2.937   IC                                                   294          2.585           59
General                         1.19?  85       147  11                                                  56   4      1,400     5          560              812          28
Sub-Total OPERAIIONS               1.995  45       147   3              .                                2.280  52      4.422   IS            936           3.397          as
total (NVESFNE011 COSTS              20.958  71   4.259   1 4       439    1      591   2       344    I   3.093  tO   29.684  tOO            17. 287          it 804         594
Total Disbursement                    20.958  71   4.259   14         439    1      691   2       344    1   3.093  10   29.684   100          17.26?           11.804         594
January 23. 1991  13 43
0I



R t P 11 8  i I Q 11 t   DU   I A  I R i
PRI S`,
I inan-ig  P ld   by  Iko 0  I un.(xiporierft,
4s51 '000O
IDA             FAC              PNUD           UNI Cti           Pit          (,onerrvmtent          ll                            , I
Amount      I    Amunx       7    Amount   7    Aimur'! t 4    Amount   7    Amount   I    AiMtiuril    7                II)r   I.  '                             .-
A   A SIRAT   SICT
A Operat
CSS  /Plann    POP                                       S80   SI,                        414   42                                            21    2        1 041       4             1-                 ..h,
Sot' Tota   A Operat                                           480   Sh                         414   42                                            21    2       1 041       4             1                   .i.
%ut)  Ilal A ',IRAT   SW1                                          480                              414   42                                             1     2      1 041        4             2
8B     QUAtFI    DE C       t NStIGNIMIN!
I  PIt Manuels
Produ.ction   Distribution                              8  3417 12 4 24')   12                                                144     1        110     1    II  i1  44               4 4iSn 4 
',oh  lotal B1 Manuels                                      8   '14b  tli    4 2)4   12                                           344     1        170     I    II  Wib    41            8 Iti               4 :.2
2   42  format ion
Form   Maitres                                          I '21,  98                                                                              1)    2       1 IFS       /                                    tS  1 !.
It, Iota1  82  iormat ion                                 t 421    98                                                                             34Y  :        I 1,    Y         f         iS 1
1 B   Inf1 rast,..tuures
t ,ul  No-rd es                                        I 0°')  1,0                                         "IFt   II                          :11    I                   t1             1 A *
icoles   Prma-ires                                      27S    48                                                                               i   ?          2 Q       1             171                  84
Condit I    nseign                                       207   84                                                                             21    t1         231       1             2.8                   0
tcoles  Pr   Urb                                        1 088   40                                                                             121   '0       1 208       4             b4i9                  s.           .4
-to  lotal   ABl   nl.dstructures                          2    I    IS                                         S94   t7                          273    8        F 474      12           1 h14              I  942             c
ml-  Vilal B   QUAIlIlt  0   I iNStIGNIMIN1                    12 '3    bq4    4 244   23                            49!      1       344    2         h82    4      18 810    bi3           11 234                 .0C S0
I    ADMIN            Dt PS'
.1   CtNIRAlt
Regroup                                               2  1,14   S4                                                                        2 2b2   4b        4 9J0       t1          2  Ji: 4b                             i
SI COPI                                                 t 445   18                                                                             2?;    2       t 474       4              8 7?
'-*   lotal   t I       t:tNI RALt                         4  114   44                                                                         2 2'4    II, l       405      22          3 lIt               , £t
2   12 REGIONS
Regions                                                 I 118    8                                                                              23    2       1 ibi       4             810                 10h8
lur  Iotal C2 Rt8      NW,                                  I t l(8   Y8                                                                           21    2 J         tf,l     4             n0o                 icy
Sot) total t    ADMIN           DIPS                            S 2S2   I.J                                                                         2  J14    II      I  b       25           4 0II.              I 400
D   U    ADMIN   PROJI I
I  PPt
itnshasa                                                2  '14! S  Y                                                                            (4    J       2 27b7      8           I 281  S               ,4            4
Sub  lotal BPt                                              2  III i   ?                                                                            (4    3       2 247       8           1                     42Y             4'
Sub  Iotal D    ADMIN   PROJIl                                  2   I1 I   41                                                                           74      1     2 2b7        8          1 :#8                 t1 44
lutal  Dtsbursement                                              20  4448   2      4 2$Y    14         4.1Y     I       491    2         344     I    3 091    ID    29 b84   )00              '1  2n7             *  y04            (14
January  21.  1991   13 43                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                W



Q f P U B ( I Q U I  DU  I A I R f
PRE Su
fable 10  A SIRATIGif StCTORILE t  p 13
Delailed Cost lable
IOOIARS EU   000t
loIad5 Inc ludIn   Con g n ern es
Quantity                                      Base Costs in $                          1Us$  0001
Unit   91   92   93   94   9S  lotal  Unit Cost   91    92   93   94  95  lotal    91   92   93   94  95  lola'
INVESTMENT:ot
A EQUiPEWNI'M p 31
Nobilt er p 32           PPt                                                10 I            lo                     10            12                       13
Informtattque p 31         I0A                                           2 ordin              33                     33            37                       3?
ytih  CSS                  IDA              t                        1         $15            t5                      15           17                       17
Sub total tQUIPORINT p 31                                                                        S8                      58           6S                       S5
A FORMATION p 33
form   tocale              IDA                                               $4 15                   4                 4                  5                  5
form  etran                IOl                                                 $28            28                      28           32                       32
Sub lolal FORM ATION p 33                                                                        28     4                32           32     S                 37
C   OSS IT f CEiN  p  34
Plan  de I ed              IDA        I                              I    $130/an    130                             130    139                           l11
Plan  de I ad              UNOP             I    I    1              3    $130/an            130  130  130          390           t44   149  155           448
Voyages                    IDA        1           1                  4        17 S       8    8    8       8          30      8     8    9    9             34
fIn   de I education    IDA                                               S130/an                   72                7?                 83                 83
Sub lotal ANSI tECHT       P  34                                                          138  138  210  138            622    147  152  240   163            703                                                                          1
D rONCliJDNNEFNIf p 35
CSSS                       IDA                                                 $65      t3   13   13   13  13    65          15   IS   lb   16  17          78                                                                         l,n
Etudes CSSS                IDA           0 3  0 3  0 3  0 I          I        $120            E0   30   30  30    120              S7   34   36  37        140
fong/mat/POP               IDA                                                   $5      1     1     1    1   1        5      t     I     I    I   I         b
Kaint   Ordinateurs        104OIDA                                                       2    2    2    2   2         10      2     2    2      2   2       11
Sub lotal FONCTINNEMENT p 35                                                               16   46   46   46  46   200         18   52   54   55  57         ?36
lotal INVtSTINTI COSIS                                                                        IS4  270  260  14  4S   912    16S  101  299  27)9  S7   I 041
Total                                                                                          154  270  260   184  46   912    16S  301  299  219  57  1 041
January 23  1991   13 43
2 Z
70 Z
ID  tTi
p.
O _



R E     P U 8 L I 0 U E  DU  ZI A I 
PRESU
Table 20 SI AUIIIAIRES DIDACI p43
Detailed Cost lable
tDOttARS EU  '001
ot als Including Contingencaes
0..aanttty                                      Base Costs in S                               IUSS '000t
Unit   91   92   93   94   95  10lat  Unit Cost   91   92    93            94      95   Total    91   92    93         94      95   Total
I  INVES114tl COSTS
--- .-  . -  ......
A  REHA8 ENIREPOIS p 60               IDA                                              $50                  25      25             50                   30     31              61
8  8142 NOttlIER p 61
Div ttoern.l                     IO4                                            $27 5    28                                    28    31                                    31
Collide Diffusion                  IDA                                               25          25       -                     25          29                              29
Subtlotal  8142 PO8ILIER p 61                                                                  28   25                             53    31   29                               60
C  EQUIPEttNE416 p62
...... .. . -
Di.  m lormnlle                   IDA                                              S50           25      25                     SO          28      29                      56
Coll  Edition                    IDA                                              S50           25      25                     50          28      29                      56
Cell  Difusion                    IDA                                             $200           60      s0     60             200          66      92      71             230
Sub Total EQUIPE)NLT p62                                                                           110    130       60            300          122    149      71             342
o  8 143 FORMATION p 64
form Etran                        10                                             SE82 6                  35     35              70                  42      43              85
formL oc                           IDA                                           $12 4            3       3       3       3     12            4      4       4       4      15
S..b Total 8 143 FORNAtIIO   p 64                                                                    3      38      38       3     82            4      46     47       4    '00
E  8 144 ASSIStANCE TECHtH  p 6S
..  .....  .... ..    .....
Drolts dautogrs                    IDA                                               $5                   2       2       1      5                    2      2        I      6
Contrat UERP104                   ID4                                             $180      18   27      45      45     45    180    19   30        52      53      55    210
Esptdition                   IDA                                              Su68         1       17      17      17      68          19      20     20      21      79                                           M
Exp  formation                    IDA                                              $34                   17      17             34                  20      20              40                                           0
D,sIribi.t,o IDA                                                   1     3       S450                   34      34     34    102                   39      40      42    121
91 f8C pb8                         8AC      2    4    6    6    6    24             I5O   300  600    900    900    900  3.600   321  664  1 033  1070  1 108  4 196
hb-lolal 8 144 ASSISIAN5CE  TECH14  p 66                                                      318  644  I 015  .tOIS    997  3 989   340  713  1 164  1 206  1 228  4 652
Total INVESIENtI COSTS                                                                           346  782  1.208  t. 138  1.000  4 474   371  868  1 389  1 356  1 232  5 215
lots)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ,:- ;--   ,:--::w: . :::::;   - ::  :  :. . :. ::, . :. , .: : .  . .
lola)                                                                                             346   782  1.208  1. 138  1 000  4.474   371  868  1 389  1 356  1 232  5 2t5
anuwary 23. 1991  13 43
to
SZ
OQ i
"X



REI P UB8L  I Q UE   Du1  I s.
pOD Su1
lable 21 81 AUX. DIDACT - SUITE1 p66
Detailed CoSt Table
IDOLLARS EU '0001,
Totals bmcId..dsg ContIngenc es
ou.ant'.y                                                     Bass Costs  -n S                                       11U151  000l
Uniti   91   92        93         94      95)   Total      uInit  Cost     91       92      93       94      95    lotd         91      92      93       94       9b    lo,a,
I NVESTENEII COSTS
A  B 145 HANUELS p69
a) (lab des atanuels          IDA                                                                126                  7       7        7        7      26                 7        7       7        8      29
bl IndemnI mission             IDA                                                               154        1l       II       11      II       11      54        12       12      12      13       13      62
c) Fong. materenal             IDA       I      1          I          I                       120/an        20       20      20       20      20      100        21      22       23      24       25     115
d) EnItr vet'c.les            IDA         I     I          I          I     I         S       110/an         10      TO       10      TO       10      50        11      12       I2      12       13      60
el Stmtnatres                  IDA                                                             $21 5         4        5       5        5        5      25                 6        6       6        7      30
f) Fong Edition               IDA        I      I         I          I                5        $16/an        6        6       6        6       6       30         6       7        7       7        7      34
g1 Prtm.0 aidit,on             IDA                                                               $13          3       3        3       3        3      13         3       3        j        3       3       16
hi R*cr person                IDA                                                            $12 25                   3        3       3        3      12                 4        4       4                15
Sub-TotlI  8 145  ANUEIJES p69                                                                                  54      64       64      64       64     310        58       72      74       77      80      36'
0  Locale                     IDA                                                             53 Om       600      600     600      600     600  3.000         641     664      688     7'3      739  3 446
IT(tran IDA                 IDA                                                              $2 2m       440      440     440      440     440  2.200        470      481    505       523     542  2 527
Sub-lolaI  INPRoSSioW P?2                                                                                   1.040   1.040   1 040   1 040   1.040  5.200    1 .112    . 152   I .193   1 236   1 281   5 973
C  DISIRI/CONSERv p?2
fonct Enirepts                IDA                                                               sil0                         33       33      44      110                        40       41       57     138
frats de transp               IDA                         I          I     I          4    7c/?-re                   75      75       75      75      300                87       90      93       97     367
Super~  eg             GVl                                                     -         180                 20       20      20       20      g0                22       23       24      25       93 
k1 Revue Outjtls               IDA       I      I         I          I                5        50/an        50       50      50       50      s0      250        53      55       57      59       62     287
11 ConseielPods               IDA                                                                            2        2       2        2       2       11         2       2        2       3        3      12
el Oesltr eet did              IDA                         .0
nI Smiles                     IDA                   15.000    i5.000            30.000           S12                        180      180              360                        207     214              420
01 Appyt  (AC A I& DEAIP   FAC            I     I          I          I     I         S        5P125        25       25      25       25      25      125        28      29       30       -1      32     1S0
SubTotal DISTRI/CONSERv p73                                                                                     77     172      385     385      216   I 236        84      196     4d5      465i    275       469
D  wmf
Etudues                       IDA                                                                $50                 50                                so                55                                55
Actiton Itv.,                 IDA                                                                $60                 60                                60                66                                66
Pubs ,cation                  IDA                                                               $200                        200                       200                        229                      229
S.h-Total NMF                                                                                                          ITO      200                      310                122     229                       3!)1
lotal INVESTMENT COSTS                                                                                          1. 171  I. 389   1. 889   1. 489   1.320   7. 056    1.254  1 541   1 946   1 778   1 635  8 154
Total                                                                                                            1.171   1.386   1.689   I 489   I 320  7.056    I 254   1 541   1 946   I 778   1.635  8 154
Jlanuary 23. 1991 13 43
01 
p41p



- 98 -                                                                 ANNEX 3-11
Page 7 of 13
0~~~~~~r< -                 a', .0 '
&                   3,_ _
taO    3'            cc 0        0
Cr                  03    3 ,   (\
_                   4' _   0 ._
-         o      3    ,0    0
o  3'             -   -,o o
4 3,3 0                      0 0D f
-  '                3,           43       ,   3,
0.0    -                         3'3    3, 3
O                      _C o' 3,    ,   3,.
' ) ~~-                      C   DE
,                      -  O     
-'     V   _,4      0
-
0 0
.0~EA.
2~ 3,
o   3'0 
_' 0 - .
'3    OL    3'



R t P U B  L I  Q U      0 0U  Z A I R t
PRE SU
table 40 83 REGION PlOli p 98
Detal led Cost lable
IDOltARS EU '000)
lotal5  n  ulgto'wsn  e
Q-a,t lty                                      8ase Lost,o -$ SU6$  000,
U-'t    91    92      93     94   95  Total  Un-l Cost  91   92   91   94  9Y  loal                 91   92   93   94  95  'olal
I IN9ESIMfENT COSTS
A  B3 INfRASTRUCuTRE o 108
1  COISIR p108
Classes Pr,ma,-es                 IDA                                                   $160          40   40   40  40        160           46   48   S0  S2        196
Part,c,p  comu..a,,tes            GVI                                                 $71 4                 36   36            71                 43   44            87
Rehab tc  No'em Yagaat'           IDA                                                   S400         200  200                 400          232  240                 472
Sub lo,.l CONSIR plOB                                                                                   240  276   7b  40         631          278  33'   94  52         S66
2 liOBILIER p 110
EN                                IDt                                                   $100               100                100                120                120
se Total ftOBILIER p 110                                                                                       100                100                120                120
3  EQUIPEfENt p1iO
I) EN p 110                       IDA                                                   $55                       55           55                       bS           e5
2) EQ  const, EP                  IDA                                                   $S0           13   13   13             SO3  s1 15    1  lb  16               61
3) Vehlcole                      IA IIIAH           2                         2    $30/osh            60                       60           5b                       6b
41 Yeh,c IfCEPS                   IDA        I                                 I         $30   30                              30     32                             32
S) Motos stages EN                IDA                            5            6         S6$3                      IS           1¶                       18           l1
61 Welos Ense,gn                  IDA             260   250                 S00  S2O0/veIo            50   50                 100           5$   57                 113
Sb Total EQUIPNMETI  plio                                                                          30  123    63   83  13        310     32  136   73   99  1i         356 6C
Sub lotal B3 INFRASTRUCTURE p 108                                                                      30  363  438   158  53   I 041        32  415  524   193  b6 4      231                                                                1
lotal INVESlIRtT COSTS                                                                                     30  363  438   158  53   I 041        32  416  524   193  68        231
Total                                                                                                       30  363  438   158  53   1 041        32  415  524   193  68       23'
January 23.  1991  13 43
f7D
0 



R E P U B L I Q U E Du I A I R E
pRsu
Table 41 83 REGION PIIOlE SUIIE
0.tail.d Cost Table
IDOLLARS EU '0001
lotals Including Conttngencies
Quantity                                     Base Costs in S                          (USS  0001
.   .. . .. . .. .   ... .. ... . ..   .... ... . .. . . .. .. .. . .   .  .. . .. .  ... ... .    . ......... ........     
Unit    91   92   93   94   95  Total  Unit Cost  91   92   93   94  95  lotal   91   92   93   94  95  lota1
INVESTMENT COSTS
.. ..... .... ..
A 83 FORIIATIOU p 112
....... .......
Ens  EN                    IDA                           -                      S20   20                             20    22                               22
Action Unicof             UMICEf       -                                       S500      -  150  t50  200           SOO           174  180  249           603
Sub-lot2l 83 FORITIOII p 112                                                               20  ISO   150  200           520     22   174   180  249           626
B 83 ASSIS TECHN pl14
11 hon lrchit              10                                                   S555  28    14   14        -         55     29    IS   I6                  60
21 Contrat IfCEPS          IOA                                                 $160    16   16   32   48  48    160          17   18   37   57  59         188
TA pr EN                   IDA                     2                  2         $33                 33               33                 37                 37
Sub-lotal 83 ASSES  IECtII  pI14                                                           44    30   78   48  48   248         46   33   90   57  59         285
C  83 FOtCT Et  pII6
................
bI Internt ElN             104                                 -75                            19   19   IC  19    75               22   23   23  24         92
cl Suii de I *lp           IDA                                                $10              3    3      3   3      10            3     3     3   3       12
dl fonct *hi EN            IDA         -                 1     I      2          $10                       5   5      10                        6   6       13
el fonc  lotos             10*                     2    2      2      6           56                 2     2   2       6                  2     2   3        7
Sub-Total 83 fONCI EN pIT6                                                                       21    23   28  28   tot              25   28    35  36       124
Total InVESIMOI  COSTS                                                                         64  201  252  276  76   869          69  232  298  341  96  1.036
lotal                                                                                           64  201  252  276  76   P59          69  232  298  341  96   1.036                                                                              0
January 23.  1991   13 43
p.-.
* .



REE  R        O U     1 I E  W   ZA   I R E
PRESU
lablo 50  14 ECOtES PRIM  URSIIUES p 122
Dtai led Cost labla
tIOttARS EU  '000)
Iotals Including ConItngSncIes
Quanitly                           Sase Costs in S                      IUS$ '0001
- Unit   -
Unit    91  92   93   94   95  Total  Cost  91  92   93   94   95  lotal   91  92   93   94   9S  Jotas
IRIWESl1tUETl COSIS
A. COUSIRUC  p 127
Construction       IDAII                2    2    1       5  $800    -       320  320  160   800              385  398  206    989
tobilimr           lOll!                2    2    1       5  $140    -        56   56   28   140               67   70   36    173
Mlanor. Arch,      10*11        -            -  --            540        20    8    8    4    40          22    9   10    5       46
Sib-lotal  CONSIRUC  p 127                                                  20  3M4  3M4  192   980          22  461  478  247  1.208
Iotal lNvEsTNE6T COSTS                                                         20  384  384  192   980          22  461 478  247  1 208
Total                                                                           20  384  384  192   980          22  461  478  247  1. 208
----------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . .......... ..   .... .....   ....  ..   ..    ....  0..  .   *.. ....   ...... . . .   .....   ....>
January 23. 1991  13 43
o
t-
t0A



R E P U  I 1 I Q U I  DU  I A I R t
PRE SU
Table 60  C I ADMII   CENtRALE pl29
Deols led Cost lable
IDOttARS tU  '000\
lI CI s I nc I ..ng con? I gen, as
Quantity                                           Base Costs in S                                ljS I  000I
Unit   91   92   93   94   95  lotal   Unit Cost           91    92      93      94    95  lotal        91     92      93      94    95  Iola,
I  IIVESIIEII  COSIS
........ . ..   . . . .. . .   .
A  ENTRETIEN                 IDA                                                S100    20       20      20      20   20    1oo        22      23      24     25   2b    120
8  REHABILITATIONI p141
Constr                   IDA                                                 S750                   225    300  225    750                        270    374  290    934
Honor                     IDA                                                S101    40       24      8       8            80      43      27       9      10           88
111obil1er                IDA                                                1400                   200    2Ao            400                     240    249           479
S.b-loisl REHABIlAT11110N pl41                                                           40      24    433    508  225  I 230          43      27    520    632  290  I 512
C  EQUIPENEHN  pl42
Eq.,poment               IDA                                                 S100                           TOO           100                              19           1 I
Rese&.  let              IDA                                                 S300                           300           300                             357          3S7
SECOPE et SECOPER         IDA                                                        201    101    lOt    101            504      215    112    116        20          5b?
Sub-lotal EQUIPEIENT p142                                                               201    101    101    501             904      215     112    116    595          I 037
D  fOR11ATIO1 p 144          IDA                                                 S44                     22      22           44                      72      27            54
E  ASSIST FECHN p157
Inform                   IDA                                                1130    26       26      26      26   26    130        28      29      30      31   32    149
SECOPE                   IDA                                                 $130    26       26     26      26   26    130         28     29      30      31   32    149
Honor  Archli             IDA                                                1200    60       60     40      40           200       64      66     46      48           224
SECOPE                    ID     12   24    4                 40  2R?Ow %ots@3    156    312        52                  520       167    346      60                  S72                                                 1
Inlormatlq               IDA                                                1100    20       20      20      20   20    100        21      22      23      24   25    1'1
Etude                     IDA                                                 149    25       25                           49       26      27                           53                                               o
Suk lotal ASSISI ItCtiI  p157                                                           313    469    164    1I?   72  1 129          334    b19    '88    133   89  1 2bJ
F  FONCTIDN p10b
alAnn  Slat               IDA                                         4amslS44 5              1I      II    1   11        45               13      i       4    14 1     4
b)Ser-   nform            IDA                                                         14      14      14      14   14      70       16      16       7      !7   '8      84
cfl.de Slat               IDA       I    I    I    I    1        5       Sens4ib       6       6       6       6    6      30        7       7       7       ?    a      56
dlEl.de ser- a*n          IDA                                                 132             32                           32               37                           37
S.b lotal FONCIOIN pl60                                                                  20      63      31      31   31    177        22      73      37      39   40    212
G  PARTICIPATION DOU GV
SECOPE central           GWI        I    I    1    I    1        5         1602 4   121    121    121    121  121    603           123    127    132       3b  14,    b9S
SECOPf region            GVI        I    I    I    I    1        5           1283   283    283    283    283  283  1 415           288    298    309    320  332  1 548
Sub lotal PARTICIPAIT108 DU GVT                                                         404    404    404    404  404  2 018          411    426    441    457  473  2 20'
lotal INVfSIIIEI COStS                                                                     997  1.080  1 174  I 597  752  5 601   I 048          179  1 352  1 908  9 8  b 405
Total                                                                                        997  1 080  1 174  1 597  752  5 bO6        I 048     1 7    1 3S7 1 908  q98  6 40S
Janw.ry 23  1991  13 43
_1 >
s Z
,.m I 



R t P U 81 1 0I    f  DU  I A I R t
PRt SU
Table 70 C7 ENTITES OECINTRAIISEIS p153
Dota-led Cost Table
IDOIlARS  tU l 000
lotals InclId,g Com.tng.nc,es
Quant,ty                                       Base Costs ,n S                          (USS  000?
Unit    91   92   93    94   95  total   Un-t Cost   91  92   93   94   95  Total   91  92   93   94   95  Tota'
I  IWlESTlENT COSTS
A Rehab p 160
RAegds                 IDAII                   4    4      3     11  SS2 Sreged               210  210  5S8   578                 252  2Sb  203    7i7
Sub Total Rehab p 160                                                                              210  ?10  158   578                 252  261  203    7i7
B  EQUIPE'E1IS p 161
Moblie,-               IDAII                                                  StlO                    55   55    10                       68   71      139
Valises                IDAII                  too               Too       850P200               20                 20                23                 23
Eqt.p burea.           IDAII                                                $134 2              134               134               154                 154
Hat Radio              IDAII                   tI                tI          T10$2               22                22                25                  2S
Fo.ngbles              IDAII            tl    tI  1   11    44                $88         22   22   22   22    88             24   25   25   27       103
Sub Total EQUIPtPENtS p 161                                                                   22  198   77   77   374             24  227   95   98    444
lotal INVESTNEIt COSTS                                                                            22  408  287  235   952             24  480  356  30T   1 1b6
Total                                                                                              22  408  287  235   952             24  480  356  30;  1 161
January 23.  1991  13 43                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1
0
o~
p.,



R E P U8   I Q U E U   DU  I    I A E
lab           ~~~PRESU
tobh 80 D ADUINISTRATI1001 OtN PROJET p 163
Detaited Cost 3ablo
IoottARS EU 0001
Totals Includ.ng Contingencies
Qunt ty                                        Bass Costs in S                         (USS  0001
Unit   91   92   93   94   9S  lotal   Unit Cost           91   92   93   94   95  lota1    91   92   93   94   95  total
I INVESTMENT COSTS
.. ... ..  ....
* EQUIPENEN P1170
.     ... . ..  .. .
fi1bil*r                  IDA                  -20                                           5    5    5    5       20            6    6    6    6       24
Eqwtpn t                 ID4O                             -                   530      6    6    6    6    6        30      6    7    7    7    7        34
Ordinatiurs               IDA            2                      2        S15/ord       -   30    -            -     30          33                       33
V   c                    IDA104          2    -    2            4         $30/wh           60          60          120          66          71          t38
Flotos.divrs             IDl        -          -0O                                               10    -            10            -        t11
SIt-Tlotl EQUIPEENtI P170                                                                 6  103   21   71   tt    210         6  I12   24   85   14    243
8  FOWtfION
Voy  etudes.              D A                                    4         5 7/W oy          7    7    7    7       28           8    8    9    9        34
Form                     IDA                         S'2                                    3    3    3    3        12           3    4    4    4         5S
Sib-lotal FOIttON                                                                         -   10   10   10   tO        40           12   12   12   13       49
C  ASSISTANCE TECHtNIQUE   ID0         6    6    5    4    3    24    240o OMS           90   90   75   60   45    360    96  3OO   86   71   55    409
D  fONCIIONNENEI3
Salaires                 IDA      12   12   12   12   32    60  S10.685/mois   128  128  128  128  128    641   131  135  140  145  I50    701
fonction                 IDA        I    I    I    I    I       5         540/an    40   40   40   40  40    200    454 6   48  50   52    241
toy  regions              IDA       I    t    I    I    I       5               3      3    3    3    3    3        is      3    3    4    4    4        i8
vlsscul8s                GVT        I    I    I    I    I       5        S4 8/an       5    5    5    5    5        24      5    6    6    6    6        29
Si7-Total FONCTIONlREtENT                                                               376  376  376  176  376    880    84  191  198  205  212    989                                                                      0
E SUPER/EtUU S
.........                                                                                                                                                                                                                41
Etudes                    I0*                                                S275                     138  138    275       -              363  169    333
ulervis0 1on              IDA       I                 I          5              5     Is      ISis   IS   IS        75    16   17   17   383 8           86
Audits                    ID0       I    I    I    I           I        S5 IS                    IS   IS     5      75    16   17   17   la  18          86
*ctt_nt                   IDA                                                 560                 -         60      60                       .   74      74
Sti Total SUPER/ETUDES                                                                   30   30   30  168  228    485    32   33   34  199  280    579
Total INVESTMEiT COSTS                                                                      302  407  312  485  470  1.975   319  447  354  572  574  2 267
Total                                                                                        302  407  312  485  470  1,975   319  447  354  572  574  2.267
January 23. 1991  11 43
I0
_ 



- 105 -                               ANNEX 3-12
Specialist Services /
Services de specialistes
COMMENT           EXPERTS        ORIGIN  ASSIGNMENT   xb    DURATION OURA1ION  MONTHLY   TOTAL   TRAVEL   TOTAL   FINANCING
LABOR     LABOR    COST      COSt
COST     COST
Profile         t/l    Adm. Unit  Indiv.   months  total           *        S         *        5
.....................   ............................ ,,....... . ../  ......................................................I...................I ........................................... ......
A. SIRATEGY
I                      Education plernnr          I    CSS               1       48        48    10833   520000    30000   550bo  IDA/UIIDP
2                       Education plamner         E    CSS               2        48       96                                 72000 IDA
3                       Educ. finance eap.        I   Plerming Unit                                                                 IDA/Praigef    pe
sub- tott                                                                3        96      144    10833   520000    30000   622000
9.1 TEETUOCKS
4                       Copyrights specuislit    t    DPSHO              1         2        2                                  5000 IDA
S                       Education specislistl     t    OPSHO            25        60     1500       120   180000             180000 IDA
6                       Edition specisltit        I   OPSMO              1         4        4    15000    60000      8000    68000 IDA
7                       Textbook suthor           I   OPSMO              1         2        2    15000    30000      4000    34000 IDA
a                       Distribution expert       I   OPSH               1        36       36    12500   450000              450000 IDA
9                       Educetion specltlsts    I   OPSHD                6        48      288                                       FAC            PM
ib- totat                                                               35       152     1832                                737000
9.3 LOCAL REHABILITATION
10                      Architect                 L     PSP              1         6        6                                 55000 IDA
11                      Teacher Trng experts      L    IFCEPS            3       48       144                                160000 IDA
12                      Teacher Trng expert       I   Ecole Norm         1         2        2    15000    30000      2500    32500 IDA
sub toetl                                                                5        56      152                                247500
9 4 URBAN SCHCOOS
13                      Architect                 L    8PE               1         3        3                                 40000 IDA
sb- total                                                                 I        3        3                                 40000
C.1 CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
14                      Conputer specialistl      L    Conputer U       18        60     1080       120   129600             129600 IDA
IS                      Educ. mna. spec.          L    Secope           l8        60     1080       120   129600             129600 IDA
16                      Architect                 t    UPS               1        48       48                                200000 IDA
I?                      Educ. msnag. epec.        I    Secope            1        20       20    13000   260000              260000 IDA
is                      Ceeiputer specleilet      I    Secope            1        20       20    13000   260000              260000 IDA
19                      Conwuter specialists      I    Coaiter U         3         2        6    15000    90000    10000   100000 IDA
20                      Human resource spec.      I   Central Ad         2         2        3    15000    45000       4000    49000 IDA
puh-totat                                                               44       212     225s                               1128200
0. POJECT ADMINISIRATION
21                      Education specialist      I   *PE                 1       12        12    15000   180000             180000 IDA
22                      Project lopleut. sPec    I   *PE                  t       12        12    15000   180000             180000 IDA
Sub- tota                                                                2        24       24             360000             360000
IOTAL                                                          90      543      4412                              3134700
of %iAch local                           L                     r0      335      3959                               971200



- 103 -
ANNEX 3-13
Training: local and abroad /
Formation locale et a l'6tranger
COMPONENT BENEFICIAIRIES         LOCATION  Nb  DURATION  DURATION  Deity/   Total  Fixed   Travel    TOTAL  FINANCING
Monthly Training  COST    COST      COST
Trainirg COST
days/   men/day /  COST
experts                  L/l  indiv.  months  men/month   S          S       S        S        S
................................  a/ .. ........      ........ b...... / ..................    .b/.b/.b/
A. STRATEGY
1                  Plamning Unit staff       L        15        21      315       10     3150   1000               4150    IDA
2                  Plaming Unit staff        1         2         6       12    2000    24000              4000    28000    IDA
sub-total                                             17                                                          32150
9.1 TEXTBOOKS
3                  DPSND, authors            L        20        30      600       10     6000   1500       .00     8300    IDA
4                  DPS1D, distrib. staff    L          2                                                           4200    IDA
5                  DPSID, edition staff      1         2         3        6    5200    31200              4000    35200    IDA
6                  DPSSD, special. staff    1          4         3       12    2200    26400              8000    34400    IDA
sub-total                                            28                                                           82100
B.2 IN-SERVICE TRAINING
7                  Regionatl trainers        L      354         20     7080            147400  35700    18500   201600    IDA
a                  Prim. sech. teach. & he   L    27500          5   137500           1178600 194300    58300  1431200    IDA
sub-total                                         27854                                                         1632800
8.3 LOCAL REHABILITATION
9                  Teach. trng prof.         L        20        21      420       10     4200   7900      1900    14000   IDA
10                 Muttigrade teachers       L       15         12      180       10     1800    400     3800      6000    IDA
sub-total                                            35                                                           20000
C.1 CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
11                 Plaming Unit staff       I        4          6       24    1500    36000             8000    44000    IDA
sub-total                                              4                                                          44000
D. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION
12                                           L        5          2       10    1000    10000                      10000    IDA
13                                           1        4          1        4    5000    20000             8000    28000    IDA
sub-total                                             9                                                           38000
TOTAL                                    27947                                                         1849050
of which local                      L    27931                                                         1679450
a/ La Local; la Abroad
b/ Days If local training; months if training abroad



- 107 -
ANNEX 3-14
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE/REPUBLIQUE DU ZAIRE
EDUCATION SECTOR REHABILITATION PROJECT/
PROJET DE REHABILITATION DU SECTEUR DE L'EDUCATION
DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE/TABLEAU DE DECAISSEMENTS
FISCAL YEAR         QUARTER    DISBURSEMENT               ACCUMULATED              UNDISBURSED
PERCENT
DISBURSED
ANNEE                                            DECAISSEMENTS      SOLDE NON   POURCENTAOE
BUDGETAIRE         TRIMESTRE   DECAISSEMENT                 ACCUMULES              DECAISSE
DECAISSE
US3      DTS             USS      DTS
FY91
FY92                  1         1.6                1.6                                    7
2        0.0                1.6                                     7
3        I.6                2.0                                    10
4        1.0                3.0                                    14
FY93                  1         1.0                4.0                                   19
2        1.6                5.6                                    28
a        1.6                6.6                                    31
4        1.6                8.0                                    38
FY94                  1         1.0                9.0                                   43
2        1.0               10.0                                    48
a        1.6               11.0                                    62
4        1.0               12.0                                    67
FY96                  1         1.0               13.0                                   82
2        1.6               14.6                                    69
a        1.6               16.6                                    76
4        1.0               17.0                                    81
FY98                  1         1.0               18.0                                  8s
2        1.0               19.0                                    90
3        1.0               20.0                                    96
4        1.0               21.0                                   100
Estimated dote of *ffectiveness/Date  st;me- d'ontr-. en viguer: July 1991
Estimated Closing Date/Dat o*stimne do cloture: Jun. 1996



- 1U)8 -                     ANNEY 3-15
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF ZAIRE
SUPERVISION PLAN
1.    Bank Supervision Input into Key kctivities.  The staff input
indicated in the table below is in addition to regular supervision needs foi
the review of progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, etc.
(estimated for this project to require an average of 6 staffweeks during the
life of the project).
2.    Borrower's contribution to supervision. The project includes short
term consultancies (one educator, one architect and one financial
controller) for the duration of the project, to help the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) with specific tasks. Draft terms of reference,
including draft agreements for these experts have been already submitted to
the Association and found acceptable. In addition, the PIU will submit by
July 31 of each year annual progress reports on project implementation. The
format of these reports would be similar to those routinely used for
comparable Bank Group education projects. The reports would briefly
identify any major problem and recommend solutions; review performance of
implementing authorities and agencies; and maintain key performance
indicators in reaching project goals. Annual review will cover not only
project implementation, but also progress made in implementing the sectoral
strategy and the state of the maintenance of buildings constructed or
rehabilitated with past and current IDA funding. Each year of project
implementation, the BPE will make available all documents necessary for a
review meeting attended by IDA staff and representative of other
contributing agencies (UNDP, UNICEF, FAC and WWF) and it will make
arrangements for such a meeting to take place during the last trimester. In
addition, each year by mid October, IDA would perform a review of the
sectoral public expenditures program --PEP.



)19 -
ANNEX 3-15
Page 2 of 2
Bank Supervision Input into Key Activities
Approximate
Dates                                          Expected skills          Staff Input
(month/year)         Activity                     Requirements            (staff-weeks)
8/91          Supervision mission              Educator/Economist
Follow-up on conditions          Implementation spec.          4.0
of effectiveness and
review implementation
progress of all activities.
11/91         Review bid documents for          Procurement spec.             2.0
rehabilitation of Central
Administration
11/91         Supervision mission               Educator/Economist
Review general implemen-         Textbook distr. spec.         8.0
tation progress including        Procurement spec.
implementation of
sectoral strategy
3/92          Review bid documents for          Procurement spec.
the procurement of               Textbook spec.               4.0
textbooks
10/92         Supervision mission               Educator/Economist
Review general implemen-         Implementation spec.         8.0
tation progress, including       Financial spec.
implementation of sectoral
strategy.
Travel to pilot region
Review of SOE's
3/93         Supervision mission               Educator/Economist           6.0
Same tasks as for 10/92          Implementation spec.
mission, and review of
textb)oks distribution,
extensive travel to 3 of
the 11 sub-regions.
10/93         Two supervision missions;                                      13.0
same description as mission
of 10/92 and 3/93
10/94         Two missions                                                   13.0
3/96         Same description as above.
10q9S                 One mission including
preparation of PCR                                             8.0



CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC
-'\         ~         ;IJOAN
" .," |  >\.,   f   \_  _   fig    Bas Uele                 -
2                                                       -       'C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iIANDCA
PE(PLF  C S  EPrLI
(~~~~~~~P{Is A  L ( wi t,  I 
)                                                                   7) ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RWA`NCA
-UN.U                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BLJRUNDI 
riA NO U N D U              AA              AA
-/.,. ,~4          /                  ,.Id {                                  ,, 
X~~ ~ ~                                  ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~ =   A I  . P I               's N T Ai,N a 
0 C C I   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~FTANZANIA
ZARE~~~~~~~~~~~~
[      (.CATli1ON   SFCTORi SRREPUBLICATIO.PRJJEC'
PROJET DEREHABILITATION DU SECTEUR EDUCATIF
ANGOLA          =----i---
- - -   -2                                                 /        '!  \  J                                   -
Eli                                                           II    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ZAMBIA



