DaCuincOut of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Repow Ne P-4329 -KO
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$ 141 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
May 21, 1986
(TIS doume has a rejtoLd d__  ad my be wed by recpients ony in te perfo      ce of
their OSca  dnkd. lb comeutb May not therwise be dblowe willoet Wrlrd Buk a11h.riznu.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit      =    Won
US$1              =     W 900
W 100              =    US$0.111
W 1,000,000        =    US$1,111
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                    -=   3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (s2)             =    10.76 square feet (f\2)
1 cubic meter (m )              =    35.29 cubic feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)                =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)        =    0.39 square miles (mi2)
I hectare (ha)                  =    2.47 acres (ac)
I metric ton (mt)               =    1,000 kilograms (kg)
or 2,240 pounds (lb)
1 revenue ton (rt)              =    on average approximately
600 kg or 1322.4 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
CFS    -  Container Freight Station
CY     -  Container Yard
dwt    -  deadweight tons
EPB    -  Economic Planning Board
CRT    -  Gross Registered Tonnage
K3I    -  Korean Maritime Institute
KMPA   -  Korean Maritime and Port Administration
KNR    -  Korean National Railroad
MOA    -  Ministry of Agriculture
HOC    -  Ministry of Construction
MOF    -  Ministry of Finance
HOT    -  Ministry of Transportation
PCTOC  -  Pusan Container Terminal Operating Company
PDMPA  -  Pusan District Maritime and Port Authority
PPCO   -  Pusan Port Construction Office
TCMC   -  Transport Coordination Minister's Conference
TEU    -  Twenty foot equivalent units
TOC    -  Terrminal Operating Company
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OmCIL USE ONLY
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:     Korea Maritime and Port Administration (KMPA)
Amount:           US$141 million equivalent
Terms:            Fifteen years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The project would improve capacity by constructing additional
specialized container berths at Pusan port. The project
would also reduce the congestion in the city of Pusan by
providing an on-dock storage area to replace storage areas in
the city (Off-Dock container yards (CYs)). It would meet the
Government objective of increasing the efficiency and reduc-
ing the costs of container handling and inland transporta-
tion. It would also improve management and financial control
by concerned institutions over port activities and strengthen
port planning capabilities.
Specifically, the project would: (a) increase capacity by
construction of 1,704 meters of breakwater, a 3 berth con-
tainer terminal with the required infrastructure and utili-
ties and provision of the necessary container handling equip-
ment; (b) improve the rail capacity by providing equipment
for rail cars; (c) provide training for port planners and
technical assistance to: (i) study and implement measures to
improve financial management, (ii) update the Master Plan for
Pusan port, (iii) carry out studies to improve existing
container operations, define the management and operating
rules for the proposed terminal, improve container distri-
bution systems in Korea and the port access to the express-
way, and (ivj study relocation of Off-Dock CYs in the Pusan
area to a proposed on-dock CY; and (d) implement two Action
Plans, one to address the rationalization of container
handling and distribution in Korea and the other to
strengthen the financial and managerial functions of KMPA and
related institutions.
Risks:            There are no unusual risks associated with the project in
that all components involve proven technology that has been
in extended use in Korea and in other parts of the world.
The only risk involves possible delays in project completion
if there is a shortage in local currency.
| s document has a stricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in thepefonce
of theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
USS million
Civil Works                                 101.9       124.5        226.4
Equipment for container handling              1.9        23.6         25.5
Technical assistance                          3.0          1.3         4.3
Base Cost                              106.8       149.4        256.2
Customs duties and value added tax           13.1          -          13.1
Physical contingencies                        5.3          7.5        12.8
Price contingencies                          16.1        30.1         46.2
Total Project Cost                       141.3       187.0        328.3
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                                      -        141.0        141.0
Government                                  141.3        46.0        187.3
Total                                    141.3       187.0        328.3
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank FY               1987    1988    1989    1990    1991       1992
-===== -   US$ million
Annual                  18      32       30      26      27         8
Cumulative              18      50      80      106     133       141
Rate of Return: 35%
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 6084-KO, dated April 25, 1986.
Map: IBRD 19536



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA
FOR A PUSAN PORT PROJECT
1.        1 submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Republic of Korea for the equivalent of $141.0 million for the Pusan
Port Project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of
grace, and would bear interest at the standard variable interest rate.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The latest Economic Report entitled "Korea's Development in a Global
Contezt" was distributed under cover of Sec M84-570 dated June 21, 1984. The
following summary is based on information collected for an economic report
currently under preparation. The Country Data Sheets are attached as Annex 1.
3.        Past Performance.  Korea has proved itself to be one of the most
successful of developing countries. Twenty-five years ago it was among the
poorest, heavily dependent on agriculture, with a weak balance of payments,
financed almost entirely through foreign grants. But CNP growth averaging 8X
p.a. since 1960 has raised Korea's per capita income from $180 in 1960 to over
$2,000 in 1984 (both in current prices), lifted 85X of the population out of
poverty, and brought the country into the ranks of the semi-industrial
nations. Today, Korea is the world's thirteenth largest trading nation.
4.        Korea's outward orientation makes it unusually susceptible to
external shocks. But the quality of its economic management has enabled it to
adjust rapidly and decisively when shocks have occurred, and regain its growth
momentum. Korea weathered the first oil crisis of 1973-74 through increased
foreign borrowing, enhanced public sector savings, and export diversification,
returning rapidly to high growth in 1975-78. The second oil crisis in
1978/79, combined with sharp increases in international interest rates and the
onset of a deep internati,nal recession, proved more difficult to manage.
These difficulties were compounded by poor harvests and political uncertainty
following the assassination of President Park. In 1980, Korea's economy
contracted for the first time in its modern economic history - the GNP
falling by 5S in real terms - the balance of payments deficit reached 9% of
CNP, and open unemployment rose to 5.2Z.
5.        Subsequent events demonstrate Korea's commitment to economic
adjustment. A comprehensive program of stabilization and adjustment,
supported by the Bank through structural adjustment lending and the IMF,
through a series of standby arrangements, helped rebuild the economy.
Exchange rate management reduced the effective exchange rate by 30Z in 1980,
and competitiveness has been assured since then by a managed float. Monetary



- 2 -
and fiscal policies have both been conservative. The growth of net domestic
assets decelerated from 39% in 1981 to 14% in 1984, though it rose to 24% in
1985, while real interest rates have moved upward gradually. The fiscal
balance has been reduced from a deficit of 4.6S of CGP in 1981 to 1.5Z in
1985, the consequence of aggressive expenditure containment and improved
public enterprise financial performance.
6.        Longer term adjustment measures have focused on major reforms in
trade and financial policies to increase the overall efficiency of the
economy. A preannounced program of import liberalization and tariff reform
was prepared in 1983 to be implemented in 1984-88.  Implementation has
remained consistently on schedule. As a result of the trade liberalization
process, the proportion of goods with automatic approval has been increased to
88Z so far and import tariffs have been made more uniform across consumption,
intermediate, and capital goods. Financial uector reforms have involved
privatization of the government-owned deposit money banks, granting of greater
operational autonomy to banks, gradual steps to bring the foreign bank
branches and domestic banks into more direct competition, and creation of a
variety of financial instruments not subject to the formal system of interest
rate management. Sectoral reforms have also been pursued. In particular, to
promote industrial development, a shift from industry specific to functional
incentives is being implemented following a new Industrial Promotion Law
passed in 1985, and specific subsector adjustment programs have been carried
out. Efforts to increase the energy efficiency of the economy have included
adjustments of fuel prices, diversification of energy sources, rephasing of
the power generation program to lower overall costs, and programs to improve
bnergy conservation.
7.        The economy responded well to the stabilization and adjustment
program. Crowth averaged 7.5Z in 1983-85, while inflation was heLd to an
average of about 4Z. Unemployment was reduced to 3.8Z in 1985, while the
current account deficit was cut to 1% of GNP. The energy intensity of the
economy was lowered. However, the dependence of the economy on external
developments was brought home again in 1985 when a slowdown in the OECD
economies and rising protectionism sharply reduced the growth of Korea's
exports and held down CNP growth to 5Z.
8.        Medium-term Prospects.  As has been the case in recent years,
Korea's growth during the 1980s will be determined largely by the performance
of exports on the one hand and savings on the other. The guidelines for the
Sizth Plan (1987-91) call for an average growth of 7X to be achieved via an
export growth rate of 9% and a national savings rate of 33% by 1991. This is
to be accompanied by stable prices and a move into modest surplus in the
balance of payments current account. The proposed targets are ambitious and
the seLf-imposed constraints are tight. Hence, careful macroeconomic
management will be required over the next few years.
9.        The export outlook is dominated by external factors.  The outlook
for OECD growth is uncertain, though the rate in 1986 is expected to be some-
what higher than in 1985. Increasing protection and the depressed state of
key export sectors such as construction and shipbuilding add to the uncertain-
ties. To soften the impact of slow growth and protectionism in the world



-3-
economy, the Government has taken measures to diversify exports across both
markets and products. Measures to rationalize the construction and shipbuild-
ing industries will help to deal with the problem of structural decline.
Investments in domestic R&D and in skI.1-upgrading will help in diversifying
away from those industries where Korea no longer has a labor-cost advantage.
10.       The medium-term outlook has recently been strengthened by three
extremely favorable developments, namely the steep decline in the price of
oil, the decline in international interest rates, and the sharp appreciation
of the Japanese yen relative to the Korean won. A decline in the price of oil
by $1 per barrel and in interest rates of 1X reduces Rorea's external payments
directly by $200 million and $300 million, respectively. Furthermore, by
sparking a higher rate of world economic growth, these developments could
provide an additional boost to Korea's exports. The appreciation of the yen
may enable Korea to increase its exports and market share in such important
geographic markets as the US and Europe. In particular, this development is
likely to help establish two major product lines for Korea, namely automobiles
and electronic products.
11.       National savings are being promoted partly through a process of
financial liberalization and attractive real interest rates for deposit,
partly through budget surpluses arising from restrained government
expenditure, and partly through measures to increase efficiency in public
sector activities. The savings rate has risen steadily in response to these
measures from 22.4% in 1982 to 28.6Z in 1985. The prospect for future targets
being achieved depends on the ability to maintain the above measures.
Financial liberalization has continued in 1985, despite short-run difficulties
encountered by some parts of the highly leveraged corporate sector.
12.       Korea's external debt position has improved considerably since the
early 1980s. The rate of growth of outstanding debt has been sharply reduced
(from 14% in 1982 to 7% in 1985), the share of short-term maturities in total
debt has been reduced (from 34% in 1982 to 24% in 1985), and the debt-service
ratio has been stabilized. The level of the debt was $45.6 billion at the end
of 1985, and debt-service obligations are manageable in comparison to Korea's
GNP. The size and concentration of its debt and the continuing uncertainty in
international financial markets have recently persuaded Korea to decelerate
debt accumulation sharply over the Sixth Plan period. A target of around
$51 billion of outstanding debt has been set for 1991, implying much reduced
average net external borrowing of around $1 billion per year for 1986-91.
Korea is also seeking a greater proportion of its foreign capital in the form
of direct and portfolio foreign investment.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
13.       As of March 31, 1986, Korea had received 83 Bank loans (including
one Third Window Loan) and eight IDA Credits, totalling $5,956.16 million in
loans and $115.58 million in credits (taking into account cancellations and



the refinancing of one IDA Credit in a subsequent Bank Loan). As of that
date, $1,400.40 million remained undisbursed on effective loans, mostly from
commitments in the past two years. Annex II contains a list of outstanding
Bank loans, IDA credits, and IFC investments as of March 31, 1986. Progress
on project implementation is generally satisfactory. Although implementation
delays have occurred, due primarily to shortfalls in government budgetary
contributions, they have been addressed and are being resolved. The status
and plans for counterpart contributions will remain an integral part of
country implementation reviews held jointly with the Government. Despite some
recent delays, Korea's disbursement rate remains the highest among major Bank
borrowers in East Asia.
14.       The current pipeline of projects in the lending program for Korea
reflects an evolution in the Bank's strategy from lending for discrete pro-
jects concerned with microinstitutional issues to making loans which are
increasingly aimed at addressing more broadly based policy and institutional
issues. This gradual change in the Bank's lending approach, made possible by
relatively sophisticated Korear. institutions, is proceeding well. Sector
loans have already been made for highways, education and induatrial finance.
The Bank has also made two Structural Adjustment Loans (SALs), which comple-
ment this approach by concentrating on issues that have a multisectoral
impact.
15.       In 1984, the Bank undertook an Agricultural Sector Survey in Korea,
which recommended that Government should stimulate non-farm cmployment in
rural areas, reduce its overall intervention in the sector and adopt a broader
and longer-term view of agricultural problems. A fourth credit project, which
was approved in May 1985, will promote agricultural development through
financing private sector investments covering a wide range of agricultural
production and rural income diversification activities. It also addresses the
institutional development issues of the National Agricultural Cooperative
Federation, the main credit institution serving agriculture.
16.       Bank lending for the industrial sector is aimed at helping improve
Korea's trade and industrial in-entives policies, at improving the performance
of the financial system and at developing the technological capabilities of
Kore'.. enterprises. So far, trade and incentive issues have been addressed
through the two SALs referred to earlier. Issues pertaining to the
strengthening of the financial system are being addressed under the Bank's
lending for industrial finance. For example, the Industrial Finance Project,
approved by the Board in June 1983, supports the Government's ongoing program
of financial sector reform. The technology enhancement objectives of the
Government are being pursued with Bank support through two projects approved
in 1982, one for the Korea Technology Development Corporati-n (KTDC) which
finances research, development and engineering, and the other for the
machinery industries which is designed to provide financial and technical
assistance to raise the productivity of small and medium machinery firms.
Bank lending to Korea in FY1985 included additional support for financial
sector reform through a Second Industrial Finance Project, as well as lending
to KTDC, and for small and medium enterprises. Future Bank lending would
continue to emphasize financial reform and technology enhancement.



17.       Since 1980, the Bank has provided some policy advice and support for
the Government's efforts at improving energy supply and conservation
policies. Following the completion of an Energy Sector Survey in January
1985, the Bank is now better placed to provide support for the Government's
energy development program. The rationale and need for a power transmission
and distribution loan, which was approved on March 27, 1986, as well as the
basis for potential investment in gas transmission and distribution, emerged
during sector discussions.
18.       The Bank Group has been involved in helping to meet the requirements
for skilled technical manpower, a precondition of upmarket industrial diversi-
fication. The Bank's first sector loan for education, approved in 1980, aimed
at improving engineering and management education and technician training. A
second sector loan, approved in May 1984, supports measures designed to
improve qualitative aspects of secondary and higher-level science and
technology education.
19.       The Bank's recent lending in the urban bector involves support for
three regional development projects, two low-income housing projects and three
water supply projects. The Bank is assisting Korea to increase the availabil-
ity of basic services such as housing, water supply and transportation in the
cities and to improve the functioning and efficiency of urban areas. A Seoul
Urban Transport Project was approved in April 1985, and a project to support a
program for the development of urban land on a national scale is scheduled for
consideration by the Executive Directors at the end of May 1986.
20.       The Bank has played a major role in assisting the Government to
modernize and expand the transport system through lending for the railroad,
highway construction and improvement, and port expansion. The Highway Sector
loan approved in March 1984, as well as future operations, would address
sectoral and subsectoral issues such as improving the integration of invest-
ment planning, energy conservation and transport efficiency related to regu-
lation and road user charges. Transport issues which involve macroeconomic
policies affecting other sectors of the economy, such as relative fuel prices,
were handled within the context of the second SAL. In July 1985, the Bank
approved the Seoul-Pusan Corridor Project, which would help increase transport
efficiency and the capacity of rail services on an important line. The
proposed project to augment container capacity at Pusan would be the thi:d
operation for the development of ports.
PART III - TRANSPORT SECTOR AND PORT SUBSECTOR
The Transport System
21.       Throughout much of the past 20 years, the transport system has been
strained by the demands of rapid growth and has required massive public sector
investments in transport infrastructure. The Government allocated up to 232
of its total capital expenditure to expand and modernize transport infrastruc-
ture from 1967 to 1977 diminishing to about 15% in the Fourth (1977-81) and
Fifth Plans (1982-86). Investments have been concentrated on the Seoul-Pusan



- 6 -
axis where most industrial development is taking place and on other corridors
serving the northeastern and southeastern parts of Korea.
22.       Substantial changes in the modal distribution of traffic are illus-
trated by traffic statistics for the 1966 to 1984 period. For freight
traffic, the road and coastal shipping shares increased from 8Z to 36Z and
from 10X to 27Z, respectively, while movements by rail, although showing
growth in absolute terms, fell from 811 of market share of total ton-km to
32Z. These changes reflect both the economic advantages of the various modes
and the different growth rates of the industries served, as rail and coastal
shipping became concentrated on long distances and bulk commodities while road
transport handled the short distances and more general cargo. For passenger
traffic, rapidly expanding personal incomes generated large increases in
personal travel, mainly by public transport such as express trains and
buses. High taxation of private cars and gasoline has limited motorization to
a level significantly below that of other countries with income levels
comparable to those of Korea.
23.       The Government of Korea's (GOK) basic objective in the past has been
to increase the capacity of the transport system in line with projected
traffic growth and to avoid major bottlenecks. This objective has been
largely achieved. The present system is reasonably well balanced and,there is
little uneconomic allocation of traffic among the various modes. Investments
in transportation have been linked to broader concerns in Korea's spatial and
economic planning. For example, considerable efforts have been made to
develop new industrial complexes in coastal areas, to take advantage of
Korea's natural potential in harbors, and to exploit low-cost coastal shipping
while avoiding excessive congestion on road and rail. Similarly, in its
efforts to ensure that appropriate development priorities were reflected in
the allocation of scarce transportation resources among the competing claims,
the Government has tightly regulated the sector, with a restrictive licensing
system and administered pricing for all transport activities. These regula-
tions, which have not always enhanced efficiency in transport, are being
reviewed under ongoing Bank-assisted operations.
24.       Large investments in transportation infrastructure have been com-
plemented by a considerable effort to improve the efficiency of the transpor-
tation system, through the establishment and strengthening of institutions to
plan, construct, maintain and operate facilities and services. In the public
sector, institutions such as the Korean National Railroad (KNR), the Bureau of
Public Roads (BPR) in the Ministry of Construction (MOC), the Korea Highway
Corporation (KHC), and the Korea Maritime and Port Administration (KMPA) have
been established or strengthened, in many instances with increasing financial
and managerial responsibility. In the private sector, a highly efficient
contractor system has evolved for civil works which reflects both the insis-
tence on competitive bidding in the award of contracts as a matter of policy
and the large volume of construction that has been carried out in Korea during
the past 20 years. There are now some 500 firms capable of handling a broad
range of public works. Furthermore, with Government encouragement, the major
construction firms have successfully expanded their construction activities
overseas; in 1981, Korean contractors won overseas contracts valued at over
$13 billion, though due to adverse international conditions, new orders
dwindled to less than half this amount by 1985.



- 7 -
Transport Sector Objectives and Issues in the 1980s
25.       Objectives.  The Government's main goals for the transport sector as
stated in the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (1982-86)
are to: (a) selectively increase transport capacity by modernizing equipment
and optimizing investments in the sector; (b) enhance transport efficiency by
improving intermodal traffic allocation and conserving energy; and (c) streng-
then maintenance activities. A new emphasis to be set as part of the Sixth
Plan (1987-91) will concern the promotion of a more balanced regional develop-
ment, by encouraging growth away from the largest cities.
26.       All these goals have been appropriate and timely and are still valid
for the future. Although the recovery from the recession of 1979/81 was
accomplished by 1984 when the GNP growth rate was up to 7.5% and inflation
down to 3% p.a., new signs (GNP growth reached 5.0% in 1985) indicate that the
growth for the medium term is likely to be more modest than during the
1970s. The recent economic slowdown has led to postponing the timing of
investments planned to further improve transport capacity and quality of
service, which now need to be more closely adjusted to the actual growth of
traffic for each mode. These delays resulted also from limitations in the
capacity of the public sector to finance the necessary transport infrastruc-
ture improvements due both to budgetary limitations and the Government's
policy of limiting foreign borrowings.
27.       Nevertheless, the Fifth Five-Year Plan projections for an average
GNP growth rate of 7.6% p.a. over the period 1982-86 are likely to be
achieved. The corresponding increase in transport demand, estimated at about
47 billion passenger-km and 10 billion ton-km, respectively 50% and 30% over
Fourth Plan period outcomes,might also be reached.  However, the investments
in transportation (public and private) have incrcased less than the 45%
originally planned. These would have amounted to some $16.3 billion, calcula-
ted at 1980 prices and exchange rates; revised actual expenditure data are not
available.  Investments in subways and aviation will have absorbed a larger
fraction of the total as will road vehicles and ships, leaving investments in
the railway system, road and port infrastructure to increase by less than 20%
over Fourth Plan outlays.
28.       Issues.  The last major Bank transport sector review mission
analyzed the transport investments proposed under the Fifth Plan and attempted
to identify the main policy and institutional issues impeding efficiency in
the sector. The Transport Sector Issues Survey Report No. 4423-KO, dated
December 27, 1983, concluded that, although most of the transport investments
proposed under the Plan pursued development priorities which were appropriate,
considerably more could be done to increase the productivity of existing
facilities and equipment. With t1e increasingly complex traffic patterns and
higher traffic densities, the growing requirements for maintenance of the
expanded system, and the need to conserve energy, the mission foresaw an even
greater need to maximize efficiency and use limited investment outlays in this
capital-intensive sector. The report identified three main areas requiring
specific attention in the current, more demanding economic environment:
(a) planning, (b) regulation and pricing, and tc) energy conservation. Bank-
assisted projects currently under implementation are addressing these issues
and progress so far is satisfactory.



-8-
29.       In the port/shipping subsectoir, a number of specific sector reviews
were recently carried out by the Bank in order to assist the Government in
identifying measures that could be considered to optimize the operational
efficiency of the shipping fleet and to refine the investment strategy for
major fishing and container ports. In particular, the last sector review
focused on the findings of a consultant's study which recommended the location
of future container facilities exclusively at Pusan as the most suitable, and
the findings of another more recent study, which while concurring with the
proposal to proceed with the proposed three bertns in Pusan outer harbor,
recommended that future expansion take place at Kwang-Yang Bay, some 150 km
west of Pusan on Korea's south coast. Tihese findings were reexamined by the
Bank's Sector Report which conicluded that there is no merit in planning for a
future hub container port other than at Pusan, although there is scope for
secondary container ports such as Inchon or Kwang-Yang Bay to accommodate
feeder vessels to and from Pusan. The Sector Report will soon be reviewed
with the Government, and it is expected that its findings will be fully
considered in the preparation of the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan. During
negotiations it was noted that, in formulating its future plans for container
port development, the Gcvernment would take into consideration the existing
facilities and proposed investments at Pusan port.
Bank's Role
30.       The Bank's policy dialogue is being strengthened through the
increasing emphasis being given to sector and subsector work that is support-
ing transport lending in Korea. Already, a Highway Sector Project (Loan
2392-KO) has helped to deepen and broaden the Bank's involvement in the road
subsector by extending assistance for the Ministries of Construction (MOC), of
Home Affairs (MOHA), of Transport (MOT) and of Energy and Resources (MOER).
This involvement is providing an opportunity for these agencies to improve
their planning and coordination, to conserve energy and deregulate some
aspects of land transport, and on this basis preparation of a second highway
subsector loan is under way. For railways, the Bank has traditionally made
sector type loans, financing time slices of KNR's investment plans. The
recently approved Seoul/Pusan Corridor Project (Loan 2600-KO) continues this
involvement for the duration of the 1982-86 Fifth Plan. For ports, Bank
assistance has been directed at the modernization and expansion of facilities
to support Korea's export-led development. Containerization was introduced at
Pusan under two previous port projects (Loans. 917-KO and 1401-KO) and would
be developed further under this project, which would be another opportunity
for the Bank to support government policy measures aimed at increasing the
capacity for and efficiency of container handling and further strengthening
KMPA's progress in institution building, including the improvement of the
management and finances of the port subsector.
31.       Besides these subsector operations, the Bank is assisting the
Government in developing multimodal transportation projects. The first was
the Coal and Cement Distribution Project (Loan 2267-KO) approved in 1983,
involving railways, ports and inland terminals. This would be followed by
projects directed toward increasing the capacity of the transport system in
certain high priority areas and corridors. In particular, a multimodal
transport study for the Kyonggi region is underway to identify priorities in



- 9 -
strengthening the expressways and surburban rail network to meet the very high
transport demand in the suburbs of Seoul. The complementarity of the various
modes will be promoted by developing interconnecting terminals to optimize the
use of this suburban transport network. Another multimodal transport study
was carried out from 1983 to 1985 to review feasibility of a high speed rail
line in the Seoul-Pusan transport corridor. This study resulted in the 1985
Seoul-Pusan Corridor Project (Loan 2600-KO) as a first step that will help
increase rail capacity through an improved signalling system. Subsequent
steps might include the construction of a high speed train that would run on a
separate, dedicated track together with the related improvement of road
transport to provide transport complementarity between rail and road. A third
possible study now being suggested to Government could address the need to
modernize the transport network in the southern coastal region to link Mokpo-
Suncheon-Masan to Pusan-Ulsan-Pohang in the east, where most heavy industries
are concentrated and Kwangju, the Cholla Nam Region capital, in the west. The
study could include the feasibility of a new port at Kwang-Yang Bay and of
road and rail links to the hinterland.
The Ports Subsector
32.       The export-oriented industrialization policy, coupled with the need
to import raw materials, for which Korea is poorly endowed, placed increasing
demands on maritime transport. Accordingly, the port infrastructure and the
vessel fleet had to expand rapidly. Now,Korea's port network comprises 46
general or coumercial ports with 60.6 million metric tons (mt) of stevedoring
capacity per year and 12 industrial ports with 52.1 million mt capacity. In
addition, there are some 400 fishing ports and 1,400 other wharfs without
basic facilities.
33.       The total cargo movement, including seagoing and coastal. freight,
increased by 11.4% p.a. in the Third Plan (1972-76), 8.4% p.a. in the Fourth
Plan (1977-81) and 8.1% p.a. during 1982-84, the first three years of the
Fifth Plan. Seagoing freight traffic through Korean ports reached over
75 million mt in 1984 compared to 5.1 million mt in 1966, while coastal
freight reached 37.8 million mt compared to 2.8 million mt over the same
period, increasing respectively at 16.2% and 15.7% p.a. These increases
created serious port congestion. Both Pusan, the biggest port handling 30% of
the country's external trade, and Inchon, the port nearest Seoul, required
urgent expansion, and a large containerization program was started.
Industrial development on the east and south coasts prompted the creation of
specialized ports to serve various industries.
34.       In spite of these recent developments, more efforts are required to
expand port capacities and to improve port handling operations that are costly
for some cargo categories at certain ports. In 1984, the ports' capacities,
measured by the stevedoring throughput of each port, showed an aggregate
deficit of 12.0 million mt, comprising a 22.4 million mt net deficit for
general ports and a 10.4 million mt surplus for industrial ports. One haLf of
the general ports' capacity shortage is concentrated in Pusan. To make up for
the present deficit, lightering and labor-intensive cargo handling methods are
used. The situation has improved with the completion in 1983 of the Pusan
port's second-phase expansion, financed by the Bank under the Second Port



- 10 -
Project (Loan 1401-KO), and the expansion of Inchon port financed by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB). Forecasts for seagoing traffic assume an 8.2Z p.a.
growth over the Fifth Plan period, only slightly higher than the 7.5Z expected
CUP growth, and 7.22 over the SixLh Plan period. The largest share of
seagoing traffic, about 43Z, will transit through Pusan and Inchon ports by
1991. Coastal shipping, which plays an important role as Korea's cheapest
domestic transport, is also carrying an increasing volume of cargo.
35.       To cope with the expected growth of traffic and prepare for the
expansion of trade in the 1990s, policy directions emphasized the need to:
(a) increase the fleet size and strengthen Korean shipping business to main-
tain or raise its 502 share of the transport sarket; (b) intensify cooperation
with other major world shipping lines to develop new routes, particularly
container services; (c) promote coastal shipping to improve access to isolated
islands and to increase coastal freight transport; (d) modernize and expand
port faciliti_  and promote operational efficiency; and (e) develop training
to raise the quality and availability of seamen.
Port Organization
36.       Responsibility for the administration and development of ports is
shared among four ministries - MOT, MOC, MOHA and the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA). MOT's Korea Maritime and Port Administration (KMPA), created in March
1976, is responsible for the planning, construction and operation of Korea's
24 first-class commercial ports through ten District Maritime and Port
Authorities (DNPAs). These DMPAs are responsible for the day-to-day operation
of the ports. The largest of them is the Pusan District Maritime and Port
Authority (PDMPA). KMPA is also responsible for planning and developing the
22 second-class comiercial ports, although their operations and maintenance,
as well as that of numerous other small local ports, are handled by provincial
governments under MOHA. Fishing ports are the responsibility of the National
Fisheries Administration (NFA) under MOA.
37.       MOC is responsible for the planning and construction of industrial
ports, which are defined as those being part of industrial complexes. This
division of responsibilities may have appeared reasonable at the time of the
reorganization in 1976, but it sometimes conflicts with KMPA's responsibility
for overall port planning. The Government moved to avoid this conflict by
agreeing to establish an Inter-Ministerial Committee under the chairmanship of
the Vice-Minister of the Economic Planning Board (EPB) to review MOC's propo-
sals for industrial port development, and to take action as required. This
has led to increased consultation on port expansion programs between KMPA and
HOC.
Management, Staff and Training
38.       KMPA is headed by an Administrator who is appointed directly by the
President of Korea and has the rank equivalent to a Vice Minister. KMPA has
gained valuable experience in port development, management and administration
during the course of several previous port development ijrojects, some of which
have been assisted by the Bank, the ADB and the Saudi Fund. Existing manage-
ment and staff are fully capable of implementing the proposed project. KMPA's



- 11 -
present staff totals 1,900 of whom 400 are assigned to headquarters and 1,500
are posted in various regional offices. There is a very good core of engin-
eering and operational staff but there is a clear need to strengthen certain
functions, especially the capability to undertake the more complex aspects of
port investment and master planning. KMPA needs to develop these capabili-
ties, possibly by strengthening its planning unit. The proposed project
addresses this need by including a training component for port planners and
managers. KMPA would carry out the training program for port planners and
managers according to an agreed time schedule.
Budget, Accounting and Audit
39.       Port budgets are  .repared at KMPA headquarters using information
from individual port managemexits. The annual budget is allocated directly to
KMPA by the EPB and all income o. the K[PA is transferred directly to MOF.
Being organized under the Goverunent-Invested Enterprise Management Act and
related rules, RMPA is subject to the supervisory control of the Minister of
Transport. Also, port operating income is regarded as part of the general
government revenue and port operatiug costs plus funds for investment are
provided from the Government's budget.
40.       KMPA uses standard government administrative-type accounting but
under Loan 1401-KO an alternative commercial accounting system was designed to
replace it.  KMPA is implementing the comercial accounting system in parallel
with its normal administrative accounting. The National Board of Audit and
Inspections, which is under the President, inspects KMPA's overall accounts.
In addition, the commercial accounts are audited in accordance with generally
accepted principles by independent auditors.
Pusan Port Operations
41.       Pusan Port is managed by the Pusan District Maritime and Port
Authority (PDMPA), which is under the direct control of KMPA. Pusan Port
Construction Office (PPCO), one of its operating subsidiaries, is responsible
for the design and implementation of the proposed project, while another, the
Pusan Container Terminal Operating Company (PCTOC) is responsible for operat-
ing the existing container terminal facilities. PDMPA performs a largely
supervisory and coordinating role over the operations of these and several
other similar companies which operate other port facilities. Private
operating companies are contracted directly by the ship agents for loading and
unloading operations. It has not yet been decided if PCTOC will manage the
new container pier to be built under the proposed project or if a separate
operating company will be established. KMPA would carry out a study under a
Plan of Action (para. 45) to compare the relative merits of the various
alternatives for managing the proposed terminal in accordance with terms of
reference and a time schedule to be agreed with the Bank.
42.       Several alternative expansion plans for Pusan port have been studied
since all suitable sites within the inner harbor are already fully utilized.
Since Pusan already handles most of the national container traffic, the
expansion of container facilities should be concentrated there by developing
the outer harbor area. The selected site for the new container terminal is



- 12 -
relatively costly to develop because it is outside the existing protected
inner harbor area and new breakwaters are, therefore, required. However, the
site offers scope for port expansion in the future and will help maintain the
attractiveness of Pusan as a hub container port in the pacific rim area. The
proposed project will require updating of the Pusan Port Master Plan to
determine optimal port utilization. KMPA has agreed that the port's Master
Plan would be updated according to terms of reference and timing to be agreed
with the Bank.
Inland Container Handling Operations
43.       Korea's export-oriented economy is heavily dependent on container
traffic, which has grown from 384,000 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEU) in
1976 to 1,155,000 TEU in 1984. The traffic is quite unbalanced; in 1984,
13.6 million tons were exported in containers compared with 6.25 million tons
imported. Container handling operations in Korea are generally effective and
relatively economic, especially in the loading and discharge of container
ships. Most container storage, stuffing and stripping in Pusan is done in 32
off-dock CYs which have more than one million sq m storage area and contribute
to serious traffic congestion in the city while PCTOC's on-dock CY and
container freight station (CFS) are used at about 25Z of capacity. Also,
containers shipped on non-Korean vessels are not allowed to be stored in
PCTOC's on-dock CYs for customs clearance purposes, and have to be moved to
off-dock CYs. Much remains to be done to improve the rules and services
offered by PCTOC in regard to container storage, stuffing and stripping
facilities to keep more of this traffic in Pusan Port, and these improvements
would be the subject of study under a Plan of Action (para. 45).
44.       Inland transportation is well developed, and highways are the main
means used to distribute containers inland. About 70Z of the total container
traffic through Pusan has other destinations, including Seoul area where 40Z
of the traffic is bound. The railway (KNR) has recently opened a "dry port"
container terminal at Pugok near Seoul, but so far only about 22Z of the
Seoul-Pusan traffic moves by rail, which should be the least costly mode.
This underutilization of the railway has resulted in unnecessarily high inland
transport costs to shippers, adds to traffic congestion and puts pressure on
MOC to expand the highway network.
45.       To improve the capacity of existing container facilities, plan for
the organization and management of the proposed new facilities, and expand the
role of the railways as a more economic mode to handle containers over long
distances, the Government has agreed to a Plan of Action for the Improvement
of Korea's Inland Container Handling Operations which is to be implemented as
part of the project. The Plan would provide for planning and taking action in
several areas including measures to improve container throughput prior to the
availability of the new installations. Measures would be taken to improve
container rail service and frequency on the Seoul-Pusan line and to integrate
the operations of the Pugok rail terminal with the port container terminals.
Timely action would be taken to establish an organization to operate the new
outer harbor container terminal and to design and establish business oriented
arrangements to manage port and rail container services and market them to
users. The execution of the Plan would be supervised by a steering committee



- 13 -
composed of senior representatives of KMPA, KNR and the City of Pusan and
chaired by a representative of the Ministry of Transportation. As part of the
above Plan, KMPA will have a study carried out for the consolidation of
Pusan's off-dock CYs in the proposed Dong Myung area next to the proposed
project site, in accordance with terms of reference and time schedule to be
agreed with the Bank; and KNR will have a study carried out to increase
throughput of container trains to accomodate traffic requirements by 1990 when
the outer port starts operations.
Previous Experience Under Bank-Assisted Projects
46.       The Bank has financed three projects in the ports subsector.  A
Project Performance Audit Report (No. 5756) was issued August 13, 1985 for the
first two projects which were financed by Loan 917-KO of June 23, 1973 for
$80 million and Loan 1401-KO of April 28, 1977 for $67 million. The projects
were completed satisfactorily. Lessons learned include the need for detailed
operating plans for facilities created under the projects and the need to
appreciate the difficulty of implementing major institutional changes. Action
Plans have been designed under the project to address these needs. KMPA's
progress in making institutional improvements and its financial performance
are dealt with in paras. 59-63. The ongoing Coal and Cement Distribution
Project, financed by Loan 2267-KO of April 29, 1983, provided about $21.6 mil-
lion to help improve the handling and distribution of coal at Inchon port.
Due to a redefinition of the project components to accommodate the declining
demand for coal imports, project implementation is slower than expected
earlier.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
47.       The project was appraised in October/November, 1985.  Negotiations
were held in Washington, D.C. April 14-17, 1986 with a Korean delegation led
by Mr. Uhm Rak Yong, Director, Economic Cooperation Division, Ministry of
Finance. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 6084-KO) is being distributed
separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project data are
provided in Annex III.
Objectives
48.       The objectives of the proposed project are to:
(a) provide installations and equipment in the Port of Pusan for
efficient handling of the import and export of container traffic;
(b) reduce congestion in the City of Pusan by providing sufficient
container stacking space in the port area and largely eliminate the
need for off-dock container storage;
(c) increase the efficiency of (i) existing and proposed port container
handling facilities and (ii) the inland container transportation
system, including better utilization of the railways and the Pugok



- 14 -
rail container terminal to be used as a "dry port" serving Seoul
area; and
(d) further improve KMPA's and PCTOC's management and financial control
over port activities and to strengthen port planning capability.
Project Scope and Description
49.       The proposed project would consist of the following major items:
(a)  Civil works including a breakwater, a 3-berth container terminal
together with ancillary facilities, and road and rail access to the
terminal;
(b)  Equipment for container handling as well as for improving railway
line capacity, and additional tracks at PCTOC's CY; and
(d)  Technical assistance to:
(i) train port planners and managers;
(ii) update the Master Plan for Pusan port;
(iii)  carry out studies to
a. improve container operations and utilization of the
existing CY and CFS,
b. plan, design and implement the road access to the
expressway,
c. relocate off-dock CYs in Pusan city to the proposed on-dock
CY,
d. improve container distribution systems throughout Korea,
and
e. define management organization and operating rules for the
proposed container terminal;
(iv) supervise civil works and erection of equipment; and
(v) study and implement measures to improve financial management in
KMPA and allied organizations, including the development of a
management information system and computerized accounting.
Cost Estimates and Financing
50.       The estimated total cost of the proposed project including physical
and price contingencies is $328 million equivalent. Of this, about 57Z or
$187 million equivalent, would be in foreign exchange. The project cost
estimates are based on completed detailed designs. Quantities were derived



- 15 -
from final engineering, and unit prices are based on current world market
prices for equipment to be imported. Physical contingencies are included at
52 of the base costs; price contingencies are based on foreign cost increases
of approximately 7.0X each year and local cost increases of 5Z in 1986 and
5.52 thereafter until completion of the project in 1990. The KNR component to
be financed from Loan 2600-KO is estimated at $4 million, including $3 million
in foreign exchange. The cost of the technical assistance and training
amounts to $4.2 million equivalent of which the foreign exchange component is
about $1.3 million. Consultants' assistance will be used for the operational
study, the updating of the Pusan Port Master plan and for construction
supervision. One hundred seventy man-months of consultant services will be
used. The balance of the technical assistance consists of training.
51.       The proposed Bank loan of $141 million would finance 452 of the
total project costs excluding taxes, or 432 of the gross costs of $328 mil-
lion. The balance foreign exchange costs of $8.5 million in start-up
construction work on the breakwater and $37.5 million, being part of the
contingencies would be financed by the Government. All local funds required
for the project would be provided by the Covernment. The financing plan was
reviewed during negotiations and the government contribution confirmed. The
Bank loan would be made to the Government and the proceeds would be onlent by
the Government to KMPA through a Subsidiary Loan Agreement at the same
interest and on the same terms as the Bank loan. The signing of a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement acceptable to the Bank is a condition of loan effectiveness.
Project Implementation, Procurement and Disbursement
52.       The project would be carried out by KMPA with the assistance of
consultants. KMPA executed the Second Port Project (Loan 1401-KO) which was
completed in 1983 utilizing its Pusan Port Construction Office (PPCO), which
is also directly responsible for this project. Supervision of construction
would also be carried out by PPCO with the assistance of local consultants and
a few foreign experts. The railway component would be implemented by KNR,
also with the assistance of consultants.
53.       Except for the initial contract for a reclaimed area to make
caissons for the breakwaters to be financed by the Government, for which local
bidding procedures would be used, all civil works and equipment would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Prequalification would be required for civil works
contracts. As in the past, the Office of Supply (OSROK) would manage the
procurement proce3s.
54.       Civil works procured through ICB would be grouped in three packages
according to type of equipment viz: South Breakwater ($59 million), North
Breakwater ($81 million), and the container terminal ($132.3). For bid evalu-
ation, Korean manufacturers would be allowed a margin of preference of 15Z of
CIF costs of competing imports or the relevant prevailing customs duties,
whichever is lower.
55.       Technical assistance would be provided to KMPA and PPCO for project
supervision, for the improvement of financial management and container opera-



- 16 -
tions, and for studies of traffic congestion in Pusan. Local consultants
would be utilized whenever qualified personnel are available, but it is
anticipated that some foreign experts would also be required. KMPA would
select consultants in accordance with Bank guidelines and submit draft terms
of reference and contracts for review by the Bank.
56.       Proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed against:  (a) 55%
of total expenditures for civil works excluding customs duties and taxes;
(b) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures for directly imported equipment;
(c) 100Z of local expenditures (ex-factory) for locally manufactured equipment
procured on the basis of ICB; (d) 100% of the cost of foreign consulting
services; and (e) 100% of the cost of overseas training.
57.       Disbursements for studies, overseas training and for equipment and
civil works contracts costing less than $1 million equivaLent each would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Documents supporting
the SOEs would not be submitted to the Bank but would be kept by KMPA and made
available for review by Bank supervision missions. Disbursements for con-
sulting services, civil works and equipment contracts costing more than
$1 million each would be fully documented. To facilitate disbursements, a
revolving fund would be established with an initial deposit of $10 million
equivalent, representing about 4 months of expected expenditures. Bank
disbursements are expected to be completed by December 1991, based on the
Project Implementation Schedule, with an allowance of one additional year for
delays and late disbursements. Any savings under the loan would be cancelled
unless otherwise agreed with the Bank.
Project Evaluation, Monitoring and Completion Report
58.       Evaluation and monitoring of construction work would be performed by
PPCO and consultants. Progress under each Action Plan would be monitored,
respectively,by KKPA's Finance Bureau and the Steering Committee chaired by
MOT's Transport Coordination Bureau. Progress reports would be prepared every
six months and submitted to the Bank within one month. Once a year, beginning
November 1986, a detailed review of the Action Plans would be held by all
parties concerned, in cooperation with the Bank, to update targets as neces-
sary. A Project Completion report would be prepared by KHPA on the execution
and initial operation of the project.
Financial Performance
59.       KMPA's basic financial objective is to develop into a more commer-
cially oriented and efficient entity so as to keep recovering its costs,
including servicing its debt and earning a reasonable overall rate of
return.  KMPA has largely attained this objective and in doing    has complied
with the major undertakings in Bank loan agreements regarding commercial
accounting, periodic fixed assets revaluation, earning the required rate of
return on net fixed assets in use, and the establishment of well-run terminal
operating companies at certain ports. It was previously felt that an
autonomous KMPA could meet the financial objectives, but this is not the only
way. Hence, in response to a government request in 1985, the Bank agreed to a
provision requiring KMPA to have satisfactory commercial budgets, accounts and



- 17 -
records in place of its earlier obligation to vest KMPA with legal autonomy.
To implement the earlier obligation concerning autonomy, KMPA would have had
to be placed under the Commercial Budgeting and Accounting Law. Submission to
this Law would have prevented KMPA from receiving government contributions
even for the carrying out of its mandatory, nonrevenue-generating obliga-
tions. This would have seriously impaired KMPA's functioning, as the Covern-
ment has assigned it major responsibilities for maritime affairs and Second
Class Ports.
60.       The achievement of cost-based tariffs was one of the objectives of
the Second Port Project. KMPA conducted some studies and initial designs for
them but could not complete or implement them by the time of loan closing. In
retrospect, cost-based tariffs could not have been implemented without an
appropriate financial and cost accounting system first being developed in
KMPA.  Therefore, KMPA has designed an Action Plan for the improvement of its
financial and managerial functions, which provides for the achievement of this
and other objectives and will be implemented from 1986 to 1995.  However, port
tariffs are currently high enough to generate sufficient revenue for KMPA to
meet its rate of return target and notionally to also cover debt service and
contribute to investments. KMPA and PDMPA will maintain their target rates of
return of 5% and 7%, respectively, on net fixed assets in use.
61.       KMPA is operating in a rapidly changing, highly competitive, market
environment. Hence it intends to implement the above-mentioned Action Plan
which is fairly comprehensive in nature. Completion of this Action Plan would
help to fulfill its financial and managerial objectives as well as ensure full
compliance with loan obligations. It includes (a) computerizing the commer-
cial accounting system, (b) designing a cost accounting system and implemen-
ting it; and Cc) computerizing the port operations system as a first step to
introducing a comprehensive management information system. Each component was
designed to improve the capabilities of KMPA in specific areas, as well as to
develop KMPA as a more market-oriented institution which would be responsive
to changes in its economic environment. Implementation of the Action P'lan is
essential to the proper management of KMPA's resources and would help promote
its development into a more efficient organization.
62.       The Action Plan would first be implemented on a pilot basis at PCTOC
and would include: (i) restating PCTOC's books to reflect the full cost of
all assets in use at the terminal and the setting up of proper cost centers;
(ii) introducing a manual cost accounting procedure and subsequently compu-
terizing it; and (iii) developing a computerized management information
system. As the pilot program progresses, PCTOC management would be given
greater freedom to respond to changing market conditions in order to optimize
the use of its facilities. Once successfully implemented here, the pilot
program would be expanded to all other terminals at Pusan and then afterwards,
to all of KMPA. KMPA has agreed to the Action Plan to improve financial and
managerial functions.
63.       Port operations at Pusan have been profitable over the past few
years due to good cost control, increased productivity and significant growth
in the handling of the relatively more profitable cargoes. Forecasts show
that under the proposed project this trend will continue as project invest-



- 18 -
ments are concentrated in the more profitable port services, leading to
further growth in container cargo handling and overall port productivity.
Traffic at Pusan is assumed to grow by 7-8.5Z p.a. PDMPA's rates of return of
10-16Z p.a. will remain very satisfactory, its debt service ratio will be in
an acceptable range (1.6-2.8) and internally generated funds could readily
provide 38Z of investment needs.
Benefits and Risks
64.       Quantifiable benefits attributed to the proposed project are savings
in cargo handling costs, ship time and cargo time. Those benefits would
accrue to container traffic as well as to general cargo, but only the former
were taken into account. Other benefits would result from the reduction of
double-handling of containers through the existing piers. The benefits
attributable to cargo and ship waiting time would accrue both to cargo and
ship owners; the latter are likely to be passed on to cargo owners given the
strong competition among shipping companies. Therefore, it is expected that
most of the benefits would accrue to Korea.
65.       Quantifiable benefits give an overall economic rate of return for
the project of 35Z. The project remains well justified even with sizeable
variations in project costs and benefits. With a 15Z increase in costs the
ERR would be 31Z while a similar reduction in benefits would reduce the ERR
only marginally to 30X.
66.       The only risk involves possible delays in project completion if
there is a shortage in local currency. The Government has agreed that satis-
factory arrangements would be made to provide KMPA with the necessary funds.
It is unlikely that traffic will fall short of estimates, and it may instead
be higher. Maximum use of the project berths would thus be ensured at any
time.
Environment
67.       A substantial part of the proposed project would be built on lands
already used for port and industrial purposes but there would also be a
conversion of some undeveloped hills and shores near the harbor mouth into
port-related installations. In the interests of minimizing degradation of the
appearance of the harbor entrance, the contractors would not be permitted to
quarry stone (for the breakwaters and revetment) in this area.



- 19 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank, and I recommend that the Executive Directors approve
the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachment
Washington, D.C.
May 21, 1986



- 20 -                                          ANNEX I
"a  AH"ErPuBLIC             IAINICATOBS DATAm   (IOT_
toRl1 RtPU8LIC "IF                  Itlucl MimiP  rnIGiHTcD ^SAVac}S /a
NOST                    (t0ST RECENT ESTIHATS) $b
in6oLb     aiLo   ESTItATEI        ASIA * P4ctFIC         LAT. ACRICA & CAR
A    (THOUSAN  Q- M
TcrAL                               96.5       96.3        98.5
AGHICULTURAL                        20.4       21.2        22.1
Gm    caCrnP  CSS)                      ..         ..       20L0.0             1011.1                   1675.9
UT  MOUSNtO  -  CAS'TA
(KILOGRAMS or OIL EQulvALENT)      143.0      493.0      1104.0              5H.8                     993.6
POPULAnE An VITAL UATIUTICS
POPULATION.HID-YERA  (TNOUSIANDS)  25003.0    32241.0    39951.0
URA  POPULATION CR OP TOTAL)        27.?       41.1        62.5               13.9                    b1.7
POPULtATION FROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (HILL)                           50.5
STATIONAY POPULATION ('ILL)                              70.0
PwULATION MOEUHM                                          1.6
POLu.rTION DENSITY
PCR Sq. K.                       251.9      327.4       403.7             386.9                     4'.0
PER SQ. KM. AMRI. LAND          1223.Z   l367.3        1763.9             1591.2                     91.1
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (C)
0-14 YM                          42.9       42.0        31.5               38.2                     38.5
15-04 YRS                         53.7       54.6        64.2              57.7                      57.1
65 AND ABOVE                       3.3        1.2         4.2                3.5                      4.2
POPULATION GROWTH RArT (2)
TOTAL                              2.1        2.5         1.6                2.3                      2.4
URBAN                              4.7        6.4         4.4                4.1                      3.6
CRUDE BIRT  RATE (PER THOUS)        42.8       30.4        22.6               30.1                     30.9
CIUIE DEATH BATE (PER TROlS)        13.7        5.6         6.2               9.4                       8.0
GROSS BEPRODUCTION RATE              2.6        2.1         1.3                1.9                      2.0
FAMILY PLANNING
ACcEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUS)          ..       671.0
USERS CZ OF HARRIED WOMIN)         ..        25.0        58.0               56.5                     45.3
POOM AM wITMM
INDEX Gr FWoD PROD. PER CAPITA
(1969-71-100)                      69.0        99.0       L25.0              124.4                    109.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (I OF REQUIREMENTS)      68.0      101.0       126.0              113.7                    113.7
PROTEINS (GRAM PEA DAY)           51.0       62.0        63.0               60.3                     69.4
oF JHICN ANL'aL AND PULSE         7-0        8.0        14.0 /c            14.1                     34.2
CHILD (CAES 1-4) DEATH RATE          ?.I        4.9         2.0                7.2                      4.8
Q4LD
LIFE EXPECT. AT BIRTH (YEARS)       33.9       59.1        67.4              60.6                      64.8
INFANT mORT. RATE (PER TrOUS)       78.5       50.0        29.0              64.9                      59.7
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (XPOP)
rOTAL                             12.1       58.0        76.0 Id           6.0                      65.3
URBAS                             18.6       84.0        86.0 7;1           37.6                     76.5
RURAL                             9.5        38.0        61.0 71           37.1 34.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL
(C OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..        25.0       LOO.0 Id            50.1                     56.3
URBAN                              ..        59.0       1oo.o 7i            52.9                     73.4
RURAL                              ..         ..        100.0 7i           44.7                      25.5
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN          3540.0     2240.0      1440.0             7751.7                   1909.7
POP. PER NURSING PERSON           32Z0.0 I.f 1790.0 1f   350.0             2464.8                     608.2
POP. PER HOSPITAL BED
rOTAL                           2513.0     1950.0       960.0             1112.1                    362.0
URBS                            1260.0 /a  1LOO.O       750.0              651.4                    422.0
RUUAL                              ..         ..          ..              2596.9                   2716.7
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED         ..         L4.9         ..               41.1                      27.5
IOSlC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.6        5.2         4.5
URBA                               5.4        &.9         4.4
RURAL                              5.6        5.5         4.7
AVERSCE NO. OP PERSONSIROOM
TOTAL                              2.5        2.3
URBAN                              2.8        2.7
RURAL                              2.4        2.2
PERCENTACE Of WELLLNGS WITH ELECT.
TOTAL                             28.4       49.9
URBA                              67.3       92.4
RURAL                             12.4       29.9        64.9 7c



-21 -                                             ANNEX I
T A I    1-A                                       IMl L
1. IIIUl IC0t    - OCSAL 1IIt1S0     S   9 
IT                     (NO T RECgNT RITEUTR)
RICKNT           N DDLS UOIC             NIDOLCI 
*QL3t 1170a *RTINATRtk           ALlZA I PACIFIC          LAT. AMXICA & Ca
ADJISTR  NIMLUIUI RATIGI
P*UMARt   TOTAL                   94.0       103.0       100.0              100.7                    106.7
KALI                   99.0       104.0       102.0              104.4                     106.5
rINL                    19.0      103.0        99.0               97.2                     104.6
UCOlDARTe TOTAL                   37.0        &z.0       19.0                47.6                     44.2
HALE                    31.0       50.0        94.0               50.:                      42.7
FINAj                   14.0       32.0        65.0               44.6                      44.9
VOCTIOMAL (I OF SEcNAI)             14.2        14.3        16.1               11.4                     13.3
PUM-TRACUR RATIO
PREHZ                             56.0        57.0        42.0               30.4                     29.9
IROOHOAX?                         34.0        37.0        29.0               22.2                     16.7
PASS     C S /TNOUAND POP            0.5         1.9         6.5  d            10.1                     *6.0
RADIO   CIVCtlRS/THOUSANID PO       31.2       124.4       &32.2              172.9                    328.3
TV tU VR/TIIHOUUAND POP              0.3        13.0       174.1               51.5                    112.4
NSWUIPAU ("DAIL. CORBIAL
hTRSIT") CIRCILATION
Pu THOSAND POPUTIOU                68.2       136.3       192.3               65.3                     61.1
CUM  ANNUAL ATT9NDANCE/CAPITA        4.1         5.2         1.1                3.4                      2.4
UA VO IC
TOTAL LAOR FORCE lSIOUS)          S304.0    11285.0    16015.0
FINALZ (PERCOT)                   26.1        32.7        32.3               33.6                     23.6
ACUCULTU  (PERCENT)               66.0        50.0        34.0 /d            52.2                     31.4
INDUSTIt (P13CW!)                  9.0        17.0        29.0 7i            17.9                     24.3
PARTICIPATIOI RLATE (PERCNT)
TOTAL                             33.2        35.0        40.1               38.9                     33.5
KLE                               49.5        46.6        53.1               50.8                     51.3
FgNALK                            17.2        23.0        26.1               26.8                     15.9
ECOIIOlC ODIDEICNC  RATIO            1.4         1.3         0.9                1.1                       1.3
Irns DUIUTIzO
?IRDIT Of PRIVATE INCOo
RECEIVED Ir
IICLST 51 0o HOuDgOLDS              .         17.1        16.1 'I.
KI11EST 20S 0f HOUSEHOLDS          ..         44.         45.3 71            48.0
LOWeST 20S o0 HOSEHOLDS            ..          7.1         5.77j              6.4
LOnEST 40*O0F HOUSEHOLDS                      17.7        16 9               15.5
ESTIK5TED AS0LT POVERTY INCOSZ
LVL (US$ PER CAPITA)
ORB"N                              ..          ..        320.0 /h            ..                      288.3
RAL                                ..                    270.0 7ii          151.9                    183.3
STIATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVL (USS PR CAPITA)
URBAN                              .           .         370.0 lh           177.9                    519.8
RURAL                               .          ..        310.0 __           164.7                    359.7
ESTSIATED POP *BrEoV ASOLUTE
POVET  INCOM LEVEL (I)
URBIU                              ..           .         18.0 /h            23.5
RURAL                              1. ..                  110  79            37.8
HOT AVAULALE
NOT APnLCABLE
It O T 9 5
/a  The group averages or each indicator are populaclon-velhted aritimetic smono. Coverage of countries
ameng the LdLcaeorr dnpend. on avalablllty of data and La not uflfor .
lb   Unlae otherwise noted. "Data tor 1960" roter to any year between 1959 and 1961; "Date for 1970" betwee
1969 and 1971; and data for "'ost IPcent EatLaate" between 1981 and 1983.
/c   1977; /d 1960; /a 1962; If Ragioteredd  not all prattiaLg Ln the comotty;  LL 1976; Ih 1978.
JUN. 1986



ANNEX I
-  22 -                                       PAGE  3
OiviriMnonS OF SOCIAL I1DICATOES
Now Althousl thedam audrawn rrom ourcua geralyjudpde he momsauthotinatveandrrdaabbL it should also be noted thi they may mo be interaomally 
compaabi bmuse O the l*ee of standared dellmtin and eoneptt ued by differe countr  an collecung the damn. The data ae. nonethejas useui to
denbe ordi of magmiutd. amdint tends and daraten   n  major diarenmes btwen couninae.
I  The referen ap  re aI ) the ame country group of te subjet counwy and M1 a country roup wath somewhat hier averg mcome than the coun7ty
pitorodsesuhjt coury (examp for "High lnconweOti aEpoeus pup wher -Middk Incme Nonh Aimcasad.Middle East ischoen bcaue orsronwe
|eiocula rlmu. In ahe rellesme group dn tx thaver  am populuaon weiShted anthmetic --m {or ech indicator and shown only when majoriLy 
of tie come rlinma group ha daua fort ht tadicaotr Sanc th covengei of counes aong the indiectors depends on the avmilabthty ofdata and is no uniform.
caution rnmat be exeiund in relati averago dome indicator to noth er. The avera  are only umfultn companng the value  one indicator at a time among
the country and refernce roupe.
AREA (thousand sq.km.)                                            Crau  Kwh Rat (per thoassd)-N umber of live births in the year
renl-Total surface area compnsing land area and inland waters:    per thousand of mid-year population; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                         Cru  Deth Rate (per thasand)- Numbcr or deaths in the year
.Agrichtwrr-Estim ate of agricultural area used temporarily or    per thousand of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
peramanently for crops. pastures market and kitchen prdens or to  Gros Reprduwrim Ruse-Average number of daughters a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 and 1982 data.                             will bear in her normal reproductive period if she experiences
present age-specific fertility rates; usually five-year averages ending
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)-GNP per capita estimates at current         in 1960. 1970. and 1983.
market prices. calculated by same conversion method as World       .n4 Planni -AcceporsJ  Area. (trnhsandsj-Annual num-
Bank Atlas (1981-83 basts); 1933 data.                            ber of acceptors of bi rth-control devices under auspices of national
ENERGY CONSUMPTION  PER CAPITA-Annual apparent                    family planning program.
consumption of commerial pnrmary energy (coal and lignite.        FanCy PlanniW--Users (perewnt of terried mnisenD-The percen-
petroleum, natural gas and hydro-. nuclear and geothermal elec-  cage of married women of child-beanng age who are practicing or
trcitsy in kilograms of oil eqwvalent per capita: 1960. 1970. and  whose husbands are prcticing any form of contraception. Women
1982 data.                                                        of child-beanng age are generally women aged 1549. although for
some countries contraceptive usage is measured (or other age
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                   groups.
o.taledlatins.. M-Yer tthousands)-As of July 1 1960. 1970.        FOOD AND NUTRMON
and 1983 data.
index ofFeod Predactian Per Cpita (1969-71 - 100)-Index of per
Arban P eop.wan (perent of tors)-Ratio of urban to total    _capita annual production of all food commodi-tes. Production
population: different definitions of urban areas may affect compar-  excludes animal reed and seed ror agriculttre. Food commodities
ability of data among countres: 1960. 1970. and  983 data.        include primary commodities (e.g. sugarcane instead of sugar)
Popution Pojectioas                                               which are edible and contain nutrients (e.g. coffee and tea are
Popudation in rear LW00-The projection of population for 2000.    excludedl: they compnse cereals. root crops. pulses. oil seeds.
made for each economy separately. Starting with inforrnation on   vegetables. fruits. nuts. supgrane and supr beets. livestock. and
total population by age and sex. fertility rates, mortality rates. and  livestock products. Aggregate production of each country is based
international migration in the base year 1980. these parameters   on national aterage producer price weights. 1961-65. 1970. and
were projected at five-year intervals on the basis of generalized  1982 data.
assumptions until the population became stationary.               Per Capita Supply of Calories rpercent of eqwleients-Comput-
Stationary population-is one in which age- and sex-specific mor-  ed from calorie equivalent of net food supplies available in country
tality rates have not changed over a long period. while age-specific  per capita per day. Available supplies comprise domestic produc-
fenility rates have simultaneously remained at replacement level  tion. imports less exports. and changes in stock. Net supplies
Ine reproduction rate - II. In such a population. the birth rate is  cxclude animal feed. seeds for use in agriculture. quantities used in
constant and equal to the death rate. the agc structure is also   food processing. and losses in distribution. Requirements were
constant. and the growth rate is zero. The stationary population  estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for normal activity
size was estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperature. body weights.
the population in the year 2000. and the rate of decline of fertility  age and sex distnbution of pupulation. and allowing 10 percent for
rate to replacement level.                                        waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data.
Popidnaton Monrentrn-ls the tendency for population growth to     Per Cait Supply of Protei (gram per dayj-Protein  content of
continue beyond the time that replacement-level fertility has been  per capita net supply of food per day. Net supply of food is defined
achieved; that is. even after the net reproduction rate has reached  as above. Requirements for all countries established by USDA
unity. The momentum of a population in the year t is measured as  provide for minimum allowances of 60 grams of total protein per
a ratio of the ultimate stationary population to the populatton in  day and 20 grams of animal and pulse protein. of which 10 grams
the year t. given the assumption that fertility remains at replace-  shouid be animal protein. These standardsare lower than those of
ment level from year t onward. 1985 data.                         75 grams of total protein and 23 grams of animal protein as an
PouraiS& Dmsirty                                                  average for the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
Per sq.km.-Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hec-     Supply: 1961. 1970 and 1982 data
tares) of totlarea; 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                    Per Cpta ereinSupply Frone Amn    and Pse-Protein    supply
Per sq.km. agricultural land-Computed as above ror agncultural    of food derived from animals and pulses in grams per day: 196145.
land only. 1960. 1970. and 1982 data.                             1970 and 1977 data.
Populuin Age Sttorare (percent)-Children (0-14 years). work-      Cild (ages 1-4) Dearh Ruse (per rhousand-N urnber of deaths of
ing age (15-64 years). and retired (65 years and over as percentage  children aged 14 years per thousand children in the same age
of mid-year population: 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.                group in a given year. For most developing countries data derived
Populusioee Gre-rh Ruse (perceser)-rsal-Annual growth rates of    from life tables; 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
total mid-year population for 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-83.      HEALTH
Pop.lwio.  Grwth late (percesr.-whlan-Annual growth rates         Life Erpectancy at  rt (yearn-Number of years a newborn
of urban population for 1950-60, 1960-70. and 1970-83 data.       infant would live if prevailing patterns of mortality for all people



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                        PACE 4
at the time of of its birth wer to stay the mne throughout its life;  Papd-ither Ratio - primay. and secondary-Total students en-
1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                    rolled in prmnary and secondary leels divided by numben of
1.1fw M,afi Roi  (pff thousuud)-Number of infants who die    teache  in the correponding leves.
before reaching on year of ae per thousand ive births in a given
yew. 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.                                CONSUMPTION
Aaes te Si W/Mw  (puny4 .of -                  Win   di        aeqr Con (pr uommud pep.laies)-Passenger can comn
Nud-Nmber of people (totL urban   d rural) with ttaaonable    pris motor carn seating les than eight persons. excludes ambul-
acoe  to safe waer supply (include treat  suwbhce waters or  ances. heas and militq vehices.
untread but ucontuIned wat  sush a that frorn pfoieted        Rmdf Recerm (per thoesadp.puhleuin-AI types of receives
bomebole. sp       and sanity wels)  percentas of their respec.  for radio broadcasts to general public per thomund of population:
tive populaton  [I an urbn a   a publc tountain or sWuDpos   exclud  un-licesed rece *er in countries ano in years when
located not moe w thn 200 melen from a house may he cosdered  registration of radio se was in effect; data for recent years may
us beg within resonable a     of that house. In rl aear      not be comparable since most countries abolished licsing.
resonable ame would imply that the howife or members of the
houselhold do not have to pend a disproporionate part of the day  TVYReed"" (pr thou. dpop_su)-Ty raceiven for broadcat
in fetching the famils water needs                           to generd public per thousnd population excludes unliesed TV
Ance  to EUt Dis p       ercxw-osal ( ut    _                receivers in countries and in year when registration of TV ss was
ad ru-al-Number of people (total. urban and nmral) served by  in effect
excreta disposl as percentas or their respective populations.  Maksiupw CIealtim (Po uhus   Jpep.isdonu-Shows the aver-
Excreta disposl may include the collection and disposaL with or  age cirulation of -dady general interest newspaper." defined as a
without treatment, of human eacrta and waste-water by water-  periodica publication devoted prmualy to renording general news
borne systms or the use of pit privies and similar installations.  It is considered to be -daily if it appears at least tour times a week.
Popaht. per Physulcia.-opulation divided by number of prnc-   Caim  Anmu Ane_awe per Coke per Yer-Based on the
tising physicians qualified From a metical school at university level.  number of tickets sold during the year. including admissions to
puuion pr NuAu  PersowIV1tmPopulation divided by number of    drive-in cinema and mobile units
practicing male and female graduate nurss. assistant nurse.      OR FORCE
practical nurses and nursing auxilianes.                        LABOR  RCE
totaL urbp  and nupal) divided by taeir rpive number of       cluding a_ned forces and unemployed but excluding houswive
total.budsbavan bein prbul  and priv atei teir respecive an e  students. etc... covering population of all agoes. Definitions in
hospital and rebhabilition center. Hospitals are establishments  various countries are not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 data.
permanenttly staffed by at leat one physician. Establishments prov-  FeUNk (percewi-Fanale labor force as percentage of total labor
iding principally custodial care are not included. Rural hospitals.    force.
however. include health and medical centers not permanently staffed  Agvicuu- (pe'centj-Labor force in tanning. forestry. hunting
by a physician (but by a medical assistant. nurse, midwife. etc.)  and fishing as percentage of total labor force. 1960. 1970 and 1980
which offer in-patient accommodation and provide a lirited range  data.
uf medical facilities.                                       Induriy (perceorJ-Labor force in mining, construction. manu-
AAvdssios per Hospital Re-Total number of admissions to or    facturing and eectricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor
dischae  from hospitals divided by the number of beds.        force: 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
fwri4puton Rus (Pperivarc--tuvd m_k. m0feaie-4Participation
HOUSING                                                      or activity rates are computed as total. male. and female labor force
Aperage .9te of Houshod (pmous per hoN hod)- t o. -rbaa,     as percentages of totaL male and female population of all ages
td,wal-A household consists of a group of individuals who share  respectively 1960. 1970. and 1983 data. These are based on ILOs
living quarters and their main mcals. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rates reflecting age-sex structure ofthe population, and
may not be included in the household for statistical purposes.  long time trend. A few estimates are from national soures.
Aer&V Number of Pers  per Roem--,terl. urhae, r.in w&-        Economk DepenAey Rafed-Ratio of population under IS. and
Average number of persons per room in all urban. and rural    65 and over. to the working age population (those aged 1 5-64).
occupied conventicnal dwelings. respectively. Dwellinp exclude
non-permanent structures and unoccupied parts.               INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Percee of Dwellns *wi Ewiciy-romal urben, and ru-al-          Peente of Toga( Dipsabk Ilconse (bosh is cas im  kind)-
Conventional dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percentile groups of households rmnked by total house-
tage of total, urban. and riral dwellings respectively.       hold income.
EDUCATION                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
A4umud Ewiamnw Raos                                          The following estimates are very approximate measures of poverty
Primry shool - toata. mlk and fane--Gross total. male and    levels, and should be interpreted with considerable caution.
female enrollment of all ages at the primary level as percentages of  Esimted A bsout Porty Income Level f1U5Sper ca)piar-imr
respective prinary school-age populations. While many countries  Wd rwal-Absolute poverty income level is that income kvel
consider primary school age to be 6-Il years others do not. The  below which a minmmal nutritionaUv adequate diet plus essential
differences in country praices in the ages and duration of school  non-food requirements is not affordable.
are reflected in the ratios given. For some countries with universal  Esmaed Relire Pmrry lfucan  Lee (V/S per capiuai-rboon
education. gross enrollment may exceed 1W percent since some  ad ruar-Rural relative poverty income level is one-third of
pupils are below or abov: the country's standard primary-school  average per capita personal income of the country. Urban levl is
age.                                                          derived from the rural levd with adjustment for higher cost of
Secodary swhool - total. mce and fenmal-Computed as above;    living in urban areas.
secondary education requim  at last four years of approved pn-  Esnatd Ppuao. Beow Absohue Abwerty lInemw Lee (per
mary insruction provides gneral, vocational. or teacher training  cet)-uba  and rkul- Percent of population turban and rural
instructions for pupils usualy of 12 to 17 years of age corrspond-  who are -absolute poor.
ence courses are genally excluded.
Vocatiosal Ewolni (pece  of secondari)-Vocational insfitu-              Comparative Analysis and Data Division
tions incude technicaL industraL or other progrmas which operate     Economic Analysis and Projections Department
independently or at depanments of seondary institutions                               June 1985



-24-                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~ANNEXL
- 24 -                                                 PACE 5
Population        39,958 (1983. thousands) /a
CNP per capita:  USS2,010 (1983) /a
KOREA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Amomnt
(milLion US$ at                          Annual growth rates (2)
current prices)                    Actual                    Estimated    PrujIcted
Indicator                                       1984            1981      1982     1983      1984/a        1985         199o
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domeatic product /a                   81,075             6.9       5.5      9.5       7.9           7.3           7.5
AgrIcutlture                              11,285            24.5      4.1       6.3       0.4          3.5           3.5
Industry                                  33,166             5.0      6.8      13.1      10.9          10.0         10.0
Services                                  36,623             3.1      4.9       7.4       7.0           6.5          6.5
Consumptlon                                 58,828             3.2       4.1      6.3       5.1           5.3           7.8
Gross inveNtoent                            24,308             2.2      13.1     13.7      12.4          11.2           7.6
Exports of GNFS                             31,194            17.0       6.9     13.8       7.9          11.3          8.3
Impurts of GNFS                             30,977             7.6       3.2     11.1       6.7          10.1          8.6
Gross national savings                       25,101           17.8      10.7     17.9      13.6          13.0           7.0
PrIces
GDP deflator (1980 - 100)                                    1.15    1.241    1.275    1.330           1.375        1.624
Fxcchange rate (US$1 " W    )                                681.0    731.1    775.8    806.0            n.a.         n.a.
Export price index (i980   100)                              103.0     99.2      96.4      98.1         97.6         142.7
Import price Index (1980 - 100)                              104.0     98.7      94.4     94.4          96.6         141.1
Terms of trade index (1980 - 100)                             97.9    102.2    103.1    105.1           101.0        101.2
Share of GDP market prices (1)                      Average annual increase (2)
(at current prices)                            (at constant 1972 prices)
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985    1990   1960-70   1970-75   1975-80   1980-85   1985-90
Groas domestic product   100.J   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0         8.6        9.8       8.2        7.0       7.5
Agricultuee              36.7    26.9    24.5    16.5    13.6    11.3        4.3        4.9      -1.2        7.3       3.5
Industry                 20.1    29.5    33.8    41.3    34.6    38.8    17.4         15.3       13.5        8.5      10.0
Services                 43.2    43.6    41.7    42.3    42.7    40.8        8.1        7.7       7.6        6.7       6.5
Consumption                85.3    83.0    80.1    76.4    72.1    69.8        6.7        7.8       7.1        5.7       S.2
Gruss Investment            11.0    26.9    29.0    30.2    28.8    30.9    23.6         11.2      14.6        6.0       8.9
Impurts of GNFS             3.4    14.3    27.6    35.7    41.1    43.6    29.3         25.4       16.1        9.8       8.5
Exports of GNFS            12.8    24.1    36.3    42.7    40.2    42.9    20.'          15.8      17.0        6.8       8.3
Gross natLonal savings      8.o    19.5    20.6    21.7    27.2    29.7    17.2          14.6       9.0       12.7       9.5
As Z of GDP
1960    1970    1975    1980    1985            Labor force in 1984        Miltione       2
PUBLIC FINANCE (exclud-
ing local governments)                                                           Agrictilture                   3.9        26.0
Current revenue                18.5    17.8    17.9    19.9    19.7            Industry                       3.5       23.3
Current expenditure            14.3    13.1    15.4    15.6    16.3            Services                       7.0       46.7
Current surplus                4.2      4.7     2.5      4.3     3.4           Unemployed                     0.6        4.0
CapitaI expenditure             3.4     6.4     6.4      5.9     2.6
Foreign ftnancing               -       1.0      1.3     1.0     0.1                Total Labor Force        15.0      100.0
1960-70        197C-75         1975-80         1980-85         1985-90
OTHER INDICATORS
Annual GNP growth rate (2)                              8.7            9.0              7.9             7.0             7.5
Annual GNP per capita growth rate (Z)                   5.9            6.9              5.2             5.5            5.9
Annual eneray corsumption growth rate (Z)              14.2            9.6             8.7              5.7             5.4
ICOR                                                    1.9            2.7              5.4             4.2            4.0
Marginal savings ratc                                   0.1            0.3             0.3              0.3            0.35
Impurt elasticity                                       2.2             1.6             2.0             1.2            1.11
/a Preliminary.
East AsIa and Pacific Regional Office
July 1985



ANNEX I
- 25-                                                    !AGE 6
Population    1  39,958 (19831  thousand4a) l
cGP per capita: US$2,010 (1933) /s
KOREA - BALANCI O  PAYMBNTS, W1ICENAL CAPUTAL AN) DL?T
(MIllion US$ at current prices)
Actual                           Eatlted  Projected
Indicator                                      1970- 197S    1980    1961    1902    1983   194Sr         1985        1990
BALANCE O7 PAYMENTS
Exports of goods and servlces                1.379   5,Nb4  22,577  27,269  28,356  30.383  33,627   38.900        83.W00
0f whichs Nhrchandiue f.o.b.                 8H2   5.003  17,214  20.671  20.879  23.204  26,280   30,700        71,900
Imports of goods and wsarvicts               2.182   7,997  28.347  32.416  31,504  32,581  35,516   40,500        85,W00
Of whicht  Merchandlue f.o.b.              1,804   6.674  21,598  24.299  234714  24,967  27.369   31.600        72,400
Hot tranaters                                  180     227      449     501     *99      592     526      600         600
Current Account Balance                       -623  -1,887  -5,321  -4,646  -2.650  -1,606  -1.362   -1,000        -1.300
(2 of GN?)                                 (-7.1)  (-9.0)  (-8.7)  (-6.9)  (-3.7)  (-2.1)  (-1.7)   (-1.5)        (-1.4)
Direct invastant                                66      53      -5       59     100   101.4      170      200         500
MLT loan (net)                                 242   1.252   2,096   4,267   2,051   1,132   3,300    3,000           900
Official                                     147     486     689   1,337      380     361      700      800         660
Private                                       95     765   1,408   2,929   1,171      471   2,600    2,200          240
Other capital (including errors
and oeas ionj)                               372     929   1,770      367     484    -975  -1,000      -900         300
Chennge In Raserwas (gross)                    -57    -494    -863    -316      -96       77   -740   -1,800       -3,300
Inter,,ational Reaerv e (gross)                610   1.550   6,354   6,870   6,966   6,889   7,630    9,400        21,600
Reserves As months' Imports                    3.4     2.3      2.3     2.5     2.7      2.5     2.6       Z.8        3.0
ErXTERAL CAPITAL AND DEBT
Cross Disburements
Offitcti  grants                               -       -       -        -      50            -        -               -
Concesaional loans                           123     123      138     159     148   203.3      150      150         200
DAC                                        12Z     108     121      358     148   203.3 3     50 IO5              200
OPEC                                         -       -       17       1
IDA                                          2      14       -       -        -       _        _        _           _
Other                                        -       I       -       -        -       -        -        -           -
Nonconcesaional loans                        317   1,511   3,655   4.779   3,937   3.Z30   5.100    4,700         6.000
Official exports credit                     18     151     606     644      532     500      750      700       1.000
I RD                                         7     187     254     306      438     384     400       450         600
Other multi lateral                          5      87      90      104     116     188      200      200         200
Private - source (residual)                287   1,083   2,705   3,525   2.851   2,158   3,750    3,350         4,200
M_dIu_- and Long-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed             1,797   5,540  16,Z74  19,964  22.006  28,170  29,800   32,800        40,400
official - source                          613   2,657   6,498   7,702   8.572   9,876  10,000   10,800        14,600
Private- source                          1.185   2,8113   9,776  12,263  13,433  18,294  19.800   22.000       25.800
Undiebursed debt                             902   1,679   7,072   5.996   5,324   4,298   5,980    5,960         4,400
Debt Service on 1LT Loans
Total service payments                       268     667   2,762   3,597   4,199   4,657   4,840    5,200         8,700
Itterest                                    70     283   1,310   i,777   2,164   2,187   1,980    2.300         3,400
Payments as t of exports                    19.4    11.3    12.2    13.2    14.8    15.3    14.4       13.4        10.4
Short-Term Debt
Debt outstanding and disbursed                 -   2,409  10,047  13,658  14,100  11,940  11,500   11,000        13,000
Interest payments                              -       -     907   1,810   1,528   1,169   1,150    1,100         1,300
Interest as S of exports                       -       -     4.0     6.7      5.4     3.8      3.4      2.8         1.6
Average Interest Rate on New Loans (2)
Official                                     4.5     7.9     7.5    8.4       8.0    10.9    10.9      10.9        10.9
Private                                      7.1     9,3    14.0    13.6    13.7    11.7    11.7       11,7        11.7
Average Maturit, on New Loans (year)
Official                                    28.0    19,3    19.6    15.3    15.5    16.4    15.0       15.0        15.0
Private                                     10.9     5.7    11.2    13.1      8.1    11.8      8.0      9.0         9.0
As S of debt outstanding
at end of most recent year (1982)
Oaturity structure of debt outstanding
Maturities due within 5 years                                                 53.4
MAturities due within 10 years                                                73.1
Interest structure of debt outstanding
Interest due vithin first year                                                 8.7
/a  Preliminary.
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
July 1985



ANMX It
Page 1 of 2
- 26 -
KOREA
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE REPIIhLIC OF KOREA /a
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of March 31, 19R6)
Loan or                                                                                    Amount (S million)
Credit      Calendar                                                                     (less cancellations)
Nutmber       Teair         Rorrower                Purpose                      Rank       TW      InA    Undlisbursed
Fifty-eight loans and eight credits fully disbursed                            3,6f2.46   4n.no   115.58
1676          1979     Republic of Korea   Electronics Technology                 24.n                            2.97
1774          1979     Republic of Korea   Population I                           mn.0                           17.67
1980         1981      Republic of Korea   Nat. Urhan Land & Housing              75.3                            4.29
20n4          1981     SMIk                  SMIR IV                              60.n                            0.01
2072          1982     Republic of Korea   Water Supply                           R4.n                            4.30
2112          1982     XTDC                  Technology Development               49.1                             3.87
2144          19R2     CNB                   CNB TI                               2P.4                            0.26
2215          19R2     Republic of Korea   Machinery Industry                     70.n                           43.22
2216          1982     Republic of Korea   Nat. Urban Land and Housing           IOf. n                           25.07
2228          1982     Republic of Korea   Provincial and County Roads           125.n                           31.60
2267          19R3     Republic of Korea   Coal and Cement Distribution           65.5                            34.62
2309          19f8     Republic of Korea   Industrial Finance                    255.n                           60.65
2350          1983     Republic of Kaorea   Second Water Supply                   78.5                           42.60
2388          1984     Repuhlic of Korea   Jeonju Regional Development            57.9                            51.66
2392          1qR4     Republic of Korea   Highway Sector                        23f0.n                          153.15
2427          1984     Republic of Korea   Education Sector                      1nn.n                           93.46
22473         1984     KTDC                  Second Technology Development        5n0n                           37. 1
2491          1985     Republic of Korea   Water Supply                           95.0                           84.01
2514          1985     S?K                   llrban Transportatton                53.0                           40.00
251i          1985     SMIPC                 Small/Medium Industry               111.0                           111.00/h
254q          1985     Republic of Korea   Fourth Agricultural Credit             25.n                            1402?
2571          1985     Republic of Korea   Second Industrial Finance             222.0                          206.2n
26nn          1985     Republic of Xorea   Seoul-kusan Corridor                   67.0                           6n.98
2615          1985     Republic of Korea   Fourth Water Supply                    3R.n                            M8.0n
2671          19R6     KEPCn                 Second Power                        23n.0                          210.n00c
Total                                                            5,956.16   4n.nn   115.58    1,4nn.An
of which has been repaid                                        ,n099.87    5.7R     8.82
Total now otutstanding                                           4,856.24   34.72   106.76
Amount sold                    19.4q
of which has been repaid   8.83                                   In.66     -         -
Total now held by Bank and IDA
(prior to exchange adjustment)                                4,845.63   34.72   1n6.78
Total undisbursed                                                1,40n.40      -        -         ,4nn.4n
/a  The status of the projects listed in Part A are descrihed in a separate report on all Bank/TDA-financed
projects in execution, which ts updated twice yearly and circulated to the Fxecutive nirectors on April 3n
and October 31.
/b  Approved on April 16, 1R5 hut not vet sitned.
/c  Approved on March 27, 19Rh but not yet signed.



ANNEX II
-27 -                                 Pag  2 of 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of March 31, 1986)
Fiscal                                                        Amount ($ million)
Year        Obligor            Types of Business             Loan  Equity Total
1968     KLB (KDFC)             Development Flnanclg           -     0.7    0.7
1969     Honam Silk Co.         Textiles                       1.4    0.3    1.7
1970     Atlas Paper            Pulp and paper                 4.5    0.5    5.0/a
1971     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -       0.7    0.7
1974     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing           -     0.4    0.4
1974     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -       0.3    0.3
1975     Cold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            16.0    1.3   17.3
1975     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development   5.0    0.6    5.6
1975     Tong Yang Nylon
Company, Ltd.        Synthetic Fibers              6.9    2.1    9.0
1975     Rae Un Dae Develop-
ment Company Ltd.   Tourism                        2.8    0.7    3.5
1976     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.        Capital Market Development    -       0.4    0.4
1976     Chonju Paper Mfg. Co. Paper                           5.0    0.8    5.8
1976     Korea Zinc. Co. Ltd.  Zinc                           15.0    4.0   19.0
1976     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing         17.8     -    17.8
1976     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products            10.0    0.4   10.4
1977     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -     0.2    0.2
1977     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing           -     0.3    0.3
1977     Korea Securities
Finance Corp.        Capital Market                 -      0.5    0.5
1977     Korea Development
Leasing Corp.        Capital Market               15.0    0.4   15.4
1978     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing          -      1.1    1.1
1979     Gold Star a Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -     1.7    1.7
1979     KIFC                   Capital Market                  -     0.6    0.6
1979     Korea Development
Leasing Corp                                        -      0.2    0.2
1979     Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products             -      1.5    1.5
1980/
84/85   Gold Star & Co. Ltd.  Electronic Products              -     6.9    6.9
1980     Korea Investment
Finance Corp.       Capital Marke.t                 -      0.6    0.6
1980/    Korea Securities
82/84     Finance Corp.                                        -     2.3    2.3
1980     KLB (KDFC)             Development Financing          -      2.2    2.2
1981     Taihan Bulk Terminal
Co. Ltd.             Grain Port Terminal           7.0    2.5    9.5
1982/85  KIFC                   Capital Market                 -      1.1    1.1
1982     K-TAC (Korea Technology
Advancement Corp.)  Research & Development          -      0.6    0.6
1983/85  KDIC                   Money & Capital Market         -      5.9    5.9
1984     Halla Cement           Cement Const. Material        4.3    3.9    8.2
1985     Korea Fund             Money & Capital Market         -      9.1    9.1
Total gross commitment                             110.7   54.8  165.5
less cancellations, terminations
repayment and sales                              104.9   19.6  124.5
Total commitments now held by IFC                    5.8   35.2   41.0
TOTAL undisbursed                                     -      4.8    4.8



ANNEX III
-28-                              Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare
the project                                    24 months
(b)  The project was prepared by                 :   KMPA and the Bank
(c)  Date of first presentation to the Bank    :   May 1985
(d)  'Date of first mission to consider
the project                                      February 1985
(e)  Appraisal mission                           :   November 1985
(f)  Completion of negotiations                  :   April 1986
(g)  Planned loan effectiveness                  :    July 1986
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Implementation of two Action Plans (paras. 45 and 62);
(b)  A detailed review would be undertaken annually starting in November
1986 to monitor progress in implementing the Action Plans, with a
view to updating targets as necessary (para. 58);
(c)  KMPA will:
li) carry out the training program for port master planners
according to an agreed time schedule (para. 38);
(ii) have a study carried out to compare the merits of the various
alternatives for managing the proposed terminal in accordance
with terms of reference and time schedule to be agreed with the
Bank (para. 41);



29;  -                              ANNEX III
-~ 29 ~Page 2
(iii)  carry out a study to update the Master Plan for Pusan port
(para. 42);
(iv)  have a study carried out for the consolidation of Pusan's off-
dock CYs in the proposed on-dock area next to the proposed
project site in accordance with terms of reference and time
schedule to be agreed with the Bank (para. 45); and
(v) ensure that KMPA and PDMPA maintain a 5% and 7% rate of return,
respectively, on net fixed assets in use (para. 60).
(d) KNR will:
ti} have a study carried out to increase throughput of container
trains to accommodate traffic requirements by 1990 when the
outer port starts to operate (para. 45).



IBRD 1953S
U.S.S.R.               DEM.  PEOPLES                                  tlD
CHINA       J                          REP. OF  KOREA                                | \
zonA. PEOPbIE'S                                               K hKeril
/ REP. OF KOREA                                J         J/ t                 |
Pi 1- .z KOwRA                                       ,Cnn\
cl  -1 .OtI                             ft       I         / . *-'N /A         t
JAPAN                                                        3I
Y I.
_______                 _   1               _      -       S       -                                   1,_ 
- r. - -                                                       ta-a                             .' Chcagm*r    '''
~~@  ~- ~      ~        ~                 {_I  A    \  -7. Yoju>                  ~       ~)o        \  ,
V...
a                                             ) 'i   S  \   E         po,,,     }  ;-      eX   - ir;o C
__---S                                 ' \  It       t     t   'f   '' k aa                             l
/l AAdonq
__-S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I                                                               Polw.g g -
36       Cn.On ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r, ()                                      K)        -  *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ 3-
o                                                              K     Ion g 1a mm
_>,- r'
POw                                  RASOR NTWR
Chwo~~~~~~~~~~~ - -  uc  Eirno Td                                SgeTokRiw
--Q     
O~~~~~~~ BO
2~~~~~~~~~jj~~~~~~op
MakM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ d
REPUBLIC OF KOREA
TRANSPORT NETWORK
-   -4ms h resway (Tall)         - Dual Track Raiwoys         3e
-3d,  ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~*. 2-lane Expressoay (Toil)                                    Single Trock Railways
Primary Ras---Dual Track Railways (Elertrified)
K MMETMR                                                                                      Single Track Railways (Erectrified)
0                     so
t    Airpor
 ChM. ES                            Ch,j                                            .-   Pris
Special Cities
k m ca _ancd Boundaries
12d6                                                 128r
FEBRUARY 1956



