Dockauet of
The World Bank
FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12277
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2726-KO)
AUGUST 24, 1993
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No: 12277
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
East Asiar and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     = Won (W)
US$ 1.00 (SAR)    = W 900 (as of April 1986)
US$ 1.00          = W 778 (as of September 1992)
US$ 0.001         = W 1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1-December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                = 3.2808 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)           = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)  = 0.3861 square miles (sq.mi)
1 hectare (ha)      =  0.01 km2   =  2.4711 acres (ac)
1 kilogram (kg)            = 2.2046 pounds (lbs)
1 metric ton (m ton)       = 1,000 kilograms (kg)
or 2,240 pounds (lbs)
1 revenue ton (rt)         = on average approximately
600 kg or 1322.4 lb.
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ADB       - Asian Development Bank
CFS       -  Container Freight Station
CY        -  Container Yard
DMPA      - District Maritime and Port Authority
EIRR      -  Economic Internal Rate of Return
EPB       - Economic Planning Board
GNP       - Gross National Product
GOK       - Government of Korea
GRP       - Gross Regional Product
ICB       -  International Competitive Bidding
ICD       -  Inland Container Depot
KCTA      - Korea Container Terminal Authority
KMI       -  Korea Maritime Institute
KMPA      -  Korean Maritime and Port Administration
KNR       -  Korean National Railroad
MIS       - Management Information Systems
MOT       - Ministry of Transportation
ODCY      - Off-Dock Container Yard
PCTOC     -  Pusan Container Terminal Operating Company
PDMPA     -  Pusan District Maritime and Port Authority
PECT      -  Pusan East Container Terminal
PPCO      -  Pusan Port Construction Office
SAR       -  Staff Appraisal Report
TEU       - Twenty Foot Container Equivalent Unit



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Directort-Genral
Operations Evaluation
August 24, 1993
MEPORMADUN TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRE .TORS AND T-E PRESIDENT
SUBJECTs    Project Completion Report on Korea
Pusan Port Prolect (Loan 2726-KO)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Korea -- Pusan Port
Project (Loan 2726-R0)" prepared by the East Asia and Pacific Region. Part II
contains the Borrower's comments. Loan 2260-KO (US$141 million equivalent of
June 1986) was to help increase efficiency of container handling operations in
the Pusan-Seoul Corridor. This would be accomplished through a port project
planned for completion by end-1990. Shortly after the Loan became effective,
Government said it preferred to use its own funds and requested cancellation of
most of the technical assistance component included in the Loan; this led to the
cancellation of US$6.5 million on October 29, 1986.
Except for problems with land acquisition, which resulted in one
year's delay in project completion, implementation proceeded smoothly.
Installations and equipment for efficient handling of containers in the Port of
Pusan were procured. Congestion in the city of Pusan was reduced considerably
through the provision of sufficient stacking space in the port area, thereby
eliminating the need for off-dock container storage.   The inland container
transportation system has been improved, including the utilization of railroad
facilities. Management and financial control over port activities has been
further  improved.   Overall the project  is  rated  as  satisfactory,  Its
sustainability as likely, and its institutional impact as substantial.
The PCR is comprehensive and summarizes adequately the experience
gained from project inception to completion. No audit is planned.
This docuLent has a restricted distributifn and may be used by recipfents only In the performnce -
thefr offiefal dutfes. Its cwontnts may not otherwise be disclosed without wortd Bank authorfzatfon.



KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2726-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents                    Page
Preface  ............................................    i
Evaluaticn Summary ...................................   ii
PART I:   BANK'S REVIEW
1. Summary Project Data   ......................    1
2. Background and Sectoral Information .... .....    1
3. Previous Bank Involvement  ....         ..............    4
4. Follow-on Initiatives  ......................    5
5. The Project  ................................    6
6. Project Implementation .....................    8
7. Project Results and Lessons Learned .... .....  12
8. Sustainability/Remaining Issues  ....        ........   18
9. Bank Performance  .......       ....................   18
10.Borrower Performance  .......................   18
11.Project Relationships               .       .         19
12.Project Documentation and Data   .... ........   20
PART II:  BORROWER' S EVALUATION
A. Conditions Leading to the Project  .... ......  21
B. Main Findings and Lessons learned ..........   21
C. Summary of Bank Role and Performance  .......   22
D. Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance ....   22
E. Remaining Issues  ...........................   22
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION: TABLES
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits ....         ...........   24
2.  Bank Resources  .................................   25
3.  Status of Legal Covenants  ......................   26
4.  Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement   ....  27
5.  Project Cost:  Appraisal Estimates Vs. Actual
Expenditures  ...................................   28
6.  Detailed Project Costs ..........................   29
7.  Overseas Training  ..............................   31
8.  Implementation Schedule  ........................   32
9.  Port Traffic Projections - Pusan Port  .... ......  33
10. Port Traffic Projections - Whole Country  .......  34
11. PDMPA Income Statement (1987-91)  ....         ...........   35
12. PDMPA Balance Sheets (1987-91)  ....          .............   36
13. Monitoring Indices   ............................   37
Annex 1.   Status of Action Plans  ....          ..............   38



(i)
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2726-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Preface
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the
Pusan Port Pr,ject in Korea, for which Loan 2726-KO, in the
amount of US$ 141 million equivalent was approved on June 13,
1986. The loan closed on December 31, 1992. Disbursements
under the loan totaled US$ 134.5 million, with final
disbursements made on January 15, 1992. US$ 6.5 million was
canceled effective October 29, 1986.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure
Division cf the Asia Technical Department (ASTIN), the
Infrastructure Operations Division (EAIIN), Country Department
I, of the East Asia and Pacific Region and the Borrower, and
is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR), the
Loan Agreement, supervision reports, the Borrower's own
records, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower, and
internal Bank memoranda.



(ii)
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2726-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
Objectives
The main objectives of the Project were to: (a)
provide installations and equipment for efficient handling of
container traffic; (b) reduce congestion in the city of Pusan
by providina' sufficient container stacking space in the port
area thus largely eliminating the need for off-dock container
storage; (c) increase efficiency of existing and proposed
container handling facilities and the inland container
transportation system, including the utilization of railroad
facilities; and (d) further improve KMPA's and PCTOC's
management and financial control over port activities.
Implementation Experience
Implementation of the civil works component has
generally progressed satisfactorily. There were also no
problems with procurement. Smooth implementation was however
interrupted by: (a) problems associated with land acquisition
and the relocation of resident fisherman, villagers and kelp
divers, and (b) budgetary constraints resulting in large part
from compensation to the affected residents. These problems
caused some delay in project execution and resulted in a one
year delay in project completion. The problem originated with
the understanding, at the time of appraisal, that since the
fishermen and villagers were squatters, with no legal title to
the land, the government would, as in the past, simply evict
them as trespassers. However, a change in government in 1988
brought about a change in attitude concerning compensation for
expropriated land and relocation of affected residents.
The  other  main  project   component  was  the
implementation of two Action Plans. The first focused on
operational issues within the Korean Maritime Port Authority
(KMPA) and the Korean National Railroad (KNR), and dealt
specifically with increasing the utilization of Container
Yards (CYs) and Container Freight Stations (CFS) as well as
improved access and inland movement of containers. The second
focused on financial and management issues, in particular
commercial and cost accounting, mnanagement information systems



(iii)
(MIS) and construction supervision.   KMPA and KNR were
responsible for the implementation of those components
relevant to their individual operations. The Government of
Korea (GOK) however canceled most of the technical assistance
portion of the Bank loan which included the two Action Plans,
within a month of loan effectiveness, although implementation
continued with domestic financing. The Bank participated in
and provided comments on most of the components of the two
Action Plans, but it had little influence on the outcome of
the Action Plans with the result that some of the components
are still to be implemented.
Sustainability
The project is sustainable due to forecasted
increases in container traffic. The outstanding issue concerns
the need to eliminate the Off-Dock Container Yards (ODCY)
located throughout the city of Pusan. It is expected however
that this issue will be resolved by 1995, with the
construction of the Yangsan Inland Container Depot (ICD) which
is located about 20 km from the port and outside Pusan City.
The decision to co- struct the ICD was the result of comments
made by the Bank on one of the studies conducted as part of
the Project.
Findings and Lessons Learned
A number of the findings and lessons learned are
similar  to  those  raised  in  other  PCRs  prepared  for
infrastructure projects in Korea, and include the following:
(a) Cost-underruns have become normal in Bank projects
in Korea. International costs, as estimated in Bank
appraisals, are not necessarily reflect %ve of
project costs in this country. Local conditions
need to be more fully taken into account in
countries like Korea which have highly competitive
industries;
(b) Korean agencies, like KMPA, are quite capable of
implementing project components which are within
their immediate control. Those outside their
jurisdiction are more difficult, especially where
coordination and cooperation with other agencies is
involved,
(c) acquisition of private land and compensation of
residents in Korea, especially for public projects,
has become very difficult and expensive. It often
prolonas project implementation, incurs costly



(iv)
delays, and makes it virtually impossible to
accurately   forecast   the   required   budgetary
allocation for land purchase and compensation. It
may be necessary to introduce a level of public
participation in decisions relating to large
infrastructure   projects   to   ensure   timely
implementation of project components which directly
affect the public;
Those more specific to the Pusan Port Project focus
on environmental issues and include:
(a)  growth in container traffic will continue in the
foreseeable future. Because of difficulties in
accurately predicting growth levels port expansion
will also continue to lag behind demand. This
affects not only the port but also traffic in and
around the city. More cooperation -between the port
and the city is required to effectively deal with
demand and supply issues emanating from pcrt
traffic, and in particular with growth impacts on
the physical and sovial environments, as either one
or the other, or both, will be af.ected;
(b) Bank missions must be prepared to ask focused
_destions to draw out relevant environmental and
resettlement information, because the Government
may not voluntarily sapply required information, as
it may not be fully attuned to the Bank's needs.
The extent of the removal and compensation
requirements for affected fishermen, villagers and
divers in projects such as this one, would as a
result be more accurate; and
(c) KMPA was not as sensitive to both the social and
environmental impacts of the project during projeqt
preparation and implementation as it is at the
present time. The project has made KMPA more aware
of these issues.  Nevertheless, there is still a
need for KMPA to further develop an appropriate
level of sensitivity.



KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
(LOAN 2726-KO)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART I: BANK'S REVIEW
1.   Summary Project Data
Project Name   : Pusan Port Project
Loan Number    :2726-KO
RVP Unit        :East Asia and Pacific
Country        :Korea         Loan Amount      : US$141.Om
Sector         :Transport   Canceled Amount : US$  6.5m
Subsector      :Ports         Disbursed Amount: US$134.5m
Approval Date  :6/23/86       Staff Appraisal : O.,tober/85
Effective Date :11/04/86
Completion Date: 12/31/92    Total Project Cost: US$ 261m
Loan Closing   : 12/31/92
kppraisal ERR  : 35%         Re-assessed ERR : 39%
2.   Background and Sectoral Information
Appraisal Context
2.1       In 1986, when the Pusan Port Project was appraised,
the population of Korea was about 40 million, growing at an
annual rate of 1.7%. Almost 60% of this population lived in
urban areas, with Seoul being the largest city and Pusan the
second largest in the country. By 1991 the total population of
Korea had grown to 43 million, with the urban proportion
rising to 72%. Although the overall population is projected to
grow at less than 1% in the future, urban growth is expected
to continue at a mucn faster rate (around 3% annually).
2.2       In terms of the Korean economy, the 1980s saw some
fluctuation in growth. For example, in 1985 the GNP growth
rate had dropped to about 5% after experiencing an annual
average growth of around 10% from 1982. After taking on a new
vigor in 1987 when a 12% growth was registered, by 1991 growth
had stabilized at 8.4% with the economy now prcjected to grow
between 1992-96 at an annual rare oi 7.5%.
2.3       Throughout much of the 20 years preceding the
project, the transport system had been strained by the demands
of rapid growth. Massive public investments in infrastructure
had been made to keep up with economic growth. Between 1967
and 1977 the Government had allocated up to 23% of its total
annual capital expenditure budget to expand and modernize
transport infrastructure, 15% between 1977-86 and 12% between
1986-91.



-2-
2.4        The importance of Pusan Port as a major Korean
port, and its focus as Korea's main container port, had
already been established during the early 1980s. The GOK had
made a concentrated effort to encourage the development of new
industrial complexes in coastal areas to take advantage of
Korea's natural potential in harbors, and to exploit low-cost
coastal shipping while attempting to avoid excessive
congestion on road and rail. The Government's main goals for
the transport sector under the Fifth Five-Year Plan (1982-
1986) were to: (a) selectively increase transport capacity by
modernizing equipment and optimizing investments in the
sector,  (b)  enhance  transport  efficiency  by  improving
intermodal traffic allocation and conserving energy; and (c)
strengthen maintenance activities. The Bank's focus during
this period, which was in part influenced by the Transport
Sector Issues Survey Report (No.4423-KO dated 12/27/83), was
on improving the productivity of existing facilities and
improvement of infrastructure, particularly; (a) planning, (b)
regulation and pricing, and (c) energy conservation. In the
port/shipping subsector, a number of sector specific reviews
had been carried out by the Bank. These included: (a) A Survey
on the Prospects and Strategy for the Development of the
Korean Shipping Industry (January, 1985); (b) A Sector Report
on Planning for Fishing Port Development (March, 1986); and
(c) A Sector Report on Container Port Regional Selection and
Regional Development (March, 1986).
2.5       In the Government's Seventh Five-Year Plan (1992-
1996), the GOK's focus in infrastructure has not altered
significantly from previous years. The main areas of
concentration continue to include relief of congestion on the
Seoul-Pusan corridor by expanding the transport facilities in
the Seoul Metro Region, rationalization of transport det. -nd
between Seoul and other regional centers by making the regions
economically self-sufficient, development of inland container
depots in the Seoul and Pusan areas for efficient handling of
container cargo, and development of industrial sites close to
port facilities to minimize transport movement. It also
focuses attention ox, the promotion of rail over road transport
on the major trunk routes, giving priority to development of
mass transport networks to serve both regional and urban
transport, and strengthening the multimodal transport network
for passenger and freight transport.
Seoul-Pusan Corridor
2.6       The  Seoul-Pusan  Corridor contains  some of  the
largest urban areas in Korea: Seoul, Pusan, Daegu and Daejon.
In 1985 the population of these cities totaled 16 million (9.6
million, 3.5 million, 2.0 million and less than 1 million,
respectively). By 1991 this population had grown to almost 23



-3-
milliorn (11 millibn, 4 million, 3 million and 1.2 million,
respectively). This excludes the population of the many
smaller urban areas also found in this corridor. Along with
now accounting for over 50 of Korea's population (compared to
40% in 1986), this area also accounts for about 80 of the
country's GNP (compared to 70% in 1985).
2.7       At the time of appraisal the main objective of the
Government's long-term land use plan was to seek a more
balanced and decentralized development on the basis of
integrated regional settlement areas. However, two of the
three primary growth centers, and two of the twelve secondary
centers included in the plan, were located in the Seoul-Pusan
Corridor. As a result, in the eleven years from 1971 to 1982,
passenger traffic in the corridor nearly tripled. To
accommodate this growth, an expressway was constructed from
Seoul to Pusan and the rail service upgraded in the ..orridor
to increase capacity and augment efficiency. Both passenger
and freight traffic has continued to increase significantly in
the Corridor, and coupled with the continued growth of the
urban areas in it, has made the Corridor the prime network for
Korean passenger and freight traffic.
Pusan City and Pusan Port
2.8       In 1985 the population of the city of Pusan was 3.5
million. Although growth has been slow, reaching almost 4
million in 1991, geographically it has grown significantly,
increasing from a total land area of 373 square km in the
1970s to 529 square km by 1991. In 1986 the Gross Regional
Product (GRP) for Pusan was registered at Won 7 trillion, with
an annual growth rate of 6.6% recorded between 1980-1986. At
that time the service industry accounted for about 63% of the
GRP and manufacturing about 34%. Although there are no
official GRP statistics for Pusan in the period 1987-1991, it
is known that the manufacturing sector alone has almost
doubled in its output during that time period.
2.9       The Port of Pusan, located in the city of Pusan, is
Korea's largest port. Its expansion has supported the on-going
industrialization of the country with its imports of raw
materials and industrial goods and export of manufactured
products. The growth of container traffic from 384,000 TEUs
in 1976 to 1.1 million in 1984 and 2.4 million in 1991 is also
partially the result of the increased rate of containerization
of Korea's imports and exports. Pusan Port handles container
traffic for the Pusan area as well as the Seoul and Daegu/
Daejon regions, all of which are located in the Seoul-Pusan
Corridor.   In 1991, for example, of the 2.4 million TEUs
handled at the port, 36* remained in Pusan, another 52% were
transported to Seoul and its regions, with the remaining 12%



-4-
going to either the Daegu or Daejon areas in the Seoul-Pusan
corridor. This traffic split between Pusan, Seoul and the
Daegu/Daejon region is however expected to change in the
future, with Pusan accounting for about 28% of the port and
container traffic by the year 2001, the Daegu/Daejon region
about 26% and Seoul 45%.
2.10      Container  movement  from  Pusan  to  Seoul  has
traditionally gone by either road or rail with road accounting
for the largest share (72%) in 1987. In 1991, the modal split
was similar, with road accounting for the movement of about
70% of container traffic, rail about 28% and coastal shipping
only 2%.
2.11      A number of alternate  sites to locate  further
container facilities were investigated under the Phase III
Port Development Study carried out in 1982. Although the Study
recommended that future port expansion continue to take place
at Pusan, a subsequent study, although concurring with the
plans to proceed with expansion of Pusan Port as a container
port, also recommended the development of Kwang-Yang Bay,
located some 150 km west of Pusan on Korea's southern coast,
as an alternative container port.
3.   Previous Bank Involvement
3.1       In ports, Bank assistance has been directed at the
modernization and expansion of facilities to support Korea's
export-led development. Contairerization was introduced at
Pusan under two previous port projects (Loans 917-KO/1401-KO)
and was developed further under the present project, where the
Bank supported government policy measures to increase the
efficiency of container handling, and further strengthened
KMPA's progress in institution building, through improvements
in management and financial accountability.
3.2       A Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR - No. 5756)
was prepared on the First and Second Port Projects in June
1985. The First Port Project, which was approved in June 1973,
provided US$80.0 million for the development of coal and
cement berths at Mukho Port as well as a two berth container
terminal at Pusan. It also provided the framework for a
reorganization of all Korean ports, the establishment of KMPA
and extensive institution building. This project was
satisfactorily completed in August 1979. The Second Port
Project, approved in April 1977 provided US$67.0 million for
another two-berth expansion to the container facility at Pusan
and continued institution building within KMPA. Completion of
this latter project in March 1983 enabled Pusan Port to
implement an effective containerization program attracting
mainline ships by reducing handling costs and expediting the
flow of cargo.



-5-
3.3       Among the main findings highlighted in the report
were the following: (a) it is difficult to accurately project
traffic in an environment of rapid growth as found in Korea;
(b) when creating, or assisting in the creation of
institutions, detailed operating plans for the facilities
should be developed to ensure smooth implementation; and (c)
institutional changes require the commitment of Government,
and to attain that commitment there must be a clear
understanding by both the Bank and the Government of what the
requirements are and what can realistically be achieved.
3.4        The design of the two Action Plans included under
the Pusan Port Project were developed as a direct result of
the need to address the issues noted above. Institutional
development issues, specifically the improvement of KMPA's
financial and management functions were addressed, as were
intermodal issues which focused on improvements in utilization
of the rail terminal in the port, container yards, container
freight stations and inland container handling operations
throughout Korea. This was accomplished by mapping out
detailed steps and actions which were used to monitor and
guide the process. The container handling actions were aimed
specifically at defining more clearly the steps and actions
required to improve the rules and procedures nou.' governing the
usage of these facilities.
4.   Follow-on Initiatives
4.1       The Port of Pusan began construction on Phase IV in
1992 and it is scheduled to be completed in 1995. The designs
for Phase IV were developed by KMPA with the assistance of
consultants   financed   by   the   Government   during   the
implementation of this Project and benefits from the
construction of the breakwaters and infrastructure components
which were financed by the Bank under the present loan. In an
attempt to accommodate increased container traffic before
congestion reaches a critical stage, a total of four new
berths are being constructed, with a quay length of 1400
meters. The total cost of this package is estimated to be
about  Won  350  billion  with  financing  provided  by  the
Government.
4.2       In  addition,  the  GOK  is  in  the  process  of
discussing, with the Bank, still further development of Pusan
Port, to accommodate projected container traffic beyond the
year 2000. The proposed project, which is scheduled for
appraisal by the Bank in FY94 will address not only the issue
of increased capacity and efficiency, but will also focus on
environmental issues including the environmental impact of
port development and the introduction of ship waste disposal
facilities in the main ports of Korea. The specific objectives



-6-
of the proposed Pusan Port Development and Environmental
Project include:
(a) improvement of the urban and marine environment by
providing pilot ship waste disposal facilities at
several of Korea's major ports in an effort to
reduce the pollution of international and coastal
waters caused by ships discharging their wastes;
(b) reduction of the accident risk at the ports of
Pusan and Inchon by developing and providing a
Vessel Traffic Management System (VTMS); and
(c) construction of a new port at Daedapo to receive
and process the timber shipments into Pusan, thus
diverting heavy truck traffic away from the center
of the city, and relieving it somewhat of traffic
congestion and air pollution.
4.3       The proposed project will be the first in Korea to
include a comprehensive Environmental Impact Assessment and an
economic analysis which endeavors to quantify the main
economic   costs   and   benefits   associated   with   its
implementation.
5.   The Proiect
Objectives
5.1       The   main objectives of the Pusan Port Project
included: (a) the provision and installation of equipment to
increase  efficient  handling  of  container  traffic;  (b)
reduction in city congestion caused by off-dock container
storage yards by providing sufficient container stacking space
in the port area; (c) increased efficiency of existina and
proposed container handling facilities as well as the iinland
container transportation system (already part of KNR's
objective under the Seoul-Pusan Corridor Project (Ln.2600-KO),
which provides funds to better utilize the railroad in the
corridor; and (d) improvement of KMPA's and PCTOC's management
and financial control over port activities.
Description
5.2       To  assist  in  the accomplishment  of  the  above
objectives  the  project  included  the  following  major
components:
(a) Civil works including breakwaters, a three-berth
container   terminal   together   with   ancillary
facilities, and road and rail access to the
terminal;



-7-
(b) Equipment for container handling as well as for
improving railway line capacity, and additional
tracks at PCTOC's CY; and
(c) Technical assistance to: (i) train port planners
and managers; (ii) update the Master Plan for Pusan
Port; (iii) carry out studies to: improve container
operations  and  utilization  of  the  existing
Container Yards (CYs) and CFS; plan,design and
implement the road access to the expressway;
relocate off-dock CYs in Pusan city to the proposed
on-dock CY; improve container distribution systems
throughout    Korea;    and    define    management
organization and operating rules for the proposed
container terminal; (iv) supervise civil works and
erection of equipment; and (v) study and implement
measures to improve financial management in KMPA
and allied organizations, including the development
of a management information system and computerized
accounting.
Design and Organization
5.3       The  project  was  designed  to  continue  Bank
participation in the development of container facilities at
Pusan Port. The project was implemented by KMPA (which also
implemented the Bank's Second Port Project: Loan 1401-KO),
with the assistance of consultants.
Revisions and Amendments
5.4       Except for the extension of the quay from 780 to 900
meters, the provision of a replacement protected anchorage for
fishing boats and replacement housing for displaced villagers,
there were no major revisions or amendments to the Bank-
financed components, but there were a number of changes to the
overall  project.   Specifically,   additional  works  were
contracted for the CFS building, laborer's shed and sentry
posts. These additions, paid for by the Government using its
own resources, increased project cost by Won 10 million. An
additional container storage area, the Dongmyung Container
Yard, and a new access road to by-pass the city center which
linked the Terminal to the Seoul-Pusan Expressway were also
constructed by KMPA utilizing GOK's own resources. The cost of
these works has not been included in the project cost.
Finally, the Bank financing for the studies and technical
assistance included in the two Action Plans prepared under the
Project were canceled within one month of loan effectiveness.



-8-
6.   Project Implementation
6.1       In  general,   the   Project's  objectives   were
satisfactorily met (para 5.1) except that the relocation of
the off-dock CYs within the city and the reduction of the
traffic congestion caused by their presence, has not been
accomplished due to lack of adequate space at the port. This
problem is being addressed by the construction of a container
storage facility at Yangsan.   Implementation of the civil
works components of the project (breakwaters, container
terminal and related facilities, and access road and railroad
link) were generally completed satisfactorily. The South
Breakwater was completed at a final cost of W 31.97 billion
(US$ 41.1 million), slightly below the original contract
estimate of W 32.63 billion (US$ 41.9 million). rhe North
Breakwater was completed at a final cost of W 45.28 billion
(US$ 58.2 million) compared to the original contract estimate
of W 44.72 million (US$ 57.5 million). Difficulties in
construction were encountered when a typhoon damaged the
caisson staging area for the South Breakwater, causing some
delay in construction. In addition, objections to dredging
activities at the sand source (used to form the foundation of
the caissons), which allegedly disrupted economic activity in
the area and caused ecological damage to bird nesting sites,
resulted in abandonment of dredging activities and purchase of
the balance of the granular fill from other on-shore sources.
6.2       The new container terminal was completed at a final
cost of W 62.0 billion (US$ 79.7 million) compared to the
original price estimate of W 51.04 billion (US$ 65.6 million).
This included increased costs resulting from an increase in
quay length and area requirements; the cost of constructing
new housing and infrastructure for the resettlement of
affected "mountain villagers"; construction of a small
breakwater and marine site for the sheltering and berthing of
displaced fishing vessels; and compensation for affected
fishermen, villagers, divers and kelp collectors.
6.3        Except for one section, about 400 meters in length,
where the necessary land has only recently been purchased, the
road and rail link access will be completed at a final
estimated cost of W 9.5 billion (US$ 12.2 million), compared
to the original contract estimate of W 6.7 billion (US$ 8.6
million). Completion of construction on the remaining link is
expected by June 1993.
6.4       Under the project,  six 40-ton container gantry
cranes were procured and installed at the container berths at
a cost of W 10.5 billion (US$ 13.5 million). The cranes became
operational in 1991. Another 25 container yard transfer cranes
were obtained at a cost of W 11.0 billion (US$ 14.2 million)



-9-
Of these, one was erected in the rail yard and another in the
reefer area, with the remainder used throughout the container
yard. The cranes were operational in 1991. In addition other
mobile equipment purchased under the project included 31
chassis, 51 tractors, 6 container lift trucks and 9 forklift
trucks (US$ 5.71 million).
Technical Assistance
6.5       The   technical   assistance   component   included
supervision of construction, updating of the port master plan
and the design and implamentation of two Action Plans to
improve management and operational capabilities. KNR was
responsible for certain components and KMPA for others. The
Port Master Plan has been completed but the two Action Plans
met with mixed degrees of success. The components handled by
KNR have been implemented while those of KMPA are expected to
be completed by 1994/95. (Refer to Annex 1: Status of Action
Plans). Since most of the technical assistance component of
the loan was canceled in the early stages of project, the
Bank's influence in implementation of the Plans has been
somewhat restricted although a continuous dialogue between the
Bank and executing agencies, concerning these Action Plans,
was maintained throughout project implementation.
6.6       The KMPA Action Plan, which included the following
components: (a) computerization of the commercial accounting
system; (b) the design and implementation of a cost accounting
system; and (c) computerization of the port operations system
as a first step to the introduction of a comprehensive
management information system, has been only partially
completed. Design and implementation of the commercial and
cost accounting systems were delayed due to lack of funds. A
new completion target date of late 1994 for implementation has
now been set. The management information system, on the other
hand has been substantially completed. In addition, a number
of studies were conducted to facilitate implementation of the
action plans. These were all completed. (See Annex 1)
6.7       The KNR Action Plan was intended to rationalize
container transportation by increasing the speed, length and
frequency of trains, improving access to Pugok as well as the
utilization of the facility for all shippers, integrating
Pugok and PCTOC with a computerized system, use of PCTOC to
form and receive all Seoul container trains, and increase
loading and unloading efficiency through equipment purchase at
both Pugok and PCTOC. The main components of this Action
Plan have been implemented successfully. (See Annex 1 for a
detailed description of the implementation of both Action
Plans)



-10-
Procurement
6.8       The Project civil works were divided into four
contract packages, the South Breakwater, the Container
Terminal & Related Facilities, the North Breakwater and the
Access Road & Railroad.   All were let successfully under
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank guidelines. However, due to price competition by Korea's
very competent and sophisticated construction sector, all
contracts were won by domestic construction companies. The
contract for Project No. 1 - South Breakwater was awarded to
the Hyundai Engineering and Construction Co., Ltd. on
August 19, 1986 for a bid price of Won 32,632,800 million.
Work commenced in August 1986 and was completed in November
1989 as scheduled.   The total cost as completed was Won
31,966,654 million.    The contract  for Project No.  2  -
Container Terminal and Related Facilities was awarded to the
joint venture of Ssangyong Construction Co., Ltd. and Dongah
Construction Industries Co., Ltd. on April 20, 1987 for a bid
price of Won 51,039,000 million. Work commenced in April 1987
and was substantially completea in December 1991, with only
the CFS remaining. It was completed in February 1992. The
total cost as completed was Won 61,991,106 million, with the
increase due partly to increases in the scope of works and to
price escalation during the construction period. The contract
for Project No. 3 - Access Road and Railroad was awarded to
the Ssangyong Construction Cc., Ltd. on September 28, 1988 for
a bid price of Won 6,704,720 million.   Work commenced on
September 30, 1988 and is still on-going, with completion
expected in June 1993.   The total cost as completed is
estimated to be Won 9,503,047 million, a 42t cost increase
from the contract price primarily due to a major increase in
the scope of work coupled with price escalation during the
period of construction.   The contract for Project No. 4 -
North Breakwater was awarded to the joint venture of Daewoo
Corporation, Ltd., Samsung Ccnstruction Company, Ltd., and
Lymkwang Construction Company, Ltd. on December 29, 1986 for
a bid price of Won 44,715,952 million.   Work commenced in
February 1987 and was completed in November 1990, as
scheduled. The totai cost as completed was Won 45,281,701
million including price escalation during the period of
construction. All proc- irement of civil works was carried out
smoothly without  maj    problems,  except  for the delays
experienced due to th difficulties described in para 7.2
below.
6.9       Supply and installation of six container gantry
cranes was tendered under ICB with the contract awarded on
December 20, 1988 to the joint venture of Korea Heavy
Industries and Construction Co., Ltd. (Korean) and Liftech
Inc. (USA) for a bid price of Won 8,462,388 million plus



-11-
US$ 2,684,000. Work began in January 1989 and was completed
by the end of April 1991.   Supply and installation of 25
container yard transfer cranes was tendered under ICB with the
contract awarded on December 20, 1988 to the joint venture
between Samsung Shipbuilding and Heavy Industries Company,
Ltd. (Korea) and Sumitomo Heavy Industries Company, (Japan)
for a bid price of Won 9,459,010 million plus US$ 2,058,170.
Work began in January 1989 and was completed in April 1991.
Procurement of mobile equipment for container handling was
carried out through Korea's Office of Supply (OSROK) using ICB
proceiures beginning in October 1990. In this way, 121 yard
chassis were supplied by Hyundai Precision Industries Company,
Ltd. (Korea), and 10 other, larger yard chassis were supplied
by Jindo Corporation, Ltd.  (Japan).   In addition, 51 yard
tractors were supplied by Mid-Pacific Industries, Inc. (USA),
nine small and medium forklift trucks were supplied by Samsung
Shipbuilding and Heavy Industries Co., Ltd. (Korea), one
light-duty container lift truck was supplied by the Hyster
Company, Ltd. (Australia), three medium-duty container lift
trucks were supplied by Boss Truck Limited (UK) and two heavy-
duty container lift trucks were supplied by the Hyco Company
(Italy). The total cost of all the mobile equipment was US$
5,706,167 with supply and delivery completed during May 1991.
All equipment was procured without significant problems.
Costs
6.10      Because of aggressive domestic bidding on the civil
works contracts, the costs for implementation of this
component was less than 60% of the original appraisal
estimate. However, land acquisition/compensation costs had
not been included in the Bank's appraisal estimates, actual
resultant costs were about 67% of the appraisal estimate. In
addition, with the Won growing in strength during project
implementation, the proportion of equivalent dollars required
also grew.
Consul ting Services and Training
6.11      The  consultants  responsible  for  construction
supervision of the civil works, Korean Engineering Consultants
Company (KECC), provided excellent service to the project.
The costs of these consulting services were defrayed by the
Government from. their own resources. These same consultants,
with their U.S. counterparts provided services for all of the
construction phases of Pusan Port, from the first phase to the
present one. In the first port project the U.S. company, Lyons
Associates, was the lead consulting firm, in the second there
was a joint partnership between Lyons and KECC, while in the
third (present) project KECC became the lead firm using a
different U.S. firm to provide only specialized expertise. The



-12-
arrangement worked very well with the Korean firm becoming
extremely competent in the field by the third project.
6.12      During project implementation three KMPA staff were
given full scholarships to attend a one year masters program
in the U.S. All three successfully completed their terms and
returned to work in KMPA. A number of KMrPA staff and managers
also visited several ports in the U.S. as part of a training
program to learn more about port development and operations.
In addition, other staff of KMPA and EPB studied in the
Netherlands, UK and Japan for varying periods. The foreign
component of these training costs was financed by the Bank
under this Project.
6.13      Disbursement  experience  on  this  Project  was
generally positive. There was a substantial lag during the
early part of the project implementation period which,
however, was overcome as early delays gave way to better
progress in project execution.
7.   Prolect Results and Lessons Learned
Project Results
7.1       Implementation of the civil works components of the
project generally progressed satisfactorily. Competition for
the construction of the civil works was very intense, with the
result that the cost of the civil works was 27% below
appraisal estimates despite some increase in the scope of
works. Smooth implementation was, however, interrupted by: (a)
problems associated with land acquisition and the removal of
resident fishermen, villagers and women divers, and (b)
budgetary  constraints,   resulting  in  large  part  from
compensation to affected residents. These problems caused some
delay in project execution and resulted in a one year delay in
project completion, from December 1991 to December 1992. In
terms of land acquisition and compensation, at the time of
appraisal, no cost estimates were prepared, either by KMPA or
the Bank. This is because it had been assumed that since those
people on the affected property were squatters, with no legal
title to the land, the government would be able, as it had in
the past, to simply evict them as trespassers. However, with
the change in government in 1988, and an attempt to exhibit
more social consciousness, the new government decided to
compensate the inhabitants for lost income and resettle them
in new housing provided by the state. In addition, market
prices were to be paid for expropriated land. Differences in
opinion concerning land values forced a number of cases to be
settled by the courts. This resulted in a one-year delay in
the civil works component and a two-year delay in the
construction of the rail link. At the time of this writing the



-13-
last segment of the rail link from the new terminal to PCTOC,
has not been   completed although the necessary land has
finally been purchased, with the rail link now scheduled for
completion by the end of June 1993.
7.2       In terms of operations, the average handling rate of
the new container cranes is less than 20 moves per hour at the
new terminal (it is 17 per hour at the Phase II Terminal). The
cranes purchased have a maximum practical operational rate of
about 24 to 27 moves per hour. It is expected however, that
with further training and the purchase of more chassis, this
rate can easily reach 24 moves per hour.
7.3       In terms of administrative structure, the present
three-tier system, with container yard operators reporting to
KCTA, which in turn reports to KMPA, needs further
rationalization and enforcement of lines of authority. Little
cooperation or communication appears to take place between
PCTOC and KCTA, on the one hand, and between KCTA and KMPA on
the other. The situation, however, does not appear to apply to
the interaction between the operator of the new terminal,
PECT, and KCTA. This issue is to be addressed as part of the
proposed Ports Development and Environmental Improvement
Project.
Technical Assistance and Training
7.4       At the Government's lequest, the Bank financing for
the studies, technical assistance and the Action Plans that
were contemplated during appraisal and included in the Project
was canceled soon after the Loan became effective, the
Government stating that it wished to provide the funds needed
for these components itself from its own resources. The only
exception to this arrangement involved the costs of the
services of expatriate technical assistance experts who
assisted KMI in carrying out the study of KNR's container
operations, which were financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan. The Training Program was successfully carried out with
financing by the Bank from the proceeds of the Loan.
Action Plans
7.5       The Action Plans included under the project have not
been  fully  implemented.    The  main  shortfalls  concerned
relocation of the off-dock CYs and the introduction of both
commercial and cost accounting. The problem with relocating
the CYs appears to have stemmed from the fact that there
continued to be a need for these facilities.  KMI had been
contracted to study the relocation of off-dock CYs under the
KMPA Action Plan. Their report concluded that the yard could
not be eliminated until such time as sufficient space was



-14-
allocated elsewhere.   As a result there was little to no
pressure placed on the off-dock owners to relocate nor few
incentives offered for them to do so, by either the city, the
customs officials or the port authority. With rising pressure
from the public, due to increased congestion and pollution
resulting from off-dock activities in the city, and the
construction of an alternative location at Yangsan, the
prospect for relocating these facilities in the near future
appears to be better. The Master Plan for Pusan Port was
completed in 1990, with master plans for the city of Pusan as
well as Kwangyang Bay also completed. These plans are expected
to provide more accurate information concerning proposed
future investments, allowing for decision makers to the more
appropriately  analyze  options.      With  respect  to  the
introduction of a commercial cost accounting system, the
Economic Planning Board (EPB) has decided to postpone this
component due to budgetary limitations. With respect to cost
accounting,   the   work   has   been   redirected   towards
implementation at the headquarters level and not the terminal
level (operating companies) as originally envisaged, with
final implementation now postponed to 1996.
7.6       In so far as KNR was concerned, the main objectives
of their action plan have been met. The speed and frequency of
trains between Seoul and Pusan has increased to 12 trains per
day, operating at 90 km per hour, with the number of container
cars also increasing from 18 to 22 daily. Access to the rail
terminal at Pugok has been improved with the container yard
now open to all capable shippers (presently a total of 18).
The Bank's Kyonggi Regional Transportation Project (Loan 2905-
KO), which included the construction of a four-lane toll
expressway between Shingal-Panwol as one of its components,
linked Pugok to the national expressway network which made it
more accessible. Also, the utilization of the PCTOC rail
terminal at Pusan has increased by 40V under the action plan,
to 78%. Finally the length of container trains has also been
increased as has the efficiency of loading and unloading
equipment. What is still missing, however, is an integrated
computerized system linking the Pugok container terminal near
Seoul with PCTOC at Pusan. Implementation of this component
was envisioned under the-aank's (postponed) Railroad Systems
Modernization Project (refer to Annex 1).
Economic Analysis
7.7       The  Bank  neglected  to  include,  in  its  cost
estimates, any indication of funding estimates for land
acquisition and compensation. This somewhat distorted the
resultant economic internal rate of return (EIRR). Assuming
that this estimate would have been about 40% below actual cost
(which was the case in the Kyonggi Regional Transport Project:



-15 -
Loan 2905-KO, which was implemented during the same time
period as the Pusan Port Project, and for which a PCR was
completed in December 1992), the appraisal EIRR would have
been 29% instead of 35%.
7.8       At the time cf appraisal in 1985, container traffic
in Pusan Port was projected by KMPA and KMI to increase at a
rate of about 7% annually. A reassessed projection, made by
KMPA and KMI in 1990 on the basis of anticipated commodity
flows, shows a more modest growth rate of 4% per year. On the
other hand, the SAR projected base traffic for determination
of economic benefits which formed the basis for the economic
analysis during appraisal was 1.8 million TEUs in 1990 and 1.9
million TEUs in 1991. The latter figure was about 28% below
the actual 1991 traffic of 2.4 million TEUs. The lower growth
rate of 4%, applied to the much larger base traffic amount of
2.4 million TEUs, has a greater impact on projected traffic
values than does the higher growth rate of 7% applied to the
lower base of 1.9 million TEUs.  The forecast using the 4*
growth rate leads to an anticipated level of 5 million TEUs
for Pusan Port in the year 2011 compared to the appraisal
forecast  of  3.7 million  TEUs.    The  increase  from  the
anticipated 1.9 million TEUs to the actual 2.4 million TEUs in
1991 occurred despite the cancellation, by a number of liners,
of their container delivery schedules because of the increased
waiting times for berths in the port and a slight downturn in
the Korean economy in 1991 (8.4t GNP growth). However, with
the strengthening of the Korean economy in 1992, and the
opening of the container facilities constructed under this
Project (PECT - Phase III) in 1992, the number of liners
calling at Pusan Port is expected to increase to previous
levels and above.   The 4% rate of growth forecast  for
containers, therefore, appears to be reasonable. Even with
this slight reversal of fortune, the recalculated EIRR is
impressive,  being 39% compared to 35% at appraisal.   In
recalculating the EIRR, the quantifiable benefits attributed
to the Project at the time of appraisal were used as the basis
for analysis. These included savings in cargo handling costs,
ship's waiting time and service time.
Financial Status
7.9       Between 1983 and 1985 Pusan Port had experienced a
steadily improving financial situation, in terms of operating
revenues, net income and return on assets. This was due
primarily to a significant increase in containerized cargo
partly due to conversion of breakbulk general cargo. This
performance was expected to continue over the long term due to
the favorable combination of continued traffic growth and
greater productivity. In the SAR (para 6.05) average annual
traffic growth for all traffic (including containers,



-16-
breakbulk, and bulk commodities) was projected to increase
between 7-8.5%s with tariffs increased only to cover inflation.
However, the results in recent years have not been as positive
as  projected.     Total  operating  revenues  have  fallen
dramatically since 1989 while operating expenses continued to
climb, with the result that the net operating income in 1991
was about half that projected at the time of appraisal.  The
main reason for this is that with increased congestion at the
port, traffic began to divert to other locations in 1990 and
continued to drop even further in 1991 (para. 7.8). This was
mainly due to decline of general cargo (oil, iron ore and
machinery). There were improvements in 1992, but it is not
expected that a full recovery will be realized for another
year or two.
Lessons Learned
7.10      The following outlines the findings and lessons
learned from the Bank's involvement in the Pusan Port Project.
Many of the points raised are similar to those highlighted in
other PCRs recently prepared for Bank infrastructure projects
(for example, the Kyonggi Regional Transport Project: Loan
2905-KO, the Seoul Urban transportation Project: Loan 2514-KO
and the Seoul-Pusan Corridor Project: Loan 2600-KO), which
were implemented in Korea during the same time period. Those
which mirror other PCRs include the following:
(a) Cost under-runs have become normal in Korea.
International   costs,   as   estimated   in  Bank
appraisals are not necessarily reflective of
project costs. More attention is necessary, in the
case of countries with competitive industries, to
take local conditions into full consideration;
(b)  Korean agensies, like KMPA, are quite capable to
deal with activities which are within their
immediate control. Under these circumstances they
are able to make significant changes. However,
activities outside of their immediate control are
more difficult to change, especially in those
situations where the co-ordination and co-operation
of other agencies or rinistries is necessary for
success; and
(c) The acquisition, or expropriation, of private land
has become very difficult and very expensive in
Korea. Although the government is allowed, by law,
to expropriate land for development purposes,
compensation has become very costly and often must
be decided in the courts (as in this case). Th..s
prolongs project implementation and incurs costly



-17-
delays. It also makes it difficult to appropriately
forecast required budgetary allocations for land
acquisition. Korean society may have reached the
stage where the introduction of a level of public
participation in the decision-making process would
be appropriate.
7.11      Other findings and lessons which are unique to this
project focus mainly on environmental issues and include:
(a) Future development of the Port of Pusan will be
difficult as any expansion will impact either
residents or the environment, or both. Since the
port is surrounded by the city, expansion on land
will involve the relocation of business and/or
residents; if the port elects to expand on water
(reclamation), environmental impacts will require
judicious monitoring;
(b) In project preparation, in addition to visiting the
site, more attention needs to be paid to potential
impacts, and more focused questions asked to draw
out relevant environmental and resettlement
information.  The Borrower cannot be expected to
know the level of precision required by the Bank
for its analysis, and the Bank cannot depend
exclusively on the Borrower to provide all relevant
information without guidance;
(c) During project preparation KMPA was generally not
as sensitive to potential social and environmental
impacts of the project as it presently is. However,
as a result of its implementation, their level of
awareness has significantly increased, especially
in terms of impact on project  costs and time
schedules; and
(d) It has taken the Bank some time to determine the
significance of the difference between types of
civil   servants   in   the   Korean   government
bureaucracy. These differences can prove to be
important in the realization of certain budgetary
goals and implementation of envisaged action plans.
For example, in the present case the differences in
stature between staff of KMPA, who are considered
full civil servants, and PCTOC and KCTA, who are
considered employees of government corporations and
not full civil servants, were significant.



-18-
8.   Sustainability/Remaining Issues
8.1       With container traffic in Pusan expected to increase
at a steady rate (about 4% annually) the port should maintain
or even exceed the forecast level of net benefits throughout
its economic life. As ultimate success of the project depends
on the continued growth of the Korean   economy,  and the
economy is projected to grow at 7.59 annually for the next few
years, and projected container traffic nationwide is expected
to grow 8% annually during that period, the project is
considered to be sustainable. The only outstanding issue
concerns more efficient use of the port's container yard, as
well as the new yard at Yangsan. However, it is expected that
the problems encountered presently in the port CY and ODCYs
will be greatly relieved with the construction of this Yangsan
facility, which is expected to be operational by 1995.
9.   Bank Performance
9.1       The overall success of the project can be attributed
in part to the good performance by Bank staff during the
entire project cycle. The Bank provided continuity in its
involvement, with a minimum of staff changes, and regular
supervision.
9.2       Where Bank performance did not meet expectation was
in the appraisa2l of certain aspects of the project. There
appears to have been little investigation of the social impact
of the project, specifically as concerns resettlement,
including land acquisition and compensation. Although the
appraisal does refer to fishermen impacted by port expansion,
there is no discussion of the villagers (about 2000), or kelp
divers,  who  were  also  affected.  In  addition,  no  land
acquisition or compensation costs were factored into either
the project cost estimates nor the cost/benefit analysis.
Although the Bank did identify the fact that some people would
be displaced, it did not seem to appreciate the full extent of
this displacement. In the end over 2000 people were displaced,
at a total cost of over US$28 million.
10. Borrower Performance
10.1      The government and KMPA implemented the project
satisfactorily in terms of civil works and procurement of
equipment. There were, however, problems associated with land
acquisition and environmental impacts which were neglected
during the design stage and had to be addressed during
implementation.   The  extent  of  land  acquisition  and
compensation requirements were not fully appreciated nor were
the costs included in project estimates. This resulted in
implementation delays (para 9.1).



-19-
10.2       At the time of project preparation environmental
aspects of disposal or dredged spoil were also never
addressed. It had been simply assumed, without investigation,
that dredge material would be suitable for use as reclamation
fill. During implementation, however, it was determined that
in actual fact this was not so, and that appropriate disposal
measures had to be taken. In addition suitable substitute fill
had to be located and transported to the works site. The
problem was resolved, but at an added cost to the project.
Furthermore, in the original implementation schedule, the sand
used for the project was to be removed from the Nakdong River,
near the estuary. However, the impact of this action was never
analyzed, nor were any permits processed. As it happened, the
city of Pusan discovered this activity and abruptly curtailed
it, again, necessitating a search for alternate solutions.
This was found without too much difficulty however, and the
project progressed uninterrupted.
10.3      Finally, durina project preparation the Bank, with
the support of the Borrower, had formulated a substantive
technical assistance package, which was virtually canceled
within six months of project approval (one month of project
effectiveness). Such quick action leads one to question the
Borrower's sincerity in carrying out the exercise.
11. Prolect RelationshiDs
11.1      The excellent relationship that has existed between
the staffs of the Borrower and the Bank, during both
preparation and implementation, has been one of the main
factors which contributed to project success. It created good
teamwork,   in  which  each  party  displayed  appropriate
flexibility. This resulted in quick resolution of issues which
otherwise could have significantly delayed project completion.
The relationship between the Korea Maritime Institute (KMI)
and KMPA was also very good, with KMI in charge of many of the
studies identified under the KMPA Action Plan.
11.2      Some inter-agency relationships appear to have been
more stressful. Meetings between KNR and KMPA have been few
and far between, with resultant mis-understandings and mis-
givings. The same applies to the relationship between the city
of Pusan and KMPA, and the Port of Pusan, where meetings to
address differences and resolve issues of concern were rarely
conducted. As a result, one of the main project objectives, to
remove the off-dock container yards located in the city and
place them in a single area accessible by both road and rail
became a long drawn out process, achieved only when the city
itself became so congested that it was necessary to take
definitive action.



-20-
12.  Project Documentation and Data
12.1      The covenants contained in the loan agreement were
reasonable and the Borrower complied with them. A side letter
indicating the various studies to be conducted and the action
plans (Financial and Managerial) to be prepared, were
substantially complied with.
12.2      The Action Plans themselves, as well as the Staff
Appraisal Report provided a useful framework during the
implementation of the project. The Project Completion Report
(PCR) for the Coal and Cement Distribution Project (Ln 2267-
KO), and the PPAR for the First and Second Pusan Ports
Projects (Loans 917/1401-KO) as well as the Bank project files
and the Bank supervision reports, provided useful information
for the preparation of this project completion report.
12.3      KMPA records of the project  however were both
fragmented and difficult to obtain. Records in the Port of
Pusan were also not readily available. Project data was split
between KMPA and the port with the result that there was no
central source and neither knew what the other had. In future
it is recommended that a central project file be kept up to
date, periodically reviewed by the implementing agency and
available to the Bank upon request.



-21-
PART II:   BORROWER'S EVALUATION
A.   Conditions leading To The Prolect
A.1       Discussion concerning the construction of Phase III
of Pusan Port began as early as 1980, with detailed drawings
and engineering completed in 1982. However, in those years
Korea was experiencing an economic recession, and as a
decrease in traffic volume was recorded between the years 1981
and 1982 the GOK decided to postpone investment in the Port.
The economic boom of the next few years had not been
anticipated, and when the GOK finally decided that investment
in the port was needed it was about two years too late to
accommodate traffic growth. When the government approached the
Bank for financing in 1984, traffic had grown by an average
annual rate of almost 8' between 1982 and 1984, and container
traffic had grown by over 11. As a result some changes had to
be made to the original design, which prolonged the
preparation phase. The quay length was expanded, some more
land added and the draft increased to accommodate larger
vessels.
B.   Main Findings and Lessons Learned
B.1       The following includes the findings and lessons
which were identified by the Borrower:
(a) Land acquisition has become extremely difficult in
Korea over the last few years, with compensation
amounts being far in excess of estimates. In the
future KMPA will attempt to limit construction to
those areas with the least impact on residents, and
in as far as is possible concentrate on land
reclamation to increaL.e port size;
(b) Some problems, such as removal of off-dock CYs and
streamlining customs activities, is beyond the
scope of KMPA. In order to achieve success in
dealing with such issues, the full support of the
city of Pusan is required;
(c) The city of Pusan, although enjoying the fruits of
productivity resulting from the Port, is also
experiencing serious congestion problems. Unless
the port works with the city in identifying
problems created by the port's presence, and works
closely with the city in resolving these, neither
will reap the full benefits of the port's
operation; and



-22-
(d) Container traffic continues to grow at a pace which
outstrips forecasts, making it difficult for the
port to expand at a pace which can accommodate this
growth. Even the development of Phase IV is
expected to be too little too late.
C.   Summary of Bank Role and Performance
C.1       The   Bank   performed   well   during   project
implementation, with an appropriate level of supervision and
expertise provided. Since the executing agency was experienced
in the implementation of similar works, the flexible approach
adopted by the Bank enabled smooth implementation of the
project. During implementation supervision missions were sent
to Korea on a regular basis, about once per year, with the
final project review carried out by the PCR mission in
September/October 1992. Disbursement of the loan proceeds were
prompt, with the contractors receiving their payments in a
timely manner.
D.   Evaluation of Borrower's Own Performance
D*1       The Borrower, likewise performed well during project
implementation. The only criticism that can be levied is that
the project began about two years too late to accommodate the
increase in traffic. As a result, during implementation, there
was a great demand to expedite construction and operationalize
the facilities as quickly as possible.
D.2       The only difficulties encountered concerned issues
of respecting acquisition of land, and resettlement and
compensation of affected residents, which were not thoroughly
investigated  nor  appropriately  costed  during  project
preparation. However, the executing agency vigorously pursued
resolution of the issue of compensation and resettlement of
affected residents, with the result that the project
progressed with only a year's delay incurred.
E.   Remainina Issues
E.1       The one remaining and outstanding issue concerns the
completion of the rail access link. The court case involving
its purchase has recently been resolved, with completion of
construction expected by mid-1993.



-23-
PART III. STATISTICAL INFORMATION



Table 1: RELATED BANK LOANS AND/OR CREDITS
Loan/Credit                                          Purpose                                    Year of       Status       Commens
Approval
First Port Project   The project covers the proposals in the 1972-76 Development Program for Pusan  1972    Completed    PCR issued:
(Ln 917-KO)          and Mukho to meet traffic requirements of these ports up to about 1986 by                           PPAR No.
providing:                                                                                         5756 of June
In Pusan: (a) a composite pier to handle containers and grain, with storage silos,                 1985.
appropriate equipment and necessary dredging: (b) a dry bulk cargo handling pier
with integrated bulk-handling systems, and necessary dredging; (c) international
(Korea-Japan) and coastal ferry terminals; (d) rehabilitaion of existing general
cargo berths; and (e) a new military berth to be financed by the government.
In Mukho: (f) improvements to the coal handling piers and the mechanical loading
system; (g) improvements; to the existing breakwater; (h) minor improvements to
general cargo and cement berths.
Consulting Services and Technical Assistance: (f) consulting services for the
detailed engineering and construction supervision of above works; the
determination of future development requirements. Technical assistance to assist
in establishing KPA and on the job training of personnel.
Second Port Project    To continue development of Pusan Port being financed under the First Port Project   1976  Completed    PCR issued:
(Ln 1401-KO)         (Loan 917-KO). The project consists of: (1) Civil Works - (a) 700 m extension                       PPAR No.
of the common user container berths and a 335,000 sq m expansion of the stacking                   5756 of June
area provided under that project; (b) dredging to provide an alongside depth of                    1985
12.5 m; (c) an access road inside the port limits; a guard house and an 8,000 sq m
container freight station; (d) ancillary works and utilities; and (e) rehabilitation of
piers 3 and 4, the central wharf, and a lighter wharf No. 5. (2) Mechanical
Eauioment - Procurement of container cranes and mobile container handling
equipment. (3) Floating Craft - Procurement of two tug boats. (4) Engineering
Consultant Services - to carry out detailed design and supervision of construcdon
and procurement of the above. (5) Technical Assistance and TraiDins - to assist in
cargo handling (including the handling of containers), maintenance, port planning
and accounting.
Coal and Cement      To provide necessary capacity in rail, ports and inland terminals to efficiently  1983  Completed    PCR issued:
Distribution Project  handle the forecasted coal and cement traffic through the 1980s and to correct the                 12/16/89
(Ln 2267-KO)         system inefficiencies in coal and cement distribution.



-25-
Table 2: BANK RESOURCES
A. Staff Id
Stage of Project Cycle                    Number of Stweeks
Through Appisal                                                     62.4
Appisal though Board Approval                                       53.4
Board Approval through Effectivene                                  9.7
Supervision                                                         61.7
Prject Completion Report                                            6.0
Total                                                           193.2
B. NkMhes
Monta/Year             No. of Persons    Days in Field            SpecAizadon              Perfo _m
Pr_prto
July 1980                            3                16         PAITEIED                             n.a.
September 1980                      3                 8          PA/PE/RE                             n.a.
October 1981                         1                7          CO                                   n.a.
November 1981                        1                7          PE                                   n.a.
August 1984                         2                 21         EC/PE                                n.a.
Jamuary 1985                         3                20         EC/TB/PE                             n.a.
July 1985                           6                 21         EC/PE(2)/FA/PR/RE                    n.a.
Apprasl
October 1985                        7                 21         EC/PE/PA(2)/RB(2)/AD                 n.a.
Through Board Approval
March 1986                          2                  7         EC/RE                                n.a.
May 1986                            3                 4          RE/LC/PE                             n.a.
Supervision
Febmuay 1987                         1                6          PE                                    I
May 1987                            5                  6         RE(2)/FC/PEICO
November 1987                       4                 8          FC/PE/RE/TE                           I
June 1988                           3                 10         PC/EC/TE                              I
November 1988                       5                 9          PC/RE/PE/EC/PA                        I
April 1989                           1                10         FC                                    2
February 1990                       3                 8          FC/AD/RE                              2
April 1990                           1                2          PR
May 1990                            2                 7          FC/PE                                 I
?CR Prepation
September 1992                      3                 5          EC/TE/OA
FA - Financial Analyst        _B - Transport Engineer
EC - Economist                                   PE - Port Engineer
RE - Railway Engineer                            CO - Country Officer
PR - Procurement Specialist                      AD- Geneal Adminisation
LC - Legal Counsel                               PA - Port Opeations Advisor
OA - Operations Assistan



-26-
Table 3: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Section                       Description                       Saus
4.01                          KMPA shall provide audited      Complied with.
financial statements for the
organization and a separate
opinion for the statement of
expenditures by 08/31 of each
year.
4.02                          KMPA and PDMPA shall, in        Complied with.
years 1986 and thereafter, earn a
rate of return on net fixed assets
in operation of at least 5 percent
and 7 percent respectively.
Side letter                   Complete the various studies and    Complied with. For details see
implement the actions specified in   Annex 1.
the two action plans 'Financial
and Managerial" and the "Inland
Container Handling Operations."



- 27 -
Table 4: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED ANND ACTUAL DISBURSEMENT
(US$ milUon)
Semester  Ending       Appra            Actual       Actual as % of
Estimnae    _Etimae
12/31/86                 2.0              0                 0
06/30/87                18.0            10.0             55.6
12/31/87                35.0            17.4             49.7
06/30/88                50.0            33.8             67.6
12/31/88                65.0            43.1             66.3
06/30/89                80.0            68.7             85.9
12/31/89                94.0            75.0             79.8
06/30/90               106.0           103.4             97.5
12/31/90               120.0           119.6             99.7
06/30/91               133.0           130.8             98.3
12/31/91               141.0           134.5             95.4
06/30/921a     __ _ _                   134.5 _       _
Date of fial disbursement: January 15,1992
US $6.5 miHion cancelled on October 29, 1986.
/a Closing Date



-28-
Ift S: EYf  MATEDMOJIWF rCOST AT APRRALSALVS. ACFIJALE l   'mM              S
(W MilIlon)
Appraisa Estimate              Actua Expenditus
LAoa     Foreign    Total      Lcal      Foreign   Totid 
Civil Works
South Breakwater              16,581    24,872    41,453     15,235     16,732    31,967
Container Terminal &         32,479    48,714     81,193     33,565     28,426    61,991
Related Facilities
North Breakwater             22,234    33,354     55,588    20,021      25,261    45,282
Access Road & Railroad       20,421      5,128    25,549      6,115     3,388      9,503
Subtotal:                 91,715    112,068   203,783    74,936    73,807    148,743
Container Cranes                827      9,220     10,047     8,462      2,013    10,475
Transfer Cranes                 875      9,735     10,610     9,459      1,544    11,003
Mobile Equipment                 -       2,274     2,274         -       4,280     4,280
Subtntal:                  1,702    21,229    22,931      17,321     7,837    25758
Teechial Assistance
Studies & Trining             2,679      1,133     3,812         -        275        275
Subtotal:                 96,096   134,430   230,526    92,87    81,919    174,776
Value Added Tax & Customs      11,756        -      11,736        -          --        -
Duties
Physical Contingencies          4,805     6,722     11,526        -          -         -
Price Condingencies            14,541    27,109    41,650         -          -         -
Land Acquisition                   --        -          -     21,200               21,200
Grand Ttarkh             127,198   168,261   295,458    114,057   81,919"s    195,76
41 Exchange rate used for Appraisal Estimates: $1.00 = W900. Exchange rate used for Actual
Expenditures: $1.00 = W750,representing the average rate of exchange during the period that expenditures were
made.
Lb Value Added Tax, Custom Duties and Price Escalaton Costs included.
Is Direct foreign exchange expenditures. Source: KMPA



-29-
Page 1 of 2
Table 6: DETAILED PROJECT COSTS
(Thousnd Won)
Deselption                    Unit           Quantity          Amout
ProJect 1: South Breakwater
Dredging                                    m               1,106,790        4,427,160
Sand fill                                   m3                867,287        4,242,539
Quarry run rock                             m3                365,530        6,023,798
Armor stone                                  n3               121.190        4,063,514
Ttrp                                        EA                 15,308        1,530,800
Precast conCrete block                      EA                   778          740,100
Precast concrete caisson                    EA                    37         5,730,917
Cap conete                                   3                 58,593        2,579,205
Change orders                               IS                     1           761,844
Mobilization & deMObilization               LS                     1           490,414
Value added tax (VAT)                       IS                     1         1,376,563
Total                                                                     31,966.854
ProJect 2: Container Temdnal & Reat  Fadlitles
Mobilization                                                                   232,661
Constucton                                                                  56,380,327
Cost Escalation                                                              2,239,540
VAT                                                                          3,138.578
Total                                                                     61,991,106



-30-
Page 2 of 2
Description                   Unit          Quantity          Amount
Project 3: Access Road and Railroad
Earth work                                  m3               105,000          450,000
AC pavement                                 m3                20,200          593,000
PCC pavemt                                 m3                  2,940          161,700
Retaining wall                             m                     930          420,000
Marine clay dredging                       mn3               108,970          482,886
QRR type III                               m3                 51,990        1,149,943
Armor stone                                m3                  5,480          201,533
Reclamation                                                   96,000          339,165
Rail                                       m                   4,500        4,837,161
Building                                   EA                      1          867,659
Total                                                                     9,503,047
Project 4: North Breakwater
Dredging                                    m3              1,236,410       4,442,748
Sand fill                                  m3               1,005,470       5,218,389
Quarry mn rock                              m3               449,260        8,163,082
Armor stone                                 rn3              165,768        6,167,346
Terapod                                    EA                 13,571        1,810,831
Precast concrete black                     EA                  1,090          904,038
Precast concrete caisson                   EA                     50       10,490,525
Cap concrete                                m3                87,506        3,377,644
Change oiders                              LS                      1           92,906
Mobilization & demobilization              LS                      1          762,590
Escalation                                 LS                      1        1,877,917
Value added tax (YAT)                      iS                      1        1,973,685
Total                                                                    45,281,701



-31-
Table 7: OVERSEAS TRANING
Type         No. of        Govt.        Period          Place          Expenses           Courwe
Trainees     Agency                                                          Contents
Short term         2         KMPA           7/30/88 -   USA            US$7,592          Tour of US
8/14/88                                      Ports to review
port
operations,
management &
information
______________   _______________  _______________ system s
Medium             2         KMPA          10/01/89 -    Netherlands   US$5.494          Port Operation
term                                       10/30/90                    Dfl 5,620         and Coastal
Transportation
Long term          3         KMPA         9/88 - 9/91    USA, UK       US$51,677         Business
and Japan      60,026           Management,
1         EPB                                      Y 5,670,572        Fiscal Policy
and Marine
Economic
l   l   l                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Policy
___ __ __    *___   _   _   _ _ _  __  __  _ _  _ _   _ _  ___       ___  _ _  _  _ _   P lc
Others             4          Various                                  US$10,025    __ _         _        I
TOWal         _________    _________                    __________     US$279,305.67     I     _I



-32-
Table 8: IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE l_
Item                                Start                          Completion
SAR             Actual            SAR             Actual
Civil Works
South Breakwater                     July 1986        Aug 1986         Dec 1988         Nov 1989
North Breakwater                     Dec 1986         Feb 1987         Sep 1990         Nov 1990
Container Terminal                   Apr 1987         Apr 1987         Dec 1990         Feb 1992
Access Road & Railroad               July 1988        Sep 1988         Dec 1990         Jun 1993 /b
Equipment
Container Gantry Cranes              Jan 1988         Jan 1989         Dec 1990         Apr 1991
Container Transfer Cranes            Jan 1988         Jan 1989         Dec 1990         Apr 1991
Mobile Equipment                     Apr 1989         Oct 1990         Dec 1990         May 1991
La Construction of civil works or procurement of equipment. Comparison of dates estimated at time of appraisal
vs. acala dates.
lb Anticipated co_pletion date.



Table9 PORT TRAMC PROJECTIONS - PUSAN POIRT
('OOs Revenue Tons)
1991                 3896                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2003 1.~~2 @                                                      2031
g    t   ig  zLi :. L .  0  ' .   '   .    -ioi-- ST        co, TO                  wp                                             . ho: ;.  <
;,al4   3so33   0aa03    18.3           Impww   3z~oa  r,is3  _Fo4a3                      bpws   Casital   1'asal  d    ampc    up on  Coa*11   bTow               Imost   awpost  Caul 7 otoi
(StaIn        1,156              194    1.175          1,684              116    9,223          2,057        -      144    2,201          2,273        -      176   2,449          2,410       -      214      2.624
oa            1,0IS      12    9,277   10,304          1.256      18  1O,895   12,169             559       25   12,773   K4.355          1.256        -   10.S95   12.169         1.S59      25   12.71     14.355
PatI8             -       -   -             -7   1,024                           1,031              S    1,130        -    1,138              9    1.24S        -    1,257           10    1,377                1.3S7
Camen          609       56    1,717    1.382              -     110    2.761    2.873              -      127    3,764    3,891              -      153    5,000   5,1531            -      132    6.629      6.811
AhIscb e        t5        -     464       479             20       -      496      516              4        -      286      290              -        -      174     174             -        -      106        106
s8inm           16               111      127            21        -        -       21             26        -        -       26             29        *        -      29            31        -        -         31
Cog
Lumbf         1.190                -     ,190          2.710           -         2.710          3,486        -        -    3.486          3.955                     3,955         4,225        -        -      4225
mauin.    280                      -      280              -    314                314                     358        -      358              .     403               403             -      44S        -       44S
Ftal           892        -        -      892          3,118       -             3,3I8          1,287        -        -    1.287          1,484        -        -    1.484        1,63                  -       .683
oine.                                                      -                                        -                                         -        -                -             -                 -
Pbo_ph            .       .                                                                                                                   
Rock
aer Ore        397      439        -      836           621      735             1 3,356          866      846        -    1.712          3,207    1.089        -   2.296         1,686    1.422        -      3.108
Macinemy      1,976   1,348        -    3.324          2,542   4.131        -    6.673          3.423    7.090            1 30,513        4.529   11,106       -   15.635         6.062   17.282        -    23,344
Stoa          2,744   3,746     S0S   SO.5            4.380   4,t34      tll    9,225          S.366    S.OS1     9T7   11.400           5,S71    6,555    1.173   13.599        6,163    7.820    1.407     15,390
Maua
Stt4         13,97       16        -     .213          1.039      16        -    1,055           893        16              909            767       16        -      7S3           659       16        -       675
O0in         16,594  23.,15    1,478   41,887         18,290  26,874    1,856   47,020         23,596   27.226    2,915   51,M           26.931   29.398    4.324   60,653       36.761   30.888    6.310     73,959
TOA*I        27.249  27.720    9649   64S7             3.242  37.348   3U.341   84.93          40.027  41,862   17,363   99,252          48.311   49,984  21.742  120.037        61,21S   59.460   27,437    148,1461
Sourc: KMPA
4.



Table 10: PORT TRAFEIC PROJECTIONS - WHOLE COUNTRY
('0008 Revenue Toss)
'Awntz   wpmsT  Coagl  Totl             lapoil EpC    Cl    Tool                8o    &p         COstC    TOtal   I_        s     on   CoE        TOW    I      mp!   Expod   Coal    Total
Grain        9,406       5     164    9,57S         3S,034      0      44S   IS.482          8,3m        0     558  tS.930          19,995       0      660  20.S7S    -  21.514        0      V28    22.342
Oil         67.01S   9.629   60,903  137,550        92.491  17.327   83.454  18S272        115,924   14.14S   91.660  221.?19      148.409  18.623  107940  269.,S2       177,999  24.178  126.944   329.121
FM             392    356       46      794           378      30       56     464            474       30      56      S60           697       30      66      683          751       30      56        837
Fertilier      750    968      324    2.042           94S   1,143      320    2.40S          1.127    1.262    320    2,709          1,324    1,393    320   3.037          1,168    1.535    320      3.323
Cem_         7,232   1.756  21,770   30,758          2,500   5,318   27.252   34.8tJ            0    5.947   38.199   44.148            0    7,047   52.299  S8.346            0     .SSIO   71.598    30.108
AsmbacIw     1,55I      0    2.481    4.032           214       0    2.30S    2.522            41        0    1.330    1,471            0        0     810      83             0        0     494        494
Phgns   27,956    505    I.232   29.693             41,793      0    3,053   44,646         65.606       0    4,383  70.491         70,S95       0      733  7S.328        ?4,833       0   11.990    86.823
Coal
t.mr         9.3S4      52      53    9,453         133.36      0       57   13,793         17.671      0       70   17.747         20.247       0       0   20.247        21.41S       0      135    21550
S*           1.301       0       0    1,303          2,065      0       IS   2,083           2.761       0       18   2.779          3,720       0        0    3,720        4.982       0       to     5.000
Maune          116    291       98       S05           123    350      196      669            60      399      136     765            16S     450      284     699          194      SO0      340     1.015
Pdo
FPesh          917       2      56      977          1,129      5        1    1,317          1.300       6     219    1.624          1.499       5      264   1.768         1,701       5      318     2.024
Fidm
Iron Ore    29.423      0      211   29,634         37.870      0      453   38,323         42,920       0     629   43.449         52,300       0      630   S2.830       63,730       0      S30    64.760
Phosphae     1.S60      0        0    1,S60          1,760      0        0    1,760          1.939       0       0    1,939         .2.141       0       0   2,141          2.368       0       0      2.368
Rock
Odw Ore      3,307     713   1,768    5.708          5,039   1,168   3,469   9,676           7,022    1,344   4,767   13.153         9.787    1.731   6.553   18,071       13,671    2.260   9,031    24,962
Mawbiny      2.301   2,357     728    5,386          2,951   6,313    1.643   10,907         3,973   10,764    2,647   17,384        5,2S7   16.661    3,S44  25.962        7,035   26.236    S.563    38.834
loa         9,637   8,403   6,974   25.014        114.SS7  11.746   38.162   16.360        16,477   16,125   62.952   21.576       23.945   21,744   67,744  67,285       27.993   30.911   26.084    84.893
Matew
SCrp         3,729      40       3    3,772          3,238     40        0    3,278          2,782      40       0    2,822          2,390      40        0    2,430        2,064      40       0      2.094
Odhr        34.602  27.349   33,380   93,331        48,289  39,824   47,363  135,476        72,448 _3.195   74,339  197,9S3         99,36   60.915  110.275 20.57         135,131   70.876  360.974   366,983
iTota       210.546  52,426  130,193  393,365       281,084  81,20   182,039  544,308      370,872  303,609 237,972  712,453       454.470  130.940  313.450 89.660       556,844  164.032  415.223  3,137,049
Source: KMPA



Table 11: PDMPA INCOME STATEMENT (1987-91)
_(Won  mon)l
,_ :                                                                                                                                             11987  1988  19  l99o  t991
,       Itzm                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~SAP.  I Auol  SUK     I   ACO1@  SA~R  I  ASCAL  SAR                SA    I      A1Qd
Operating Revenues
Pon revenues                                            31,579   31,745      34,803     29,032    38,356    29,439    42,272    30,968    46.589    29,284
Renta revenues                                          17,296   23,186      19,062      3,444    21,008    29,340    23,153    22,836    25,517     5,828
Equipmn revenues                                           138        -        152           -       167         -       1          -       203
Subtota                                              49,015   57.1431    54.016      54,498    59,531    61,127    65,61    56.0021   72,308     37,352
Operating Expenses
Salaries                                                 1.696    1,589       1,834      1,662     1,984     1,994     2,145    2,270    2,320       2.657
Administation expenses                                   1,182    1,223       1,217      1,488     1,254     1,531     1,291     1,775    1.330      1.902
Maintenance expenses                                     1,955      942      2,384         600     2,918       604     3,498      723     4,138       548
Depreciation                                             5,008    5,323      6,471       5,317     8,453     5,811    10,618    6.453    13.568      7.507
Subtotal                                             9,842    9,077      11,907      9,067    14,609     9,940    17.553    11,221    21.356    12,614
Operating Income                                          39,171   48,066     42. 1 O   45,431    44,922    51.189    48,057    44.781    50,952    24.738
Non-Operating Income                                _                               _                                                            _
Gain on forign cuency tmanslation                            0        -          0      21,651        01    5.210         0       109         0        Is
Others                                                   4,041    3,960      4.041       5,649     4,041    7?500      4,041    5,049     4.041      5,476
Subtoal                                            4.041    3,960       4,041     27,300    14,041    12,7101   4,041      5.158    4.041      5.491
Non-Operating Expenses
Interest                                                 8,176    9,164     10.871       8,657    13,797     9.057    15,207    8.987    16,027     8.562
Loss from foreign currency                                   0   11,304          0        548         0        86         0    14.008        0      3,014
Subtotal                                           8,176   20,777     10,871       9.428    13.797     9,357    15,207    23.202    16.027    11,925
Ordinay Income                                           35,036   31.249      35,279     63,303    35,166    54,540    36,891    26.637    38,966        -
Specil Gain (Loss)                                            0    (616)          0      (2,579)        0    (4,371)       0      (246)       0    (1,006)
Net Income                                               35,036   30,633     35,279?    60,724    35.166    50,169    36,981    26.391    38,966    17,298
Source: KMPA



Table 12: PDMPA BALANCE SIEETS (1987-91)
(Won million)_
l9S7                   1988                   1989                    1990                    1991
__  _        _ _   _    SA~~~~~~R    _   ACtuW       SAR    _pAl   _  SAR             Actal        SA         Acos        SAR           ma
AETSM_
Current Asset
Accounts receivable                 4,688           3,982      5,167      2,632       5.695      1,273       6,276        218        6,377         241
Stores                                289              40       346         42         341          38         511         34          540          43
Others                                  3           5,267         3       1,614          4       5,899           5       2,585                     167
Total current assets                4,980           9,289      5,51       4,288       6,040      7,210       6,792       2,837       6.92          451
Les: current liabilities                                                         _                                 __     __  __ =____
Curent bain manes                  10,739           9,725    18,675      13,793      24,358     14,511      25,107      20,255      25,372       14.891
others                              1,777           1,819      2,362      1.931       2,998      1.427       3,305       1,745       3.483       2,5171
Total current liabilides           12,515           11,544    21.037     15.724      27,856     15,938      28,412      22,000      28,855      17,408
Working Capital                  (7,535)          -2,255   (15,520)   -11.436     (21,816)     -8,728     (21,620)    -19,163     (21.932)    -16.957            t
D ASSETS                     _
_                                 _                                              _-  ,,,          
Gross value - Land                156,245         140,865    180,647    141,588     206,885    157,431     236,495    693.357      255,291     727,346
Gross value - Odiers              140,231         130,321   181,197    135,523      236,694    146.423     297,307    204,277      379.8941    268.484
Accumulated depreciation           28.033           16,926    34,504    21,770       42,958     26,761      53,576       9,328      67,143      17,399
Net value - Other Assets          112,198         113,395    146,692    113,753     193,737    119,662     243.731    194,949      312,751     251,085
Total net fixed asses             268,443         254,260   327,339    255.341      400,622    277,093     480.226    888,306      568,042     978,431
Work in progress                   90,582          56,272    111,483    112.469     121,429    153,702      126,741    123,628      42,634      97,941
Total fixed assets                359,0251        310,532   438,8221   367,810      522,051    430,7951    610,675   1,011.934     606,967    1,076.372
THER ASSETS                             18              13         141       13          19          13          14         16           19          16
Total Assets                      351,            308,290   423,3151   356,387      500,254    422,0       585,3t.    992.787      588,762   1059.431
Labilities and Equity                                                                                   _  _
LoTg tem debt                     106,072         116,708   130,958    100,502      154,371     84,539     158,4941    108,748     152,022     110.730
Total equity                      245,437         191.582   292,357   255,885       345,883    337,541     426,867    884.0391     436,740     948,701
Total liabilities and equity      351,509|        308.2901  423.3151  356.3871    500,254    422.080|    585,3621   992.7871    588.7621  1,059.431
Source: KMPA



-3 7-
Table 13: MONITORING INDICES
Development of Financial and Managerial Functions
Need for and         Target date for       Actoal implemneamon
origin of          implementation
assistnc
Impeenin        Korea J  Forein      St1          1nd         Start        End
DEVELOPING MAIN FUNCTIONS
Commercial Accoundtn
Prepare TOR for accoundng           KMPA                X                  Ongoing      10/01/86                   10186
computedrzation
Computerizaiton umplemention plan   KMPA                X                  09/01/86    05/31/88     10/15/86    05/31/87
Obtain staffing approval            KMPA/MOGA            -                 01/01/81    06/30/89           -        09/90
Slaged implementation               DMPAs               X         -        12/31191     IV31/95     07/10/91    12/31/93
Costn Accountina
System design TOR                   KMPA                -                  Ongoing      10/01/86          -        10/86
Design cost system                  KMPA *              X        X         01/01/87    06/30/87     07/10/91    03/31/92
Initial implementation              KMPA/PCTOC          -         -        01/01/89    01/01/91                        -
Staged manual implenentation        PDMPA               X         -        01/01/89    01/01/91            -
Computerized conversion             DMPAs               X                  01/01/91     12/31/92    04/01/92    12/11/93
Manafentent Informadon System (MIS)
Submit TOR to IBRD                  KMPA                -         -        Ongoing      10/01/86          -        10/86
Evaluate existing infor..u.. ystem  KMPA                X                  09/01/86    06/01/87     10/15/86    05/31/87
Develop master plan                 KMPA                X         X        07/01/87    06/30/89     10/15/86    05/31/87
Incorporate accouting needs         KMPA                X         -        07/01/87     12/31/88    10/15/86    05/31/87
Test implementadon                  KMPA/PCTOC          X         -        01/01/89     12/31/89    10/25/89       12/91
Link systems                        DMPAs               X         -        01/01/90     12/31/95    01/04/92    Ongoing
INSrRUMEM'S
Trairing
Implement a management training     KMPA/MOT            X        X         Ongoing     06!01/88            -
program
Train senior management in computer  KMPA/MOT           X         -        06/01/87     06/01/89
applicadons
Cotaguterization
Develop a S year comnputerization   KMPA/MOGA           X        X         Ongoing         1995            -           -
program for:
Commercial accountng, budgetng.                                 -               --    03/01/89                 11/30/91
property and supply control, cost
aCcounting, strategic planning,                            -                    -                 04/01/92     12/31/93
port operadons (PORTMJS). cargo
stadstics, personnel management, etc.



-38-
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 7
STATUS OF ACTION PLANS
Acdon                                                  Results
MASIER PLAN                                   *    TORs submitted to the Bank for teview as agreed
Updating the Master Plan for Pusan Port       *    Study by KMPA started in early 1988
e    Draft report reviewed by Bank mission in December 1988
*    Final report scheduled for April 1989
*    Final report received lanuaty 1990, presented to Bank
mission in Februaty 1990; presentation included City of
Pusan Master Plan and the Master Plan for Kwangyang
Bay
a    Bank provided its comments
E   OPERATIONAL STUDES - ACTION PLAN
A. KM!4A
*    Project conducted by PCTOC
1.  nrase utilizaion of CY and CFS
*    Study completed by Woodward Clyde Consultants in 02/87
*    Bank comments provided 05/87
*    Studies conducted by American President Lines (APL) in
1986 and 1987
*    CFS opened to US flag carriers on 01/88
*    Expansion of CY started in mid-1988
*    Double cycling and new yard layout started in 1988 based
on recommendations provided by APL
*    CFS under utilized - consideraton given to making CFS
available to other foreign flagged ships
*    Staring 01/89 CFS open to all carriers
*    CFS sdll under utilized due in large part to the existence of
contracts with the various off-dock CYs
*    CY was expanded - total ground slots increased by 800 to
9,900
*    Plans made to increase ground slots by 800 to total 10,700
* Utilization of CFS still under capacity



-39-
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 7
Action                                                 Results
2.  Improve access procedures to PCTOC rail   e    Addressed in updating of Master Plan and in the revised
terninal                                       design of container terminal
a    KMI study completed in 1988 and sent to Bank in 1989
e    Considered to not be feasible in prior years, KMPA again
reviewed the issue to determine if a flyover is practicable
e    No improvement is envisaged; KMPA believes that
congestion will lessen with the full operation of the new
container terminal.
3.  Increase throughput capacity of PCTOC     *    Free time for imports and exports standardized for all
carriers at S and 4 days raspectively on 01/88
o    Increased investment in straddle carriers and transtainers
during 1988 and 1989
*    Estimated volume for 1988 is 1.22 million TEUs versus
appraisal estimate of .998 million
*    Target for maximumn stacking of 14,000 TEUs has been
achieved.
CY capacity increased from 17.500 TEUs in 1988 to over
19,000 but target level is 12,000-beyond that level,
efficiency declines
o    A ninth container crane was installed in 1989 along with
additional yard equipment referred to above
*    Gantry cmane net productivity has increased steadily from
the low of 17 in 1986 to 21.1 in 1988 and 22.4 in 1989
o Productivity of cranes declined in 1990 to 21.5 teu/hr.



-40-
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 7
Action                                                  Results
4.  Relocation of off-dock CYs to Dongmyung    *    KMI contracted to do study
*    Preliminary work and draft reports discussed with Bank
* Bank comnments on draft report were issued in 11/87 but
could not be reflected in fmnal report because contact was
over
*    Report concluded thg yards could not be eliminated until
completion of the fourth phase expansion due to the
excessive number of containers moving through the port
e    KMPA attempting, utilizing Bank's comments, to reduce
congestion in city
o    MOT considered developing an inland terminal north of
Pusan, at Yangsan, to consolidate some of the yards
located in the city
*    Decision made to incorporate Dongmyung into thind phase
CY
*    Off-dockyards will be consolidated into Yangsan ICD
(about 20 km northwest of Pusan) when completed in
1994: area, consising of 1.5 million sq m, has good mrad
and raD access
*    Decision made to construct ICD at Yangsan in May 1991:
should be operational in 1994/95, to be operated by Korea
Container Teminal Authority: decision also made to
convert Bugok into an ICD to be operated by KNR.
5.  Extend storage capacity of PCTOC           a    Study conducted by KMI
*    Draft TORs provided to Bank mission and comments
pTovided 05187
*    Revised TORs reviewed by Bank mission 11/87 and
comments included in final TORs
o    Study completed in late 1988 and copy sent to Bank in
1989
*    Inland terminal considered by MOT and the utilization of
Bugok terminal increased by KNR
*    Yangsan ICD will begin operauon in 1994/95



-4 1-
ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 7
Acdon                                                 Results
6.  Expand capacity of PTOC rail terninal     *    Issue addressed in updating of master plan
*    KMI study completed in 1988 and a copy sent to Bank in
1989
*    Starting in 1989 cut-off schedules were revised to allow
KNR an additional 10 hours of delivery time, new
procedures increased uiilizadon to 78 percent of capacity in
1989 from about 40 percent in prior years
*    No action can be taken to expand rail terminal, as
reconmend by KMI study, until third phase reaches full
operation because expansion would reduce the amount of
available CY at PCTOC
7.  Develop organizadion and managemrent plan  *    KMPA undertook study
for new terminal
*    Draft report made available for review by Bank
*    Legislation passed in 12/89 to create new company to
manage aUl container terminals in Pusan, Kwangyang Bay
and Yangsan; company formed in 04/90: company is
financially independent and reports to PDMPA: new
management and informtadon systems are being developed
starting in 1990
*    Korea Container Terminal Authority became operational in
April 1990 responsible for operations of aU national
conainer terminals: operations of the third phase termina l
was awarded to a consortium of private stevedoring firms
in Pusan and PCTOC
B. KNR                                        *    12 trains including one irregular train are operating per
day per direction
1. Increase speed and frequency of trains
between Seoul and Pusan                  *    Train speed improvement of 90 km/h as of October 5.
1990
*    Increased frequency of container cars from 18 trains to 22
trains a day as of August 20, 1992
2.  Improve access to Pugok for all shippers  a    Pugok container yard is open to all capable shippers. At
present 18 companies are using yard
3.  Improve utilization of Pugok CFS          *   One CFS is being operated by Saebang Company
4.  Use PCTOC Rail Terminal to formn and      *    Udlization of Rail Terminal increased to 78 percent of
receive all Seoul container trins             capacity in 1989 from about 40 percent in previous years
5.  Integrate Pugok and PCTOC using some      *    This is being implemented as a part of the OIS project
computerzed system



-42-
ANNEX1
Page 5 of 7
Action                                                Results
6.  Further increase train length             e    The length of container train (regular) was increased from
22 cars beginnng in May 1990
*    When the extension of passing loops (19 stations in
Kyongbu line) from 500 mn to 630 m is completed at the
end of 1993, it will be possible to increase the length of
container trains from 25 cars to 30 cars.
7.  Daily roundtrip                           e    Container trains usually operating at night
a    Daily roundtrip will be possible after construction of
_Kyongbu High Speed Line
8.  Reinforce loading and unloading equipment at   *    5 transtariers, 26 top handlers and 24 forklifts are being
Pugok and PCTOC                               operated
9.  Others                                             Present charging system (Pugok-Pusanjin):
a. Inprove charging system
Classificatn                                       45                40                  20
.__________________________________________  loaded   empty   loaded   empty    loaded    empty
Basic rate (unit won)                              245,23   130,79   224,21   112,100   112,100   56,050
0        0        0
1 5               Is
Discounti) g                             UP        15       *'20     15       *20        15        *20
*    20% discoum of basic rate in case of the contracted traffic
over 15,000 ton in a year (Only down empty container)
b.   Construction of access to railroad at Pusan Port
a    'Me rail entrance between Pugok and Pusanjin is under
construction by KMPA
*    Operate average 6 tains a day between Pugok and PCTOC
C. By KMIPA and KNR                           *    Detailed designs being prepared by KMPA
1.  Improve road aceess to on-dock and       *    Funding for land acquisition approved
Dongmyung CYs
*    Road to open in late 1991 or early 1992
o    Funding provided by EPB. procurement under LCB
*    Construction started in May 1989 with completion date of
late 1991
2.  Re iue interference at entrance to PCTOC  *    Determination mnade by PDMPA and city that proposed
changes are not possible
o    No furtetr actions planned



-43-
ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 7
Action                                                  Results
3.  Design and implement management and        o    KMI study contpleted in 1988. sent to Bank in 1989
marketing system for container services of
KNB, PCTOC and new terminal                e    No actions taken, limited coordinadon between KMPA and
KMI; issue discussed with both agencies and MOT;
mission recommendeda Special Committee be formed by
MOT in 1990 to address issues related to improving the
transportation information system.
Im. FINANCIAL AND MANAGERIAL ACTION                  o    Work by KAIST and Ahn Kwon
PLAN
o    System design scheduled for 12-15 months
1. Commercial Accounting
e    Project originaly scheduled for mid-1990
*    Project bas been postponed-lack of funding due to
reduction in 1989 budget is one reason for delay-other is
lack of interest
*    Govemment is &onsidering requiring that KMPA use
commercial accounting-this would help the component.
Otherwise this item is not very attive to a govemment
agency
*    EPB has decided to postpone this component work will
resume startng in about 1996; delay is due to budgetaty
limitation
*    No further actions planned untl budget is made avaiable
2.  Cost Accounting                            *    Design of the mamua system by Ahn Kown and the
computerization by KAIST
*    Work being directed towatd headquarters level and not at
the terminal opemting companues
*    Design of manual system completed and submitted to
KMPA for review-modifications to tbe system. Tmaining
and use of mansual system started in 1989
*    Design of computerized system will be done in conjunction
with the commercial accounting system-this work being
postponed due to budgeary problems
*    Consideration being given to providing PCTOC with the
necessaty budget to modify this system so that it can be
used at the operating level
*    Plans for work at PCTOC postponed due to the decision to
create a new container operating company; CM?A agrees
to continue this project as part of the new information
system for the operating companies (see item 11 A 7)
    Work on the system in KMPA will be postponed until
1996 to coincide with tde computenzatikn of the
accountig system



-44-
ANNEX .
Page 7 of 7
Acon                        |                           Results
3.  Management Information System              o    Working by KMI and KAIST
*    Detailed design of PORTMIS completed by KAIST and
KMA
o    Development of the system stated in 1989.
o    Implementation at Pusan to be done before being
implemented at the other major ports
o    System is not completed in that it does not address the
infoniation tequirements of many of the port operations
such as the operating terminals
*    Completion of Phase I of PORTMIS started in 1991-it
consists of connecting three smaller ports into the systems
at PDMPA-completion scheduled for 1993
*    Implementation of the vessel management system started at
PDMPA in 01/90, implementation of cargo management
system started at PDMPA in 07/90
*    Work on the two remaining systems completed in 1990 and
unplemetiation at PDMPA started in late 1990
*    Plans are for the final three legs to be completed by 2000;
delay is due to budget restrictions
IV. CONSMUCTION SUPERVISION                         *    Korean Engineering Consultants Corporation (KECC) is
the prime contractor but will use foreign staff when special
expertise is needed
*    Agreement was reached with foreign consultans - Plannng
Research Corporation (PRC) and personnel were assigned



