Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6084-Ko
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
April 25, 1986
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
Transportation Division
This document has a restricted distributicn and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit     =    Won
US$1              =    Won 900
Won 100           -    US$0.111
Won 1,000,000     =    US$1,111
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                     =    3.28 feet (ft)
1 square meter (32)            =    10.76 square feet (f 2)
1 cubic meter (m )              -    35.29 cubic feet (ft )
i kilometer (km)                =    0.62 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)        =    0.39 square miles (sq mi)
1 hectare (ha)                  =    2.47 acres (ac)
I metric ton (mt)                    1,000 kilograms (kg)
or 2,240 pounds (lb)
I revenue ton (rt)              =    on average approximately
600 kg or 1322.4 lb
ABBREVIATIONS
ADB    -  Asian Development Bank
CFS    -  Container Freight Station
CY     -  Container Yard
DMPA   -  District Maritime and Port Authority
dwt    -  deadweight tons
EPB    -  Economic Planning Board
GNP    -  Gross National Product
GOK    -  Government of Korea
GRT    -  Gross Registered Tonnage
KMI    -  Korean Maritime Institute
KMPA   -  Korean Maritime and Port Administration
KNR    -  Korean National Railroad
MLW    -  Mean Low Water
MOA    - Ministry of Agriculture
MOC    - Ministry of Construction
MOF    - Ministry of Finance
MOHA   -  Ministry of Home Affairs
MOT    - Ministry of Transportation
NFA    -  National Fisheries Administration
PCTOC  -  Pusan Container Terminal Operating Conmpany
PDMPA  -  Pusan District Maritime and Port Authority
PPCO   -  Pusan Port Construction Office
TCMC   -  Transport Coordination Minister's Conference
TEU    -  Twenty Foot Container Equivalent Unit
TOC    -  Terminal Operating Company



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY.............................. ......         v
I* THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .........................................1
A.  Geographic and Economic Setting..........................          1
B.  The Transport System .....................................        1
C.  Transport Sector Objectives and Issues in the 1980s ......        3
D.  The Bank's Role in the Sector.***........................         4
E.  Previous Bank-Assisted Projects...*......................         5
(I.  THE PORT AND SHIPPING SUBSECTOR ............................. .       6
A.  Traffic and Port Capacity.. ........*** ..........*.              6
B.  Maritime Transport and the Fleet ..................*......        7
C.  Port and Shipping Development Plans ....................   7
D.  Port Organization .........................to........             9
E.  Management, Staff and Training.......  ..................        10
F.  Port Operations and Maintenance .............. .............     10
C.  Financial Objectives, Tariffs and Costs*.*..*......a*...         10
H.  Budget, Accounting and Audit.*             ........    *as*      12
III.  PUSAN PORT ............................    13
A.  Organization and Staffing ..... ..............                   13
B.  Existing Facilities.......**...................4....a........    13
C.  Operations.&** ........... . .......... .*.*  ...........    14
D.  Pusan as Korea's Hub Container Port .............. * ........    14
E.  Proposed Port Development#*    ......      ................      15
F.  Inland Container Handling Operations.....................        15
IV. THE PROJECT .........................   .0.0 ....................      16
A. Objectives ............ .0.0.*.4 ..................to............  16
B.  Project Descrition  .......         .........*et....... *.       17
C.  Cost Estimats ..........................                          18
D. FLinancing ..............+ , .........                             19
This report is based on the findings of a November 1985 appraisal mission to
Korea comprising Messrs. A. F. Ballereau (Mission Leader), I. Mobarek (Port
Engineer), E. Jaimes (Financial Analyst), W. K. Cho (Economist), J. Newman
(Port Engineer, Consultant) and W. Thompson (Railway Specialist, Consultant).
Thbs document has a festricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not othrwisc be disclsedo without World Bnk autboriation.



-ii -
Page No.
E.  Implementation ... ......... ... .6 - o6666  .... #66666*6 *..   .... 20
F. *rcrmn ............... .. ..., .... ........ 6~9......... .... ..  20
G.  Status of Preparation...... ..... .....................          21
H.  Disbursements                  ...........                       22
I.  Environmental I cp                      a       c      t         22
T.  Evaluation, Monitoring & Completion Report...............        23
V. EC')NOMIC EVALUATION.... 666666*...*............ ,* 666666666 .  23
A.  Present and Future Traffic ........                              23
B.  Operations Without and With Project.............. e              24
C.  Costs and  eefits..                                              25
D.  Overall Economic Evaluation and Riskss             ks.....       25
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE .................................... ..       26
A.  PDMPA Past Performance (1983-85) ........                        26
B.  Current Position and P1ansn s......*....... . .......            27
C.  Future Performance (1986-92) ..................                  27
D.  Sensitivity Aaa                 l     y     s     i     s        29
VII.   AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS.............        29
ANNEXES
1.  Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
2.  Past Five-Year Transport Development Plans and Bank Involvement (1962-81)
3.  Tentative Cost Estimates for KNR Component
4.  Training and Technical Assistance
5.  Letter of KMPA and KNR Introducing the Two Action Plans
6.  Proposed Government Action Plan to Improve KMPA's Financial and Managerial
Functions
7.  Proposed Government Action Plan to Improve Korea's Inland Container
Handling
TABLES
1.1   Growth Trend of Domestic Freight Traffic (1966-84)
1.2   Growth Trend of Domestic Passenger Traffic (1966-84)
1.3   Forecast for Domestic Freight Transport (1980-86)
1.4   Forecast far Domestic Passenger Transport (1980-86)
1.5   Demand for International Transport (1980-86)
1.6   Comparison of Investment Plans (1977-81 and 1982-86)
2.1   Korean Ports System (1985)
2.2   Ports Cargo Handling Capacity (1961-84)
2.3   Korean Ports Cargo Traffic (1961-84)
2.4   Korean Ports Traffic and Forecast by Major Commodities (1980-86)



- iii -
2.5    Industrial Ports Capacity (1984)
3.1    Existing Berths at Pusan
3.2    Korea's Container Traffic by Ports and Direction (1976-84)
3.3    Throughput of Containers by Off-Dock Container Yards in the
Pusan Area, 1984
3.4    Korea's Container Traffic by Content and Direction (1976-84)
3.5    Pusan Container Traffic by Content and Direction (1976-84)
3.6    Origin/Destination of Container Traffic by Region, in 1983
3.7    Containers Handled by KNR between Pusan and Seoul (Pugok), 1985
4.1    Project Cost Summary
4.2    Project Cost Estimates (US$)
4.3    Project Cost Estimates (Won)
4.4    Cumulative Disbursement Schedule
5.1    Pusan Port Traffic by KMPA (1975-2001)
5.2    Pusan Port Traffic and Forecasts by Kiri-Sekwang (1975-2001)
5.3    Pusan General Cargo Traffic Forecast (1983-2001)
5.4    Pusan Container Traffic - Actual and Forecasts by Port Areas
(1983-2001)
5.5    Container Ship Movements at Pusan, 1984
5.6    Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
5.7    Cargo Handling Without and With Proposed Berths
5.8    Economic Benefits
5.9    Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
6.1    PDMPA Income Statement (1983-92)
6.2    PDMPA Sources and Application of Funds (1983-92)
6.3    PDMPA Balance Sheet (1983-92)
6.4    PDMPA Investment Plan (1983-92)
6.5    Data and Assumptions Used in the Financial Projections (1983-92)
CHARTS
1.  kIMPA Organization
2.   PDMPA Organization
3.   Implementation Schedule
MAPS
IBRD 19536: Korea Transport Network
IBRD 19232: Pusan Port



- iY -
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Korea
Beneficiary:     Korea Maritime and Port Administratinm (IMPA)
Amount:          US$141 million equivalent
Terms:           Fifteen years, including three years of grace, at the
standard variable interest rate.
Project
Description:   The project would improve capacity by constructing additional
specialized container berths at Pusan port. The project
would also reduce congestion in the city of Pusan by
providing an on-dock storage area to replace storage areas in
the city (Off-Dock CYs). It will meet the Government's
objective of increasing the efficiency and reducing the costs
of container handling and inLand transportation. It will
also improve management and fin.;ncial control over ports'
activities and will strengthen port planning capabilities.
Specifically, the project would: (a) increase capacity by
construction of 1,704 meters of breakwater, a 3 berth con-
tainer terminal with the required infrastructure and utili-
ties and provision of the necessary container handling equip-
ment; (b) improve the rail capacity by providing equipment
for rail cars; (c) provide training for port planners and
technical assistance to: (i) study and implement measures to
improve financial management; (ii) update the Master Plan for
Pusan port; (iii) carry out studies to improve existing
container operations, define the management and operating
rules for the proposed terminal, improve container distri-
bution systems in Korea, and the port access to the express-
way; (iv) study relocation of Off-Dock CYs in Pusan area to a
proposed on-dock CY; and (d) implement two Action Plans, one
to strengthen KMPA's financial and managerial functions and
the other to address the rationalization of container
handling and distribution in Korea.
Risks:           There are no unusual risks associated with the project in
that all components involve proven technology that has been
in extended use in Korea and in other parts of the world.
The only risk involves possible delays in project completion
if there is a shortage in local currency.



v 
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign       Total
---------Us$ million    -----
Civil Works                                 101.9        124.5       226.4
Equipment for container handling-             1.9         23.6        25.5
Technical assistance                          3.0          1.3         4.3
Base Cost                              106.8       149.4        256.2
Customs duties and value added tax           13.1           -         13.1
Physical contingencies                        5.3          7.5        12.8
Price contingencies                          16.2         30.0        46.2
Total Project Cost                       141.3       187.0        328.3
Financing Plan:
Bank loan                                      -         141.0       141.0
Government                                  141.3         46.0       187.3
Total                                    141.3        187.0       328.3
Estimated Disbursement:
Bank PY                 1987    3988    1989    1990    1991       1992
3------           =S$ million-- -----…     -  -
Annual                  18      32       30      26       27        8
Cumulative              18      50       80     106      133      141
Rate of Return: 35Z
Maos: IBRD 19232 and IBRD 19536



KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
I.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Settin;
1.01      The Republic of Korea has a land area of 98,500 km2, ablut 70X of
which is mountainous. Agriculture is confined to about 22,600 km , or only
23% of the total area, mainly in the river valleys, lower hillsides and
coastal plains. The climate is seasonal with very cold dry winters and hot
humid summers. Annual rainfall averages 800 mm to 1,400 mm with about 60%
falling between June and September. The land mass is drained by a well
developed river system with seasonal variations in flow which cause frequent
flooding. The rugged terrain, extensive river system and severe winter climate
make the construction of transport facilities, particularly roads, difficuit
and costly.
1.02      The population is presently estimated at about 40 million and is
gr?wing at an annual rate of 1.7%   Population density is estimated at 388 per
km  of total area or 1,702 per kmA of agricultural land.  Urban population is
estimated to be growing at an annual rate of 4.6% and has increased from 40.7Z
of the total in 1970 to 55.9% in 1982. The increasing urban population has
created significant transport demand in the areas around the cities and
industrial centers and between them, particularly in the Seoul-Pusan (Kyongbu)
Corridor.
1.03      Korea's export-led industrialization has been among the most suc-
cessful examples of economic development in recent history. During 1962-78,
real GNP grew by 10% p.a. and per capita income more than tripled in real
terms.  After a brief but serious recession in 1979-81, the Korean economy
appears to have recovered its growth momentum, with real GNP increasing by
9.5% in 1983 and 7.6Z in 1984, although it slowed down to 5.01 in 1985.
Coupled with industrialization and urbanization, major developments and
changes in the transportation sector complemented and supported the transfor-
mation of Korea's economy. Passenger traffic tripled between 1962 and 1971
and tripled again by 1984; freight increased nine times and five times respec-
tively during the same periods.
Bo The Transport System
1.04      Throughout much of the past 20 years, the transport system has been
strained by the demands of rapid growth and has required massive public sector
investments in transport infrastructure. The Government allocated up to 23%
of its total capital expenditure to expand and modernize transport infrastruc-
ture from 1967 to 1977 tapering down to about 15% in the Fourth (1977-81) and
Fifth Plans (1982-86). Investments have been concentrated on the Seoul-Pusan
axis where most industrial development is taking place and on other corridors
serving the northeastern and southeastern parts of Korea.



2-
1.05      Substantial changes in the modal distribution of traffic are
illustrated by traffic statistics for the 1966 to 1984 period (Tables 1.1 and
1.2).  For freight traffic, the road and coastal shipping shares increased
from 8X to 36% and from 10% to 271, respectively while movements by rail,
although showing growth in absolute terms, fell from 81% of total ton-km to
321. These changes reflect both the economic advantages of the various modes
and the different growth rates of the industries served, as rail and coastal
shipping became concentrated on long distances and bulk commodities while road
transport handled the short distances and more general cargo. For passenger
traffic, rapidly expanding personal incomes generated large increases in
personal travel, mainly by public transport such as express trains and
buses. High taxation of private cars and gasoline has limited motorization to
a level signiricantly below that of other countries with income levels
comparable to those of Korea. Between 1966 and 1984, the rail share of total
passenger-km fell from 42Z to 22% while the road share increased from 56% to
75% over the same period.
1.06      The Government of Korea's (GOK) basic objective in the past has been
to increase the capacity of the transport system in line with projected
traffic growth and to avoid major bottlenecks. This objective has been
largely achieved. The present system is reasonably well balanced and there is
little uneconomic allocation of traffic among the various modes. Investments
in transportation have been linked to broader concerns in Korea's spatial and
economic planning. For example, considerable efforts have been made to
develop new indust-ial complexes in coastal areas, to take advantage of
Korea's natural potential in harbors, and to exploit low-cost coastal shipping
while avoiding excessive congestion on road and rail. Similarly, in its
efforts to ensure that appropriate development priorities were reflected in
the allocation of scarce transportation resources among the competing claims,
the Government has tightly regulated the sector, with a restrictive licensing
system and administered pricing for all transport activities. These tight
regulations, which have not always enhanced efficiency in transport, are under
review.
1.07      Large investments in transportation infrastructure have been com-
plemented by a considerable effort to improve the efficiency of the transpor-
tation system, through the establishment and strengthening of institutions to
plan, construct, maintain and operate the facilities and services. In the
public sector, institutions such as the Korean National Railroad (KNR), the
Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) in the Ministry of Construction (MOC), the Korea
Highway Corporation (KHC), and the Korea Maritime and Port Administration
(KMPA) have been established or strengthened, in many instances with
increasing financial and managerial responsibility. In the private sector, a
highly efficient contractor system has evolved for civil works which reflects
both the insistence -on competitive bidding in the award of contracts as a
matter of policy and the large volume of construction that has been carried
out in Korea during the past 20 years. There are now some 500 firms capable
of handling a broad range of public works. Furthermore, with government
encouragement, the major construction firms have successfully expanded their
construction activities overseas; in 1981, Korean contractors won overseas
contracts valued at over US$13 billion, though due to adverse international
conditions, new orders dwindled to less than half this amount by 1985.



-3-
1.08      Details on development of the transport system during the-last four
Five-Year Investment Plans (1962-81) together with the Bank's involvement in
the sector are given in Annex 2.
C. Transport SecLor Objectives and Issues in the 1980s
1.09      Objectives* The Government's main goals for the transport sector as
stated in the Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan (FFYP)
(1982-86) are to: (a) selectively increase transport capacity by modernizing
equipment and optimizing investments in the sector; (b) enhance transport
efficiency by improving intermodal traffic allocation and conserving energy;
and (c) strengthen :aintenence activitieso A new emphasis to be set as part
of the Sixth Plan (1987-91) will concern the promotion of a more balanced
regional development, by encouraging growth outside the largest cities,
1.10      These FFYP goals have been appropriate and timely and are still
valid fer the future. Although recovery from the 1979/81 recession was
completed by 1984 when the GNP growth rate was 7.5% and inflation down to
3% p.a., new signs (GNP growth reached 5.5% in 1985) indicate that the growth
for the medium term is likely to be more modest than during the 1970s. The
recent economic slowdown has led to postponing investments planned to improve
further transport capacity and quality of service which now need to be more
closely adjusted to the actual growth of traffic for each mode. These delays
resulted also from constraints in the capacity of the public sector to finance
the necessary transport infrastructure improvements due to both budgetary
limitations and the Government's policy of limiting foreign borrowings.
1.11      Nevertheless, the FFYP projection for an average GNP growth rate of
7.6% p.a. over the period 1982-86 is likely to be achieved. Tie corresponding
increase in transport demand estimated at about 47 billion pas,enger-km and
10 billion ton-km, respective'ly 50% and 30% over the Fourth Plan Period
(Tables 1.3, 1.4 and 1.5), might also be reached. However, investments in
transportation (public and private) have increased less than the 45% origi-
nally planned. These would have amounted to some US$16.3 billion, calculated
at 1980 prices and exchange rates; revised actual expenditures data are not
available. Investments in subways and aviation will have absorbed a larger
fraction of the total as will road vehicles and ships, lea-ing investments in
the railway system, road and port infrastructure to increase by less than 20%
over Fourth Plan outlays (Table 1.6).
1.12      Issues.  The last major Bank transport sector review mission
analyzed the transport investments proposed under the Fifth Plan and attempted
to identify the main policy and institutional issues impeding efficiency in
the sector. The Transport Sector Issues Survey Report (No. 4423-KO dated
December 27, 1983) concluded that, although most of the transport investments
proposed under the Plan pursued development priorities which were appropriate,
considerably more could be done to increase the productivity of existing
facilities and equipment. With the increasingly complex traffic patterns and
higher traffic densities, the growing requirements for maintenance of the
expanded system, and the need to conserve energy, the mission foresaw an even
greater need to maxinize efficiency in this capital intensive sector. The
report identified three main areas requiring specific attention in the



-4-
current, more demanding economic environment: (a) plannsing, (b) regulation
and pricing, and (c) energy conservation. Bank-assisted projects currently
under implementation are addressing these issues and progress so far is
satisfactory.
1.13      In the port/shipping subsector, a number of specific sector reviews
were carried out by the Bank to assist the Government in identifying measures
to optimize the operational efficiency of the shipping fleet and to refine the
investment strategy for major fishing and container ports. A Survey on the
Prospects and Strategy for the Development of the Korean Shippirl, Industry,
issued in January 1985, was carried out following recent %'vernment-induced
mergers of shipping companies (para. 2.04) to avoid major bank:uptcies in the
industry. The report assesses shipping routes and type of trade, makes
suggestions on the focus of future development and proposes a strategy to
consolidate or promote profitable activities and scale down obsolete ones,
including scrapping old vessels. A Sector Report on Planning for Fishing Port
Development was prepared in March 1986; it advises a consolidated approach to
planning in order to concentrate development and improvement to few selected
fishing ports with potential rather than to spread public investment in
developing and expanding systematically most of the existing fishing ports.
Another Sector Report on Container Port Site Selection and Regional
Development, prepared in March 1986, compared the merits of alternative sites
and concluded that locating container facilities elsewhere than Pusan would
reduce its attraction to shipping lines as Korea's main hub port while having
little effect in generating regional development at the main alternative site
which was the Kwang-yang Bay area on the southeastern coast.
D. The Bank's Role in the Sector
1.14      The Bank's policy dialogue is being strengthened through the
increasing emphasis on sector and subsector work directly linked to transport
lending in Korea. This new approach was initiated in 1984 with a Highway
Sector Project (Ln. 2392-KO) which helped to deepen and broaden the Bank's
involvement in the road subsector by extending assistance to the Ministries of
Construction (MOC), of Home Affairs (MOHA), of Transport (MOT) and of Energy
and Resources (MOER). This project is providing a framework for these
agencies to improve their planning and coordination and to conserve energy and
somewhat deregulate land transporL; preparation of a second highway subsector
loan is underway. For railways, the Bank has traditionally made sector type
loans, financing time slices of KNR's investment plans. The recently approved
Seoul/Pusan Corridor Project (Ln. 26OC-KO) continues this involvement for the
duration of the 1982-86 Fifth Plan. For ports, Bank assistance has been
directed at the modernization and expansion of facilities to support Korea's
export-led development. Containerization was introduced at Pusan under two
previous port prcjects (Lns. 917-KO and 1401-KO) and would be developed
further under the proposed project. It would be another opportunity for the
Bank to support government policy measures aimed at increasing the efficiency
of container handling and further strengthening KMPA's progress in institution
building, primarily to improve the management and finances of the port
subsector.



-5-
1.15      Besides these subsector operations, the Bank is assisting the
Government in developing multi-modal projects. The first was the Coal and
Cement Distribution Project (Ln. 2267-KO) approved in 1983, involving rail-
ways, ports and inland terminals. This would be followed by projects directed
toward increasing the capacity of the transport system in certain high
priority areas and corridors. In particular, a multimodal transport study for
the Kyonggi Region is underway to identify priorities in strengthening the
expressway and suburban rail networks to meet the very high transport demand
in the suburbs of Seoul. The complementarity of the various modes will be
promoted by developing interconnecting terminals to optimize the use of this
suburban transport network. Another multimodal transport study was carried
out from 1983 to 1985 to review the feasibility of a high speed rail line in
the Seoul-Pusan transport corridor. This study resulted in the 1985 Seoul-
Pusan Corridor Project (Ln. 2600-KO) as a first step to increase rail capacity
through an improved signalling system. Subsequent steps might include the
construction of a high speed train that would run on a separate, dedicated
track together with the related improvement of road transport to provide
transport complementarity between rail and road. A third possible study now
being suggested to Government could address the need to modernize the
transport network in the southern coastal region to Unk Mokpo-Sunchon-Masan
to Pusan-Ulsan-Pohang in the east, where most heavy industries are concen-
trated and Kwangju, the Cholla Nam Region capital, in the west. The study
could include the feasibility of a new port at Kwang-yang Bay and of road and
rail links to the hinterland.
E. Previous Bank-Assisted Projects in Transport
1.16      The Bank's past involvement in the transport sector has been sub-
stantial. Since 1962, the Bank Group assisted KNR through nine railway
projects amounting to US$501 million, MOC and MORA through six highway
projects amounting to US$690 million and KHPA through two port projects
amounting to US$147 million. KNR and KMPA were also assisted through a mv'-ti-
modal project amounting to US$122 million. Of these seventeen projects,
thirteen have been completed. Project Completion Reports and Project
Performance and Audit Reports have been issued on many projects which in
general have been quite successful in upgrading transport infrastructure and
strengthening the institutions in charge. Recent operations are concentrating
on more intensive use of existing facilities, more efficient maintenance and
on transport investment policies that seek to develop complementarity between
the modes of transport.
1.17      The Bank has helped finance three projects in the ports subsector.
A Project Performance Audit Report (No. 5756) was issued on the first two
projects. The First Port Project (Ln. 917-KO) of June 27, 1973 provided
US$80.0 million for development of coal and cement berths at Mukho poart as
well as for a two berth container terminal at Pusan and was satisfactorily
completed in August 1979. The project also provided the framework for a
reorganization of all Korean ports, the establishment of KMPA and extensive
institution building. The Second Port Project (Ln. 1401-KO) of April 28, 1977
provided US$67.0 million for a 2-berth expansion to the container £.acility at
Pusan and continued institution building within KMPA. Completion of the
project in March 1983 enabled Pusan port (and Korea as a whole) to implement



an effective containerization program which attracts mainline ships, reduces
handling costs and expedites the flow of cargo. The ongoing Coal and Cement
Distribution Project (Ln. 2267-KO) of April 29, 1983 provided about
US$21.6 million to improve the handling and distribution of coal at Inchon
port. Implementation has been slow due to a declining demand for coal imports
and this project component required to be redefined.
1.18      Lessons learned under the first and second port projects include the
need for detailed operating plans for facilities created under the projects,
and the need to better estimate the difficulty of implementing major institu-
tional changes. The designs for two Action Plans included in the proposed
project arose out of these lessons. For example, the further improvement of
financial and management functions required to search for a better way to
arrive at a consensus on institutional development plans and objectives and
ways to implement them. Previously, Institutional development objectives and
matching target dates had been set withtout detailed analysis of the steps in
the protess needed to achieve them. This led to subsequent difficulties both
in translating the objectives into specific tasks and in trying to gauge the
steps required to complete the tasks; the result was a slow, difficult imple-
mentation experience. The proposed Plan attempts to rectify this by mapping
out intermediate steps and actions required as well as ways for monitoring and
guiding the process. Similarly, the current underutilization of the rail
terminal, CY and CFS at Pusan led to the proposed container handling Action
Plan which is aimed at defining clearly the steps and actions required for
improving the rules and procedures now governing the usage of these
facilities.
II. THE PORT AND SHIPPING SUBSECTOR
A. Traffic and Port Capacity
2.01      Korea's export-oriented industrialization policy coupled with its
need to import raw materials with which it is poorly endowed have placed
increasing demands on maritime transport. Port infrastructure and the vessel
fleet have therefore been rapidly expanded, and Korea now has 46 general or
commercial ports with 60.6 million metric tons (mt) of stevedoring capacity
per year and 12 industrial ports with 52.1 million mt capacity. In addition,
there are some 400 fishing ports and 1,400 other wharfs without basic facili-
ties (Tables 2.1 and 2.2).
2.02      Total cargo  uove-ment, including seagoing and coastal freight,
increased by 11.4% p.a. in the Third Plan (1972-76), 8.4% in the Fourth Plan
(1977-81) and 8.1% during 1982-84, the first three years of the Fifth Plan.
Seagoing freight traffic through Korean ports reached over 75 million metric
tons (mt) in 1984 compared to 5.1 million mt in 1966, while coastal freight
reached 37.8 million mt compared to 2.8 million mt over the same period,
increasing respectively at 16.2% and 15.7% p.a. (Table 2.3). In 1984, the
most important commodity shipped was petroleum representing about 30% of the
total 114 million mt through Korean ports, followed by containers and break-
bulk general cargo with 10% each, and by iron/steel, iron ore and cement with
about 7% each (Table 2.4). These increases created serious port congestion.
Both Pusan, the biggest port handling 30% of the country's external trade, and



7-
Inchon, the port nearest Seoul, required urgent expansion, and a large con-
tainerization program was starte.. Industrial development on the east and
south coasts prompted the creation of specialized ports -at Pukpyong for
cement, Pohang for steel mill input and output, Ulsan for refineries and
petrochemicals, Onsan for a refinery and nonferrous metal industries, Changwon
for industrial machinery and Samil (Yosu) for fertilizer and petrochemicals
(Table 2.5).
2.03      In spite of these recent developments, further efforts are required
to expand port capacities and to improve port handling operations which remain
costly 'or some cargo categories at ce.tain ports.  In 1984, the ports' capa-
cities, measured by the stevedoring throughput of each port, showed an aggre-
gate deficit of 12.0 million mt, comprising a 22.4 million mt net deficit for
general ports and a 10.4 million mt surplus for industrial ports. One half of
the general ports' capacity shortage is concentrated in Pusan. To make up for
the present deficit, lightering and labor-intensive cargo handling methods are
used. The situation has improved with the completion, in 1983, of the Pusan
port's second phase expansion, financed by the Bank under the Second Port
Project (Ln. 1401-KO), and the expansion of Inchon port financed by the Asian
Development Bank (ADB).
B. Maritime Transport and the Fleet
2.04      Korea's shipping industry has expanded very fast and is becoming a
major foreign exchange earner which the Government wants to develop further.
However, the financial results for most companies have been poor because of
low and declining shipping tariffs, brought about by sharp competition and
more efficient ships. In 1984, the Government initiated a massive merger of
68 shipping companies into 20 in an attempt to avoid a series of bankruptcies
which would have been a severe blow to a dynamic but somewhat inexperienced
industry. The Bank has provided assistance to Korea in analyzing the
prospects and proposing a strategy to return the industry to a sound footing
(pars. 1.13). In 1984, with a tonnage of 6.5 million gross registered tons
(GRT) including 0.3 million GRT of coastal vessels, the fleet ranked fifteenth
in the world. Annual receipts from ocean freight increased from US$425
million in 1976 to US$2.3 billion in 1984 or about 9% of the country's foreign
exchange receipts; meanwhile, Korea's flagships increased their share of total
national ocean cargo from 39% in 1976 to 50% in 1980, a share maintained until
now. This is particularly high; in comparison, Japanese vessels carried about
40% of Japan's imports and 23% of exports in 1981.
2.05      In 1984, the coastal shipping fleet numbered 513 ships, totaling
320,000 GRT, and varying in size from less than 100 to over 10,000 GRT.
CGoastal shipping has an important role to play as Korea's cheapest domestic
transport. In 1984, it moved 27% of bulk traffic compared to 10% in 1966.
This traffic consisted mainly of coal, cement and oil. Cargo movement grew at
7.22 p.a. from 4.6 billion ton-km in 1971 to 10.6 in 1983.
C. Port and Shipping Development Plans
2.06      The expansion of Korea's foreign trade and coastal shipping will
continue to require major increases in its vessel fleet, port facilities and



-8-
trained seamen. Forecasts prepared by KMPA for seagoing traffic assume an
8.2% p.a. growth over the Fifth Plan period, only slightly higher than the
7.5% expected annual GCP growth, and 7.2% over the Sixth Plan. This compares
to the 12% to 16X p.a. growth rates recorded in the 1970s.
2.07      To cope with the expected traffic growth, policy directions under
the FFYP emphasized the need to:
(a)  increase the fleet size and strengthen Korean shipping business to
maintain or raise its 50% share of the transport market for exported
goods;
(b)  intensify cooperation with other major world shipping lines to
develop new routes and container services;
(c,  promote coastal shipping to improve access to isolated islands and
to increase coastal freight transport;
(d)  modernize and expand port facilities and promote operational
efficiency; and
(e)  develop training to raise the quality and availability of seamen.
2.08      To support these objectives, an investment program of W 2,655 bil-
lion (US$4.3 billion) was recommended under the FFYP, including US$1.6 billion
in foreign currency. Some ET 2,080 billion or 80% were to be invested by the
private sector, primarily fer ships, and W 578 billion by the Government,
mainly for port construction and improvement, maintenance and dredging, and
for training institutes. The development plan for the general and industrial
ports was to increase capacity from 95 million mt in 1982 to about 124 mt by
end 1986. The Fifth Plan, however, was revised in end-1983 to account for the
slower economic activity, and investments planned by KMPA were reduced by
about W 100 billion over the plan by extending construction periods and
changing priorities. MOC and National Fisheries Administration (NFA) invest-
ments were also trimmed.
2.09      The main port investments now being implemented are for Inchon port,
amounting to some W 153 billion, including US$64 million in foreign exchange
being financed by ADB. A further W 43 billion, including US$21 million in
foreign exchange financed by the Bank under the Coal and Cement Distribution
Project (Ln. 2267-KO), are allocated to construct a coal terminal outside the
port. Inchon is expected to handle more container traffic because of the
capacity constraints at Pusan after 1986 when all container piers there will
be fully used. In addition, a number of small projects are being carried out
including construction of small breakwaters, terminals, and access roads for
Kunsan, Wando and Sokcho. Developments at Mokpo, Cheju and the Pusan Third
Phase Container Port scheduled in the FFYP were postponed until 1986, the last
year of the plan.
2.10      In line with government policies to diversify energy sources, piers
for coal imports are being built at Inchon and Mokpo, and a central coal ter-
minal station (CTS) is being built at Kwang-Yang Bay to supply local and indus-



9-
trial users who began switching to coaL as their fuel source. Other indus-
trial ports were completed by MOC at Pohang, Changwon and Pyongtaek (Asan).
2.11      A number of programs are expected to improve port management and the
financial strength and efficiency of shipping firms. These include (a) the
establishment of a Shipping Development Fund; (b) port management improvements
and (c) training of seamen and officers to increase their skill and avail-
ability for Korea's larger and more modern fleet.
D. Port Organization
2.12      Responsibility for the administration and development of ports is
shared among four ministries -- MOT, MOC, MOHA and the Ministry of Agriculture
(MOA). MOT's Korea Maritime and Port Administration (KMPA), created in March
1976, is responsible for the planning, construction and operation of Korea's
24 first-class commercial ports through ten District Maritime and Port
Authorities (DMPA) which are responsible for day-to-day operations at the
ports. The largest is the Pusan District Maritime and Port Authority (PDMPA).
KMPA is also responsible for planning and developing the 22 second-class
commercial ports although their operations and maintenance, as well as that of
numerous other small local ports, are handled by provincial governments under
MOHA.  Fishing ports are under the responsibility of the NFA of the MOA.
2.13      MOC is responsible for the planning and construction of industrial
ports, which are defined as those being part of industrial complexes. Once
built, industrial ports are turned over to KMPA, but only for maintenance and
partial operation, since the management and cargo handling generally remains
with the administrators of the industrial complex. This division of responsi-
bilities may have appeared reasonable at the time of the reorganization in
1976, but it sometimes conflicts with KMPA's responsibility for overall port
planning. The Government moved to avoid this conflict by agreeing to esta-
blish an Inter-Ministerial Committee under the chairmanship of the Vice-
Minister of the Economic Planning Board (EPB) to review MOC's proposals for
industrial port development, and to take action as required. This has led to
increased consultation on port expansion programs between KMPA and MOC.
2.14      KMPA is a public administration owned and controlled by Government
but its role and functions have been carefully designed to allow a substantial
role for the private sector as well. While KMPA provides the public port
infrastructure to meet the shipping needs and collects direct revenues from
port users, it leaves, in most instances, to private port terminal operating
companies and stevedoring operators the functions to handle and store the
cargoes on piers and warehouses that are leased to them. Port handling
equipment is usually privately owned. This distribution of functions enable
maintaining a high level of efficiency in cargo handling as it is essentially
an all private operation; it also facilitate the mobilization of resources for
port development that are more easily secured by the public sector. The
present organization is satisfactory as it allows a useful combination of
public and private resources and enable the flexibility to adjust to changes
in demand.



- 10 -
E.  Management, Staff and Training
2.15      KMPA is headed by an Administrator who is appointed directly by the
President of Korea and has the rank equivalent to a Vice Minister (Chart 1).
KMPA has gained valuable experience in port development, management and
administration in the course of several previous port development projects,
some of which have been assisted by the Bank, the ADB and the Saudi Fund.
Existing management and staff are thefore considered to be capable of imple-
menting the proposed project.
2.16      KMPA's present staff totals 1,900, including 400 at headquarters anld
1,500 at various regional offices. Of the total staff, about 1,000 are tech-
nical and 510 are administrative, the rest are operators and others. There is
currently a need to strengthen certain functions, especially the capability to
undertake the more complex aspects of port investment and master planning.
Both planning and project appraisal are now done on an ad hoc basis through
the use of consultants and other special arrangements. KMPA needs to develop
its in-house capabilities, probably by strengthening its planning unit.
Extensive use can also be made of its research body,, the Korea Maritime
Institute (KMI) created in 1984, in developing this capability. The proposed
project addresses this need by including a training component for port
planners and managers (para 4.02 and Annex 4). Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that KMPA will carry out the training program for port
planners and managers according to a schedule agreed with the Bank.
2.17      Staff training in operation, maintenance, finance and accounting was
provided under two previous Bank-assisted projects (Lns. 917 and 1401-KO), but
this was just a start in meeting KMPA's need for financial and accounting
staff since KMPA had no such staff in the early 1980s. Before then, only
administrative accounting methods were used. Under the proposed project,
training in accounting, finance and modern management would be also provided
(para. 2.21).
F. Port Operations and Maintenance
2.18      The DMPAs are nominally responsible for cargo handling operations at
the ports but it is the numerous private Terminal Operating Companies (TOC)
who do the actual loading/unloading. The DMPAs therefore have a largely
supervisory and coordinating role in operations. The use of TOCs resulted
from the recommendations cf a study financed under Loan 917-KO. At PDMPA,
there are several TOCs which operate at the grain, general cargo, bulk cargo
and container piers. The largest one, the Pusan Container Terminal Operating
Company (PCTOC), is government-owned. As most lifting equipment is privately
owned, port maintenance carried out by the DMPAs is limited to civil works and
the dredging of access channels. This is carried out satisfactorily.
G. Financial Objectives, Tariffs and Costs
2.19      KMPA's basic financial objectives are to develop as a more commer-
cial and efficient entity so as to keep recovering its costsi including
serving its debt and to yield a reasonable overall rate of return. KMPA has
actively pursued this objective and in doing so has complied with the major



- Ii -
covenants in loan agreements signed with the Bank regarding commercial
accounting, periodic fixed assets revaluation, earning the required rate of
return on net fixed assets in use, and the establishment of well-run terminal
operating companies at certain ports. It was previously felt that an autono-
mous KMPA could more easily meet the financial objectives, but this is not the
only way.  In response to a government request, the Bank agreed in 1985 to a
provision requiring KMPA to have satisfactory commercial budgets, accounts and
records in place of its earlier obligation to vest KMPA with legal autonomy.
To implement the earlier obligation concerning autonomy, KMPA would have had
to be placed under the Commercial Budgeting and Accounting Law. Submission to
this law would have prevented KMPA from receiving government contributions
even for the carrying out of its (mandatory) nonrevenue generating obliga-
tions. This would have seriously impaired KMPA's functioning, as the Govern-
ment has assigned it major responsibilities for maritime affairs and for
Second Class Ports.
2.20      Tariffs for various port services such as pilotage, dockage, etc.
are determined by KMPA in consultation with the EPB, whereas those for steve-
dorage are largely set by market forces. The large profitable ports including
usan and Inchon are subsidizing the other smaller ports.  Few tariffs are
cost based, but they are adjusted to cover inflation. The achievement of cost
based tariffs was one of the objectives of the Second Port Project. KMPA did
some studies and initial designs for them but could not complete nor implement
them by the time of loan closing. In retrospect, cost based tariffs could not
have been implemented without an appropriate financial and cost accounting
system being first developed in KMPA. However, port tariffs are currently
high enough to generate sufficient revenue for KMPA to meet its rate of return
target and also notionally to cover debt service and contribute to
investments. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that KMPA and PDMPA
will take all necessary measures including to keep tariffs at appropriate
levels to enable them maintain their target rates of return of 5% and 7%
respectively on net fixed assets in use.
2.21      KMPA realizes that it needs a framework for translating these and
other objectives into specific actions or tasks as well as to monitor, perio-
dically redefine, and sharpen their focus. Hence, KMPA has designed and
intends to implement an Action Plan (Annex 6) which is fairly comprehensive in
nature. The implementation of this Action Plan from 1986 to 1995 will help to
fulfill KMPA's objectives as well as ensure full compliance with obligations
under Bank loans, including the loan proposed now. It includes (a) computer-
izing the commercial accounting system, (b) designing a cost accounting system
and imple1aenting it; and (c) computerizing the port operations system as a
first step to introducing a comprehensive management information system. Each
component was designed to improve the capabilities of KMPA in particularly
through training in specific areas, as well as to develop it as a more market
oriented institution which would be responsive to changes in its economic
environment. Hence, completing the commercial accounting component of the
plan will enable the preparation and timely delivery of financial information
to management throughout the KMPA network. Similarly, data from the cost
accounting system will be useful for planning and marketing port services.
Lastly, the development of a modern management information system will enhance
the managerial control and efficiency of KMPA. Taken together, implementation



- 12 -
of these components is essential to the proper management of KMPA's resources
and supports its development strategy. Hence, the plan will help promote the
development of KMPA as an efficient organization, whatever its future status
as a government agency or not might be.
2.22      The Action Plan will at first be implemented on a pilot basis at
PCTOC because it is an appropriate unit for testing changes. This would also
complement ongoing efforts by PCTOC management to analyze its traffic patterns
and userst preference in order to better price its services. Pilot implemen-
tation would include: (i) restating PCTOC's books to reflect the full cost of
all assets in use at the terminal and the setting up of proper cost centers;
(ii) introducing manual cost accounting procedures and subsequently compu-
terizing them, and (iii) developing a computerized management information
system. As the pilot program progresses, PCTOC management will be given
greater freedom to respond to changing market conditions in order to optimize
the use of its facilities. Once successfully implemented, the pilot program
will be expanded to all other terminals at Pusan and then afterward, to all of
KMPA. At negotiations, the draft Action Plan to improve financial and
managerial functions was further refined and finalized. KMPA has agreed to
the final plan (under cover of a letter from the KKPA Administrator). While
adherence to the objectives of the Action Plan is necessary, annual progress
reviews would enable updating targets in consultation with the Bank.
H. Budget, Accounting and Audit
2.23      Port budgets are prepared at KMPA headquarters using information
from individual port managements. The annual budget is allocated directly to
KMPA by the Economic Planning Board. Being organized under the Government
Invested Enterprises Act and related rules, KMPA is subject to the supervisory
control of the Minister of Transport. Also, port operating revenue is
regarded as part of the general government revenue and port operating costs
plus funds for investments are provided from the Government's budget.
2.24      KMPA uses standard government administrative-type accounting but
under Ln. 1401-KO an alternative commercial accounting system was designed to
replace it. However, KMPA, under instructions of the Minister of Transport,
is implementing the commercial accounting system in parallel with its normal
administrative accounting (para. 2.19).
2.25      The National Board of Audit and Inspections (NBA), which reports
directly to the President, inspects KMPA's overall accounts. In addition, the
commercial accounts are audited in accordance with generally accepted princi-
ples by independent auditors. Assurances were obtained during negotiations
that Government will cause KMPA to have its accounts and those of PDMPA,
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and that the reports
will be furnished to the Bank within eight (8) months after the end of each
fiscal year.



-13-
III. PUSAN PORT
A. Organization and Staffing
3.01      Pusan Port is managed by the Pusan District Maritime and Port
Authority (PDMPA) which is under the direct control of KMPA.  PDMPA is
composed of six administrative divisions (Chart 2) and two operating bodies:
the Pusan Port Construction Office (PPCO), which is responsible far the design
and implementation of the proposed project and the Pusan Container Terminal
Operating Company (PCTOC), which is responsible for operating the container
terminal at piers 5 and 6. PDMPA is headed by a Director General who reports
directly to KMPA's Deputy Administrator; PPCO is also headed by a Director
General who reports both to PDMPA's Director General and to KMPA's Director
General, Construction and Development Bureau; PCTOC is headed by a President
who reports to PDMPA's Director General and KMPA's Director General, Port
Operations Bureau. The management of the port is satisfactory.
3.02      PDMPA employs about 1,200 persons including about 80 in the PPCO,
and 540 in PCTOC. Private operating companies (stevedores) are contracted
directly by ship agents for loading/unloading operations (para. 3.07).
B. Existing Facilities
3.03      Pusan Port is situated on the southeast corner of the Korean
peninsula (Map IBRD 19536). Water depths within the harbor vary from 5 to
13.5 meters, with 9-10 meters available at most berths and 12.5 meters at the
grain and container berths. Tides are semidiurnal with a range of about
1.3 meters. Total length of the quaywall is 8,600 meters, sufficient to pro-
vide more than 40 berths for ships, barges, lighters and service boats
(Table 3.1). Containers are handled at piers Nos. 5 and 6 which are specia-
lized for handling containers and also at the general cargo piers Nos. 1 to
4. Pusan's port capacity has been progressively expanded from 2.5 million mt
in 1962 to 15 million mt in 1981 and 31 million mt in 1983. This last expan-
sion, partly financed under Ln. 1401-KO, consisted of a two berth addition to
the container pier No. 5 and rehabilitation of general cargo berths.
3.04      The port is served by a double-track railway line to Seoul and has
special container loading facilities in PCTOC. Also, it is connected by the
Seoul-Pusan expressway and other highways to the neighboring provinces. Both
railway and highway connections are adequate. Water supply, sewage disposal
and telecommunications are also adequate.
3.05      The inner harbor is protected by two breakwaters of about
1,350 meters in length, which is completely utilized. The navigation channel
leading to the port has 13.5 meters depth below datum (MLW).
3.06      Approximately five kilometers south of Pusan port lies Camchon Bay
(Map IBRD 19232) which is being developed along lines laid down in a 1979
master plan as a subsidiary port to Pusan. Gamchon Bay will gradually take
over a large part of the handling of bulk cargo traffic such as scrap iron,
grain, coal and cement as well as marine related industries like ship building
and repair work and a deep-sea fishery base. Several such installations are



- 14 -
already located on the bay including a steel mill, a coal-fired power gener-
ating plant, ship yards and a cemerr factory. The Government is now complet-
ing with its own funds a 500 meter long breakwater near the east side of the
entrance to the bay. It has recently received a Saudi Fund loan of US$35 mil-
lion to assist in construction of the 650 meter west breakwater.
-  -    C.  Operations
3.07      Pusan port operates 24 hours a day.  General cargo traffic is
handled mainly at piers Nos. 1 to 4. Average 1978-84 productivity reached
225 tons per gang for an 8-hour shift. This is equivalent to over 28 tons per
gang hour, which is h1igh even in comparison with ports in most developed
countries. For containers, PCTOC is the sole authority responsible for over-
all control and operation of the terminal, including marshalling, stevedoring,
storage, delivery and handling of container freight. Creation of PCTOC was a
good decision, and its management and operations are, in general, satisfactory
with exception of low utilization rates in the container freight station (CFS)
and the container yard (CY) (para. 3.11). Pending further studies, it has not
yet been decided if PCTOC will manage the new container pier to be built under
the proposed project or if a separate TOC will be established. This will be
done as part of an Action Plan to improve the handling of containers
(para. 3.13). Under the proposed Action Plan KMPA will have a study carried
out to compare the merits of the various alternatives for managing the pro-
posed terminal in accordance with terms of reference and sche6ale to be agreed
with the Bank.
D. Pusan as Korea's Hub Container Port
3.08      Pusan is Korea's largest port.  Its expansion has supported the on-
going industrialization of the country and in particular, the necessary
imports of raw materials and industrial goods and the exports of manufactured
products. In line with the modernization of the shipping industry, the
containerization of part of the imports and of an even larger part of the
exports, has taken place very rapidly (Table 3.2). The ever increasing compe-
tition in shipping has led to the introduction of the third generation
container ships with capacity of 3,500-4,000 units that require a further
concentration of container handling at fewer, well equipped hub-ports from
which feeder vessels serve secondary ports. As present container traffic at
Pusan is reaching existing capacity, and the alternative port of Inchon,
closer to Seoul, is not suitable in the new economic environment due to its
remote location. The proposed further expansion of Pusan in the outer port
appears the most rational solution.  Not only will it cffer scope for more
expansion in the future, but it will also maintain the attractiveness of Pusan
as a hub container port in the pacific rim nations.
3.09      A number of alternative sites to locate further container facilities
have been investigated under the Phase III Port Development Study carried out
in 1982 by Consultants, Lyons Associates (USA) and Korea Engineering Consul-
tants Company, who recommended Pusan as the most suitable location. Another
more recent study, carried out by Kiri-Sekwang Consultants (Korea), concurred
with the suitability to proceed with the proposed three berths in Pusan outer
harbor but recommended that future expansion take place at Kwang-yang Bay,



- 15 -
some 150 km West of Pusan, on Korea's south coast. These findings were
reexamined by the Bank in a recent Sector Report (para. 1.13) which concluded
that there is no merit to plan for a future hub container port other than at
Pusan, although- there is scope for secondary container ports such as Inchon or
Kwang-yang Bay to accommodate feeder vessels to and from Pusan. The Sector
Report will soon be sent for review to the Government and it is expected that
its findings will be taken into account in the preparation of the Sixth Five-
Year Development Plan. This issue was discussed during negotiations and it
was agreed that in formulating its future plans for container port develop-
ment, the Government would take into consideration the existing facilities and
proposed investments at Pusan Port.
E. Proposed Part Development
3.10      As Pusan's port already handles most of the national container.
traffic, its best role is to concentrate on handling containers as Korea's hub
port. This means developing more facilities by opening the outer harbor area
while diverting some of the polluting dry bulk cargo to other subsidiary
facilities to be developed in nearby Gamchon Bay and elsewhere. The selected
site for the new container terminal is relatively costly to develop because it
is outside the existing protected inner harbor area and new breakwaters are
therefore required. Expansion within the existing inner harbor at Pusan was
considered but no suitable sites are available as it is hemmed in by the city
and steep hills, and all sites around the eight square kilometers of water are
already fully utilized. The role and functions of the different port areas
such as the inner and outer ports and Gamchon Bay will have to be revalued to
determine optimal utilization. The proposed project will require updating of
the Pusan Port Master Plan. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the
port's Master Plan will be updated according to terms of reference and timing
agreed with the Bank.
F. Inland Container Handling Operations
3.11      Container handling operations in Korea are generally effective and
relatively economic, especially in the loading and discharge o' container
ships.  Most container storage, stuffing and stripping in Pusan is done in
32 off-dock container yards, aggregating to more than one million sq m of
storage area (Table 3.3), but the use of these facilities contributes to
serious traffic congestion in the city.  At the same time, PCTOC's facilities,
with one third of this area, are used at about 25% of capacity.  Much should
be done to improve the rules and service offered by PCTOC's existing container
storage, stuffing and stripping facilities to keep more of this traffic in
Pusan Port. For example, although the major part of the container yard is
operated with transtainers capable of stacking containers four high, current
practice is to stack them not more than two high. Also, containers shipped on
non-Korean vessels are not allowed to be stored in PCTOC facilities for custom
clearances.
3.12      Because Korea's container trade is highly unbalanced (13.6 mt of
containerized exports versus only 6.25 mt of containerized imports) there is a
need to maintain a stock of some 25000 TEU or about 15 days of export
requirement'i, wiLich cannot be all accommodated on-dock (Tables 3.4 and 3.5).



- 16 -
Inland transportation is well developed, and highways are the main means used
to distribute containers inland. About 70% of the total container traffic
through Pusan have other destinations, including Seoul area where 40% of the
traffic is bound (Table 3.6). The railway (KNR) has recently opened a "dry
port" container terminal at Pugok near Seoul, but so far only about 22% of the
Seoul-Pusan traffic moves by rail, considerably less than should be the case,
given relative costs (Table 3.7). This underutilization of the railway
results in unnecessarily high inland transport cost to shippers, adds to
traffic congestion and requires MOC to expand the highway network.
3.13      To improve the situation and to deal with the problems described in
paras. 3.11-3.12, the Government has agreed in principle to a draft Plan of
Action for the Improvement of Korea's In'and Container Handling Operations
which is to be implemented as part of the proposed project (Annex 7). The
Plan's main objectives are to increase the throughput capacity of existing
container facilities, plan for the organization and management of proposed new
facilities, and to increase the role of the railways as a more economic mode
to handle containers on long distance. The plan thus provides for planning
and taking action in several areas, including measures to improve throughput
prior to the availability of the new installations. Measures would be taken
in particular to improve container rail service and frequency on the Seoul-
Pusan line and to integrate the operations of the Pugok rail terminal with the
port container terminals. Timely action would be taken to set up an organiza-
tion to operate the new outer harbor container terminal and to design and
establish a business oriented organization to manage port and rail container
services and to market them to users. The execution of the plan would be
supervised by a steering committee composed of senior representatives of KMPA,
KNR and the City of Pusan and chaired by a representative of the Ministry of
Transportation (para. 4.03). At negotiations, the draft Action Plan to
improve container handling was further refined and finalized. KMPA and KNR
have approved the final plan (under cover of a joint letter from their
Administrators). While adherence to the objectives of the Action Plan is
necessary, annual reviews would enable updating targets in consultation with
the Bank. Under the Action Plan KMPA will have a study carried out for the
consolidation of Pusan's off-dock CYs in the proposed Dong Myung area and KNR
will have a study carried out to increase throughput of container trains to
accommodate traffic requirement by 1990 when the outer port starts operation.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
4.01      The objectives of the proposed project are:
(a)  to provide installations and equipment in the Port of Pusan for
efficient handling of the import and export of container traffic;
(b)  to reduce congestion in the city of Pusan by providing sufficient
container stacking space in the port area to largely eliminate the
need for off-dock container storage in the Pusan area;



- 17 -
(c)  to increase the efficiency of existing and proposed port container
handling facilities and of the inland container transportation
system. This last objective is already part of KNR's objective
under the ongoing Seoul-Pusan Corridor Project (Ln. 2600-KO) which
provides funds to better utilize the railways for passenger and
freight; the proposed project spells out how KNR will improve
container services and use the Pugok rail container terminal as a
"dry port" for Seoul area; and
(d)  to improve further KMPA's and PCTOC's management and financial
control over ports activities.
B.  Project Description
4.02      The proposed project would consist of the following major items:
(a)  Civil works-
1,704 linear meters of breakwater, a 3-berth container terminal with
appropriate back-up storage, facilities and utilities, and road and
rail access to the terminal;
(b)  Equipment
6 container gantry cranes, 20 container transfer cranes, 34 yard
tractors, 100 yard chassis for 20 and 40 foot containers, and
forklift trucks;
(c)  Railways component (Annex 3)
e    Equipment for rail car brake systems, rear-train monitors, container
locking devices, adding tracks and a transtainer at PCTOC's
container yard, and a study to increase KNR's long-term capacity to
handle containers;
(d)  Technical assistance (Annex 4) to:
(i) train port planners and managers;
(ii) study and implement measures to improve financial management
including development of a management information system and
computerized accounting;
(iii)  update the Master Plan for Pusan port taking into consideration
the new developments at Camchon Bay and the city;
(iv) carry out studies to (a) improve container operations and
utilization of existing container yard and CFS at PCTQC piers 5
and 6, (b) plan, design and implement the T-junction to the
expressway, (c) relocate off-dock CYs in Pusan area to the Dong
Myung on-dock proposed CY, (d) improve container distribution
systems throughout Korea, and (e) define management organiza-



- 18 -
tion and operating rules for the proposed container terminal;
and
(v) supervise civil works and erection of equipment.
4.03      As part of the project, the Government was requested at negotiations
to confirm that it will undertake the introduction of a number of policy
measures that were described in two draft Action Plans. The two Plans were
finalized during negotiations and have been sent to the Bank with a covering
letter from KMPA and KNR (Annex 5) which outlines the agencies' agreement to
implement specific actions in accordance with a proposed schedule. One Plan
deals with the strenghtening of KMPA's financial and managerial functions
(Annex 6) and the other Plan deals with the rationalization of container cargo
handling and distribution throughout Korea (Annex 7). The plans were prepared
by Government Agencies concerned including KMPA, KNR, City of Pusan and MOT,
in close cooperation with the Bank. The technical assistance part of the pro-
ject (para. 4.02 and Annex 4) provides the scope for the studies and funds to
carry them out.
4.04      Progress reports would be issued twice a year, the first two in
October 1986, for both the Financial and Managerial and the Inland Container
Handling Action Plans, respectively by KKPA's Finance Bureau and by the
steering committee chaired by MOT, through its Transport Coordination Bureau
acting as its secretariat. Indices for monitoring progress are included in
each of the Action Plans. Progress under each Plan would be discussed through
progress reviews to be held semiannually, but one of the reviews would be more
detailed and focus on any need for updating targets of the Action Plans.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that once a year, a detailed review
of the Action Plans will be held by KMPA, KNR and other parties concerned with
a view to update targets if and when necessary. Any proposed adjustment in
targets would be made available to the Bank for review and comments.
C. Cost Estimates
4.05      Cost estimates for civil works are based on detailed engineering and
unit prices for ongoing similar works in Korea. Equipment costs are based on
prices as of January 1986 for similar equipment purchased in Korea and in
other Bank-financed projects. The estimated total cost of the proposed
project is W 295 billion or US$328 million equivalent inclusive of taxes and
duties. Of this amount about 57X, W 168 billion or US$187.0 million
equivalent, would be in foreign exchange. Physical contingencies are included
at 5% of the base costs; price contingencies are based on foreign cost
increases of 7.0% in 1986, 7.0% in 1987, 7.5% in 1988, 7.7% in 1989 and 7.6%
in 1990, local cost increases of 5% in 1986 and 5.5% thereafter until 1990.
Further details are given in Tables 4.1, 4.2 and 4.3 and summarized below.



- 19 -
Summary of Cost Estimates
Loan     Loan
Won millions                  US$ '000           (US$    as X of
Local  Foreign  Total    Local  Foreign  Total   '000)    total
Civil works             91,715  112,069  203,784  101,905 124,523 226,428 115,895   51.2
Equipment                1,702   21,229   22,931    1,892  23,588  25,480  23,588   92.6
Subtotal              93,417  133,298  226,715  103,797 148,111 251,908 139,483   55.3
Technical assistance
and training           2,679    1,133    3,812    2,975   1,260   4,235   1,260   30.0
Value added tax and
customs duties        11,756             11,756   13,061         -  13,061        -     -
Total base cost      107,852  134,430  242,282  119,833 149,370 269,203 140,743   52.3
Physical contingencies  4,805    6,722   11,527    5,339   7,469  12,807            -     -
Price contingencies    14,541   27,109   41,650   16,158  30,124  46,282            -     -
Subtotal              19,340   33,831   53,177   21,497  37,593  59,089           -     -
Grand Total          127,198  168,261  294,459  141,330 186,963 328,292 140,743   42.8
The KNR component to be financed from Loan 2600-KO, is estimated at W 3.6 bil-
lion or US$4 million, including US$3 million in foreign exchange. The cost of
the technical assistance and training amounts to W 3.8 billion or US$4.2 mil-
lion equivalent of which the foreign exchange is about W 1.1 billion or
US$1.3 million. 170 man-months of consultants' assistance will be used for
the operational study, the updating of Pusan Port Master plan and for
construction supervision. The balance of the technical assistance consists of
training (Annex 4).
D. Financing
4.06      The Government has requested the Bank to finance $141 million of the
foreign exchange component of the proposed project, while it will finance
directly the whole balance of the foreign cost for contingencies estimated at
US$37.5 million and construction start-up work, estimated to cost US$8.5 mil-
lion in foreign exchange. All local funds required for the project would be
furnished by the Government. The financing plan is summarized as follows:



- 20 -
SUMMARY OF FINANCING PLAN
US$ million
Source of Finance            Local    Foreign   Total
Proposed Bank loan               -      141.0    141.0
Government                    141.3      46.0    187.3
Total                    141.3     187.0    328.3
The financing plan was reviewed during negotiations and the government
contribution was confirmed. The Bank loan will be made to the Government and
the proceeds will be onlent- by the Government to KMPA through a subsidiary
loan agreement at the same interest and at the same terms as the Bank Loan.
The signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement will be a condition of loan
effectiveness.
E. Imnplementation
4.07      The project will be carried out by KMPA with the assistance of
consultants. KMPA executed the Second Port Project (Loan 1401-KO) in 1979 to
1983 utilizing its Pusan Port Construction Office (PPCO) which is also direct-
ly responsible for this project. Final engineering for the project has been
satisfactorily completed by PPCO with the assistance of consultants. Super-
vision of construction will also be carried out by PPCO with the assistance of
local consultants reinforced by some 100 man-months of foreign expertise. A
Project Implementation Schedule is in Chart 3.
F. Procurement
4.08      Except for the start-up work, all civil works and equipment would be
procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with
Bank guidelines. Prequalification will be required for civil works con-
tracts. The works to be contracted separately, using local bidding proce-
dures, would be a reclaimed area on which the concrete caissons for the break-
water would be built. As in the past, the Office of Supply (OSROK) will
manage the procurement process. A listing of proposed types of procurement is
as follows:



- 21 -
PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(uS$ millions)
Item                               ICB         LCB        Other        Total
A.  Civil works                 272.3         11.1                    283.4
(116.0) /a     (-)                   (116.0)
B.  Equipment                    40.3                                  4e.3
(23.7)                               (30.2)
C.  Technical assistance                                   4.6          4e6
and training                                       (1.3)         (1.3)
Total                      312.6         11.1       14.6         328.3
(139.7)        (-)        (1.3)      (141.0)
/a   Figures in parentheses represent the amounts financed by the proposed
loan.
4.09      Civil works procured through ICB will be grouped in three packages
viz: South Breakwater (US$59 million), North Breakwater (US$81 million), and
the container terminal (US$132.3). The inclusion of the CFS in this last
package will be decided in 1988, and depends on the growth of demand for this
type of service. Equipment procured through ICE will be grouped in packages
according to type of equipment. For bid evaluation, Korean manufacturers will
be allowed a margin of preference of 15% of CIF costs of competing imports or
the relevant prevailing customs duties, whichever is lower. All the civil
works and equipment contracts procured under ICB will be subject to prior
review by the Bank.
4.10      Technical assistance will be provided to KMPA and PPCO for project
supervision, for improvement of financial management and container operations,
and for studies of traffic congestion in Pusan. Local consultants will be
utilized whenever qualified personnel are available, but it is anticipated
that some foreign experts will also be required. During negotiations,
assurances were obtained that KMPA will select consultants in accordance to
Bank's guidelines and submit draft terms of reference and contracts for review
by the Bank.
G. Status of Pregaration
4.11      Except for the road and rail access, rights of way for which are
being furnished by the city of Pusan (construction is to start in January
1987), the project is to be built on land and water areas already under the
control of KMPA. Prequalification invitations and procurement notices have
been prepared by KMPA and issued after being reviewed by the Bank. Tender
documents have been satisfactorily revised by KMPA along Bank's comments.
Terms of reference and draft contract for engaging consultants for supervision
of construction will be prepared by KMPA and submitted to the Bank for
approval so that the consultants can be in place by the start of construction.



- 22 -
H. Disbursement
4.12      Disbursements would be made on the following basis:
(a) 55% of total expenditures for civil works excluding customs duties
and taxes, which is equivalent to the estimated foreign exchange
component;
(b) 100% of foreign exchange expenditures for directly imported
equipment;
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory prices) for locally
manufactured equipment procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding;
(d) 100% of the cost of foreign consulting services; and
(e) 100% of the cost of overseas training.
4.13      Disbursements for studies, overseas training and for equipment and
civil works contracts costing less than $1 million equivalent each would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Disbursement for
consultant services, civil works and equipment contracts costing more than
US$1.0 million each would be fully documented. To facilitate disbursements a
revolving fund would be established with an initial deposit of $10 million
equivalent to about four months of expected expenditures. Documents
supporting the SOEs would not be submitted to the Bank but would be kept by
the project executing agencies and made available for review by Bank
Supervision missions. Bank disbursements are expected to be completed by
December 1991. Estimated quarterly schedule of disbursements is given in
Table 4.4. It is based on the Project Implementation Schedule (Chart 3). In
keeping with experience under previous port projects in Korea, it is faster
than the standard regional transportation disbursement profile by one year.
Any savings under the loan would be cancelled unless otherwise agreed with the
Bank.
I. Environmental Impact
4.14      A substantial part of the proposed project will be built on lands
already used for port and industrial purposes but there will also be a conver-
sion of some undeveloped hills and shores near the harbor mouth into port
related installations. In the interest of minimizing degradation of the
appearance of the harbor entrance, it has been agreed that the contractors
will not be permitted to quarry stone (for the breakwaters and revetment) in
this area.



- 23 -
J. Project Evaluation, Monitoring and Completion Report
4.15      Project evaluation and monitoring would be performed by PPCO
assisted by consultants as necessary. Progress under each Action Plan would
be monitored respectively by KMPA's Finance Bureau and the steering committee
chaired by MOT's Transport Coordination Bureau. Progress reports would be
prepared every six months and be submitted to the Bank within one month
thereafter.
4.16      Promptly after completion of the project, KMPA will prepare and
furnish to the Bank a report on the execution and initial operation of the
project, its costs and the benefits derived and to be derived from it.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Present and Future Traffic
5.01      Traffic at Pusan has been growing rapidly, averaging 8.6% p.a. since
1980. In 1984, the port handled 35.7 million revenue tons (mrt) of which
29.8 mrt was foreign trade and 5.9 mrt was domestic cargo. General cargo
accounts for 59% of all traffic and 90% of it is containerized. Two thirds of
the general cargo is outbound reflecting the trade pattern of Korea as an
exporter of manufactured goods. Incoming traffic consist of bulk commodities
such as iron, steel and scrap, grain and timber as imports and petroleum
products, cement and coal as domestic trade. Details are in Table 5.1.
5.02      Containerized cargo has grown more rapidly than other cargo, at an
average rate of 13% p.a. between 1976 and 1984 (Table 3.2). In 1984, Pusan
handled 1,054,000 TEU, over 90% of all Korea's container movements, with
Inchon accommodating the balance. At Pusan, about 58% of the containers are
outbound. Both inbound and outbound movements have 20Z empties; the inbound
empties compensate for Korea's trade imbalance while the export empties are
mostly new containers manufactured in Korea (Tables 3.4 and 3.5). Some 38% of
the container traffic at Pusan is originating in, or bound to, Seoul greater
metropolitan area and another 32% to other areas outside Pusan Region. The
railways handle only 22% of the traffic between Pusan and Seoul and the
balance is routed by trucks.
5.03      Future traffic.  Recent traffic forecasts originate from KMPA and
the Kiri-Sekwang study for Container Terminal Site Location. These forecasts
respectively expressed in revenue tons and in metric tons are shown in
Tables 5.1 and 5.2. The growth rates used for the economic evaluation are
given in Table 5.3 and summarized below.



- 24 -
Pusan Traffic Growth Rate Forecasts (2 p.a.)
General Cargo        Containers         GNP
1986-91                7.5                 8.5           6.5
1991-96                7.0                 7.0           6.q
1996-2001              7.0                 6.0           5.5
Source: Mission estimates
5.04      Based on these estimates, Pusan port's capacity requirement would
more than double to 39 million metric tons (mnt) by 1996 from the existing
i9.5 mat capacity in 1985. The increase would in part be required to accommo-
date increases in bulk cargo of about 7 mmt, the most important growth item
being steel and iron, but mainly to accommodate a net increase of general
cargo, of about 13 mmt, most of which would be containerized. The tonnage of
containerized cargo is expected to more than double between 1985 and 1996. In
terms of TEU, the capacity requirement by 1996 would be close to 2.7 mil-
lion. This would exceed the total capacity of the present facilities
(1,020,000 TEU) and of the proposed project (540,000 TEU) which would become
operational in 1990; and indicate the need for continuous investment in the
early 1990s.
B. Operations Without and With Project
5.05      Without the Project.  The Port of Pusan operates 33 berths and a
number of wharves for lighters. Of the dedicated berths, four are for passen-
gers, 8 for bulk and break-bulk cargo including grain, coal, iron ore and
lumber, one for military transport, and 4 for containers. Among the remaining
16 general cargo berths, 6 usually handle containers also.
5.06      The handling of containers on the dedicated piers 5 and 6 is very
efficient, with up to 25 moves per hour for each of the 8 gantry cranes, based
on an actual annual average operation of 6.7 hours per day.  The present ratio
of 20-foot versus 40-foot container per hour is about 55/45 and thus the
throughput is a high 36 twenty-foot container equivalent (TEU) per hour.
Berth occupancy has now reached 50%.  Ship waiting time is small; around 100
days in 1985 when the design capacity of 720,000 TEU was first exceeded.
However, the high annual growth rate expected in coming years (8.5% p.a.)
would rapidly cause serious port congestion (Table 5.4). This will result in
over 5,000 days of ship waiting time by 1990, estimated to cost about
W 48.0 billion or US$52 million, and nearly 8,000 days by 1996.
5.07      The handling of containers on the general cargo piers 1 to 4 conti-
nues to be slow, inefficient and costly. Except for one berth which is equip-
ped with a container crane, none of the other berths have specialized equip-
ment. Mobile cranes are brought from outside the port by stevedoring com-
panies; or, ship gear are used. In 1984 5,700 feeder container vessels and



- 25 -
general cargo vessels called at these piers handling an average 80 containers
per ship. This compares to 1,500 vessels at piers 5 and 6 handling about
460 containers each (Table 5.5). Because space is short, the use of general
cargo berths requires moving containers directly outside the port area to off-
dock container yards, which results in costly double-handling. The berths
available for container handling are highly congested and have reached an
occupancy ratio of 95% causing high ship waiting time and requiring lighter-
age. The throughput of general cargo and break bulk cargo on the 10 general
cargo berths is about 1.2 mmt per year or about 120,000 mmt per berth.  Those
berths which are fully used can only accommodate small vessels of 1,000 to
8,000 DWT. As the larger berths are used for containers, it will be very
difficult to accomodate any further growth of general cargo on piers I to 4,
although traffic forecast show that by 1996 the demand will reach over 3 mmt.
5.08      With the Project.  The proposed project will provide three more
berths to be used exclusively for containers. The productivity of the six
gantry cranes will be slightly higher than on existing berths because handling
on the apron will be by tractor and transtainers rather than straddle
carriers. Operational characteristics of the existing and proposed berths are
given in Table 5.6. Operation will start in 1990 and all three berths are
expected to exceed their economic capacity of 540,000 TEU already by 1991.
With the project, liner and feeder container vessels will be handled both at
Piers 5 and 6 and at the outer port while containers on general cargo vessels
will be handled at piers 1 to 4. OnLy 4 berths (instead of the 6 now) will be
used at piers 1 to 4 for containers, releasing two berths to handle the
increasing general cargo. Table 5.7 shows containers handling without and
with the proposed berths. It is based on traffic of Table 5.3 and operational
parameters of Table 5.6.
C. Costs and Benefits
5.09      The costs and benefits have been evaluated in constant June 1986
prices. Financial cost estimates were converted to ec3nomic costs by
excluding taxes, duties, and price contingencies.
5.10      Quantifiable benefits attributed to the proposed oroject are savings
in cargo handling cost, ship time and cargo time. Those bene,its will accrue
to container traffic as well as to general cargo, but only the f,rmer were
taken into account. Other benefits would result from the reduction of double-
handling of containers through piers 1 to 4 . They are estimated at W 54,000
or US$60 per container, corresponding to the additional handling cost per
container.
D. Overall Economic Evaluation and Risks
5.11      The benefits build up immediately upon project completion because
the port will be heavily congested by that time. The benefits have been
assumed constant after 1996 when project facilities will be used at their full
capacity.
5.12      The distribution of benefits by the model is shown in Table 5.8.
The majority of project benefits are attributable to cargo and ship waiting



- 26 -
time savings. These would accrue both to cargo and ship owners. The latter
are likely to be passed on to cargo owners given the strong competition among
shipping companies. Therefore, although only 30% of the transport of con-
tainers to and from Korea are handled by Korean vessels, it is expected that
most of the benefits will accrue to Korea.
5.13      Table 5.9 sets out the rate of return calculation.  Costs data are
from Table 4.1 and benefits from Table 5.8. The best estimate rate of return
is 35%. The sensitivity of the economic returns to variations in costs and
benefits are summarized below:
ERR
Best estimate                           35
15X increase in costs                   31
15% reduction in benefits               30
Combined 15% increase in costs
and 15% reduction in benefits         26
The results show that the project remains well justified even with sizeable
variations in project costs and benefits.  The assumptions used are conserva-
tive as many quantifiable benefits have been ignored. In particular, the
assumption that the port could handle all traffic demand by measures such as
lightering is a conservative one. Some traffic would have to be diverted to
Inchon port at a much higher cost because of distance, or other ports with
equally high costs due to congestion and inadequate facilities. Curtailing
the traffic is not conceivable as it would have exhorbitant costs to the
Korean economy which is heavily dependent on foreign trade.
VI. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. PDMPA Past Performance (1983-85)
6.01      Pusan Port has had a steadily improving financial performance, in
terms of the growth of operating revenues, net income and ieturn on assets.
This was due primarily to a greater than 5-fold increase in containerized
cargo during the previous decade and by 1985 it accounted for approximately
54% of total traffic and provided over 60% of port revenues. Tables 6.1-6.3
contain the detailed past performance from which key data are summarized
below:



- 27 -
1983             1984            1985
(Won billion)-----
Operating revenues              30.0              36.7            40.4
Operating income                20.8              28.9            32.4
Net fixed assets in use        164.5             190.9           215.9
Rate of return (2)               13                16              16
Debt service ratio               2.2               2.5             2.6
The results, are excellent both in terms of level and trend.  This outstanding
performance is expected to continue over the long term due to the favorable
combination of continued traffic growth and greater productivity. These
results are highly beneficial to the overall port subsector because PDMPA's
profits helped to guarantee the viability of KMPA, its parent organization.
B. Current Position and Plans
6.02      Due to the favorable operating conditions, PDMPA's financial posi-
tion was sound at the end of 1985. Its balance sheet showed that the port did
not borrow excessively to finance its recent expansions, resulting in a low
(34/76) debt equity ratio. Other key measures such as the debt service ratio
(2.6) and the rate of return on net fixed assets in use (162) all confirm the
PDMPA financial position. The fact that past investments were directed at its
most profitable service largely explains this sound position.
6.03      PDMPA will also be the first DMPA to benefit from the two proposed
Action Plans because the pilot finance and management program (para. 2.22)
will be implemented at its container terminal and it is one of the prime bene-
ficiaries of the Container Handling Action Plan. This should, in the short
term, lead to better asset management and increased earnings at the container
terminal. In the long term, as the Plan implementation is expanded to all
other terminals, PDMPA's position will be further enhanced.
C. Future Performance (1986-92)
6.04      Pusan port will continue to perform well due to significant growth
in container cargo handling and overall port productivity. Forecast perfor-
mance is best illustrated by the data below which is taken from Tables 6.1-3:



- 28 -
1986       1988         1990        1991        1992
-    -       -----Won Biion…----- -…
Operating revenues        44.5        54.0        65.6           72.3        79.7
Operating income          35.6        42.1        48.1           50.9        56.7
Net fixed assets         237.9      327.3        480.2          568.0       600.2
Rate of return (Z)        16          15          12             10          10
Debt service ratio         2.8         1.8         1.6            1.7         1.8
6.05      The main assumptions underlying these forecasts are that annual
traffic growth will range between 7-8.5Z (para. 5.03) and tariffs will be
increased only to cover inflation; based on previous Bank experience at Pusan,
these are very conservative assumptions. The fixed assets will increase
significAntly during the period due to the combined effect of annual asset
revaluations and large additional investments. There will therefore be a
greater growth in fixed assets than in revenues, resulting in a declining rate
of return until 1991/92 when it levels off at 10%. Afterwards, with the
growth in traffic, increased utilization of the new facilities and continued
revenue growth, the rate of return will gradually rebound to the 12% level.
The forecast data also show that the debt service ratio will remain in an
acceptable range (1.6-2.8) during the period. In addition, PDMPA's operating
ratio will remain below 40, a level which is satisfactory.
6.06      The forecasts also indicate a satisfactory cash flow situation for
PDMPA (Table 6.2). During the implementation period, PDMPA should therefore
generate sufficient funds to notionally cover debt service and contribute a
reasonable amount to investments. Hence, in terms of funding sources PDMPA
net internal generation funds would provide 38X, the Government, 12%, and
long-term loans, 50% of investment needs. The following table gives a summary
of sources and uses of funds during the peak period.
Item                                       Won billion
1986-90
Net PDMPA income                                       137.0
Foreign borrowing                                      182.0
Net Government contribution                            44.7
Total Funds Available                            363.7
Funds required for investment                            3'1.7



- 29 -
D. Sensitivity Analysis
6.07      The project is expected to enhance the PDMPA financial position
because it will finance an expansion of the port's highly profitable container
handling service. A sensitivity analysis was done to measure the effects of
lowered traffic forecasts and higher operating costs on forecast performance.
The results are summarized below.
Item                                           1986   1988   1990    1992
Base Case
Rate of return (Z)                               16      15     12    10
Debt service ratio                               2.8    1.8    1.6   1.8
Alternative I: Lower traffic growth (5X p.a)
Rate of return (Z)                               15      12      9     8
Debt service ratio                               2.6    1.6    1.3   1.6
Alternative II:  Higher operating
cost (1OZ p.a.)
and lower traffic
(5Z p.a.) growth
Rate of re.turn (Z)                              14      12      9     7
Debt service ratio                               2.5    1.6    1.3   1.4
The results show that PDMPA financial performance would remain favorable.
Given past high traffic growth and low cost increase trends, it is unlikely
that alterxiatives I and II would occur. The analysis therefore reinforces the
soundness of the investment.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from Government
that:
(a) KMPA will:
(i)  carry out the training program for port planners and managers
(para. 2.16 );
(ii)  ensure KMPA and PDMPA will take all necessary measures
including to keep tariffs at appropriate levels to enable them
to maintain respectively a 5% and a 7% rate of return on their
uet fixed assets in use (para. 2.20);



- 30 -
(iii) confirm its agreement to carry out the Action Plan to improve
KMPA's financial and managerial functions according to an
agreed schedule (para 2.22 and Annex 6) which includes:
a.  computerizing and extending commercial accounting to all
DMPAs;
b. implementing a cost accounting system; and
c. developing a management information system.
(iv)  have its accounts and those of PDMPA audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Bank and that the reports will be
furnished to the Bank within eight months of each fiscal year
end (para.2.25);
(v)  carry out a study to update the Master Plan for Pusan port
taking into consideration the developments at Camchon Bay and
the City (para. 3.10); and
(vi) select all consultants in accordance to Bank's guidelines and
submit draft terms of reference and contracts for review by the
Bank (para. 4.10).
(b) KMPA and KNR will confirm their agreement to carry out the Action
Plan to improve container handling, according to an agreed schedule
(para. 3.13 and Annex 7); and among other actions, will for their
respective part:
(i)  for KMPA to have a study carried out to compare the merits of
the various alternatives for managing the proposed terminal in
accordance with terms of reference and schedule to be agreed
with the Bank (para. 3.07);
(ii) for KMPA to have a study carried out for the consolidation of
Pusan's off-dock CYs in the proposed Dong Myung area next to
the proposed project site in accordance with terms of reference
and schedule to be agreed with the Bank (para. 3.13); and
(iii) for KNR to have a study carried out to increase throughput of
container trains to accommodate traffic requirement by 1990
when the outer port starts operation (para. 3.13).
(c) KMPA, KNR and other parties concerned will hold annual reviews of
the two proposed Action Plans, with a view to update targets if and
when necessary. Any proposed adjustment in targets would be made
available to the Bank for review and comments (para. 4.04).
7.02      Formal approval by the Government of the two proposed Action Plans
that were finalized during negotiations (paras. 2.22 and 3.13) has been
received.



- 31 -
7.03      Signing of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank wi}l
be a condition of loan effectiveness (para. 4.06).
7.04      With the above assurantes, the proposed project is suited for a Bank
loan of US$141 million to the Republic of Korea for a term of 15 years inclu4-
ing a three year grace period and at the standard variable interest rate, for
onlending to KMPA on the same terms and conditions.



-32-                             ANNEX I
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
1.   Sector Memorandum:  Korea's Port and Shipping Subsector, February 1986.
2.   Details of Economic Evaluation, February 1986
3.   Feasibility Study of Pusan Port third phase development, by Lyons Assoc.
and KECC, 1982 (5 volumes).
4.   Detailed Engineering for Pusan Port third phase development by Lyons
Assoc. and KECC, 1983.
5.   Statistical Yearbook, KMPA, 1983, 1984.
6.   Site Selection Study by Kiri-Sekwang, 1985.
7.   Financial Status of KMPA, Past and Future Performance, February 1986.



ANNEX 2
_33 -                              Page I
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Past Five-Yearf Transport Development PLans and
Bank s Involvement (1962-81)
1.        The First Plan  (1962-66) devoted about half of transport invest-
ments to aodernize and strengthen rail system capacity.  Some 275 km of
industrial track were built (Tonghae Puku line); the conversion from steam to
diesel traction was started with large imports of locomotives and diesel rail
cars; the fleet was modernized with large imports of passenger and freight
cars while a large number were locally made. The Second Plan (1967-71), in
contrast to the First, devoted about 601 of trinsport investments on highway
improvement. Some 655 km of expressways were built (Seoul-Pusan, Ulsan-
Onyang, Seoul-Inchon and Taejon-Chonju) and the motor vehicles fleet increased
by nearly 100,000 units. In the railway sector, 180 km of new tracks were
constructed (Kyonggon line), and 50 km doubled-tracked (Honam line); the fleet
continued to expand with very large imports of diesel locomotives, passenger
and freight cars, while more were built localty and rehabilitated. In the
maritime sector, 800,000 CT of ocean-going ships and 130,000 GT of coastal
ships were added, while Pusan port stevedoring facilities were expanded and
Inchon and Ulsan ports were developed to accommodate foreign trade and to
establish industrial coastal zones.
2.        The Third Plan (1972-76) gave priority to the highway and maritime
sectors which received 47X and 281, respectively, of transport investments.
Some 490 km of two-lane high-speed highways were built (Chonju-Pusan$ Wonju-
Kangreung), a national road maintenance organization was established and the
motor vehicles fleet expanded further by 210,000 units. In the maritime
sector, expansion of Pusan and Mukho ports was started, while Incheon port was
developed further with the help of the Asian Development Bank (ADM); the fleet
was increased by some 1.3 million CT. In the railway sector, the line capa-
city increase continued through electrification of 320 km of heavy traffic
industrial lines (Chungang, Taebaek and Yongdong), and about 100 km of the
Seoul Metropolitan System (SNESRS); about 90 km of new tracks were laid
including 9.5 km of the first subway line in Seoul. In the aviation sector,
the international airports of Seoul Kimpo, Pusan-Kimh&e and Cheju were
expanded while ten jet liners were imported.
3.        The Fourth Plan (1977-81) directed investments at the consolidation
of the basic transport infrastructure developed over the p-^vious decade by
completing missing links, while also starting to promote bt .ter efficiency in
the operation of the transport system. The emphasis was placed on expendi-
tures for maintenance and renovations rather than on investments for new
facilities, with the major exception being a large-scale subway construction
program designed to alleviate urban transport congestion in Seoul City. The
basic highway network was completed by widening to 4 lanes the Masan-Pusan
expressway and constructing the Taegu-Masan 85 km two-lane expressway. A
large-scale paving program for national roads was also started to bring the



-34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
paved portion to 681, a target that was not reached partly due to reclasoifi-
cation. rn the railway sector, some 160 km of double tracking were completed
(Chungbuk and Cyeongbu lines) while large numbers of electric cars, diesel
locomotives, passenger and freight cars and workshops were added. In the
maritime sector, the first Busan container port and Mukho coal port were
completed; and a second expansion of the Busan container area was started.
Inchon expansion, started in 1974, was completed in 1978 with rhe assistance
of ADS, through the addition of 20 deep-water berths, including 5 container
berths and 4 breakwaters.
4.        The past achievements under development plans in the transport
sector are very impressive as evidenced by large networks and fleet expansions
as well as by modernization. However, funds expended under the national plans
reflect only part of total investments in the transport sector. Local
government investments, including those of provinces, counties, cities and
special cities, are not included in the plans unless they are funded at least
in part by the central budget. Omitting to take them into account would
considerably distort the assessment of the real magnitude of Korea's
progress. In particular, the four Special Cities (Seoul, Pusan, Taegu and
Inchon) road investment programs were not shown in the fourth Transport Plan
although with over W 700 billion at current prices (nearly US$1 billion), 801
of which was in Seoul City, they represented 37Z of the country's overall road
investment. In comparison, W 880 billion or 46Z were spent on national and
express highways and W 328 billion or 141 on provincial, county and city
roads.
Performance Assessment
5.        Broadly, the basic objectives of the transport development plans
were met as the network expanded fast enough to accommodate economic growth.
The general approach that gave priority to large investments to increase
system capacity was the most appropriate. The traffic grew so fast that
halfway measures, such as rehabilitation and improvement of the deficient
network of the 1960s, would have been insufficient and short-sighted.
6.        The highway development policy was geared to develop a network of
roads to serve the short and medium distance traffic for which they have an
economic advantage over the railways. The Road Plan developed in 1968, in
consultation with the Bank, proposed a very ambitious program consisting of:
(a) the development through 1986 of a network of about 4,000 km of trunk
highways to form a grid of longitudinal and transversal axes linking the four
major gate ports of Inchon, Pusan, Mogpo and Mukho toward inland centers, and
(b) the construction over a 10-year period of a 1,600 km two-lane expressway
network designed on separate alignments from the old roads, that could be
expanded when traffic volumes would require it. The program was 75% completed
and was determinant in localizing industries around Seoul and in most provin-
cial capitals, speeding the urbanization process as the population migrated
more easily from rural areas. The voluntary delay in improving the secondary
and tertiary networks was justified in view of the highway requirements of the
industrialization policy.



-35_                                 ANNEX 2
Page 3
7.        Similarly, the railway investment policy was directed at strengthen-
ing its transport capacity for bulk freight and long distance passenger traf-
fic where the railways have a comparative advantage. Investment in moderniza-
tion, double tracking and electrification of the most heavily used freight
line (14 million tons p.a.) enabled the railway to perform more efficiently
and to cope with demand. In particular, it helped increase express train
traffic from 1 billion passenger-km in 1971 to 11 billion in 1983, to make
large profits. However, to keep freight or recover local passenger traffic
that would be better handled by road transport, the railway attempted to
compete by investing in improvements that were economically not so justified
and had to apply a fares policy for ordinary trains that could not cover
operating costs. Also the Government forced the railways to invest in infra-
structure for other than strictly economic reasons such as doubletracking of
the Chung-Buk line.
8.        Past investments, geared to the development of ports, including
those of Pusan, Inchon and Ulsan, were necessary to cope with the large
increase of ocean-going freight and to attract heavy industries to coastal
areas. Also, the Pusan containerization program was effective in reducing
handling costs and expediting flows of cargo, although custom clearances still
impose lengthy transit delays. However, efforts were too restricted to the
major ports. A national port development policy remains to be introduced to
shape the future role, number and localization of lesser ports, particularly
to support coastal shipping which has scope for much expansion, given the
geography and political situation which make Korea a de facto island. Pro-
g-ess in the shipbuilding industry has been very instrumental in modernizing
the domestic fleet, which has proven to be a source of foreign exchange earn-
ings. An expansion of air transport was also timely in serving the many
foreign and local businessmen who were the artisans of Korea's fantastic
exports expansion that increased from 1962 to 1978 at an average of 27% p.a.
The Bank's Involvement
9.        The Bank has played an active role in advising and assisting the
Korean authorities in pursuing their transport objectives. Since 1962, the
Bank Group has assisted the KNR through nine railway projects amounting to
US$623 million. The first seven projects have been satisfactorily completed
and the eighth was substantially modified to account for slower imports of
coal. This project for Coal and Cement Distribution is strengthening the
capacity of the railways, ports and inland terminals to cope with the expected
increase in transport of these commodities, resulting partly from large coal
imports substituting for oil. The Nineth Project for Seoul-Pusan corridor
will increase rail capacity with an improved signalling system and other
investments.   Bank-supported investments have concentrated on improved
capacity and service for long distance passenger and bulk cargo transport,
The Bank has also maintained an active dialogue on the railway's financial
situation, investment plans, level and structure of tariffs. After some
deterioration in the 1970s, Government agreed to implement a financial
recovery plan for KNR as part of the Seventh Railvay Project. A revised plan,
following the severe downturn of the economy in the early 1980s, was agreed
upon.



- 36-                               ANNEX 2
Page 4
10.       Since 1969, the Bank has financed six highway projects and a pre-
investment credit totalling US$695 million which have had a major impact in
assisting Government with the improvement and expansion of the national and
provincial road networks and with institution-building in the MOC and MOHA.
Significant policy changes, relating to the highway sector, which were effec-
ted through the highway projects, include the adoption of more appropriate
road standards, revisions of regulations governing vehicle weights and dimen-
sionst and a modified government policy on toll roads. The MOC's organization
to maintain the national road network was established and strengthened, as
well as that of MOHA, through the provision of technical assistance and road
maintenance equipment. Korean consulting firms have benefitted through their
association with foreign consultants on the design of road projects.
11.       Substantial assistance has also been extended for port develop-
ment. In part related to Korea's export drive, ports are seriously congested,
particularly at Pusan, the biggest port. Containerization was introduced in
Pusan with the assistance of the Bank under two port projects totalling
US$147 million; the Saudi Fund for Development participated with the Bank in
the financing of the first Pusan Port Project. The proposed third port pro-
ject would further increase container handling capacity at Pusan port, improve
internal transport and reduce congestion in the city.



37                             ANNEX 3
Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Tentative Cost Estimates for KNR Component -
Cost US$ thousands
1.   Modification of railway car brake
systems for 90 km per hour operation -
308 cars at $5,0QO                                   1,540
2.   Twenty (20) train sets of GLENAYRE
rear-of-train monitors to permit
running trains without cabooses at $5,000              100
3.   Container locking devices - 280 cars
at $640 each                                           180
4.   Provide one additional track in PCTOC
rail loading yard
a.  Track                                              100
b.  Transtainer                                         75
Subtotal                                                  2,670
5.   Technical assistance                                   330
Total                                                     30000
Short Term Action Plan - KNk Detailed Pro&ram
1.   Select 50 existing container cars, and 2 locomotives in good condition to
operate two 25-car trains without caboose between Pugok and PCTOC Pusan
at 90 km/per hour, and a full cycle turnaround time of 24 hours.
2.   Purchase 2train sets of "Gleanayre" rear of train monitors and equip 2
good condition locomotives for service with trains of 25 cars no
cabooses.
3.   Arrange with trade union to experiment with operation of one train in
each direction with two man crews, with one crew operating train between
Pugok and PCTOC.
1/   To be financed under Seoul-Pusan Corridor Project (Loan 2600-KO).



ANNEX 3
-38-                           Page 2
4.   Operate train between Pugok and PCTOC craneway.  Do not shunt train in
Pusan station.
5.   The start up operation should be at nighttime as present, but under the
circumstances of items 1-4 above.
6.   After successful trial for 40 days, start the same operation (one train
each direction/day) during daylight hours. Vary departure zimes to learn
how to operate trains and the detriments to the operation.
7.   After six month sof experience, begin operation one container train with
one round trip per day, and then increase the number of train operating
on the same pattern until as many trains are operated on this round trip
per day pattern.



ANNEX 4
Page 1
- 39 -
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Training and Technical Assistance
1.        The training and technical assistance requirements are summarized in
the following table and explained in the subsequent paras.:
Local      Foreign       Total
---------- US$ '0o00
Training
1.     Three port personnel
five months each in foreign ports         5           30            35
2.     Eight two-week visit to
foreign ports                           5           32            37
3.     Two university courses for
port planners                          20           38            58
Subtotal                                 30          100           130
Technical Assistance
4.     Financial and managerial studies        390             -          390
5.     Operational studies                     615           200          815
6.     Preparation of Pusan master plan        310             -          310
Subtotal                              1,315          200         1595
7.     Construction supervision              1,630           960        2,590
Total Base Cost                       2,915        1,260         4,235
Training
2.        Three port personnel will be trained in selected foreign ports for
about five months each: two operations managers; and one equipment
specialist. Visits of eight port officials to foreign ports, about two weeks
each, to observe port management, planning and operations. In addition two
port planners are to be sent for one year each to attend planning course at
foreign universities.



ANNEX 4
-40-                           Page 2
Technical Assistance
3.        Master planning.  KMPA control extends over the entire sea-front of
the Greater Pusan Metropolitan Area with the developments in Camchon Bay,
Pusan outer harbor area and the Pusan City urban development plan, there is a
need to update the Master Plan for Pusan port. This will be done locally
under terms of reference to be agreed with the Bank.
4.        Financial and managerial studies.  Consultants will be retained to
improve the financial and managerial functions of KMPA and PCTOC as intended
in the Action Plan addressing these objectives (Annex 6). KMPA has success-
fully implemented a commercial accounting program (1984). The next step will
be to introduce an advanced computerized system to develop efficient port
operations. In order to do so consultants will be retained under terms of
reference agreed with the Bank. These consultants will be funded locally.
5.        Operational studies.  Consultants will also be retained to formulate
measures to be implemented under the Action Plan designed to improve inland
container handling (Annex 7). These measures will seek to: (a) improve the
productivity of the container terminals; (b) create a market oriented con-
tainer operation; and (c) introduce business oriented container transport
management. Some of the necessary actions will be planned and carried out by
Korean experts from the agencies involved, but outside assistance will be
needed in some areas. Expatriate personnel will be engaged when the local
experience is inadequate. The studies to be carried out are briefly explained
below. Terms of reference will be prepared by KMPA to be reviewed by and
agreed upon with the Bank.
6.        A study is underway by PCTOC of the utilization of CY and CFS.  The
study will include: (a) analyzing the flow of container traffic into, out of
and within Korea; and (b) traffic projections by origin and destination.
Based on this study K[PA would devise and update the operating regulations in
the container terminal to fully utilize the container terminal with all its
facilities. Where existing capacity is short of projected traffic, KMPA will
explore alternatives for handling this traffic.
7.        A study will be carried out by KMPA and the City of Pusan to improve
road access to existing and planned on-dock and Dong Myung CYs. The study
will include the possibility of establishing an over-pass for the rail spur to
the existing container terminal. At the same time the T-junction of the road
access to Seoul-Pusan expressway will be studied, planned, designed and
implemented within the proposed project.
8.        A study will be carried out by KMPA concerning the relocation off-
dock CYs in the Pusan area to the the Dong Myung area adjacent to the proposed
project, This study will investigate the possibility to operate this new CYs
in a collective way.
9.        A study will be carried jointly by KMPA, KNR and MOT to design, and
establish marketing systems for container services of KNR, PCTOC apd new outer
harbor terminal. This study would formulate policies, procedures, regulations
and possibly schedules to meet users needs and attract traffic. Full



ANNEX 4
-41-                           Page 3
advantage should be taken of the new rail/truck container terminal at Pugok
near Seoul, so that it becomes, in effect, an extension of PCTOC terminal in
Seoul.
10.       A study will be carried out by KMPA to study the alternatives for
managing the new container terminal under the proposed project. This study
should test the following alternatives: (a) unifying the-management of both
terminals under PCTOC; (b) creating a new terminal operating company for the
new outer harbor terminal; and (c) using a private company to manage the new
terminal. The study should define the advantages and disadvantages of each
alternative and compare them and recommend the optimum plan. The study should
also propose ways to move containers between the two terminals.
11.       Construction supervision.  The proposed project was designed by
consultants (Lyons Associates and Korea Engineering Company (KECC)). KMPA is
going to assign the supervision of construction for the proposed project to
KECC assisted by few expatriate consultants. The terms of reference for the
supervision and the contract will be reviewed and agreed with the Bank.



ANNUEX 5
- 42-                         Page- Iof 2
SUGGESTED DRAFT
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Draft Letter by KMPA and KNR Introducing the two Action Plans
Mr. Attila Karaosmanoglu
Vice President
East Asia and Pacific Region
International Bank for Reconstruction
and Development
Washington, D.C.
Re:  Pusan Port Project - Implementation
of Action Plans
This letter is to inform you of specific actions KMPA and KNR will
take so as to address outstanding issues in the port subsector and the trans-
portation of containers in Korea. The objectives of the Korea Maritime and
Ports Administration (KMPA) are to further develop KMPA as an institution by
improving its financial and managerial functions as well as to respond
efficiently to transport demand by increased utilization of existing container
handling facilities. The objectives of the Korea National Railroad (KNR) are
to improve the quality of container rail service and to reduce cost of
handling containers by rail. As you know, these objectives are consistent
with the national transport sector development goals that were to be achieved
during the Fifth Five-year Economic and Social Development Plan, and also the
new objectives proposed in the Sixth Plan (1987-91).
Two Action Plans to reach those objectives have been set up.
The first one outlines the steps KMPA will follow to increase its
efficiency as a modern port management institution. The Plan is designed to
improve financial management, establish the true costs of providing various
services and improve the flow of information. The implementation of this
program of actions will not only help KMPA to fulfill previous agreements made
with the IBRD but also fully equip it to meet the challenge of the 1990s.
The second Action Plan deals with the rationalization of container
cargo transport and will be jointly implemented by KMPA and KNR. Measures to
be taken will help to:
(a) better utilize the container facilities at Pusan port;
(b) improve the energy efficiency of inland container transportation;
(c) reduce double handling of containers; and



ANE  5
-43 -                       Page 2 of 2
(d) improve Pusan urban environment by reducing city-street traffic
congestion.
A critical factor in designing this Action Plan was our desire to provide the
least cost alternative, in terms of transport energy consumption as well as
overall costs. In planning further expansion of port container-handling
installations we will continue to keep these factors in mind.
KMPA and KNR are committed to carrying out these plans by the agreed
dates. The proposed Pusan Port Expansion Project is a suitable framework in
which to implement these Action Plans, These plans will be executed under our
joint responsibility and are attached for your consideration.
With best regards,
Administrator                        Administrator,
DiPA                                 KNR
Seoul, Korea                         Seoul, Korea
Attachments (2)



ANNEX 6
- 44                          Page l of 4
KOREA
PROPOSED GOVERNMENT PLAN OF ACTION
UNDER PUSAN PORT PROJECT
IMPROVEMENT OF KMPA FINANCIAL AND MANAGERIAL FUNCTIONS
Background
At appraisal of the First Port Project in 1972, it was agreed that a
new body would be created to manage the different ports which were then under
the jurisdiction of a number of agencies spread across different government
ministries. In late 1974, under the First Port Project (Loan 917-KO),
Consultants Booz, Allen, and Hamilton International (BAHINT) were hired to
design new prototype commercial accounting, costing and management information
systems for the proposed port entity. This entity was established in 1976 as
the Korea Maritime and Ports Administration (RMPA). Subsequently, under the
Second Port Project (Loan 1401-KO), another group of consultants was hired to
update the BAHINT's study findings on commercial accounting and implement them
within KMPA. These efforts were all intended to develop KMPA as an entity
with considerable financial, managerial and organizational autonomy. However,
due to the newness of KMPA, this period was one of a difficult climate for
institution building efforts. Repeated and frequent staff transfers always
slowed the momentum of the various stages of the effort.
Current Status
KMPA has, by 1984, been able to successfully implement a commercial
accounting program as required by the loan agreement for the Second Port
project. This implementation was staged over a five year period. it was done
primarily by using consultants to define the steps in the process and to sub-
sequently conduct extensive staff training programs. Once trained, the
initial group worked under the guidance of consultants to restate KMPA admin-
istrative type accounting into a more commercial basis. Later on with more
trained staff available the actual bookkeeping was prepared on a commercial
basis, starting in PDMPA and then spreading to all other DMPAs. Reasonably
accurate financial statements are now prepared and they fully reflect current
conditions as KMPA, by itself, has this year revalued all fixed assets. The
next step will be to introduce an advanced computerized system to develop, in
a first phase, efficient port operations. In order to do so, KMPA plans to
use consultancy services.
Objectives
KMPA is now interested in continuing its financial and managerial
development under the proposed Pusan Phase III Development Project. Our
objectives include: (a) computerizing the commercial accounting system;
(b) revising designs for a cost accounting system and implementing them; and
(c) computerizing the port operations system as a first step in introducing
the management information system. Our approach will be to develop concepts,
prepare plans and implement them.



ANNEX 6
Page 2of 4
-45-
Actions and Measures Required
Actions will be taken on a pilot basis at Pusan Container Terminal
Operating Company (PCTOC) and subsequently in other DMPA's, staged in accord-
ance with consultants findings. KMPA will, therefore, prepare Terms of
Reference (TOR) for computerizing port operations and the accounting function
as well as for designs of the cost accounting system. The TOR will be sent to
the IBRD for review by June 1, 1986. Proposals for consulting services will
be requested by July 15, 1986 from short listed, suitable firms.
PCTOC Pilot Program
PCTOC deserves special mention because its financial management
needs to be further developed and also because it is an appropriate unit for
testing changes, such as increased delegation of managerial responsibility, to
better respond to demand. Currently, only one of the PCTOC functions is well
run, i.e. the stevedoring operations at the quayside. It is recognized that
under Lull distribution of costs, the entire Container Yard (CY) and Container
Freight Station (CFS) operations are losing money. This has partly to do with
rules governing their usage and also due partly to the fact that it is
inherently difficult to optimize the management of a container terminal solely
by administrative procedures. PCTOC management will be given gradually more
flexible rules which will allow it to be more responsive to market needs and
changes. For this purpose, PCTOC is presently conducting an analysis of its
CY and CFS traffic patterns as well as a survey of its users' preferences.
This study will be completed by December 1985. Measures that are subsequently
expected to be considered for implementation might include:
(a)  PCTOC will have consultancy services to analyse its tariffs starting
July 1987. From the outcome of these services PCTOC will revise its
tariff system so as to utilize its facilities more profitably.
(b)  PCTOC could implement on a pilot basis certain aspects of the cost
accounting of the present Plan of Action. The necessary steps for
this purpose are detailed in Appendix 2.
The main actions to be implemented as part of this Plan in the
various DMPA's and KMPA are outlined below. A more detailed description of
those actions in the form of an outline contents of the draft Terms of
Reference (TOR) for required studies, is given in Appendices 1-4.
Commercial Accounting
Its computerization and extension to all DMPA's will be a major
undertaking. To do so, KMPA will carry out the following actions:
(a) implement a program of professional training for both staff and
management (by June 1988);
(b) Develop the computerization plan (September 1986 - May 1988);



AMNE 6
-46-                         Page 3 of 4
(c) Seek Ministry of General Affairs (MOCA) agreement and hire computer
accounting staff (June 30, 1989).
(d) Implement computerization in stages as outlined in Appendix 2.
Completion of these actions will enable the preparation and timely delivery of
financial statements throughout the KMPA network.
Cost AccountinR
These actions wi'l enable RMPA to first develop a manual, and later
a computerized cost accounting system. The analysis of the costs will provide
important information for port management on the profitability of various
operations including the handling of specific cargo/service. As this is a
subject of limited experience within KMPA, outside assistance will be
sought. KMPA will, therefore, take the following actions:
(a) design the cost accounting system, using consultants (June 1987).
(b) Initiate manual implementation at PCTOC (December 1987).
(c) Commence manual implementation at PDMPA (January 1989).
(d)  Prepare a plan for computerizing it (January 1990).
(e) Convert PDMPA to computerized cost accounting (December 1992).
(f) Extend to major DMPAs according to timing to be agreed with the
Bank.
These steps and dates are subject to change, depending on the outcome of the
consultants study.  This will be discussed with the IBRD before implementa-
tion. The cost accounting system will be most useful in deciding, planning
and marketing port services. This will be critical in coming years as more
and more ports in Asia become modernized and competition for traffic
increases.
Management Information System
KMPA has already purchased some of the hardware required for
computerizing the port operations system as a first step in developing a
management information system. It will first cover seamen's records, vessel
entry/exit and cargo statistics by 1986 and subsequently operational, and
accounting functiona by 1992. KMPA has already budgeted funds for studies and
assistance needed to develop this system. Basically, it is a 5 year program
which will include the following:
(a) The evaluation of the adequacy of the existing flow of information
to management (June 1987).
(b) Develop and approve a plan for the MIS, using electronic data
processing (EDP) (June 1989).



ANNEX 6
-47-                         Page 4 of 4
(c)  Incorporate information from the newly developed commercial and cost
accounting systems within the MIS design (December 1988).
(d) Train port personnel (10) during the design stages (June 1988).
(e) Test implementation at PCTOC (December 1989).
(f) Implementation for computerized port operations (December 1992).
(g) Extend to major DMPAs according to timing to be agreed with the
Bank.
The implementation of a computerized MIS will be major step forward in enhanc-
ing the managerial control and efficiency of KMPA.  This is essential to the
proper focussing of its resources to support its development strategy.
Implementation of the Plan of Action
Agencies Responsible. The Administrator of KMPA will be responsible
for overall implementation of the action plan and, where necessary, approval
for certain steps will be sought from the Economic Planning Board (EPB), and
the Ministry of General Affairs (MOCA) and the Ministry of Transport (MOT).
KMPA will ensure that the main provisions of the action plan are reflected in
the Sixth Five-Year Development Plan (SFYDP), 1987-91.
Assistance Required. Korean and foreign consultants will be used
where necessary. Local funds for financing them have been included in KMPA's
budget request for 1986. The cost of this component is included in the Pusan
Port Project.



ANNEX 6
-48-               App~~8Rendix 1
_ 48 -                  Page I
KOREA
PUSAS PORT PROJECT
APPENDICES OF DRAFT
GOVERNMENT PROPOSED ACTION PLAN
TO IMPROVE IKKPA'S FINANCIAL AND MANAGERIAL FUNWCTIONS
COMMERCIAL ACCOUNTING
Objective
To provide the management of KMPA and each DMPA with the ability to
accurately record the results of operations and to begin developing a com-
puterized accotmting system which links each DMPA to KMPA.
Action Required
Implement a continuous program of professional training for both the
staff and management. The training program will deal with both government and
commercial accounting and will consist of:
Staff:              (a)  Preparation of financial statements
(b)  Audit procedures
(c)  Ratio and percentage analysis
(d)  Variance analysis
Management:         (a)  Trend analysis
(b)  Variance analysis
(c)  Exception reporting
Detailed Terms of Reference will be prepared by KMPA to develop a
plan to computerize the financial accounting function within KMPA. This will
form part of the Terms of Reference to be submitted to the IBRD for review by
June 1, 1986.
The development of the computerization plan will begin on September
1986 and it will be completed by May 1988. The Plan will indicate:
(a)  the functions to be computerized and the priority of each;
(b) available software packages that could be used by KMPA with minimal
modifications;
(c) those accounting functions for which no suitable package exists; and
(d) the estimated hardware, software, and training needed and the
approximate cost of each.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 1
- 49-                    Page 2
KMPA will seek the approval of the Ministry of General Affairs
(MOCA) by March 31,1989 to obtain the necessary staff and commence
implementation.
Computerization of the accounting functions identified in the plan
will be implemented one at a time. The initial implementation of each func-
tion will be conducted by PDMPA. Once the system has been proven, it will be
implemented at the other major DMPAs and KMPA.
Implementation of the first area to be converted to a computerized
system will begin at PDMPA by January 1, 1989. Implementation of all of the
systems will be completed by:
PDMPA and PCTOC                         December 31, 1991
Other Major Ports and KMPA              December 31, 1993



ANNEX 6
Append ix 2
-50 -                    Page I
COST ACCOUNTING
Obiective. To provide the management of PCTOC and KMPA with a manual, and
later a computerized, system to accumulate the full cost of operations by
functional area so that the operating expenses can be minimized, and so that a
system of tariffs can be developed which are based on the actual cost of
providing the specific service. Once developed, the cost system will be
utilized by KMPA and the DMPAs.
Actions Required
1.        KMPA will include the design of the cost accounting system using
profit centers in the Terms of Reference to be sent to IBRD by June 1986 for
review. The cost system will be designed for PDMPA but implemented initially
by PCTOC.
2.        PCTOC Program.  KMPA will identify the cost and revalued bases of
the assets used by PCTOC. This analysis will be in sufficient detail so that
the assets can be grouped into the profit centers used in the PCTOC cost
system. This will be completed by June 30, 1987.
3.        KMPA will identify all loans received to develop the PCTOC facility
and the related interest expense and debt amortization payments associated
with those loans. This will be completed by June 30, 1987.
4.        KMPA will transfer the record keeping of the original cost of the
PCTOC assets, their accumulated depreciation, any subsequent asset revalua-
tions, and the balance of the applicable loans outstanding to PCTOC as of
June 30, 1987.
5.        PCTOC will record the transfer of the items listed in para. 4 above,
and revise its financial records and statements to show that the annual
payment to KMPA consists of:
Depreciation Expense
Interest Expense
Debt Amortization Payments
Operating Lease Payment
The total of these payments will equal the annual lease payment as it is
currently calculated. These revisions will be completed by June 30, 1987.
6.        KMPA will by September 30, 1987 obtain the necessary staff and
conduct the training required so that the implementation of the manual cost
system can be done by PCTOC.
7.        By January 1, 1988, PCTOC and KKPA will review the calculated
operating income for each profit center and the net income for PCTOC and
determine what actions are necessary in order to correct any problems
identified.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 2
_51                       Page 2
8.        By end 1991, PCTOC computerizes the cost accounting system.
9.        General Prog-am.  The design of the cost system will begin on
January 1, 1987 and it will be completed by June 30, 1987. The system design
will be:
(a) structured according to facility, type of activity and tariff item;
(b) capable of identifying expenses as fixed, variable, and
controllable;
(c) consistent with cost systems used by major ports in the world; and
(d) capable of being modified so that it can be implemented by the DMPAs
and be computerized at a later date.
10.       KMPA will develop a series of management reports, based on the needs
of senior management, to effectively evaluate the operating results of each
profit center and the organization as a whole. The development of these
reports will be completed by August 1, 1987.
11.       By January 1  1988, KMPA will prepare a schedule to implement this
manual cost system at KMPA and at each of the DMPAs. Implementation wiLl
begin with PDMPA, and it will be completed by January 1, 1991.
12.       KMPA will begin converting this manual cost system to a computerized
one by preparing an appropriate action plan and terms of reference by
January 1, 1989. Conversion of the largest DMPAs will commence by January 1,
1991.



ANNEX 6
xedix 3
-52-                      Pee I
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
Objective. The implementation of a computerized MIS will provide the manage-
ment of each DMPA, PCTOC and KMPA with the operational and cost information
needed to effectively manage the ports' operations.
Actions Required
1.        Prepare Terms of Reference for the MIS portion of the consultancy
services (June 1, 1986).
2.        After the terms of reference have been reviewed by the IBRD, KMPA
will request that proposals from consultants, on the short list, be submitted
by October 1, 1986.
3.        The consultant begins work on October 31, 1986 and completes the
following tasks by December 31, 1988:
(a) evaluate the adequacy of the reports and processes comprising KMPA's
current MIS by June 1, 1987;
(b) develop a framework (master plan) for the revised MIS utilizing
electronic data processing by June 30, 1989;
(c) incorporate information from the newly developed cost accounting
system with the port operational data;
(d) develop a training program for the port personnel.
4.        KMPA completes computerization of port operations component by
December 1992.
5.        System extended to major DMPA's according to timing to be agreed
with the Bank.



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
-53                      Page I
DVELOPfENW OF FINANCIAL AND MANAGERIAL FUNCTIONS
MONITORING INDICES
Need for and origin Target date for
Implementing      of assistance    implementation
agency      Korea     Foreign    Start      End
DEVELOPING MAIN FUNCTIONS
Commercial Accounting
Prepare TOR for accounting
computerization                    KMPA          X                 Ongoing  10/01/86
Computerization implemen-
tation plan                        KMPA          X                09/01/86- 05/31/88
Obtain staffing approval         KMPA/MOGA                        01/01188  06/30/89
Staged implementation             DMPA's         X                12/31/91  12/31/95
Cost Accounting
System design TOR                  KMPA                            Ongoing  10/01/86
Design cost system                 KMPA          X           X    01/01/87  06/30/87
Initial implementation          KMPA/PCTOC                        01/01/89  01/01/91
Staged manual implementation       PDMPA         X                01/01/89  01/01/91
Computerized conversion            DMPAs         X                01/01/91  12/31/92
Management Information System (MIS)
Submit T.OR to IBRD                KMPA                            Ongoing  10/01/86
Evaluate existing infor-
mation system                      KMPA          X                09/01/86  06/01/87
Develop master plan                RMPA          X           X    07/01/87  06/30/89
Incorporate accounting needs       KMPA          X                07/01/87  12/31/88
Test implementation             KMPA/PCTOC       X                01/01/89  12/31/89
Link systems                      DMPA's         X                0l/01/90  12/31/95



ANNEX 6
Appendix 4
54                     Page 2
Need for and origin Target date for
Implementing      of assistance    implementation
agency      Korea     Foreign    Start     End
INSTRUMENTS
Training
Implement a management
training program                KMPA/MOT        X         X      Ongoing   06/01/88
Train senior management in
computer applications           KMPA/MOT        X                06101187  06101/89
Computerization
Develop a 5 year computer-      KMPA/MOGA       X         X      Ongoing   1995
ization program for:
Commercial accounting,
budgetingt property and
supply control, cost
accounting, strategic
planning, port operations,
cargo statistics, person-
nel management, etc.



ANNEX 7
Page 1 of 5
KOREA
PROPOSED GOVERNMENT PLAN OF ACTION
UNDER PUSAN PORT PROJECT
IMPROVEMENT OF KOREA'S INLAND CONTAINER HANDLING OPERATIONS
Existing Container Handling System and Problem Areas
Container Handling Operations in Korea are generally quite effective
and relatively economic; throughput is high and the computerized container
yard (CY) stacking and inventory systems are quite efficient. Between 1979
and 1984 container traffic through the Pusan Container Terminal Operating
Company's (PCTOC) grew at more than 20% per year and the PCTOC share of total
Pusan container traffic increased from 44% to 62X.  In spite of this record,
further improvements could be made to use the existing facilities even more
efficiently.  These would help in accomodating part of the substantial
increase in traffic expected before the new outer-harbor terminal can become
operational. These would also help in improving the organization, policies
and staffing for the operation of the new and existing terminals. Korean
National Railways (KNR) has recently opened a modern rail container terminal
for the Seoul area at Pugok and has steadily increased the volume of rail
shipment of containers between Pusan and Seoul but much more needs to be done
to realize the full potential for rail service. Evidence of needed improve-
ments include:
(a) although the large number and size of off-dock container yards in
Pusan create a serious traffic congestion problem, PCTOC's container
yard (CY) and container freight station (CFS), at present, are much
less than fully utilized.
(b) although rail shipment is the most economical means of container
transport between Pusan and Seoul (only 22% of such traffic moves by
rail), neither KNR's installations nor PCTOC's rail transfer
facility are utilized to near their capacity;
(c) neither KNR nor PCTOC has a commercially oriented marketing organ-
ization needed to seek out and develop traffic so as to ensure opti-
mum utilization of the facilities they operate; and
(d)  coordination of necessary activities between Government Agencies
such as KMPA, KNR and the city of Pusan is not satisfactory.
Objectives
To resolve the above inefficiencies, concentrated efforts are needed
to plan and prepare for specific actions to achieve the following objectives:
(a) to increase the throughput capacity of the Korean container handling
system so as to permit handling the expected increase in container



ANNE 7
- 56 -                      Page 2 of 5
traffic in the period 1986-1989 before the new Pusan outer-harbor
container terminal is available;
(b) to store, stuff and strip the maximum practicable number of
containers within the PCTOC terminal and in the new outer harbor
terminal and proposed Dong Myung CY when they are available, so as
to reduce the need for off-dock CY's and relieve traffic congestion
in Pusan city;
(c) to improve KNR's operations including speed and reliability-of rail
container shipment, improve layout of PCTOC's rail transfer facility
so as to provide low-cost rail services directly to customers and to
optimize the split of container traffic between rail and road in the
Seoul-Pusan corridor;
(d) to design and set up well before the end of 1989 an organization to
operate the new outer-harbor container terminal with its operating
procedures and staffing; and
(e) to design and establish a business oriented organization to manage
port and rail container services and to market them to users; in
this respect, integrated operation of the Pugok Terminal with the
on-dock terminals in Pusan shall be considered.
Discussion of Actions Required
The three following entities will be directly involved in defining
the measures and actions to be taken that would be implemented as part of this
Plan of Action:
-    the Port of Pusan (KMPA/PCTOC);
-    the railroad (KNR); and
-    the city of Pusan
Productivity Increases. (i} With respect to the port, action is
needed to expand container handling capacity in the short term prior to the
opening of the new outer-harbor container terminal as well as to optimize the
operation of the new terminal when it opens by 1990. This includes improving
the use of space within PCTOC's terminal by such measures as increasing the
average stacking height and ensuring faster dispatch to and from shippers.
Even if the CY of PCTOC would be fully utilized, only a minority of the con-
tainers stored outside in off-dock terminals could be accomodated there due to
space limitation. The proposal to establish an area at the Dong Myung former
plywood plant in which to store containers that cannot be accommodated on-dock
will be pursued (especially for the substantial inventory of empty containers
needed to support Korean exports). Studies will be undertaken to determine
the scope of the development, design the installation, provide adequate road
access and develop a system of incentives which will induce off-dock CY users
to move to Dong Myung. (ii) With respect to the railways, improvement of the
rail container shipment service is needed in order to more fully utilize and
expand the installations at Pugok by integrating its operations with the
port. Increases in length, speed and frequency of container trains will be



ANNEX 7
-57                          Page 3 of 5
implemented and will help further reduce rail tariffs between Seoul and
Pasan. The ongoing installation of the Centralized Train Control (CTC) system
on the line will provide an opportunity for major improvements in this
respect. Improvement of port and rail operations will reduce the need for
off-dock CY and the resulting movement of containers through the streets of
Pusan. (iii) With respect to road access, joint action between the city and
the port will be needed to improve access to the expanding port installations
and to reduce congestion in the city.
Marketing Better Services. In the case of both the port and the
railway, the services provided suffers from a lack of a commercially oriented
marketing program designed to: (a) ascertain the needs of the customers,
(b) produce a system to meet them at least cost and (c) make its availability
well known to the customers. In many ways, the problem is a joint one for the
two agencies. For example, the integrated operation of the terminal at Pugok
and the Pusan container terminals shall be studied so that a single arrange-
ment by a shipper and a single document should be sufficient to move a con-
tainer between the Pugok terminal and container ships in Pusan. Existing
franchise arrangements which permit only a part of the container shipping
industry to use the Pusan on-dock and Pugok container freight stations or the
rail loading facilities need to be replaced with marketing oriented arrange-
ments that actively strive to see that these expensive installations are
adequately utilized.
Introducing Business Oriented Management. The commercial orienta-
tion necessary to market container services implies a need to examine care-
fully the various alternative management systems which could be employed,
i.e., government operation by specially trained personnel or operation by
separate companies totally or partially government owned or privately owned.
Such a system will provide overall management for port and rail container
services. It will handle marketing and customer relations. In order to carry
out these functions, it would need to operate the computer system which should
not only manage the container inventories at the port container terminals and
Pugok but also support servicing customers and meet their needs efficiently.
In any case, KMPA will retain important functions with respect to the port
terminal and KNR will integrate the operation of container trains into the
overall railway operations, so that systems of interaction between the
container handling operations and the port/railway will be developed.
Implementation of the Plan of Action
The execution of the Plan of Action will have two phases. In the
first phase, actions will be developed and carried out to solve the short-term
problems (prior to 1990) and a general plan for organization and management of
the port and railway container handling operations in the longer term should
be studied and decisions as to what items to adopt will be taken. In the
second phase, detailed plans will be made for the implementation of the
systems decided upon and the actual implementation carried out.
In order to achieve the objectives of the plan, the flow of con-
tainer traffic into, out of, and within Korea will be thoroughly analyzed.
Operations, attitudes and future plans of users of the system and transport



ANNEX 7
-58 -                        Page 4 of 5
companies (land and sea) will be carefully investigated and understood.
Worldwide container traffic developments and trends will be studied. Traffic
projections by origin and destination will be prepared. Most of the informa-
tion needed is being assembled under the Study on Improvement of the Freight
Transport System now being carried out by Korea Transport Institute (KTI) for
the Ministry of Transport. Any additional studies needed might be added to
the ongoing study. Any other studies undertaken will utilize the results of
the KTI study so as to avoid duplication of effort. In any case where the
projected traffic exceeds existing and newly provided capacity, alternative
means of handling the traffic will be explored. The greater use of other
ports, including Inchon will be considered. Operational improvements at the
PCTOC Terminal, including possible use of equipment destined for the new
terminal before it can be used there, will be investigated. Tariff adjust-
ments to induce more efficient use of existing KMPA facilities will be
considered.
Consideration was given to the organization and coordinatien of the
preparation and execution of the Plan of Action. In view of the relatively
independent agencies involved, a committee composed of senior representatives
of KMPA, KNR, and the city of Pusan, chaired by a representative of the
Ministry of Transportation was selected as the appropriate arrangement. In
any event, active participation of the Ministry is needed not only to assist
in coordination but also because it is managing the KTI Study which will pro-
vide essential support to execution of this Plan of Action. The high level
committee will be backed up by a wo-Ling level group composed of representa-
tives of the Ministry and the other entities. MOT Transport Coordination
Bureau (or KMPA) are being considered as a secretariat and management agency
for the Plan.
Some of the necessary actions will be planned and carried out by
in-house personnel of the agencies involved, but outside assistance will be
needed in some areas. Whenever qualified Korean personnel are available,
priority will be given to them; expatriate personnel will be engaged only when
local experience and expertise is inadequate. List of actions to be carried
out by each of the agencies are in Appendices 2, 3 and 4.
Quantitative Targets
In order to execute the plan, the main objectives to be reached to
improve inland container transport have been quantified as targets that can be
easily monitored, and revised, if necessary (see Appendix 1).



ANNEX 7
-59                         Page 5 of 5
Schedule of Execution of Plan of Action
The steps to implement the plan are as follows:
Completion of study by PCTOC of the utilization        December 1985
of CY and CFS
Establishment of Coordination Committee (MOT,          June 1986
KMPA, KNR, etc.)
Drafting of Terms of Reference for Operational         June-July 1986
Studies to be carried out by Technical
Assistance
Completion of KTI stud:                                November 1986
Engagement of Technical Assistance Experts             January-February 1987
First Phase of Plan:
(a)  Development of short-term measures and            September 1986-June 1987
Government decisions
(b)  Study by KNR and City of Pusan of relief of       October 1986-March 1987
road/rail interference.
(c)  Preparation of Plan for Dong Myung CY             January-April 1987
(d)  Development of general plans for organiza-        September 1986-June 1987
tion and management of container opera-
tions, Port and Rail
Government decisions on general plans                  July-August 1987
Srudy of road access to outer-harbor area              March-December 1987
Second Phase of Plan:
(a)  Development of detailed plans for execution       September 1987-February 1988
of Government decisions
(b)  Implementation of detailed plans                  March 1988-December 1989
(c)  Monitoring results and fine tuning of             January 1990-December 1992
procedures.



ANNEX 7
- 60 -         -       Appendix 1
Page 1
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
APPENDICES OF DRAFT GOVERNMENT PROPOSED ACTION PLANS
TO IMPROVE KOREA'S INLAND CONTAINER UANDLINC OPERATIONS
Quantitative Targets
In order to execute the pLan, the main objectives to be reached to
improve inland container transport have been quantified as targets that can be
easily monitored. These targets, which are set forth below provide appro-
priate initial goals, but the targets should be reviewed annually and, if
necessary, revised. The assumptions used are detailed in the attachment.
(Except as otherwise indicated, units are 1000 TEU's handled per year.)
Esti-
mated -------------Targets---------------
1985  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992
Pusan Port Container Terminals /a
Loaded on ships (exports)                  373   458   519   585   657   761    846
Unloaded from ships (imports)              344   423   479   541   607   703    780
Maximum stacked in On-Dock CY /b               11    12    14    18    25    29      32
Stuffed in On-Dock CFS                         11    73   106   114   122   129    141
Stripped in On-Dock CFS                        3    22    22    24    32    37       41
Shipped by railway                            56    81    97   119   145   174    205
Received by railway                           29    64    86   109   133   161    189
Pusan Off-Dock CY's
Stuffed                                    141    87    35      0      0     0      0
Stripped                                    42    28    19      0      0     0      0
Maximum stacked /b                          30    24    15      8      0     0      0
ENR
Container trains per day (each way)          5      5     6     8      9    11     13
Capacity per train (TEU)                    44    44    44    44    44    44       44
Pugok terminal-unloaded from trains         56    81    97   119.  145   174    205
Loaded on trains                          29    64    86   109   133   161    189
Stuffed                                    0    20    34    43    49    59       66
Stripped                                   0      3     5    12    14    16      19
Maximum stacked /b                         2      3     4     5      8    10     11
/a   Includes Piers 5 and 6 and proposed Outer Harbor container terminal.
7i   Number of containers stacked at any time; this is the one-time storage capacity
required to handle peak requirements.



ANNEX 7
-61-                  Page 2
Assumptions for Calculating Targets
A. Containers Handled through Pusan Port
1985    1987     1988      1989     1990      1991      1992
(actual)  (           --------- projected ----------)
Totals (1000 TEU)          1,173   lt381    1,498    1,626    1,764    1,914    2,048
Handled piers 1-4            456     500       500      500       500      450       450
Handle, by PCTOC:           (717)   (881)    (998)  (1,126)  (1,264)  (1,464)  (1,598)
at Piers 5 and 6           717     881       998    1,126       964      984       948
at New CT                    -       -         -        -       300      540       650
Total TEU handled is based on an annual growth in container traffic of 8.5%.
Breakdown is based on following theoretical capacities: Pier 1-4 -- 500,000,
Piers 5-6 -- 720,000, new CT 540,000. Container movements are 52% exportst
48Z imports; of these 5% of experts and 192 of imports are empties.
B. Stacking
Although reliable data are not available it appears that container
stacking requirements average about three days for containers being imported,
two for those being exported and fifteen days for empty containers awaiting
export cargo. In order to accomodate peak requirements, storage space should
be available to handle 130% of the average. Thus the required storage space
in TEU is
1.3 (0.48(3) 4 0.52(15+2)1 T /365 = 0.037T
Where T is the annual total traffic in TEU. Using this formula and the
following storage areas, the containers stored in each area can be projected.
CY Area (M2)
Piers 5-6                                    257,000
New outer-harbor CT                          120,000
Pugok                                        130,000
Dong Myung & Log Pond                        400,000
Off-Dock CY                                1,017,089



AMNE 7
Appendix 1
-62 -                 Page 3
Projected Maximum Containers Stacked (1000 TEU)
1985   1987   1988    1989   1990    1991   1992
Total                           43     51       55      60     65       71    77
Piers 5-6                       11     12      14       18     20      20    22
New CT                           -      -       -        -      5        9    10
Pugok                            2      3       4        5      8       10    11
Dong Myung/Log Pond              -     12       22      29     32       32    34
Off-Dock                        30     24       15       8      0        0     0
C.  Stuffing & Stripping                         =
From data contained in the detailed Engineering, approximately 25%
of containers exported and 8% of containers imported are stuffed or stripped
in the CFS. To the extent practicable, traffic from and to the Seoul area
should be stuffed or stripped at Pugok. Other traffic should be handled in
the CFS serving the CY where the container is stored.
Containers Stuffed (1000 TEU per annum)
1985  1987  1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Total                               152   180   195    211      229    249   270
Piers 5-6                            11    73   106    114      100    100   100
New CT                                -     -      -             22      29    41
Pugok                                 -    20    34      43      49      59    6e.
Dong Kyung                            -     -    20      54      58      61    61
Off-dock CY                         141    87    35       0       0       0     0
Containers Stripped (1000 TEU per annum)
1985  1987  1988   1989    1990   1991  1992
Total                                45    53    58      62      68      73    80
Piers 5-6                             3    22    22      24      24      24    24
New CT                                -      -     -      -       8      13    17
Pugok                                 -     3      5     12      14      16    19
Dong Myung                            -     -    12      26      22      20    20
Off-dock CY                          42    28    19       0        0      0     0



ANNA 7
Appendix 1
-63-                   Page 4
D. Movement by Railway
The movement of containers by rail is only about 32% of the total
Pusan-Seoul traffic and 14% of the Seoul-Pusan in 1985. It is desirsble to
increase these percentages but a reasonable build-up period should be antici-
pated as illustrated in the following table.
FORECAST OF KNR'S SHARE OF SEOUL-PUSAN CORRIDOR - CONTAINER TRANSPORT
(unit '000 TEU)
Actual                        Forecast
1985        1987      1988   1989   1990   1991   1992
Throughput at Pusan Port           1,173/a      1,381    1,498  1,626  1,764  1,914  2,048
To and From Seoul                    377          483/b    524    569    617    670    716
Seoul-Pusan                        206/c        261      283    307      333    362    387
Pusan-Seoul                        )187T        222      241    262    284    308    329
Of Which By Rail:                   85          145       183    228    278    335    394
Pugok-Pusan                       29/e         64       86    109    133    161    189
Pusan-Pugok                       567?         81       97    119    145    174    205
KNR's Market Share (in Z)
To and from Seoul               22.5           30       35      40     45      50      55
Seoul-Pusan                       14           24       30      36     40      44     48
Pusan-Seoul                       32           36       40      45     51      56      62
KNR total 40' cars required
per year in each direction
(in '000)                           28        40.5      48.5   59.5   72.5       87  102.5
/a  58% of Pusan traffic is outbound and 14.9% of the containers were empty; 42% of Pusan
traffic is inbound and 23.5% of the containers were empty
/b  Containers to and from Seoul are estimated to stay constant at 35% of total Pusan
throughput.
/c  Nearly all containers from Seoul to Pusan are full.
7i  40.3% of containers from Pusan to Seoul are empty.
7e  6% of containers by rail from Pugok to Pusan are empty.
7?  28% of containers by rail from Pusan to Pugok are empty.
The number of container to be transported per day and the number of cars and
trains required in each direction is as follows, based on 365 days of
operation per year.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 1
-64-                   Page S
KUR CONTAINER TRAFFIC FORECAST
1985    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
No. of TEUlDay               233     397      501     625      762      oi8   1,079
Pugok-Pusan                   79     175 1     3§     300      366      441     518
Pusan-Pugok                  154     222      266     325      396      477     561
No. of Train/Day
@ 22 cars                   10      10       12      16       18       22      26
Pugok-Pusan               3        4        6       7        9      10       12
Pusan-Pugok               5        5        6       8        9       11      13



AMX 7
Appendiz 2
-.65-                Page I
Actions to be Carried Out by KMPA
Short-Term
Action
1.  Increase utilization of PCTOC CFS and CY.  Being studied by PCTOC.
2.   Improve access procedures to PCTOC rail terminal.
3.   Increase through capacity of PCTOC Terminal
4.   Develop plan for providing and operating CY at Dong Myung.
5.   Study measures to extend PCTOC overall storage capacity including the
concept of inland dry ports
6.  Expand capacity of PCTOC Rail Terminal by improving layout
Longer Term
Action
1.  Develop organization and management plan for Pusan new (oute:-harbor)
container terminal.



ANNEX 7
-66 -                     Apendiz 3
Page 1
Actions to be Carried Out by RNR
Short Term Actions
1.   Operate trains initially without increase in length, speed and frequency
between Pusan-Seoul by introducing a round trip per train per day.
2.   Improve access procedures to Pugok Terminal so that all shippers can use
it conveniently.
3.   Improve utilization of Pugok CFS.
4.   Use PCTOC Rail Terminal to form and receive all Seoul Container Trains.
5.   Integrate Pugok CY operations with PCTOC using the same computerized
system.
Longer Term Actions
1.  Further increase capacity; reduce costs and tariffs of container service
between Seoul and Pusan by increasing train length and speed.



ANNEX 7
Appendix 4
-67 -                      Page I
Actions to be Carried out Jointly by
Two or More Agencies
Action                                    Agencies                 Remarks
1.   Improve road access to existing and       KMPA-City of Pusan   Study to be financed
planned on-dock and Dong Nyung CY's.                            under Bank Loan.
2.   Reduce interference of road and rail    undetermined            To be decided by
traffic at entrance to PCTOC con-                               Steering Comnittee
tainer handling rail spur.
3.   Design and establish management and       KMPA-KNR Ministry    Study to be financed
marketing system for container ser-       of Transport          under Bank loan.
vices of KUR, PCTOC and new Outer-
harbor Terminal



KOREPA
P11SAN PORT PROJECT
irrowth Trend of Dometic Freight Traffic (1966-84)
(tlnits: 1,000 tons; dillion tons-k'.T
1966       1962-66         1971       1967-71         1976        1972-76        1941        1977-81        1482              1983              1984
Traffic    2      ' in-   Traffic    i       % in-   Traffic    2       2 in-   Traffic   7y       2 in-   Traffic    2       Traffic    7      Traffic    %
volume   share  crease   volume   share  crease   volume   share  crease   voluoe   share  crease   volume   share   volume   share   volume   share
Tonnage
jailways              24,064    46.9    9.4        31,955   25.1    5.R    41,620    17.8    6.4        4A,761   12.1    2.2       47.437   Il.n    5n,47t    4.9    53,661    9.R
RtghT;svs
Comerctal              N/A       -       -      73,934   58.0       -     93,751    3R.?    4.9    104.256   26.0    2.1    108.576   25.7   126,401   25.n   143,629   26.3
Private & gov't.       N/A       -       -       10,320    4.1      -     94,439    3q.4   55.7    226,547   56.4   19.1    247.575   57.6   299,R0R   59.3   315,910   57.6
Subtotal           24.528    47.6    9.9       R4.254   66.1   2R.n   1RR.19n    76.6  174.4    33n,.60    82.4   11.9    356,151   82.8   476,689   94.2   513,20n   94.2
Matitime                2,686     5.3   13.2       11,263    8.4   33.2    13,829        5.6    4.2      22,206    5.5    9.9       26.454    6.2    29,086    5,8    31,731    5.8          0
Aviation                    -      -       -            7     -    49.1           5      -    (5.7)          18     -    24.5           10     -          43      -          5R
Total              51278   In00.0    9.8    127,479  100.0o  20.n   245,653   100.n    5.2   40178R  10n.0   10.3    43n,n72  In0.0   505,616  100.0   544.789  100.0
Tons-bm
Railways                5,450    81.6    4.3        7,841   48.9    7.5      9,728    44.6    4.4        in,615   37.5    2.2       In,R92   36.9    11,629   33.6    12,n3l   32.3
highways
Comwwrciat             Y/A       -               1 3,302   2n.6     -      4,374    20.0    5.4        4,868   16.4    2.?        5,097   17.2       5,943   17.2      6,762   18.2
Private 6 gov't.       I/IA      -                 237    1.5       -      2,172    10.0   55.7         5,217   IR.1   19.2       5,674   19.2       6.A96   19.9      7,266   19.5
Subtotal              55R      8.4   11.6       3,539   22.1   44.7       6,546    30.n   13. 1      l0.05   15.    9.1        30,771   36.4    24,468   70.7    26h061   70.0
Maritime                  672    MO.0   36.7        4,653   29.0   5n.2       5,533    25.4    3.5        7,927   27.5    7.5-       7,R41   26.7    10,099   29.2    11,141   30,0
Aviation                    -      -       -            2     -       -           2      -    (2.5)           7     -    26.5           11     -          17      -          22     -
Total               6,68n   100.0   11.1        16.035  100.0   19.1    21,809   100.0    6.4        28,834  100.0    5.8       29,555  100.0    34,584  100.0    37,224  10.0
Sources:  (1)  Fifth Ftve-Year Econooic and Social Development Plan. Transportstion Sector Plan (1482-86), December 1981, Transportation Sector Planning Task Force, MnT,
torea, op. 2-3.
(2)  Statistical *earbook of Transportation - 1tRI, MnT, Korea, pp. 111, 113, 155, 157.
(3)  Staltistical Yearbook of  r ansportation - 1973, MOT, Korea, pp. 76-77, 101.
(4)  Stattstical Vearbook of Transportatton - 1985, MIIT, Korea, pp. 10-11, 169, 171.
(s)  ?tiision to Rorea.



RORRA
PUSAN PORT PROJEcr
Growth Trend of Domestic Passenger Traffic (1966-84)
(ulnitst 1,000 passengers; millton pass-km)
1966        1962-66        1971         1967-71        1976         1972-76         1981        1977-81        1982              1983              19R4
Trafflc    2      2 in-   Taffic    7        2 In-    araffc    y        'In-    Traffic    t         t in-   Traffic    2      Traffic    X      Traffic    I
volume   share  crease   vo'ume   share   crease   volume   sbare   crease    volume   share   crease   volume   share   volume   share   volume   share
Passengers
Railways
Rail intercity 138,299    A.3    9.4    128,159    4.1    (1.5)   148,562    2.8          3.0      172,765    1.9    10.7    161,548    1.6    153,710   1.5    147,122   1.4
Seoul suburban      N/A     -       -         N/A      -       -      100,107    1.9       -      268,364    2.9    13.1    282,062    2.9    115,713   3.0    341,939   3.1
Subtotal       338,299    8.3    9.4    128.159    4.1    (1.5)   248,664    4.7    14.2         441,129    4.8    12.2    443.570    4.,    469,423   4.5    489,061   4.5
Subway                  -                                                33,914    0.6       -       88,326    1.0    21.1       89,298    0.9    115,623   1.1    212,637   1.9
lRigbnuays
Intercity      277,078   16.7       -     339,RRh   In.7      4.2    651,624   12.2    13.9    491,657    9.9          7.0    97R,402   In.0    969,274   9.1    947,246   8.6
Urban         1,234.480   74.6      -   2,684,343   85.0    16.8  4,399,359   82.4    In.4   7,772,473   84.7    12.0  8,280,850   84.5  R,932,045  85.n  9,253,373  84.8
Subtotal    1,Stl,55R   91.3   20.R  3.024,224   95.7    14.9  5.0%50.93   94.6   I.q   4,603.11n   94.1    11.4  9.2%9.1S2   94.3  9,9013,24  94.3 10.200.1q1 33..
Maritime            5,909    0.4    9.6        6,371    n.2      1.5      5,994    0.1    (1.2)        9,230    0.1      9.0      9,602    0.1        8,979   0.1       9.371   0.1
Aviation              192     -    25.4        1,105     -     44.8         795      -     (6.8)       1,555     -      14.4       1,844     -        2,363   0.0       2.869    -
Total       1,655,958  100.0   19.5  3,159.864  100.0    13.8  5,340,355  10n.n    11.1   9.223.370  1on.0    11.5  9,803.566  WM0.0 In,497,712 100.0 10,914.557 100.0
Pass-km
Ral uWays
Pail Intercity   8,665   42.5   In.n        8,750   27.1      0.7      12,441   21.2      7.3       16,552   18.2      5.8     15,838   16.5      16,063  16.1      15,961  15.6
Seoul suburban      N/A     -       -         N/A      -       -        1,864    3.2       -         4,976    5.4    21.7       5,196    5.5       5,625   5.7       5,423   5.8
Subtotal         8,665   42.5   10.0       8.750   27.1 n .2          14.305   24.4    10.3        21.S2R   23.6      8.5     21.034   42.0      21.688  21.8      21.884  21.4
Subway                  _     _       -            _     _       _          388    0.7       -         1,258    1.4    26.5        1,309    1.4       1,556   1.6       2,310   2.2
RiRgways
Intercity           N/A     -       -      11,936   37.0       -       25,030   42.7    16.0        35,559   39.0      7.3     38,211   39.9      18,418  38.6      38,723  37.S
Urhan               N/A     -       -      10,981   34.1       -       18,369   31.3    10.8        31,756   14,9    11.6      33,899   3S.4      36,399  36.6      37,675  36.9
Subtotal        11.464   56.2   19.9      22,917   71.1    14.9       43.199   74.n    11.6        67.115   73-4      9.2     72,110   75.3      74,817  75.2      76,398  74.8
Maritime              196    1.0    7.6          256    0.8      5.5        249    0.4    (0.6)          480    0.5    14.0          610    0.6         557   0.6         581   0.6
Aviation               55    n.1   25.0          314    I.0    41.7         276    0.5    (2.6)          557    0.6    15.1          654    0.7         840   0.9       1,012   I.n
total           20,380  100.0   15.0      32,237  100.0      9.6      58,617  1no.0    12.7        91,138  100.0      9.2     95.717  100.0    "9.45R 100.0    102,185 In.0
Sourres:  (1)  Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan. Transportation Sector Plan (1982-86), December 1981, Transportation Sector PlanninR Task Force, MOT,
Ktorea. pp. 2-3. 
(2)  Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1981, MOT, Korea, pp. 16-17, 60-63, 110-111.
(3)  Statistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1973, NOT, Korea, pp. 76-77.
(4)  gStatistical Yearbook of Transportation - 1985, NlOT, Kores, pp. 8-9, 121-121.
t)5  Mission to Rorea.



C88T V P83C?
Forecast for rbestic Freight Tragaort (144646) /a
19eo                     1981     S    -          192                      1983     S9t4                                      39              -        192086     2    *_rge1986-8
1  2        1      I                 1~~~~~                         ~~~~~                              ~       ~~~              ~       ~ I  I  2  I  7  I  I  I  I    ""Ores    mItt-
Vol.a   Ohara  rmqtb   V.l_m  shore  growth   Vol.ms  share  groeth   Volme  sareo growth   Volume  share  trowt)   -oluse  share  lrowth   Volume  sharc grsoth  srowth   plitr
?ou- $e ('0.0)
lallmys         49,008.0  28.4  (3.7)   51,275.0  2R.3   4.1   53,680.0  27.5   4.P   36.161.0  26.9   4.6   38,916.0  26.1   4.9   61,93.0   25.8   5.1   6s5,36.0  25.4   S.6  5s0o                   1.13
utihs          104,526.0  60.3  (26.1)  110,826.0  60.8   6.0  319,S7.0  61.4   7.9  129,391.0  62.0   8.2  139.991S.0  67.6   9.2  151,441.0  6'1,1   8.2  10,870.0  61.5   8.2   8.14    1.37
rIrtetf         19,230.0  33.1      -    20,215.0  11.1   5.t   21,589.0  11.1   6.R   21,124.0  11.1   7.1   24,79n.0  11.1   7.2   26.603.0  11.1   7.1   78,317.0  11.1   7.1   7.14    1.41
Aritntlt            12.8    -   (7.9)        11.4    -    4.7         14.3    -    6.7         11.2    -    7.0         16.4    -    7.2         17.7    -    7.9          19.0    -    7.3   7.23    1.48
Total       172.t76.0  100.0  (18.42  162,279.4  100.0   5.1  194,85.0  100.0   6.9  208,691.1  300.0   7.1  223.717.4  100.0   7.2  240.04h.7  1000.   7.3  257,J12.0  100.0   7.4   7.19    1.49
bo-a (wmsS
11biusy         10,798.0  46.6  (2.6)   13,267.0  46.3   4.1   13,756.0  45.1   4.1   12,329.0  44.9   4.4   12,938.0  44.1   4.9   13,603.0  43.6   5.1   14,157.0  43.1   5.5   4.9?                   1.11
Usbwm,           4,920.0  21.2  (36.4)   5,235.0  21.6   6.4    5,780.0  22.3   9.0    6,246.0  22.8   9.4    6,01810   21.1   9.2    7,461.0  21.9   R.4    8,251.0  24.4   0.3   9.26                  1.64
Usrittt          7,463.0  32.2  (0.7)   7,815.0  32.1   4.7         81312.n  12.2   6.4    8,876.0  12.3   6.8    9,480.0  12.4   6.8   14,100.0  32.1   6.9   10,816.0  12.3   7.0   6.75              1.45
Avtation             1.1    -    2.0          5.3    -    l.9          S.6    -    9.4           6.2    -    4.0         6.7    -    8.1          7.5    -    11.9         4.0    -    6.7   8.58        1.57
total        23,186.1  100.0  (8.3)  24.12.1  100.0   4.9   25.853.'  100.0   6.0   27 417.2  300.0   6.    20,242.7  300.0   6.5   31.171.5  100.0   6.7   33.14,0  100.0   6.4   6.12               1.44
La  Figures to p5nmth_sa  ladtots  o*Attws gowth.
Soours  "tOta   for Preparation of nth Five-Tsar Social 1. S.ewic PlFn (Trassort Sector). Augutt 1981, 3DT', tor". o. c6.



PSA  PMOT PloJerT
Poracest for Doaette PVaaemer Tranoaort (1906) /a
,29s80o                   2981                      1982                      1983                        192 1                                           *    1986     1i82-S6  1986440
I!q  V               9~~~    -                 I      r-                  I      Iy               I2        I                   I                          N            overag   u,ltt-
VYl,e   share  Rrwtbh   Volw    store  growth    VolZ   otore  growth    Volale    share  growth    vola.   sbare  growth    Vol,             habre  groth     Vol,.l   share  growth  groth    plier
Pabesr ('0OOD)
aIblvapa            430,773    S.0    2.7    470,754    5.2   0,3       523,873    5.1   11.3      5S8,856    S.A  11.l       650,9      5.6  11.1       721,065    5,7  20.R       793,702    5.8  10.1    1.01       1.84
Sesayg               65,076    0.8  (2.1)    102,200    1.1  37.0       113,515    2.2  I1.1       t11,405    1.7  59s.       363,903    3.3  100.6      P0S,555    6.4  121.4      962,240    7.1  19.4   56.59    14.78
Wigtast           8.034,006   94.1    S.6   8,525,291  93.6   6.0   9,216,447   93.4    i.!   9,054,056   92.7    8.0  20,060',5        91.2    6.6   11,060,434   87.A   4.3   11,861,642   87,0    7.3    6.83       1.48
laritiat              A.580    0.2    8.2       9,006    0.1   S.0        9,329    0.1    3.6        9,772    0.2   4.7        10,253    0.1    4.9       10.826    0.1    5.7       11,441    0.1   5.7    4.90       1.33
AvittoI               2,481     -   (18.1)      1,629     -    10.0       1,753     -     7.6        1,941     -    20.7        2,146     -    10.6        2.,93     -    1A.4        2,672     -    22.6   10.40      1.60
Total          8.544.916  100.0    5.4   9.108,880  200.0   6.6  4.84.917  200.0    8.3   10.71n3036  100.0   8.8   11643J0I  100.0   8.4  12.200,75  100.0   8.3   1.633.197  100.0   8.2                 8.40     1.60
Z    -t"   ( tllina)
leilvy.              21.640   24.7   1.2       23,401   24.9    8.2      25,654   25.2   9.6        28,177   25.3   9.e        31,004   r5.7  20.n        33,058   2S.9    9.5       36,990   76.1   8.9      9.59     1.71
Subas                   926    1.1    2.4       1.362    1.4  47.1        1,327    1.1   4.4         2,227    2.0  46.8         6,084    1.4  83.4         8,262    6.2  99.9         9,745    6,9  19.4   48.32    10.52
Isighe               64,131   73.2   3.1       64.247   72.6    6.4      73,669   72.1   7.9        74.210   71.1    7.5       64,172   69.8   6.3        87,314   66.8   3.8        93,315   85.9   6.5    6.4       1.45
Iarttim                 401    0.5    3.9         426    O.s    6.2         441   0.4    4.0           464    0.4   0.7           489    n.4    5.4          516    0.4    5.5          549    0.4   6.4      5.20     1.S7
Aviation                528    0.6  (17.0)        587    0.6  21.2          6U    0.6   8.7            710    0.6   12.1         7i8   o07   11.0            676   0.7   11.2           976   0,7   11.4   10.10       1.6S
Total             87.626  100.0   2.6       94.023  100.0    7.3    101,921  100.0   8,4        10S.788  10.0    I.7       120.5S37  200.0   8.8      n10.903  100.0   8.6       141.375  10o.o   8.0      8.50      t.61
I; I                                                                 . A  ,.----    
/a  ftgre  In parertheOf teta nea tve OrMtW.
SOurCe:  -reft- for preparstion of Ptth  iva-Y"ar Scial a*n rcooaie Plan (Tranmport Sector), Auhut 981, Mr, Wora,  p. 17.                                                                                                         D



- 72 -
Table 1.5
KORRA
PUSAN PORT PROJU.CT
Demand for International Transport (19R0-86)
PassenRer ('000)                       Tons ('000)
Maritime    Aviation    Total       Maritime    Aviation    Total
1980 (Z)
Traffic        41.0        2,922.0   2,963.0    94,025.0       191.0    94,226.0
Share           1.4           9R.6     100.0         99.8        0.2        100.0
Growth         (4.7)          (2.2)      (2.3)/a       3.5      14.0          3.6
1981 (%)
Traffic        43.0        3,086.0   3,125.0   102.000.n       207.2   102,207.2
Share           1.4           98.6     100.0         99.R        0.2        100.0
Growth          4.9            5.6        5.5         R.5        R.5          8.5
1982 (%)
Traffic        44.0        3,545.0   3,589.0   112,051.0       243.1   112,294.1
Share           1.2           9R.6     100.0         99.8        0.2        100.0
Growth          2.3           14.9       14.R          9.9      17.3          9.9
1983 (Z)
Traffic        46.0       4,120.0   4.166.0   122,644.0        286.5   122,930.5
Share           1.1           9R.9     100.0         94.8        0.2        100.0
Growth          4.5           16.2       16.1         9.5       17.4          9.5
1984 (Z)
Traffic        49.0        4,7R7.0   4,R36.0   134.5R4.0       338.0   134,922.0
Share           1.0           99.0     100.0         99.7        0.2        100.0
Growth          6.5           16.2       16.1         9.7       18.0          9.8
19R5 (%)
Traffic        52.0        5,5R7.0   5,639.0   149,115.0       400.0   149,515.0
Share           0.9           9q.1     100.0         49.7        0.3        100.0
Growth          6.1           16.7       16.6         10.8      18.3         10.R
1986 (%)
Traffic        55.0        6,520.0   6,575.0   164,941.0       474.0   165,415.0
Share           O.R           99.2     100.0         99.7        (.3        100.0
Growth          5.8           16.7       16.6        10.6       18.5         10.6
1982-86
Average
growth         5.05          16.14      16.04        10.09     1R.00        10.12
1986-80
Multiplier    1.34            2.23       2.22         1.75      2.48         1.76
la  Figures in brackets () indicate negative growth.                                         (
Source:  "Draft" for preparation of Fifth Five-Year Social and Economic "lan-
Transport Sector. August 1981, MOT, Korea, v.19



- 73 -                                                   Tahle 1.4
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Coaparison of Investment Plans (1977-al and 1982-86)
(B1lton won)
The Fourth Plan (1977-81) /a /c                    The Fifth Plan (1982-86) /b
Investment requirements                          Irvstment requirements
Forelgn                  C.ompoes-               Foreign                Composi-
Domestic      capital                 tion ratio  Domestic   capital                 tion ratio
Transport Investment               capital      (US$ mIn)      Total        (I)       capital   (n1S1  min)    Total       (z)
Railvay                               289.9        231.7        402.1       14.5         8946.      715.6    1,330.8       13.4
(719.0)      (574.6)      (997.2)
Higthway                            1,141.0        174.9      1,225.6       44.0       3,568.9      245.R    3,718.8       uS.4
(2,829.7)      (433.8)   (3,039.5)
Road /d                             373.1        174.9        457.8       16.4       1,175.0      220.8    1,109.7       13.2
(925.3)      (451.2)   (1,135.3)
Vehicles /e                         741.2           _         741.2       26.6       2,307.6  -      -      2,307.6      23.2
(1,838.2)         (-)    (1,838.2)
Others                               26.6           -          26.6        1.0          86.3       25.0       101.5       1.0
(66.0)         (-)        (66.0)
Ports and ships                       557.4        902.3        994.1       35.7       1,693.2   1,576.9    2,655.1        26.7
(1,382.4)   (2,237.7)   (2,465.4)
Ships                               358.8        773.6        733.3       26.3       1,228.6   1,365.2    2,061.4        20.7
(889.8)   (1,918.5)   (1,818.6)
Ports and factlittes                200.6        128.7        260.8        9.4         464.S      211.7       593.7       6.0
(497.5)      (319.2)      (646.8)
Aviation                               51.4         15.5         58.9        2.1          175.4     687.0       594.5       6.0
(127.5)       (38.4)      (146.1)
Subway                                 54.1         97.n        101.0        3.6       1,324.5      509.8    1,635.0       16.5
(134.2)      (240.6)      (250.5)
Waterway                                1,9           -            1.9       0.1            5.0         -          5.0       -
(4.7)          -          (4.7)
Total                         2 095.7       1 421.4      2 783.6      100.0       7.661.3   3.735.1    9,939.7    100.0
Total capital expenditure          14,188.0    10,000.0    19,028.0                   59,000.0  23,673.4   72,100.0
(35,186.2)  (24,800.0)  (47,189.4)
Total transport investment
_a I of total capital
expenditure                          14.8         14.2         14.6                     13.0       15.R        13.R
/a  The Fourth Plan figures are in 1975 constant value.
/b  The Fifth Plan figures are in 1980 constant value.
Ic  The figures in parenthesea indicate the 19RO constant value.
/d  Including construction, repair and loan repayment of national roads only.
/e  Including new vehicles additional to the fleet and replacements for scrapped vehicles.
Note: GNP deflator: 1975 - 100, 1980 - 247.9.
Sources:  (1)  The Fourth Five-Year Economic neveiopment Plan (1977-811, FPP, Korea, 1976, pp. 140-141, 152-153.
(2) The Fifth Five Year Economic and Social Development Plan - Transport Part for Implementation (1982-86),
MOT, Rorea, October 1I81, p. 51.
(3) Transport Part of the Investment Plan, RPB, Korea, October 12, 1981, pp. 8, 17, 26.



74~ -Table 2.1
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Korean Porte Syetem
Commercial ports                                    F1qh1:A  Dorts          Others
1st                    2nd               Industrial    lst    nd  3rd    Without basSc
class                   class               ports       class  class  class    facilitles
Pusan               Yeongpyeongdo             Pohang
Inchon             GOangeheon                 Changcon
Kunsan              Daecheon                   Onsan
Mokpo               Daeheugsando               Bukpyung
Yesu               Bsin                        Yochun
Masan               Geomundo
Ulsan               Narodo                     Okpo
Nukho               Wanrim                     Kwang Yang
Cheju               Seongsanpo                Pyongtak
Changhang          Hfansun
Seogwipo            Gujora
Chungmu             Pusan Southern Port
Samchonpo           Gampo
Chinhae             Guryongpo
Jangseungpo         Weolpo
Okpo                Gangu
Pohang              Dodong
Samil               Hupo
Bukpyong            Jugbyeon
Sogcho             Imvon
Samehok             Jumunlin
Wando               Geoojin
Go jung
Gohyeun
Total   24                    22                  8         37    355      24          1,409
Grand Total       1,869                                            416
Source: Statistics Yearbook of Maritime and Ports 1985, p. 419 (industrial ports: MOC).



KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Ports Cargo Handling Capacities (1961-84)
('000 NT)
1961     1966       1971      1976       1980      1981       1982      1983       1984
General Ports
Pusan                 3,950     4,990      5.740     7,000    14,000    15,000    19,600    19,600    19,600
Incheon               1,300     1,420      1,-.20    8,720      8,720     9,728    11,728    12,066    12,595
Kunsan                  520       540        540       540      1,540      1,540     1,540      1,540     1,540
Mokpo                   320       443        443       515        515      1,000     1,000      1,320     1,320
Yosu                    610       681        698     2,998/a   4,722      5,722      6,718      6,718     7,718
Masan                   670       670        703      1,433     2,033      3,030     3,630      3,630     3,630
Ulsan                     -        500     1,312     1,466      2,390     2,657      2,657      2,657     3,062
Mukho                   980     2,450      4,420     4,500      6,500      6,580     6,548      6,565     6,620
Cheju                   150       150        236       593        800       843        843        843       843
Others /b               160     2,446      2,909     1,210      5,465     8,234        449        579     3,709
Subtotal          8,660    14,290    18,421    28,975    46,685    54,334    54,713    55,518    60,637
Industrial Ports
Pohang                  360       360        360     5,025    22,160    24,175    24,175    25,775    31,431
Pukpyung                             -         -          -     8,914     8,914      8.914    11,314    12,000
Others /a                                                                            7,710      7,710     8,710
Subtotal             360       360        360     5,025    32,230    33,089    40,799    44,799    52,141
Grand Total        9,020    14,650    18,781    34,000    78,915    87,423    95,512   100,317   112,778
/a  Cargo Handling Capacity of Samil Port are included with Yosu Port.
/b  Includes also industrial ports until 1981.                                                                           I
/c  Changwon, Onsan,Yochun.
Sources:  Statistics yearbook of maritime and ports 1985, p. 412.



76 -                                Table 2.3
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Korean Ports Carlo Traffic (1961-84)
t-uu C revenue tons)
Entered                      Cleared                     Tbtal
ocean-                       ocean-                     Ocean-
going    Coastal    Sub-   going    Coastal    Sub-  going    Coastal
Year        vessels  vessels   total   vessels  vessels   total  vessels  vessels   Total
1961          2,450    1,158    3,608         964    1,073   2,037    3,414    2,231    5,645
First FYP
196Z        3,700    1,489    5,189         803    1,593   2,395    4,503    3,082    7,585
1963        4,396    1,527    5,923         861 - 1,694   2,555    5,257    3,221    8,478
1964        4,163    1,598    5,761    1,061    1,912   2,973    5,224    3,510    8,734
1965        5,174    2,271    7,445    1,577    2,282   3,859    6,751    4,553   11,304
1966        6,772    2,406    9,178    1,663    2,184   3,847    8,435    4,590   13,025
Second FYP
IV67        9,732    4,186   13,923    1,786    4,159   5,945   11,523    8,345   19,868
1968       13,542    5,657   19,199    2,253    5,548   7,801   15,795   11,205    2,700
1969       17,109    8,063   25,172    2,891    8,164  11,055   20,000   16,227   36,227
1970       18,695   10,477   29,172    3,589   10,544  14,133   22,284   21,021   43,305
1971       24,257   11,264   35,521    4,192   11,261  15,453   28,449   22,525   50,974
Third FYP
.972       24,699    8,916   33,615    6,010    8,657  14,667   30,709   17,573   48,282
1973       31,798    9,747   41,545    7,964    9,747  17,711   39,762   19,494   59,256
1974       33,830   10,827   44,657    8,258   10,827  19,085   42,088   21,654   63,742
1975       35,142   11,541   46,683    9,986   11,540  21,526   45,128   23,081   68,209
1976       41,447   13,532   54,979   14,311   13,532  27,843   55,757   27,064   82,822
Fourth FYP
1977       51,498   15,816   67,314   16,814   15,816  32,830   68,312   31,632   99,944
1978       61,843   16,827   78,670   16,039   16,827  32,866   77,882   33,654  111,536
1979       72,992   18,759   91,751   17,828   18,759  36,587   90,820   37,518  128,338
1980       71,400   18,900   90,300   22,700   18,900  41,600   94,100   37,800  131,900
1981       79,000   21,850  100,850   26,300   21,850  48,150  105,300   43,700  149,000
Fifth FYP
1WT-       80,938   25,981  106,919   '7,569   25,981  53,550  108,507   51,962  160,469
1983       88,905  -28,600  117,505   29,279   28,600  57,879  118,184   57,200  175,384
1984       95,119   31,315  126,434   30,617   31,315   61932  125,736   62,630  188,366
Average Annual Growth Rate (Z)
1962-67         12.8     10.1      12.1      15.7      6.5      9.9      13.4      8.3      11.4
1967-72         20.1     22.0      20.5      18.6     29.9    21.0      19.8      22.0      20.4
1972-77         10.9      8.7      10.3      19.0      9.4    13.7       12.7      9.0      11.4
1977-81         8.9       6.7       8.4       9.4      6.7      8.0      9.0       6.7       8.4
1981-84          6.4     12.7       7.8       5.2     12.7      8.7      6.1      12.7       8.1
Source:  Statistits Yearbook of Maritime and Ports, 1985, pp. 342, 358.



77               _              Table 2.4
KORE.A
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Korea Forts Traffic and Forecast by Major commodities (1980-86)
(million revenue tons)
1980-84
1980     9184        1986      Average annual
Actual    Actual    Forecast  growth rate (x)
Grains (I)                          5.5        7.1        6.0            2.2
Logs (I)                            5.4        6.1       11.0            3.1
Fertllizer, raw
material (I)                      1.7        1.9        3.2            2.8
coal (I, C)                        11.0        5.4       29.6         -16.3
Cement (E, C)                      10.4       13.5       15.0            6.7
Iron ore (I, C)                     9.6       14.2       19.0           10.3
Iron & steel (I, E, C)              8.8       14.5       13.5           13.3
Minerals (I, E, C)                  3.2        5.5        6.9           14.5
Containerized (I, E)               10.8       19.9       24.0           16.5
Break bulk
(uncovered) (I, E, C)              10.8       18.4      24.2            14.2
Petroleum (I, C)                   48.9       57.3      60.8             4.0
Subtotal                  126.1     163.R      213.2            6.8
Others                              5.8       24.6       10.1           45.9
Total                     131.9     188.4      223.2            9.5
Note:    I - Import, E   Export, C - Coastal trade.
Forecast will be revised by the end of 1985.
Source: RMPA.



- 78 -                     -      Table 2.5
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Industrial Ports' Capacity (1984)
(Million metric tons)
Port                      Type of cargo            Capacity          Cargo volume
Pukpyung                  Cement, coal,              12.0                12.0
miscellaneous
Pahang                    Iron ore, coal,            31.5                31.5
miscellaneous
Onsan                     Oil                         4.0                 4.0
Ogpo                      Shipbuilding                 -                   -
Changwon (Masan)          Machinery                   2.9                 2.9
Pyeongtaek                LNQ                         3.0                 3.0
Yochun                    Petrochemicals               5.8                5.8
Kwangyang Area            Iron ore                   40.3                40.3
(under construction)
Source:  Ministry of Construction, Korea.



- 79 -                                Table 3.1
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
ExlstinR Berths at Pusan
Number   Length    Depth
Terminal                             of berths   (m)        (m)           Cargo handled
Coastal passenger terminal               2         226       -      Passenger
International passenger and Ro-Ro
terminal (south-side pier 1)           2         300       8.5    Passengers
Pier No. I (north side)                  2         390      10.0    General cargo, containers
Pier No. 2                               4         780      10.0    General cargo, containers
Pier No. 3                              4/6        840   10.019.0  General cargo, containers
Pier No. 4                               6       1,050   10.0/9.0  General cargo, containers
Piers No. 5 and 6                        4       1,240      12.5    Containers
South                                  1         320      12.5    Grain
Pier No. 7                               2         600       8.0    Coal, iron ore
Pier No. 8                               1         260       Q.0    Military
Central wharf                           4/5        870       q.0    Lumber, general cargo
Lighter wharves between piers 1-2
and piers 3-4 and north of
pier 4                             Lighters   1,700   Shallow  General cargo



KOREA
Pusan Port Project
Korea's Container Traffic by Ports and Direction (1976-84)
(Units TEU)
Pusan                            Inchon                          Total Korea
Year    Inbound   Outbound   Subtotal    Inbound   Outbound   Subtotal    Inbound   Outbound   Subtotal
1976    164,348    186,413    350,761      14,882     18,484      33,366    179,230    204,897    384,127
(42.8)     (48.5)     (91.3)       (3.9)      (4.8)      (8.7)      (46.7)     (53.3)    (100.0)
1977    214,309    239,973    454,282      22,265     21,352      43,617    236,574    261,325    497,899
(43.0)     (48.2)     (91.2)       (4.5)      (4.3)      (8.8)      (47s5)     (52.5)    (100.0)
1978    234,016    272,540    506,556      26,064     21,501      47,565    260,080    294,041    554,121
(42.2)     (49.2)     (91.4)       (4.7)      (3.9)      (8.6)      (46.9)     (53.1)    (lOQ.0)
1979    266,957    329,617    596,574      23,788     18,916      42,704    290,745    348,533    639,278
(41.8)     (51.6)     (93.3)       (3.7)      (3.0)      (6.7)      (45.5)     (54.5)    (100.0)
1980    256,142    376,724    632,866      32,949     26,609      59,558    289,091    403,333    692,424
(37.0)     (54.4)     (91.4)       (4.8)      (3.8)      (8.6)      (41.8)     (58.2)    (100.0)
1981    315,603    428,365    743,968      44,407     36,335      80,742    360,010    464,700    824,710
(38.3)     (51.9)     (90.2)       (5-4)      (4-4)      (9.8)      (43.7)     (56.3)    (100.0)
1982    348,460    438,196    786,656      35,051     29,198      64,249    383,511    467,394    850,905
(41.0)     (51.5)     (92.4)       (4.1)      (3.4)      (7.6)      (45.1)     (54.9)    (100.0)
1983    375,009    508,643    883,652      45,072     33,502      78,574    420,081    542,145    962,226
(39.0)     (52.9)     (91.8)       (4.7)      (3,5)      (8.2)      (43.7)     (56.3)    (100.0)
1984    423,906    630,424  1,054,330      62,371     38,017    100,388    486,277    668,441  1,154,718
(36.7)     (54.6)     (91.3)       (5.4)      (3.3)      (8.7)      (42.1)     (57.9)    (100.0)
Growth
rate (%)      11.1        14.5       13.0       17.3         8.3       13.0       11.7        14.0       13.0
Notes Figures in brackets indicate percentage.
Source: KMPA, Year Book of Maritime and Port Statistics, 1985, p.377-379.



- 81-                          Table 3.3
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Throughput of Containers by Off-Dock Container Yards in
the Pussn Area, 1984
Share of
Containers handled           throughput    Company
company              Full       Empty        Total     by company     ar2a
-    MmEn) -.-                  (X)         (m )
KCTC                 65,594     11,876       77,470         7.4         97,177
Kukbo                60,069      7,851       67,920         6.5         57,458
Kukje                3R,756      4,736       43,492         4.2         55,537
Kukje                16,029      2,518       18,547         1.9         17,891
FEMICO               19,180      2,503       21,683         2.1         2Q,744
Korean Express       77,700      8,296       85,996         8.3         81,090
Dong Bang            35,324      9,271       44,595         4.3         40,254
Dong Bo              18,769      9,673       28,442         2.7         31,862
Dong Jin             18,019      9,073       27,092         2.6         24,866
Samick              63,688      15,663       79,351         7.6        76,337
KSC                  21,030      8,617       29,647         2.R         72,188
Global              117,571     25,083      142,654        13.7        139,486
Shinil                8,538      1,886       10,424         1.0         11,272
Ilsang                2,370        188        2,558         0.2        35,927
Chong Kung           35,280     15,483       50,763         4.9         61,000
Hanjin               68,957     10,768       79,725         7.7         96,124
Hypsung              63,640     19,778       83,418         8.0         R8,R76
PCTOC /a            125,144     22,047      147,191        14.1         87,575
Total          855,658    185,310    11040,968       100.0      1,104,664
/a On-dock company.
Source: KIPA.



KOREA
Pusan Port Project
Korea's Container Traffic by Content and Direction (1976-84)
(Unit: TEU)
Full Container                   Empty Container                         Total
Year    Inbound   Outbound   Subtotal    Inbound   Outbound   Subtotal    Inbound   Outbound   Subtotal
1976    128,616    194,238    322,854       50,614      10,659     61,273    179,230    204,897    384,127
(33y5)     (50.6)      (84.0)     (13.2)       (2.8)      (16.0)     (46.7)      (53.3)    (100.0)
1977    181,090    242,018    423,108       55,484      19,307     74,791    236,574    261,325    497,899
(36-4)     (48.6)      (85.0)     (11.1)       (3.9)      (15.0)     (47.5)      (52.5)    (100.0)
1978    225,438    271,144    496,582       34,642     22,897      57,539    260,080    294,041    554,121
(40.7)     (48.9)      (89.6)       (6-3)      (4.1)      (10-4)     (46.9)      (53.1)    (100.0)
1979    256,632    290,722    547,354       34,113      57,811     91,924    290,745    348,533    639,278
(40-1)     (45.5)      (85.6)       (5.3)      (9.0)      (14.4)     (45.5)      (54.5)    (100.0)
1980    228,751    348,825    577,576       60,340     54,508    114,848    289,091    403,333    692,424
(33-0)     (50.4)      (83.4)      (8.7)       (7.9)      (16.6)     (41.8)      (58.2)    (100.0)
1981    280,851    409,432    690,283       79,159     55,268    134,427    360,010    464,700    824,710
(34.1)     (49.6)      (83.7)      (9.6)       (6.7)      (16.3)     (43.7)      (56.3)    (100.0)
1982    292,101    402,820    694,921       91,410     64,574    155,984    383,511    467,394    850,905
(34-3)     (47.3)      (81.7)     (10.7)       (7.6)      (18.3)     (45.1)      (54.9)    (100.0)
1983    328,902    446,590    775,492       91,179      95,555    186,734    420,081    542,145    962,226
(34.2)     (46.4)      (80.6)       (9.5)      (9-9)      (9.4)      (43.7)      (56.3)    (100.0)
1984    386,498    537,050    923,548       99,779    131,391    231,170    486,277    668,441  1,154,718
(33.5)     (46.5)      (80.0)       (8.6)     (11.4)      (20.0)     (42.1)      (57.9)    (100.0)
Growth
rate (%)      13.0        11.9        12.4        7.8        32.1       15.9        11.7        14.0       13.0
Note: Figures in brackets indicate percentage.
Source: KMPA, Year Book of Maritime and Port Statistics, 1985, p.361-363.



KOREA
Pusan Port Project
Pusan Container Traffic by Content and Direction (1976-84)
(Unit: TEU)
Full Container                    Empty Container                          Total
Year    Inbound   Outbound   Subtotal    Inbound   Outbound   Subtotal    Inbound   Outbound   Subtotal
1976    115,517    182,211    297,728        48,831       4,202      53,033    164,348    186,413    350,761
(32-9)     (51.9)      (84.9)      (13.9)       (1.2)      (15.1)      (46.9)      (53.1)    (100.0)
1977    160,794    231,319    392,113        53,515       8,654      62,169    214,309    239,973    454,282
(35.4)      (50.9)     (86.3)      (11.8)       (1.9)      (13.7)      (47.2)      (52.8)    (100.0)
1978    199,986    261,739    461,725        34,030      10,801      44,831    234,016    272,540    506,556
(39.5)     (51-7)      (91.1)       (6.7)       (2.1)       (8.9)      (46.2)      (53-8)    (i00.0)
1979    237,444    282,680    520,124        29,513      46,937      76,450    266,957    32°,617    596,574                           c
(39-8)     (47.4)      (87.2)       (4.9)       (7.9)      (12-8)      (44.7)      (55.3)    (100.0)
1980    201,028    336,968    537,996        55,114      39,756      94,870    256,142    376,724    632,866
(31.8)      (53.2)     (85.0)        (8.7)      (6.3)      (15.0)      (40.5)      (59.5)    (i00.0)
1981    239,552    391,989    631,541        76,051      36,376    112,427    315,603    428,365    743,968
(32.2)     (52.7)      (84.9)      (10.2)       (4.9)      (15.1)      (42.4)      (57.6)    (100.0)
1982    259,599    388,985    648,584        88,861      49,211    138,072    348,460    438,196    786,656
(33.0)     (49.4)      (82.4)      (11.3)       (6.3)      (17.6)      (44.3)      (55.7)    (100.0)
1983    286,565    432,989    719,554        88,444      75,654    164,098    ;75,009    508,643    883,652
(32.4)     (49.0)      (81.4)      (10.0)       (8.6)      (18.6)      (42-4)      (57.6)    (o00.0)
1984    328,850    518,368    847,218        95,056    112,056    207,112    423,906    630,424  1,054,330
(31.2)     (49.2)      (80.4)       (9.0)      (10.6)      (19.6)      (40.2)      (59.8)    (100.0)
Growith
-ate (%)       12.3        12.3        12.3         7.7       44.0        16.3        11.1        14.5        13.0
Note: Figures in brackets indicate percentage.
Source: KMPA, Year Book of Maritime and Port Statistics, 1985, p.367.



Table 3.6
-84 -
ROMEA
PUSAN PORT PROJRCT
origiun/lestination of Container Traffie by PeRion in 1983
Unitts TE
Inchon                                 PUsa                                  Total
Inbouad  Outbound  Subtotal   qharea Inbound   Outboundl  Subtotal Shares  Inbound  Outtiound    Totat
(1)                                    (2)
Seoul         35,623   12,915    48,538    116.8   42,404    178,531    270,935    37.7   128,027  191,446   319,473
ac f Wean          5        -         5        -     1724         241      1.965     0.3     1.729      241     1970
nhunT                                                    W -  T1T5                            -       1,11T
Veonju                    -                            7          -          7                 7        -         7
angreung         -        -         -                557        195        752               557      195       752
ChMn R         1 485       69     1 554      2.8     S.106      6 293     11 399     1.6    6.591    A 362    11i051
Cbeong1u     ,4         w       15                               3$5                                          9.094
Chunnlu          -        -         -                687      3,137      3,824               681    3,117     3,824
Jecheon          S        -         5                 30          -         30                35        -        35
Chung wasr     3 206       94     3 300      5*0    29.366     13 380     42 746     5.9   32 599   13 474    46.046
Daejeon  7                                        24.70M7   11. 922 f 67,8 12.01  3i 
Cheonan        430        -       430              4,654      1,419      6,073             5.084    1,41q     6,503
Seosan           -        -         -                  5          -          5                 5        -         5
:tongeung        -                  -                  -         39         39                 -       39        39
Jeon Bug         825      523     1,34R      2.4   32 126      14,070     46.196     6.4   32 951   14.593    35 776
Jeotu~         79I     3        1,316            312,66                 44.455 -17         I        3,i1
Jeongju         32        _        32                 75        866        941               107      866       973
Nauveon          -        --                         260        540        800               260      540       800
Jeon Na          154        -       154      0.3    9.276      12 220     23.496     3.3   11.430   12 220    21 650
O;wangju      1_  7,66                                        313,330                      9,840    3,4
Suncheon         -        -         -              1,485      6,638      8,123             1,485    6.638     8.123
-ogpo            -        -         -                 95      1,913      2,008                95    1,913     2,008
angjitn          _        _                           10         25         35                10       25        35
GytZna mug       337        -       337      0.6   36 893    68 715    105 528    14.7   37 130  61 735   105 865
Dagegu    m    T          -                      ft7w       6     6     645 100,215   -   37t 66;645 1OOS52
Andong           -        -         -                 24         72         96                24       72        96
Pohang          -         -         -              3,167      1,972      5,139             3,167    1.972     5,139
Yeongju          -        -         -                 15         26         41                15       26        41
Jeoucheon        -        -         -                 17         20         37                17       20        37
Greon  aIt         -        -         -      1.2     3 584      3 261      6 845     9.5       521    3 261     6 R45
Jinju                                                         37                             -7 34037
Geochang         -                  -                11        189        370               181      189       370
Pusan           702        -        702             74,186    136,258    210,444    29.2   74,RR8  136,258   211,146
Total    42.337   13,601    55.938       100   286,565    632,989    719.554   100.0  328,902  446.590   775,442
Source: Kiri-Sehkang, Site selection Study of Container Trerminal, April 1985. p.76.
e



- 85 -                                        Table 3.7
Page 1 of 2
XOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Containers Randled by 1NR between Pusan and Seoul (Pugok), 1985
No. of
Full                           Empty               Grand   Empty car  freight
40'      20'    10'    Total      40'      20'   10'   Total   total   ratio (t)  of cars
January
Number               9R7   1,073     32    2,n92      477      2S8   -      735    2,827       26       2,162
Tons             23,688  12,876    192   36,756   5,724   1,548   -    7,272   44,028
February
Number               642   1,132     29    1,8n3      307      168   -      475    2,278       21       1,630v
Tons              15,408  13,584    174   29,166   3,684   1,008   -    4,692   33,858
March
Number               602   1,129     32    1,763      312      182   -      494    2,257       22       1,600
Tons              14,448  13,548    192   28,188   3,744   1,092   -    4,836   33,024
April
Number               580   1,570     26    2,176      366     374   -       740    2,916       25       lq,50
Tons              13,920  18,840    156   32,916   4,192   2,244   -    6,636   39,552
May
Number               836   1,446     30    2,312      588     430   -    1,018    1,310        31      2,393
Tons             20,064  17,352    180   37,596   7,056   2,580   -    9,636   47,232
lune
Number             1,042   1,295     22    2,159      440      156   -      796    3,155       25       2,132
Tons             25,00O  15,542    132   40,680   5,280   2,136   -    7,416   48,096
July
Number             1,186   1,244     30    2,46n      883     426   -    1,304    3,769        35       2,94n
Tons             28,464  14,928    180   43,572  1n,596   2,256   -   13,152   56,724
.August
Number             1,117   1,176     37    2,33n      564      S20   -    1,084    3,414       32       2,569
Tons             26,808  14,112    222   41,142   6,768   3,120   -    9,888   51,030
September
Number             1,395   1,032     In    2,457      j(Oq    673   -    1,282    1,739        14      2,894
Tons             33,480  12,384    180   46,044   7,308   4,03R   -   11,346   57,390
October
Number               90R   1,028     30    1,966      760      542   -    1,302    3,268       4n       2,493
Tans             21,792  12,336    180   34,308   9,120   3,252   -   12,372   46,680
Novemher
Number               703     432     33    1,A68      580     690   -    1,270    2,938        43       2,133
Tons             16,872  11,184    198   28,245   6,q60   4,140   -   11,100   39,354
December
Number               982     92R     30    1,940      762     896   -    1,658    3,59R        46      2,69n
Tons             23,56R  11,136    180   34,884   9,144   5,376   -   14,520   49,404
Total
Number      10 981  11 984    361   25,126   6,648   5,515          12,163   37 489              27,786
Tons       263,544 1         2,166  433,518  79,776   3,090   -  112,A66  5
TEU     40':  17,62q X 2 - 35,258
20':  19,499     - 14,499
10':     361 t 2 -    181
Total                  54,983
Source: KNUR, Pusan Station.



Table 3.7
- 86                                             Page 2 of 2
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Containers Handled by KNR Between Seoul (Pugok) and Pusan, 1985
No. of
Full                             Empty                 Grand  Empty car  freight
40'       20'    10'    Total    40'       2C        1t'  Total    total  ratio (X)  of cars
January
Number                345     418      8       771        42     10       27       79       850      9          627
Tons               8,280   2,508    48   10,836          504     60       81      645   11,481
February
Number                526     651      3    1,180        221     81       23      425    1,605      26        1,141
Tons              12,624   7,812    18   20,454    2,652    486           69   3,207   23,661
March
Number                643     691      5    1,339        333    200       33      566    1,905      30        1,451
Tons              15,432   8,292    30   23,754    3,996  1,200           99   5,295   29,049
April
Number                498     431      7       936        88     90       28      206    1,142      18          871
Tons              11,952   5,172    42   17,166    1,056    540           84   1,680   18,846
May
Number                622     549      5    1,176         26     36       23       85    1,261        7         966
Tons              14,928   6,588    30   21,546          312    216       69      597   22,143
June
Number               807      643      2    1,452         94     14       23      131    1,583       8        1,244
Tons              19,368   7,716    12   27,096    1,128    120           69   1,317   28,413
July
Number               810      641      6    1,457         95     71       40      206    1,663      18        1,285
Tons              19,440   7,692    36   27,168    1,140    426          120   1,686   28,854
August
Number             1,012      651      7    1,670        80      53       26      159    1,829       9        1,477
Tons              24,288   7,812    42   32,142         960    318        78   1,356   33,498
September
Number             1,491    -780       5    2,276        181     66       32      279    2,555      11        2,128
Tons              35,784   9,360    30   45,174    3,172    396           96   2,664   47,838
October
Number                724     635      5    1,364         33     39       27       99    1,463       7        1,124
Tons              17,376   7,620    30   25,026         396    234        81      711   25,737
November
Number                670     645      5    1,320         13     18       28       59    1,379       3          902
Tons              16,080   7,740    30   23,850          156    108       84      348   24,198
December
Number             1,104   1,021       7    2,132         34     48       24      106    2,238       5        1,707
Tons              26,496  12,252    42   38,790         408    288        72      768   39,558
Total
Number       -9 252   7,756    65   17,073    1,240    726         334   2,400   19,474        12       14,923
Tons        222      04890,564   3  313.002   14,880  439         ,      20,274  333,276
TEU     40':  10,492 X 2 - 20,984
20':   8,482      -  8,482
10':     399 . 2 -    200
Total                   29.666
Source: KNR, Pusan Station.



87 -                                     Table 4.1
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Project Cost Summary
____________________
(June 30, 1986)
Total                   Total                   Foreign
---~~~~-----------^-    -~~-------------------    Loan    % of
Local   Foreign  Total  Local   Foreign  Total   ('000   total
------(mn. Won) ------  --- ('000 US)-----    US$) base costs
A. Civil Works
South breakwater               16,581  24,872  41,453  18,423  27,636  46,059  27,636    19.6
North breakwater               22,234  33,354  55,588  24,705  37,060  61,765  37,060    26.3
Dredging container terminal    3,594   5,391   8,985   3,993   5,990   9,983   5,990       4.3
Container terminal wharf       23,709  35,559  59,258  26,343  39,511  65,854  39,511    28.1
Access road and railway        20,421   5,128  25,549  22,690   5,698  28,388   5,698       4.0
T junction                      1,800   2,700   4,500   2,000   3,000   5,000      -        0.0
Caisson yard                    3,376   5,064   8,440   3,751   5,627   9,378      -       -
Subtotal                     91,715 112,068 203,783 101,905 124,522 226,427 115,895    82.3
8. E,uipment
Container cranes                  827   9,220  10,047      919  10,244  11,163  10,244      7.3
Transfer cranes                   875   9,735  10,610     973  10,817  11,790  10,817       7.7
Yard tractor                      -     1,266   1,266     -      1,407   1,407   1,407      1.0
Yard chassis                      -       595     595     -        661     661     661     0.5
Fork lift trucks                  -       413     413     -        459     459     459     0.3
Subtotal                      1,702  21,229  22,931   1,892  23,588  25,480  23,588    16.8
C. Tech. Assistance
Studies & training              2,679   1,133   3,812   2,975   1,260   4,235   1,260       0.9
D. Value added tax
and customs duties           11,756     -    11,756  13,061      -    13,061     -          -
Total base cost               107,852 134,430 242,282 119,833 149,370 269,203 140,743   100.0
Physical contingencies  (5%)   4,805   6,722  11,526   5,339   7,469  12,807       -
Total                         112,657 141,152 253,808 125,172 156,839 282,010 140,743
Price contingencies            14,541  27,109  41,650  16,158  30,124  46,282      -
Grand Total                   127,198 168,261 295,458 141,330 186,963 328,292 140,743
Notes: 1. All figures are round.
2. Exchange rate: US$ 1.00 = Won 900.00
3. Items D was excluded from physical and price conti'gencies.
Sources: Pusan Port Authority and Bank staff.
April 1986



KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Projeot Cost Estimat
(Ju e 30. 1986)
--1986---- -- 1987--- -1988--   ---1989---  -1990 -  -Totl-
Local  Porsip  Total Local  Foretip  Total Looal  Fnroo  Total  1cal  Foreign Total Loocal  Forelsn Total  Loal  Poreign Total
_--------- t -- ~~                000  US$) -
A. Ciil lVrks
South ba.akiater             4.751  7,1n2  11,878  6,477  9,716 16.193  5,480  8,219  13,c6s   1,715  2.574   4.289    -                -    10,423 27,636 46,059
Worth breakwt.r                -      -       -      -       -      _       997  1,497  2,494  3,941   5,911   9,852  19,767 29,652 49,419  24,705  37,0O0 61,765
Dredgig container terinal      -      -       -    3,993  5,990  9,983    -         -          -          -                             -     3,993  5,990  9,983
Container tei    tbrf          -      -       -    6118  9,177  15,295  10,111  15,167 25,278 10,114  15,167 25,281    -         -      -    26.343  39,511  65,854
Aooes road      rilwa          -      -       -    7,562   1,900  9,462   7,562   1,900  9.462  7.566  1.898  9,464    -         _      -    22,690  5.698 28,388
T junoton                      -      -              -    2,000  2,00o      -    1,000  1,000  2.000    -    2,000       -       -      -     2,000  3,000  5,000
Ce1sseo, yard                3,7^1  5,627  9,378             -       -      -       -                                                         3,751   5,627  9,378
Subtotal                   8,502 12,754 21.256 24,150 28,783  52,933 24,150  27,783  51,933 25.336  25o550  50,886  19.767  29,652 49,419 101.905 124,522 226.427
s. qupet
Contalner ors                  -      -       -       -    4.056  4.056    183  3,854  4,037    736  2,334   3,070    -          -      -       919 10,.44  11,163
Stanefer cra                   -      -               -    4,056  4,056    196  3,854  4,050    777  2,907  3,684    -           _              973 10,817  11,790
Yard tractor                   ,      -       -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -    1.407  i,407    -        -      -       -    1.407  1,AM
tard Cassis                    -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      661    661    -        -      -       -       661    661
Fork lifttrk  -k                                             -                                            459    459                            _       459    459
Subtotal                     -      -       -       -    8,112  8,112    379  7,708  8,087  1,513  7,768  9,281            -       -        1,892  23,588 25*480
C. Tech. Assistanc
Staudes & tru1aini             235    120    355    812    380  1,192    721    266    987    512    226    738    695    268    963   2.975  1,260  4,235
D. Value added tax
and customs dutioe         1,059    -    1,059  2,225    -    2,225  3,631        -    3,631  3,681    -    3,681  2,465    -    2,465  13,061            13,061
Total bae cost               9,796  12,B74 22,670 27,187  37,275 64,462  28,88t 35,757 64,638  31,042 33,544 64,586 22,927 29,920 52,847 119.833 149,370 269,203
Physicol oontinaoie  (56)    437    644  1,081   1,248   1,864  3,112   1,263   1,788   ,050   1,368  1,677  3,045  1,023  1,496  2.519   5.339  7,469 12,807
Toal                        10,233 13,518 23.751  28,435  39,139 67,574  30,144  37,545 67,688 32,410  35,221   67,631  23,950  31,416 55,366 1ff,t72 156,839 282,010
Annual I%)               5.00   7.00            5.50   7.00           5.50   7.50            5.50   7.70            5.50   7.60
Cospounded (%)           1.25   1.75            6.82   8.87           12.69  17.04          18.89  25.05           25.43  35.63
Aount                     115    237    352  1,788  3,472  5,260  3,364  6.398   9,762  5,427  0,823  14,250  5,464  11*194  16,650  16,158 50,124 46,282
Grand Total                 10,38 13,755 24,103  30,223 42,611  72,834  33,508 43,943 77,450  37,837 44,044 81,881  29,414 42,610 72,024 141,330 186,963 328,292
botesz 1. All figures are round.
2. Ihoh_e rates US$ 1.00 * Von 900.
3. Item P as esusluOde from phrioal sn4 price contin..noies.
Source s Puan Port Authority and Bank stAff.
April 1986



wOsh PM7 03OJ3M
Froeoot at $stuta
(3w. 30, 1986)
--196---  -1987?- - 49681--  196989---  -                                                            990_ --tal--,
1,oa   For.olg  Total Locall   Fore Total Loal  POr±    otal tooal  F*r"ie   T'tAl Looal  forein Total Local  Vcre±   Total
(1111100 Vo)
A. CAwIl bat
ScAft br aer                 4,276  6,414  10,690  5,829  8,744 14,573  4,932  7,397  12,329   1,544  2,317  3,861    -          -      -   16,581 24,872  41,43
logat brestkoatr               -                     -       -      - _89   1,34?  2,244  3,547  5,320  8,867 17,790 26,687 44,477 22234 33,354 55,5e8
Suedgb6 oaitaiwr tersminl      -                                                                                                                 A  ,9    ,9  ,6                    ,9    5,391   8.985
Contan  ter1mi 1w         _                         5,506   8,259  13.765  9,;00  13,650 22,750  9,103 13,650 22,753    -               -   29,7S   3 9  5,6
iz;a  roe4 n4 railua           -      -       -    6,806   1,71o   8,516  6,806   1,710  8,516  6,809  1,708  8,517    -         -      -   20,421  5,128  25,549
t jinatin                      ^      -       -      -    1,800   1,800    -        900    goo  1,800    -    1,800    -         -      -    1,800   2,70W  4,500
COalao yard                  3,376  5,064  8,440    -        -      -       -       -      -       -      -       -      -       -      .        3,376   5,064  8,440
Subtotal                   7,652 11,478 19,130 21,735 25,904 47,639 21,735 25,004  46,739 220803 22,995  45,798  17,790 26,687 44.4?  91,715 112,068 203,"3
B.  g~upet
Cotar o           "                   _                    3,650  3,650    165  3,469  3,634    662  2,101   2,763    -          -      -       827  9,220  10,047
Tra r ores                     -      -       -      -    3,650  3,650    176  3,469  3,645    699  2,616  3,315    -            -      -       S75  9,735  10,610
Yard totor                     -      -       -      -       -      -       -       -      -       -    1,266  1,266    -        -      -       -    1,266  1,266
Trdorba0 ts                    _      _       _      _       _       _         _      _            _      595    595     -       -              -      59      55
. *lift traoks              -      -       -      _       -      -       -      _       -       -      413    413    _        _      _       -      413    413
Subtotal                     -      -       -            7,300  7,300    341  6,938  7,279   1 ,361  6,991  8,352    -         -      -    1,702 21 ,229 22,91
C. Tech. As t
Studi  a trainin               212    108    320    731    342  1,073    649    239    886    461    203    664    626    241    867  2,679  1,133  3,812
D. value addd tax
ad customs duties            953    -       953  2,00     1 -    2,003  3,268    -    3,268  3,313    -    3,313  2,219    -    2,219 11,756    -   11,756
Total ba  cost               8,817  11,586 20,403 24,469 33,546  58,015 25,993  32,181  50,174 27,938  30,189 58,127  20,635 26,928 4?,33 107,852 134,430 242,262
peall o otinsoa  (5%)    393    579    973  1,123  1,677  2,801   1,136  1,609  2,745  1,231   1,509  2,741    921  1,346  2,267  4,805  6,722 11,526
total                        9,210 12,165 21,376 25,592 35*223 60,616 27,129 33,790 60,919 29,169  31,698 60,868  21,556 28,274 49,8W0 112,657 141,152 253808
__________,_- -_
PI rfa               5.00   7.00            5.50   7.00            5.50   7.50           5.50   7.70            S.50   7.60
Cmodd ()                 1.25    1.75           6.82   8.87           12.69  17.04          18.89  25.05           25.43  35.63
Amount                    103    213    316  1,609  3*124  4,733   3,028  5,758   8,786  4,8S4  7,940  12,v24  4,917  10,074  14,931 14,41 Z7,109 41,650
Cgand Total                  9,513 12,378 21,692 27,201  38,347 6S,549 30,157 39,548 69,705 34,053 39,638 73,692 26,473 38,348 64. 82127,g9 166,261 295,458
.~~i                     a.       u. ...    a.    .. ...n             ma        ..     -    .m    i. .       -     aa        m.                 mm
3ot.ss 1. All fleAr. a" romol.
2. Uu*ng rates Ws 1.00 a Won 900.
3. Itau D IMs erolud  from phsical at price contAnoee.                                                         2
Souces Puan Port Autbority a  Sunk sttff.
AuLl 1986



Table 4.4
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursement Schedule /a
Estimated cumulative           Cumulative
Years from      IBRD fiscal            disbursements          disbursement pro-
approval      year & quarter      USS million                file for Korea (Z)
Year I            FY87
1st half        09/30/86
12/31/86              2.0          1.0               1
2nd half        03/31/87             10.0           7.0
06/30/87             18.0         12.0               7
Year 2            FY88
lst half        09/30/87             27.0          19.0
12/31/87            35.0          24.0              18
2nd half        03/31/88             42.0          29.0
06/30/88             50.0         34.0              32
Year 3            FY89
1st half        09/30/88             57.0          40.0
12/31/88            65.0          46.0              48
2nd half        03/31/89             72.0          51.0
06/30/89             80.0         56.0              63
Year 4            FY90
lst half        09/30/89             86.0          60.0
12/31/89            94.0          66.0              76
2nd half        03/31/90            100.0          71.0
06/30/90            106.0         75.0              86
Year 5            FY91
1st half        09/30/90            113.0          80.0
12/31/90            120.0         85.0              93
2nd half        03/31/91            127.0          90.0
06/30/91            133.0         94.0              97
Year 6            FY92
1st half        09/30/91            137.0          97.0
12/31/91           141.0         100.0             100
/a  Assumptions:  Board date in fourth quarter FY86; proposed closing date:
December 31, 1991.  Disbursement slowed down at the beginning and
accelerated at the end of conform to the disbursement profile for Korea.



!T
PM MMIC.
PMWQ Pfft tnato 0975.-A001)
pow rev"" VA)
Jo= sr  i
Tout                               I-A  "Owt T-oft?   14  igoo" T-Ul _TA -104  TOU L   1.  0.t total
TA   04  to"               XA  ftt                                                                                                                                                                                1,W           'W'96 -W-1
C."                                                                                                                                               0      1104      451        9      4"       6"          0      a?       "O          0
70folso               26         0       96      no;         0      STO      go         a       m        mg         a      S"        3104                                                                                                                0.0    IDA$
go         0      so       7M          0      1`24     9"          0      910    1.139        0      0119      w          0       9"       951        0      06i    I'm           o    I.ow      1.041        0    11941
Total                sm          0      991    1,294         0    1.294    i.178        0    J.m       I."e         a    i.m       I.Vo         0    1.220    i.412         0    i.41k    1.6"          0    1.6"     I."P          0    I.m             2.70  -0.30
F*tmuw                                                                                            723      AN                                                                                            'O    I 90     1 07          0                    2 7%    3.0
2:00         a    i                                               .00                      :
r-4p                 296         0    '.216    .."IS         0      618     .723         0             2.          23    2137    I.M           5'1'   2.004      4m        6)    2:1,;,  2,10W               2:w      3:m                1.443           3 on   31-30
omwtt-             1,764        "       70       "i         49    2.20       9-ilk     41    119"        m         91       m        M
I-W                2.0"         Is    AIM      2.769        09    2.6"     2,636       42    2.670    2.9"        120    3.497    2.076        -1    g.90      3.406       63    3.50                                             OA
im       WA Stftl                                                                                                                                      5.12S    2.771    2.09      4,661    3.5n      2.=      6.M      CAM       5.414    7-619           6.       iI N
go       99    1.40      1.06    IJS1    ,w         2Z         Ax      %W       2.467    1.907    4.454    1.723    114W                                                         6    )AM      2.6"         10    2.6u            q.:      9:,*
0        0        0        0         a        0                  $      G"       716         3      7tg      so         2       gm     1.030        4    i.W       1.04                                                                      .  I
956             1,M       1.006    j."I    3.W       2A"       I,W      AIM      3,143    1,990    5.173    2.1112      04    S.T16    ),609    2.096    SIM         5.953    2.96    6.179    6.40       1-41A   lo-M
0       30                 0        30       3D              Iso         0
20       211                12        72                                                                         5    I'I"      1.128             III       ., -
'. In                 1      913    '.4           0    '.316                       I.-         200       !1                26
I.,                                                                go         I
toul               i.tyr       S"     1,60       9112             1.121    113%        72    M"        I."9                                          i,165    1.126              1.46)    1.120              i.163    1.1ge        0     %43                      2.40
Tiobw                                                                                                                                           104    1.109    1.00        120    I."g    1.4"         I"     I A-A    1.$"        20)    2,162           $m       S.*
VW-Sp              2.t2o      6%      2.776    MOS         355    4.119    1.441      M       I.W       ."S        60    1.4$6    i.M
sammu.                 0         a        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0                  0        0        0        0         0        a        0         0        0
20m        696    21776    i.1%        355    2.119    1,441       105    UVA    1.3106         do    1.456    1.0"        104    i.109    I.m        In      I.Ym     1.4"       I"     1.694    1.9"        20    'W"
1114 Or"                                                                                                                                 149                go       I"       so        93      "a        963      Ila      I"       30
10-160                  1      Y"       "a        32       254      06        39      213       252       40      I"        266       od               03
baoft"                 0         0        0        1        0         1        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0                           0         0        0
Total                  I       "O       360               2m        207       39      W         252       40,     I"        zo        S4      149      233        so      I"       20        so       WA       26)      tio       t"       in            1.15    5.00
Cho""
"Wasp                to          0      m          a        6         6        i        I         2        0                                                       'O'     'O'      00       00                  a        a         a        a
a                          0         0        0        a                                    0         0
T401                 IA:                                             06       '1'                                                      o                 'O'
Salt                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  0       27                    6.95
12        0       u         2         a        2        0        0                           0        Ii       1-3       0        is       20        0       20        97
0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0                                    0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0                           0
12        0       12        2         a        2        0        0         0                 a        II       Is        0                 90        0       20       0                  27
craft                                                                                                                                                                         0    t.649    2.270         0                                                6AS    6AS
FaIroLs.             P"         0       V?7    1.4"         0    1.4"      t.004        o    1.04    1.676          0    1.06    1,124          O    1.124    1-60                                      0    *,2'0    3,1114        o    5.194
D~ ti.                 0         1        1        0         0        0        0        0         0       36        2        40        0                 0         0        0        0        0                  0                  0        0
T."I                                                         0    IA"      1.404         0    i.04    WU            2    1.716    iou           o    I.lu      1,649        0    I.A49    2.270         a    It.=     M54                3.134           11-0
2,701    ).4"     60.95    4,470    OI422   U.M        6-20    'I 160    'TIM      ?-166   "I"A   go'062    OA"    21,949   Z9.M          It.1311  $2,465   44."6   17.0%    45.747   W.641  2.OU   65.06S   OW26                   J.1%    6.19
20       40       90        79       2D               127        3"      M        122        n       147      lss       99       I"       R"                 "I       "I        94     fi"        am       147      90             1-0     94%  t
2.7"     3,47)    6.226    4.549    46442   12.991    AIM       li.674   18,046    7.200   1).721   21,009    $.I%    2t.'Al   29.M       12.429   32,920  414.949   17.60    6441   63,40    26.04  64.010   00,6?4                  ?JS    IL99  i
7,965    5,537   12,SM    10.729   $O.M      21,723   12.50    %M        2S.454   11.00   13,90I   29,Rt9  t3l-44   O,W          X.01   10.242   34.6"    54,li?   26.434   49.090   n.454   ".3109   07.709' t03.016
6.1a    :40
Opowl.             %M           Go    3.940    % 07        110   !1.977    4.9"         16    5.0%     1,737      127   !i*4    4.742          a?    4.09    %.M          IV     0.953    7.1"        10     7.3"     8.269       m      9419            4.15      .0
Total             "1143    5.W       t6.74D   14."6   11004   25,700   17,M    14.004   3i,"$   V9.M            16.10   35,603   VIVA    M.M        VIM       ".060   ".OW    00.070   53,369   O.M    62.709   44.270   67,"9  112.23?
&95    6.0
or wt"
97    2,515    ),Mg    3.136    7.660   10.7"       5.1%    II,"&   IS."R    MU    1).317   S&A"            6.146   W"?   20.903   U.94,  40,414   41.360   10.40    404M    M.00   211.655   47.W               69. M         1  w.n    Nis  1
All tAFAM
5WAMI Oft



PUSAN PORT PROCT
Pusan Port 'Traffcl and Forecasts /a
("OMej met-ric tons)
Actual                                            Forecast                     Orowth rates
CommlEodity                         1 I75    11977    1979    19f0    q?l   Hill        119HZIR 1995    19R8h    1 %P% 19I96    Zun        18:-9      SI IS-Zt'xll
2%4 ra                                97A   1,301   1,651   1,455   1,547   1,501   1,804   1,124   1,195   1,640   2,261   3,154
Cement                            1,696   3,767   1,657   1,120   1,059        936   1,448   1,163   1,169   1,318   1,53n   1,706
Coal/anthracite                     425      762   1,049   1,269   1,759   1,411   1,157   1,220   1,194   1,419   1,623   1,540
LA,ber /h                         2,457   3,585   3,09n  3,157   2,110   1,839   1,735   1,081   1,102   1,316   1:647   2,179
Salt                                 11       18      31       12       10       4        2       9        9      12       iS      21
Other area                          360      650     4a7      287     301      250      252     233      243     240      265     310
Iron 6 steel & scrap              1,495   2,449   3,358   3,557   3,878   3,946   3,897   3,716   4,009   5,762   5,160    ,s958
Subtotal                      7.922  _1532  11,242  10,857  10,664   9.8R7  10.295   8.545   8.421  11,707  15,501  IR.R68             5.6        4.0
__raI caeryo                        29R      330     541      432      571     661      747     638      715   1,2R5   2,260   4,074
Other general cargo               2,832   4,563   5,731   5,214   7,227   7,307   8,184  17,475  14,026  27,522  36,341  51,109
Subtotal                      3,130   4  902   6.272   5.646   7,798   7.968   A.931  1811   19.74w           7  38601 55is,8l        7.2        7.4
Of which, containerized             1,708   3,245   4,s50    5,080   6,575   7,nR7   7,786   0,670  10,S63  15,405  2n,864  2R,727
Total                        11,052  17,434  17,514  16,503  18,462  17,55  1q,226  26.65R  28,662  40.514  54,102  74.05
Containers; 2 of total               15.5    18.6    25.7    30.8    35.6    39.7    40.5    36.3    36.9    38.0    18.6    3R.R
Containers; 2 of general carRo       S4.6    66.2    71.       90.o    84.3   R8.9    R7.2    U3.4    53.5    53.5    54.1    52.1
TEU (o000)                            261      455      597     633      744     787      898   1,084   1,190   1,752   2,376   3,276        7.4         6.6
Tons/TEU                              6.5      7.1      7.6     a.0      8.8     9.0      R.7     a.4      8.9     R.8      8.8     s.a
/a  1975 to 1983 data are based upon KNPA data in revenue tons  converted to metric tons using factors derived from the Februarv 19R8  torea Port,
Phase III Development Study (Volume IT "Trafflc Forecasts"i.  1985 to 20nl data are derived from the Rirt Container Site Selection Study (tRPA,
April 1985) undertaken by viri-Sekwang Consultants. Factors used to convert revenue to metric tons were ?.05 for general cargo, 1.OAfor bulk;
average factor is 1.5 for total traffic.
/b  'Lumher" includes logs, alywood and sawn timber.
Source:  Korea Maritime and Port Administration Statistics; 1985 Container Site Selection Study.



_ 93 _                         Table 5.3
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Revised Pusan General Cargo Forecast (1983-2001)
'000 Metric tons)
All general cargo         Containerized         Noncontainerized
1983                    8,931/a                7,786                   1,145
1984                   10,250/a                9,190                   1,060
1985                   11020/b                9,835/a                 1,185
1986                   11,845                 10,670                   1,175
1987                   12,735                 11,580                   1,135
1988                   13,690                 12,560                   1,130
1989                   14,715                 13,630                   1,085
1990                   15,820                 14,790                   1,030
1991                   17,005                 15,825                   1,180
1992                   18,195                 16,932                   1,263
1996                   23,850                 22,194                   1,656
2001                   33,450                 29,700                   3,750
/a Actual figures.
/b Estimated.
Source:  KMPA statistics and-Bank estimates based on the following growth rate
assumptions:
General cargo         Container         Gross national product
1980-84                 12.8               15.0                      7.0
1985-91                  7.5                8.5                      6.5
1991-96                  7.0                7.0                      6.0
1996-2001                7.0                6.0                      5.5



- 94                            Table 5.4
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Pusan Container Traffic - Actual and Forecasts by Port Areas
;000 TEU)
Inner harbor:     Inner harbor:
containers at    noncontainerized-
Inner harbor   Outer      general cargo      general cargo
Year       Total    (4 berths)    harbor         berths        ('000 metric tons)
Piers 5 and 6             Piers 1 to 4
1983         898        501            -          397                1,145
1984       1,054        661            -          393                1,060
1985       1,173       717             -          456                1,185
1986       1,273        773/a          -          500/b              1,175
1987       1,381        881i           -          500                1,155
1988       1,498        998            -          500                1,130
1989       1,626      1,126                       500                1,085
1990       1,764        964          300          500                1,030
1991       1,914        984          540/c        450                1,080
1992       2,048        745          8537w-       450                1,263
1996       2,659        745        1,614/d        300                1,656
2001       3,669        745        2,624/d        300                3,750
/a  Designed economic throughput capacity for container berths at Piers 5 and
6 is assumed to be around 745,000 TEU; beyond this level significant
queueing will occur.
/b Maximum throughput of general cargo berths assumed to be around 500,000.
This throughput thus assumes significant queueing at these berths. Since
noncontainerized general cargo is also forecast to be increasing, then no
additional spare capacity becomes available over time on the general cargo
berths.
/c Capacity of the three berths outer harbor terminal, assuming some schedul-
ing of arrivals opening year is 1990.
ld Outer harbor demand.
Sources:  Korea Maritime and Port Administration for 1983 and 1984 data.  Mis-
sion estimates based upon the Kiri-Sekwang Container Terminal Site
Location Study, and revised estimates of Pusan Port Project Bank
appraisal mission.



- 95                           Table 5.5
KOREA
*YUSAN PORT PROJE.CT
Container Ship Movements at Pusan, 19A4
Container terminal PCTOC                    General cargo berths
piers 5 and 6                             piers I to 4
Number    Number      Average TP.U        Number    Number      Average TWU
Months     of ship   of TEU   handled by ship        of ship   of TFU   handled by ship
1             107     48,349          452              438      27,353         62
2              98     44,971          459               365     27,512         75
3             115     54,541          474               538     37,946         70
4             107     50,250          470               429     30,189         70
5             115     55,871          486               S49     37,688         68
3             121     63,977          529               447     29,030         64
7             131     62,443          477              462      35,527         76
8             119     56,985          479               474     31,R22         67
9             124     59,406          479               502     32,662         65
10           125      53,740          430               500     38,163         76
11            129     50,713          393              515      29,905         58
12            127     60,220          474              531      35,067         66
Total    1,418    661,466           466            5,750    392,R64          68
Source: RMPA, Pusan.



KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Operational Parameters Assumed for Economic Evaluation
(container berths)
General cargo berths
used  as                     Existing                     Proposed
container berths             container berths             container berths
Berths (number)                                                 4      6/2                   4                           1.5      3/3
Cranes per berth (number)                                       1                             2                            2
Average crane productivity per hour (TEUs)                     12                            36                           36
Average orane working hours per day (hours)                    18                            15                           15
Throughput capacity per berth (TEUs/day)                      216                        1,080                         1,080
Berth operating days per year (days)                          330                          330                           330
Maximu berth utilization (%)                                   90                            50                           50
Maximum annual capaoity per berth ('000 TEUs)                  64                           178                          178
Ship arrivals (random/scheduled)                             Random                    Scheduled                     Scheduled
Average ship size (TEUs)                                      300                        1,500                         2,000
Average shipment size (TEUs)                                   70                          460                           550
Cargo value (V million/TEU)                                 14.30                        14.30                         14.30
Average daily ship cost In port (W million/day)              4.95                        11.07                         13.59
Unloading/loading cost (X million/TEU) /1                   0.122                        0.048                         0.048
Notest (i)   theoretical daily berth capacity = cranes per berth x average crane productivity per hour
x average working hours per day;
(ii)  theoretical annual berth capacity * theoretical daily berth capacity x berth operating day per year;
(iii) maximum annual capacity per berth = theoretical annual berth capacity x maximum berth utilization.
(iv)  all the figures are rounded.
/ 1: It is estimated that the unloading/loading costs of lightering is three time higher then the normal han4ling charges on berth.
F2: With project: 4 berths; without project: 6 berths.
P3: 1.5 berth in 1990 and 3 berths thereafter.
Sources: KNPA and Bank staff.
Jan. 1986



Table 5.7
_97_
KOREA
PUSA  PORt PROJ0
Container Handling Vithout AkW With Proposed Bertha
(oontainer berths)
1984  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  1996
A. TRAFFIC DEMAND ('000,TEUs)            1.054  1,173  1,273  1,381  1,498  1,626  1,764  1,914 2,048  2,192  2,345  2,508  2,559
.......... ......
B. WITHOUT PROJECT
............. .
At 3endral Cargo Berths
. _ _______________                                          ~~~~/ 1    fI1   /i 1   /1    / 1    /1    / 1
1. Berths (number)                       .6      6      6     6      6      6      T     6      6      6            6
2. Traffic ('-00 TEUs)                  243   271   294   319   346   375   407   442   473   506   541   579   614
3. Annual ship berth days required    1125  1,255  1,361  1,477  1,602  1,736  1,884  2,046 2,190 2,343 2,505  2,681  2,845
4. Annual ship berth days available    1,980  1,980  1,980 1,980  1t980  1.980  1,980  1,980  1,980  1t980  1.980  1,980  1o98O
5. Berth occupancy rate (%)              57    63    69    75    81    88   (95)  (95)  (95)  (95)  (95)  (95)  (95)
6. Wsiting time queuing factors        0.02   0.04   0.07   0.11   0.22   0.48   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33   1.33
7. Annual ship waiting days              23    50    95   162   352   833 2,506 2,721  2,913  3,116  3,332  3,566  3,781
Existing Container Berths
1, Berths (nuber)                         4      4      4     4      4      4      4      4     4      4      4     4      4
2. Traffic ('000 TEUs)                  811   902   979  1,062  1,152  1,251  1,357  1,472  1,575  1,686  1,804  1,929 2,045
S. Annual ship berth days required      751   835   906   983  1,067  1.158 1,256  1,363  1,458 1,561  1,670  1,786  1,894
4. Annual ship berth days available    1,320  1,320 1,320 1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320
5. Berth occupancy rate (%)              57    63    69    74    81    88   (95)  (95)  (95)  (95)  (95)  (95)  (95)
6. Waiting tine queuing factors        0.05   0.08  0.13   0.20  0.37   0.77   2.08   2.08   2.08   2.08  2.08   2.08   2.08
7. Annual ship waiting days              38    67   118   197   395   892 2,612  2,835  3,053  3,247  3,474  3,715  3.940
C. WITH PROJECT
At General Cargo Bertha
1. Berthe ( number)                                                                4      4     4      4      4      4     4
2. Traffic ('000 TEUs)                                                           224   196   210   225   241   257   >'3
3. Annual ship berth days required                                             1,037   907   972 1,042  1,116  1.190  1,264
4. Annual ship berth days available                                            1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1t320  1,320  1,320
5. Berth ocoupancy rate (%)                                                       79    69    74    79    85    90   (95)
6. Waiting time queuing faotors                                                 0.31   0.13   0.21   0.33   0.62   1.38   2.0fi
7. Annual ship waitiag days                                                      321   118   204   344   692 1,642  2,623
Existing Container Berths
1. Berths (number)                                                                 4     4      4      4      4     4      4
2. Traffic ('000 TEUs)                                                         1,120    982 1,050  1,124  1,203  1,286  1,364
3. Annual ship berth days required                                             1,037   909   972 1,041  1,114  1,191  1,263
4. Annual ship berth days available                                            1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320  1,320
5. Berth occupancy rate (%)                                                       79    69    74    79    84    90   (95)
6. Waiting tine queuing factors                                                 0.31   0.13   0.21   0.33   0.62   1.38   2.08
7. Annual ship waiting days                                                      321   118   204   344   639  1,644 2.627
Proposed Container Berths
1. Berths (number)                                                               1.5     3      3      3      3      3     3
2. Traffic ('000 TEUs)                                                           420   736   788   843   901   965  1,022
3. Annual ship berth days required                                               389   681   730   781   834   894   945
4. Annual ship berth days available                                              495   990   990   990   990   990   990
5. Berth occupancy rate (%)                                                       79    69    74    79    84    90   (95)
6. Waiting time queuing factors                                                 0.43   0.22  0.32   0.46   0.75   1.79   2.66
7. Annual ship waiting days                                                      167   150   234   359   626  1,600 2,516
Notes: (i)  annual ship berth days required *  traffio/tbeoretital daily capacity per berth.
(ii)  annual ship berth days available * number of berths x berth operating days per year.
(iii) berth occupanoy rate a naual ship bertb days requied / annual ship berth days available.
(iv) waiting time queuing factors - from Port Developamnt, UNCTAD 1978, page 209 and 21r.
(v)  annual ship waiting days . annual ship berth required x waiting tine queueing factors.
(vi) all the figures are rounded.
!1  Traffic would exceed the practical capacity of these berths. For the purpose of the economic evaluation it has been
assuoed that ways will be found, e.g., through lightering, to move the traffic through the port with waiting times
not exceeding those corresponding to 95% berth occupancy rate.
Sources: EMPA and Bank staff.
April 1986



KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Economic Benefits
Container Berths
(Won billion)
1990   1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996
Ports: Loadlng/unloading savings                  0.04   0.08   0.08   0.09   0.09   0.10   0.10
Ships: Berth days savings                         6.54   8.81   9.41  10.04  10.73  11.51  12.21
Waiting days savings                      41.62  49.93  51.22  51.34  46.33  23.13  (0.49)
Cargo: Berth days savings                         9.81  13.22  14.12  15.07  16.11  17.28  18.32
Waiting days savings                      62.47  74.93  76.87  77.05  69.54  34.71  (0.74)
Total                                      120.48 146.97 151.70 153.59 142.80  86.73  29.40
Note: 1. All the figures are rounded.
Sources: KMPA and Bank staff.
April 1986
S
UV
0



KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Eoonomlo Rate of Return (ERR) and Sensitivity Analysis
Container Berths
( Won Billion )
Base Case-------           -----Case 1-               -----Case 2---             --Case 3--
---Costs----    Total   Net                             Net                        Net                        Net
Capital aint-         Bene-  Cash        Costs Benefits Cash        Costs Benefita Cash       Costs Benefits Cash
Year       invest. enanoe Total  fits  Flow          (+15%)         Flow              (-15%)  Flow        (+15%) (-15%)  Flow
1986        20.42         20.42       -20.42        23.48        -23.48        20.42        -20.42        23.48       -23.48
1987        58.81        58.81        -58,81        67.63        -67.63        58.81        -58.81        67,63       -67.63
1988        57.65         57.65       -57.65        66.30        -66.30        57.65        -57.65        66.30        -66.30
1989        57.56         57.56       -57.56        66.1'        -66.19        57.56        -57.56        66.19        -66.19
1990        47.61   3.19  50.80 120.48 69.68        58.42 120.48 62.06         50.80 102.41  51.61        58.42 102.41  43-99            1
1991                3.19  3.19 146.97 143.78          3.67 146.97 143.30        3.19 124.92 121.73         3.67 124.92 121.25            o
1992                3.19  3.19 151.70 148.51         3.67 151.70 148.03         3.19 128.95 125.76         3.67 128.95 125.28            D
1993                3.19  3.19 153.59 150.40          3.67 153.59 149.92        3.19 130.55 127.36         3.67 130.55 126.88
1994                3.19  3.19 142.80 139.61         3.67 142.80 139.13         3.19 121.38 118.19         3.67 121.38 117.71
1995                3.19  3.19  86.73  83.54          3.67 86.73  83.06         3.19  73.72  70.53         3.67 73.72 70.05
1996                3.19   3.19  29.40  26.21        3.67 29.40  25.73          3.19 24.99  21.80          3.67 24.99 21.32
1997                3.19  3.19  29.40 26.21           3.67 29.40  25.73         3.19 24.99 21.80           3.67  24.99 21.32
1998                3.19   3.19  29.40  26.21        3.67  29.40  25.73         3.19  24.99  21.80         3.67  24.99  21.32
1999                3.19   3.19  29.40  26.21        3.67  29.40  25.73         3.19  24.99 21.80          3.67  24.99  21.32
2000                3.19   3.19  29.40  26.21         3.67  29.40 25.73         3.19  24.99  21.80         3.67  24.99 21.32
2001                3.19  3.19  29.40  26.21          3.67  29.40 25.73         3.19  24.99 21.80          3.67  24.99 21.32
2002                3.19   3.19  29.40  26.21        3.67  29.40  25.73         3.19  24.99  21.80         3.67  24.99 21.32
2003                3.19  3.19 29.40  26.21           3.67 29.40 25.73          3.19 24.99  21.80          3.67  24.99 21.32
2004                3.19   3.19  29.40  26.21        3.67  29.40  25.73         3.19  24.99 21.80          3.67  24.99 21.32
2005                3.19  3.19  29.40  26.21          3.67 29.40  ?5.73         3.19  24.99  21.80         3.67  24.99  21.32
2006                3.19   3.19  29.40  26.21         3.67  29.40  25.73        3.19  24.99  21.80         3.67  24.99 21.32
2007                3.19  3.19  29.40  26.21          3.67 29.40  25.73          3.19 24.99  21.80         3.67 24.99 21.32
2008                3.19   3.19  29.40 26.21          3.67  29.40 25.73         3.19  24.99  21.80         3.67  24.99 21.32
2009                3.19  3.19  29.40 26.21           3.67  29.40 25.73         3.19  24.99 21.80          3.67  24,99 21.32
Total      242.05  63.80 305.85  1,214    908       351.75  t,214   862        305.85 1,032   726        351.75  1,032   680
ERR-  35.0                ERR- 30.5 %                ERR= 29.8%                 ZRR- 25.5 %
Sourcest KNIPA and Bank staff.
April 1986



- 100 -
Tabis 64
KOREA
US   PDRT PROMT
PMINl INCOIE STAttI 1913-92)
NM Nilliji
Actul        Esti.ate                                 Foecast
tITE                            1983     1914      195       198      1997       918      199      19.90    1991      1992
TRAFFIC (REV. TOES 000)          31,341    35,556    39,112    41,850   44,779    47,914   51,268   54,6.7   58,697    62,05
OF INICH CONTAINERSITED '010)       884    1,054     1,040     1,060    1,213     1,314    1,427      1,549    1,680    1,023
1. OPERATIE REVENES
1. PORT REVEWIES               20,445    23,635    25,"9    28,653   31,579   34,003   38,356   42,272    46,59   51,345
2. RENTAL REVENES                B,564    12,945    11,240    15,694    17,296    19,062   21,008   23,153   25,517   28,122
3. EQUIPET REVENElS               997       103       113       125      138       152       141       184      203       224
SUBTOTAL                       30,006   36,683   40,352   44,472   49,012   54,016   59,531   65,610   72,308   -9,691
It. OPURATINS EXPENSES
1. SALARIES                      1,213    1,381    1,450      1,568    1,696     1,834    1,984    2,145    2,320    2,50
2. AINISTRATION EINSES            640    1,061      1,114     1,147    1,182     1,217    1,254    1,291      1,330    1,370
3. RAINTEN  EXPENSES            3,841     1,498     1,573     1,734    1,955    2,384    2,918    3,498    4,138    4,372
4. DEPRECIATION                  3,504    3,830    3,85       4,384    5,009    6,471    8,453   10,618   13,568   14,764
SUBTOTAL                        9,191    7,770    7,991      8,834    9,842    11,901   14,609   17,5t3  21,356   23,016
II. OPERATING INCONE            20,808   28,913   32,360   35,638   39,171    42,109   44,922   48,057   50,952   56,675
IV. NON-OPERATINS INCOME
1. GAIN ON FOREIGN CUENCY           0    4,773          0        0         0         0        0         0         0        0
TRANSLATION
2. OTHERS                       4,997    4,041      4,041    4,041     4,041    4,041      4,041    4,041     4,041    4,041
- -  -- - - - - - - --   -------       - ---- - - - --- - - - - ----- - -        --
SUBTOTAL                       4,987    8,914    4,041      4,041    4,041     4,041     4,041     4,041    4,041    4,041
V. NON-OPERATING EXPENSES
t. INTEREST                     6,275    6,317    7,038    7,259    8,116    10,871    13,797    15,207   16,027    16,048
2. LOSS FRON FOREIGN CURRENCY    3,046        0   13,819    5,130          0         0         0        0         0         0
TRANSLATION
…-            …--… -_ _ ----     -_         ___ -_   __   __ _-  -  ______.- ___._----…___._____._____.
SUBTOTAL                       9,321    6,387    20,857    12,38?    8,176   tO,871   13,797    15,207   16,027   16,048
VI. ORDINARY INCOIE               16,474    31,340    15,544   27,290   35,036   35,279    35,166   36.891   38,66   44,668
VII. SPECIAL GAIN(LOSS:            (5421    (237)         0        0         0         0         Q                  0         0
VIII. NET INCOME                  15,92    31,10'   15,544    27,290    3',036    ',.'9    35,166    Z6,981    3B,966   44,66P
……                                                                                                         …  -…=:: =: ::: :: :=: :: ::: :: :-= :- =:-----------------------



ITal 6.2
N   MT PROJECT
PM  WACES & APPLICATIONS OF FMlfilS (1983-0
Vo oillion
ktul         Eiut                                   Focast
ITER                          193       194      1915      196      t98      193       199      19        99I      t92
INTNAL CASH IENETIOR
REYERS                       34,M3   4,24   44,393   49,513   53,053   5,057   63,512   69,651   76,34    S3,7
LESS IMORIIB COSTS            5,694    3,94      4,137    4,449    4,833    5,S36    6,156    6,935    7,r         3,2
TOTAL 1ST. CASE UIIRATION    29,299   34,784   40,256   44,063   4,220   52,621   57,417   62,716   66,561   75,480
0uVERIIEIT SUEIDY              14,915       0         0        0   11,027         0   13,219   29,994         0        0
SALE OF PRPERTIES                   0   24,285         0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0
LOAWS
8RD SECOND                    6,855       22         0        0        0         0        0         0        0        0
SF0 SECUS                         0         0        0    6,457   11,39I   11,391   11,391          0        0        0
PO)5W                             0         0        0    1,120   25,800   43,960   40,420   27,520   10,320          0
TOTAL LOANSI                   6,9S        22        0   10,177   37,191   55,251   51,311   27,520   10,320          0
TOTAL SOURCES                   51,069   61,091   40,256   54,240   96,438  101,972  122,5U   ii,z-iS    70,801   75,490
APPLICATIONS
CAPITAL INVESTHENTS
PUSAN PORT                   34,448   11,633   21,127   21,855   67,017   70,669   78,116   66,669           0         0
BNCHEON SAY                   3,200    3,692    1,623   11,170   12,051   12,051   12,051   12,051           0        0
TOTAL INEST                  37,648   15,325   24,750   33,025   79,068   92,720   90,167   78,720           0        0
SUBSIDY REPAYNENT                   0   32,312       140    5,027        0    3,91          0         0   37,794   33,358
DEOT SERVICE
INTEREST                      6,275    6,387    7,038    7,259    8,176   10,97t   13,797   15,207   16,027   16,048
REPAYNENTS(CURREt LOAN)       7,1146     ,067    8,575    8,761   10,739   18,675   24,858   25,107   25,372   25,657
TOTAL D0BT S£RVICE            13,421   14,454   15,613   16,020   18,915   29,546   38,655   40,314   41,3"    41,705
CKAl IN il-CASN
VORK.CAP.                      (2,8941  (3,192)    (256)     169   (I,5451   (7,995)  (6,296)      196     (312)      417
TOTAL APPLICATIONS              51,06    61,091   40,256   54,240   96,438  107,872  122,526  119,230   78,891    75,480
:z:u     _2auin---azag agg             ll       a        J_



- 102^
table 6.3
KOREA-----
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
PD9P  ALKANCE SN}ETS (1983-92)
Na Rillia
Actual        Estisate                                 Ferecait
1983      1984      1985      1986     1987       19989     1989      19D0       91I    1S92
ASSETS
CURRiENT ASS£TS
A     rTS RECEIVABLE             3,880     3,509     3,860     4,254     4,618     5,167    5,695      6,276     6,3?7     7,058
STORES                              et        43        84        91       289       346       341       51t       540       565
OTHERS                               5         2         2         2         3         3         4         5         6         b
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS             3,966     3,554     3,947     4,348     4,9O      5,517     6,040     6,192     6,923     7,629
LESS: CURRENT LIABILITIES
CURRENT LOAN MATURITIES          3,91Z     8,068     9,575     8,761    10,73?    18,675    24,958    25,107    25,372   25,657
OTHERS                           2,764     1,309     1,529     1,577     1,777     2,362     2,998     3305      3,483     3,487
TOTAL CURRENT LIBILITIES         6,676     9,456    10,104    10,338    12,515    21,037    27,856    29,412   28,95    29,145
NET  ORKING CAPITAL              (2,7101   (5,9021   (6,158)   (5,990)   (7,535)  115,520)  (21,816)  t21,620)  121,932)  (21,515i
FIXED ASSETS
GRSS VALUE - LAD               88,842    18,056   126,658   138,248   156,245   180,647   206,985   236,495   255,291   268,800
GROSS VALUE - OTHERS            87,003   107,607   107,921  122,764   140,231   181,197   236,694   M,307   379,894   413,392
ACCUNULATE  DEPRECIATION        11,226   14,'86    18,640    23,025    28,033    34,504    42,958    53,576    67,143    Bl,90
NET VALUE - OTHER ASSETS        75,777    92,821    8q,280    99,740   112,198   146,692   193,737   243,731   312,751   331,44
TOTAL NET FIXED ASSETS         164,619   190,877   215,938   237,987   268,443   327,339   400,622   480,22    56,042  600,204
NORK IN PROSRESS                56,450    17,782    31,685    46,691    90,582   111,483   121,429   126,741    42,634    15,09
TOTAL FIXED ASSETS             221,069   208,659   247,623   294,678   359,025   438,822   522,051   606,967   610,675   615,380
OTHER ASSETS                         17        13        18        13        18        14        19        14        19       15
TOTAL ASSETS                  218,376   202,770   241,483   278,01   351,509   423,315   500,254  585,362   598,762   593,879
L'19ILITIES AND EQUITY
LON6 TERM DEBT
IBRD FIPST LOAN                36,92    34,228    31,255    30,831    27,915   24,790    21,431    17,823    13,950       9,793
I1RO SECWNO LOAN               40,653    34,324    29,027    27,027    22,829    18,630    14,432    10,233     6,035     1,836
SFD FIRST LOAN                  24,921    16,854    14,692    13,442    11,594    9,746      7,"8      6,049    4,201     2,353
SFO SECOND LOAN                      0         0         0     8,457    18,114    25,952    33,791    30,238    26,686    23,133
PUSAN PORT                          0          0        0      1,720    25,620    51,840    16,820    94,150   101,150   89,250
TOTAL LONG TERN DET            102,566    85,406    74,973    81,478   106,072   130,958   154,371   158,494   152,022   126,365
EQUITY EQUIVALENT
CAPITAL                         74,078    53,279    63,812    64,912   69,850    71,763    78,219   107,771    61,411    28,048
REVALUATION RESERVE             25,800    17,050    35,119    42,443    50,681    60,410   72,313   86,757   104,033   123,501
RETAINED EARNINGS               15,932   47,035    62,579    89,869   124,905   160,184   195,350  232,331   271,297   315,965
TOTAL EQUITY                   115,910   117,364   166,510   197,224   245,437   292,357   345,893   426,967  436,740   467,514
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY     218,376   202,770   241,483   218,701   351,509  423,315   500,254   585,362   588,762   593,879



-  103 -                                                       Tbc 6.4
KOWEA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
PPA INVESTIENT PLOA  (1983-921
Vo oillio
Actual        Estimte                                    Forecast
1983      1984      1985       1986      1987      1M9       199        1990      1991      1992
TOTAL IINESTHENT
LAND                              25500      8500     11349      19614     25200     21600      25602         0         0          0
OTHERS                            17401      6825     13401      14499     45917     54939      54178     8109O         0         0
TOTAL                             42901     15325     24750      3415      71117     76539     79780      91090         0         0
C.l.P
LAND                              25500      8002     15350      27291     39846     41023      46113     23057     11528      5764
OTHERS                            30950      9780     16335      19400     51737     70460      75316    103605     31105      9332
TOTAL                             56450     17782     31695      4691      90582    111403    121429    126741      42634      1506
FIXED ASSETS
LAND                              98942     8056    102057    109132    123378    142800    163312    186366    197697    203661
OTHERS                            87003    107607    114453    125098    139467    175693    225005    277726    350306    372079
TOTAL                            175845    205663    216510    235620    262845    318483    388317    46409       548202    575740
INCREASING C.I.P
LAND                              25500      8S00     11349      19616     25200     21600     2502           0         0         0
OTHERS                            17401      6825     13401      14499     45917     54939     54178      81090         0         0
TOTA.                             42901     15325     24750     34115      71117     76539     79780      81090         0         0
INCREASIND FIXED ASSETS
LAND                                  0     2598       4001       7675     13646     19423     20511      23057     11529      5764
OTHERS                                0     27995      6846      11435     13580     36216     49322      52721     72579     21774
TOTAL                                 0     5393      10847      19110     27225     55639     69833      75778     84108     2753
GROSS OPERATING FIXD ASSETS       175,845   205,663   234,579   261,012   296,476   361,844   443,580   533,802   635,185   682,192
ACCUlNLATED DEPRICIATION           11,226    14,786    18,640    23,025    28,033    34,504    42,958    53,576    67,143    81,907
8ASE ON ROI CAL.                  164,619   190,877   215,938   237,987   268,443   327,339   400,622   480,226   568,042   600,284



-104-                           Table 6.5
Page I
KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
Assumptions for Financial Projections
1986-1992
Ie BASIC REFERENCE DOCUMENTS USED IN FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
- Fifth Five-Year Economic and Social Development Plan
- Investment plan formulated by RMPA
- Maritime and port statistics, 1984
-   WMPA financial reports, 1983-1984
- KMPA budget for 1985
- Budget control records and cash disbursemnts, 1985
-  Loan contracts
- Pertinent correspondence and records
II.  DATA  AND ASSUMPTIONS
General
(a) Inflation rate is assumed to be 3Z in each year during the projec-
tion period.
(b) Foreign exchange rate assumed during the projection is following:
1986 and
1984      1985      thereafter
Other currencies
(US$ equivalent)      W758       W860         W900
Riyal (Saudi)           232       235           245
Income Statements
1.   Revenues
(a) Port tariffs are projected to increase by 3X annually in accordance
with inflation.
(b) Annual increase in traffic volume is projected at growth rates
varying between 7.0-8.5Z annually, based on past years' trend,
KMPA's budget for 1985 and fifth five-year economic and social
development plan.
2.        Employee Services Expenses and Other Operating Expenses.  Employee
services are assumed to increase by 51 in real term and other operating
expenses are assumed to increase by inflation rate.



-.5                        Table 6.5
- 105 -                    Page 2
3.        Maintenance.  This consists -f dredging cost and expenses for upkeep
of port infrastructure, buildings and equipment , and other port properties.
This is assumed to increase at the same rate as that of the net depreciable
fixed assets in use.
4.        Depreciation.  A composite useful life of 35 years is used, assuming
a scrap value of 10%, based on Korean Tax Laws.
For projection purposes, depreciation is computed starting the year
of acquisitiontcompletion.
5.        Interest Charges.  Interest is computed based on the terms and
conditions of the loan agreement.
6.        Foreign Exchange Loss.  Exchange loss on foreign currency loan is
calculated in 1985 and 1986 based on the projected exchange rates.
Sources and Applications of Funds
7.        Government Subsidies.  Government subsidies are assumed to be
provided when internal funds and foreign loans are insufficient to cover
expenditures.
8.        Loan Disbursement.  Drawdowns on loans represent projected
availability of foreign loans from IBRD, SFD and ADB, based on the investment
plan and financing plan thereon formulated by KMPA.
9.        Capital Investments.  Capital investment consist of foreign and
locally funded port development projects. Projected investment outlays are
based on KMPA's investment plans and programs.
10.       Debt Service.  Comprised of interest charges and repayment of loan
principal, debt servicing over the projection period is derived from loan
repayment schedules prepared by KMPA.
Balance Sheet
11.       Working Capital.  Working capital levels are estimated as follows:
(a) Accounts receivable. Yearly increases are based on the growth rates
of gross operating revenue.
(b) Stores. Based on the Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1984, stores
are projected to increase as same rate as increase of investment
amount.
(c) Other Current Assets. Other current assets are made up mainly of
prepaid insurance on fixed assets. Annual increase is assumed to be
same as the increase of net fixed assets.
(d) Current Loan Maturities. The computation of this account is based
on repayment schedules for foreign loans.



-  106 -                      Table 6.5
Page 3
(e) Other Current Liabilities. This is composed mainly of accrued
interest. This is computed on the basis of interest and amortiza-
tion schedules.
12.       Fixed Assets.  Investments in fixed assets are based on KMPA's
investment plans and programs.
13.       Other Assets.  This is composed mainly of advance deposits (key
money) on leased properties and are -projected to increase by the inflation
rate.
14.       Long-Term Debt.  This account represents year-end balances of loans
in accordance with foreign Loan agreements.
15.       Equity Equivalent.  This category consists of Capital, Revaluation
Surplus and Retained Earnings.
(a) Capital. This is composed of government subsidies and contribu-
tions.
(b) Revaluation Surplus. For the projection purpose the fixed assets
are revalued by inflation rate during the projection period.



KOREA
KOREA MARITIKE AND PORT AUTHORITY (KI4PA): ORGANIZATION
A*; inistrator
Deputy
Atialstraeor
, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ --     -       - -  - - - - - __  - -- - __._,  -_  - - - - - - -_  -         
omas                                                                        ft~~i  av~r  bfgg poan~
*              l
.                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~* F _O  %
W"  Ad"WWII                                                                                   m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o Aabw
Om m                                       m  {   E   E                                                                                of 
Ib9
Fbcft                                                                                 m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~agADo~
^*W
Se~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~       ~       ~        ~ A
Pt
Sot"e KWA                                                                                                                                         I



KOREA
PUSAN PORT PROJECT
District Maritime and Port Authority
Organization Chart
Korea Mrniltie and
Port Ar1nwt,straCliw'
I~~~~~~~
Pusan District    |
Maritime and
Port Authority
Pusan Container                                                         Pusan Port
Termlnal Operating                                                   Construction Office
Companv
Oe1mrw            eIr,vrI'    Ir  II                ..1                    1            :.1,       :1    
Affairs   Alfdars   Allaigrs  Mjrlitytwig  (4l,  loi.l  Ack ( .aitl                             I
DIV       Div       ('tv      DIV       Dv        (),v      I bv      PI\V       DIV      Otv       lV



KOREA
PUSAN PORI PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
-1985 -- ---- t1986 --- -- - 1987 ---------- 1988 ---- ----1989----- ---1990- - -
3rd  4th 1st 2nd 3rd  4th 1st  2nd 3rd  4th lst  2nd 3rd  4th 1st  2nd 3rd  4th let 2nd 3rd  4th
1. Project No.1 (south break water)                         - _ _   _****:
2. Project No.2 (quey wall)                                               - - -------
3. Project No.3 (access road and rail)             :                 :        s            I*****************I*************************a
4. Project No.4 (north break water)                   I         __ -                                                                                        t
5. Equipment for projeot No.1 (container crane 6)           s 
6. Equipment for project No.2 (container crane 20)   3          s
7. Equipment for project No.3 (yard tractor 34)  :              a t
8. Equipment for project No.4 (yard chassis 100       s         I        I        a        I         a         ---…--
and forklifts)                                                        I :                         a S                        S        :
Notes i.  ----         Preperation of bidding.
****F*4*  Conatruotion.
Sources KMPA and Bank staff.
Feb. 1985



IBRD 1953d
\t ,U.S.S.R.                                                               1                                                          1
CHINA                 -   DEM. PEOPLE'S
CHINA                      _.REP. OF KOREA                                                     2
ZDEM PEOPLES                                                                                             S Kch5
U ,       P. OF KOREA
JAPAN
r. ~e . -,,__                   3                        o f;J   -S1<
v-- 7b-q-m
cww  cw. 
_        _,  - -      - -~e  -_ _    t .0  
u. Th t8* 6> --i\ Ol9R  
36'
M1IPO _ 4W c0) 
REPUBUC OF KOREA
TRANSPORT NETWORK
4-Lane ExpressWa (Toll)        -'   Dual Track Railw1ays            3e-
3'.                                                   - ...  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2-bit EVpresway (Toll)  &-Sngle Trock Railway
-   Primary Roaods                 --.-Dual Track Rlailways (EWrecrfied)
W---  Single Track Railways (Electried)
so8
I                                           t      Airparts
ecLEs                         ac.                                                  --         Pormt
Special Cities
--  -L xprntem-ional Bouldaries
FEBRUARY 1986



PROPOSEDPROJFCT'                             \ jj ,Xr~~~~~~ccf.<kC4                           *                                                                       REPUBLIC OF KOREA
-.--ROADS                                                                                                                                          lP S N P R                                      R JC
BUILDINGS                                                                                                                                                             PUAIO T                   R JC
::::PAVED AREAS                                                                                                        -.' '.   '9I:--,rPROPVSED FRO iECT
.§ . ~~~~~~FILLEDAREAS                                                                                                          -                                                                                           (X  o.-.  ri-   /n. 5|S OsAtR JStA htS'RUCTiON
t \,             0      ~~~~~~DIKES                                                                                                                                                                      RAI ROA  z         v2l    ,nD'DS  a
V:\0                 1D      0       0     400    500                '      sM .-i"  '.                                                S    ..\'PREVtIOUS PROJECT  C ANS 9'1 SO  .D '401 KiO)
; ; 4 < D ~~~~~~~ . s MrR:x :Z50 tERS [~~~~~~~~~~c
\i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m METE..................'' .RS ......  }
FulUE2R5/g---+0/4;3"0X'>;'--<ialj;Sa,l' <;Gt LONC /1 ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~GE                                                                             ER 6L  AR O   PER
/zv  D 0 0  0crg  : 4"4gA)Cr 4t< /iXx,g DREDGD ARE
!>S X -r-65--;-   I a                      S  ' I  X                            2:                                  as;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jT)R
'8-X7=--~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                                                       I                                                  ...                    - -                              - IOR tMT
~~~~~~w    ~          FUUR    WORKSE   OK                                                                                      K                                           °E       ,/,t  /SA
_ _   \   ;                     -   c_zi/           /                   o                   /                 °      }_s.   ?      3      4       5 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~__,/          /.-H-t  ., ,,,~~~~~TUNC
l  _^-d   i                                                __                                                                                         KlL09ETEtS                                                         . .          I~~~~~~~~~~~~. 
-7: ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~DCME  l9S ,   j



