Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16514
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF KENYA
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1904-KE)
April 23, 1997
Africa Technical Human Development I
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kenya Shillings
At the time of appraisal: US$1 = Ksh. 16.66
At the time of project completion mission: US$1 = Ksh. 56.95
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AIDS                Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome
DCA                 Development Credit Agreement
DFH                 Division of Family Health
DHS                 Demographic and Health Survey
DO                  Development Objective
DPO                 District Population Officer
FP                  Family Planning
FY                  Fiscal Year
GOK                 Government of Kenya
HIV                 Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HQ                  Headquarters
ICR                 Implementation Completion Report
IDA                 International Development Association
IEC                 Information, Education, and Communication
MIS                 Management Information System
MOH                 Ministry of Health
MOPW                Ministry of Public Works
MTR                 Mid-Term Review
NCPD                National Council for Population and Development
NGO                 Non-Governmental Organization
NORAD               Norwegian Development Agency
ODA                 Overseas Development Administration
SAR                 Staff Appraisal Report
SDR                 Special Drawing Rights
STI                 Sexually Transmitted Infections
TFR                 Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA               United Nations Population Fund
USAID               United States Agency for International Development
VSCU                Voluntary Surgical Contraceptive Units
Vice President:     Callisto Madavo
Country Director:    Harold Wackman
Technical Manager:  Ruth Kagia
Task Team Leader:   Kaori Miyamoto



Implementation Completion Report FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Kenya
Third Population Project (Cr. 1904-KE)
Table of Contents
Preface
Evaluation Summary ..............................................i
Part 1: Implementation Assessment
Introduction .................................................1
Project Objectives .................................................1
Achievement of Objectives .................................................2
Implementation Experience and Results .................................................4
Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................................                                 10
Bank Performance ................................................                                                     10
Borrower Performance ................................................                                                 11
Assessment of Outcome ................................................                                                11
Sustainability ................................................ .                                                    12
Future Operations ................................................                                                    12
Key Lessons Learned ................................................                                                 13
Part II: Statistical Annexes
Table 1: Summary of Assessments ................................................                                     15
Table 2: Related Bank Credits ................................................                                       16
Table 3: Project Timetable ................................................                                          17
Table 4a: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated &  Actual .................................... 17
Table 4b: Annual Disbursement of Population II, III and IV ............................................. 17
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation/Operation ........................................ 18
Table 6: Studies Included in Project ................................................                                19
Table 7a: Project Financing ................................................                                         19
Table 7b: Planned and Actual Allocation ................................................                             19
Table 7c: Project Costs Based on NCPD, MOH  and ODA  Data ....................................... 20
Table 7d: Schedule 1 Before MTR and After Amendment
For Population III and IV ................................................                             22
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits ................................................                                22
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants ................................................                                  23
Table 10: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .............................................. 26
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs ................................................                             26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfomiance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



Appendices
A. Final Aide-Memoire
B. Borrower's Evaluation
C. Borrower Comments to the ICR
D. Map IBRD No. 26150



Implementation Completion Report
Kenya
Third Population Project
(Cr. 1904-KE)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Kenya Third Population
Project (Population III, Credit 1904-KE). The project, with a credit amount of Special
Drawing Rights (SDR) 9 million ($12.9 million equivalent at the exchange rate of March
1997), was approved on May 10, 1988, and became effective on January 31, 1989. The
project implementation was completed on June 30, 1996, according to the original schedule.
The Borrower's final refund of unused balance in the Special Account took place on
December 2, 1996, at which time a balance of SDR 135,324 ($194,217) was canceled. SDR
78,580 ($112,778) was previously canceled due to misprocurement. Cofinancing of the
project was provided by the Overseas Development Administration (ODA).
2.    The ICR was jointly prepared by Kaori Miyamoto (Task Team Leader, Human
Development I, Eastern & Southern Africa --AFTH 1), Wacuka Ikua (Operations Officer,
Regional Mission in Nairobi --AFMKE), Tom Merrick (Population Advisor, Human
Development Department), Pat Walker (consultant architect), and Vanessa Saldanha
(AFTHI). It was reviewed by Ruth Kagia (Technical Manager, AFTH1), and Harold
Wackman (Country Manager for Kenya and Djibouti, AFMKE). Borrower's evaluation is
attached as Appendix B and their response to the draft ICR is attached as Appendix C.
3.    The ICR mission took place from July 31 to August 20, 1996. The mission also
coincided with two other project related teams: ODA's evaluation group which assessed the
non-governmental organization (NGO) component of Population III and SGS (Societe
Generale de Surveillance), a private inspection firm appointed by the Bank to audit the
procurements of Population III and IV and the Health Rehabilitation Project.






Implementation Completion Report
Kenya
Third Population Project
(Cr. 1904-KE)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.   Introduction: Population III was developed as a continuation of two preceding
population projects financed by the International Development Association (IDA).
Population I (Cr. 468-KE), which started in 1974 with a credit amount of $12 million,
created the physical and institutional base to provide family planning (FP) services in Kenya.
Population II (Cr. 1238-KE), began in 1983 with a credit amount of $23 million, had the
objectives to create demand for and access to FP services in rural areas and to continue
reduction in morbidity and mortality. Population III, approved by the Board in May 1988,
was developed in close collaboration with the Government of Kenya (GOK) and other
donors to focus on increasing FP services throughout the health sector. The various activities
of this project were to be undertaken mainly by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the
National Council for Population and Development (NCPD).
2.    The Project Objectives of Population III were to: (a) strengthen the capacity of
NCPD to plan, program, finance, coordinate and monitor population program activities; (b)
create acceptance of, and demand for FP services through Information, Education and
Communication (IEC); and (c) increase the availability, accessibility, and quality of FP
services. The objectives of the project were appropriate for the needs of the sector and
country at that time. The project was restructured in 1993, but no changes were made in the
objectives or components.
3.    The contribution of Population III to the entire Kenyan FP program cannot be
measured only by the success or failure of its individual components. The project was highly
successful in facilitating the developments in the population policy area - a genuine
achievement, especially in the African context. The new Population Policy outlines a multi-
sectoral approach to population and recognizes that the roles of education, health, and legal
reform must be explicitly articulated. The Division of Family Health of MOH has also
issued an implementation plan for its Reproductive Health Strategy, which will progressively
integrate FP, Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) programs, and safe motherhood
activities. The project also maintained the support and interest of other donors in the FP
field, and acted as a catalyst for their funding. Population III was part of a continuous
learning process, and issues that arose in the project subsequently benefited other related
projects in the Kenyan health sector.
4.    As for specific Achievement of Objectives, the results, on the whole, were rather
mixed. For objective (a), much of the investment in training of NCPD staff has been lost
through staff attrition, and too many tasks were undertaken by the agency. For (b), although
FP education has been a factor in changing reproductive attitudes and behaviors, NCPD's
limited programmatic and management capacity has delayed production and distribution of
IEC materials. For (c), support for NGOs has been hampered by GOK funding delays;
procurement of contraceptives has also been delayed; and only five out of 14 Voluntary
Surgical Contraceptive Units (VSCUs) proposed for construction were fully completed and



Evaluation Summary                                                              ii
operational. On the other hand, the involvement of NGOs in the FP effort is clearly strong,
MOH is moving quickly to procure FP commodities after selecting a procurement agent, and
a highly effective logistics management system is in place that guarantees the distribution of
commodities down to the district level.
5.    Implementation Experience and Results show that the amount disbursed from the
credit totaled $12.6 million (Bank data), which was 97% of the original principal. This
amount equaled 59% of the total project cost of $21.5 million, with ODA's $7.8 million
comprising 36% and GOK's $1.1 million contributing 5%.
6.    Civil works in this project has been unsuccessful, with only five out of 14 VSCUs
completed. The Bank was unaware that these civil works contracts had stopped and that
buildings were left unfinished due to MOH's inadequate progress reporting and IDA's
infrequent site visits during supervision. It is now expected that an additional $1.5 million is
required from Population IV funds to complete all remaining VSCUs before June 1998.
7.    Major Factors Affecting the Project under MOH and NCPD's control included: (a)
poor procurement planning; (b) slow and flawed procurement procedures under IDA
guidelines; (c) unfamiliarity in the use of the Special Account at early stages of
implementation; and (d) difficulties in coordinating financial statements and audits from
NGOs. Other factors include: GOK liquidity problems resulting in slow release of funds
from Treasury, lack of ministerial counterpart funds, and Treasury limits on the release of
loan funds in the last year of the project.
8.    The ICR team's assessment of Bank Performance was Satisfactory at identification
and project preparation since it developed a project consistent with the sector strategy. It
was Deficient at the time of appraisal through project restructuring by failing to fully address
the problems in MOH's administrative capacity, failing to address on-going defects in
implementation, insufficiently emphasizing the need for careful planning of the STI/HIV
drug procurement, and not documenting the single-source selection of a research on AIDS
care. It was Partially Satisfactory in the last year of the project since the Bank closely
monitored and followed-up on outstanding issues. Borrower Performance was Satisfactory
during preparation by being consistent with GOK policies at that time and Deficient up to
Mid-Term Review (MTR) since major institutional weaknesses constrained progress in
activities. It was Partially Satisfactory after MTR until closing as there was substantial
progress in implementation. The overall Assessment of Outcome for this project is rated as
Unsatisfactory.
9.    In terms of Sustainability, the future role of NCPD will depend on GOK's
implementation of the Population Policy which calls for the agency to narrow its focus to
policy development, advocacy and oversight of population related activities. As for MOH,
the success of the Reproductive Health Strategy will depend on whether the Ministry can
strengthen its capacity in procurement, logistics, staffing, and financial management.
10.   Recommendations for Future Operations include a financing mechanism to bridge
possible funding gaps in contraceptives and to develop capacity for the effective delivery of
FP and other reproductive health services under the Health Sector Reform Project after
Population IV closes. Given poor performance with civil works, IDA should not support
additional construction in the health sector except for upgrading or repairs, unless alternative



Evaluation Summary                                                             iii
implementation arrangements for construction can be established, such as contracting out the
supervisory function currently assumed by the Ministry of Public Works. IDA also needs
evidence that there is real refocusing of NCPD's mandate before further funding to the
agency can be considered.
11.   Key Lessons Learned include the following:
=> It is better to restructure a project instead of developing a new one with similar
objectives.
> When Borrower's procurement capacity is deficient, the use of an outside procurement
agent should be considered at an early stage.
=> Future operations should focus on ensuring clear and effective implementation and
management arrangements, particularly in financial accountability.
= Unless a better implementation arrangement for construction can be established, civil
works should be kept to a minimum in future operations, focusing primarily on
rehabilitation or upgrading.
=> The need for adequate supervision, including field visits by both the Bank and the
Borrower, cannot be over-emphasized.
=> In future operations where NGOs will be used, GOK needs to improve NGO
coordination, and NGOs need to strengthen their financial accountability.
T Training programs should be better prioritized and staff be sent only on training in areas
of identified needs and where there is a clear prospect that the training will help the
project or the sector. Future projects should require counterpart funding for this
component to ensure rational use of training funds.



I



PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
INTRODUCTION
1.    Kenya has shown dramatic improvements in fertility related indicators in the last two
decades, with population growth rates dropping from 3.6% to 2.8% per year. Total Fertility
Rate (TFR) has decreased from 8.0 to 5.4, and the Contraceptive Prevalence Rate has
increased from 7% to 33%. Such changes may be attributed to increased availability of
contraceptives and to socio-economic factors such as the escalation of school fees and
improvement in women's educational attainment. To what degree the Kenyan population
program played a role is currently under discussion.
2.    Population III was developed as a continuation of two preceding population projects
financed by the International Development Association (IDA). Population I (Cr. 468-KE),
which started in 1974 and closed in 1979 with a credit amount of $12 million, created the
physical and institutional base to provide family planning (FP) services in Kenya.
Population II (Cr. 1238-KE) began in 1983 and closed in 1990 with a credit amount of $23
million. Its objectives were to create demand for and access to FP services in the rural areas
and continue reduction in morbidity and mortality. However, by 1984, it was apparent that
the objectives were not being fully achieved and that Kenya was failing to meet the fertility
targets. To remedy this, IDA and the Government of Kenya (GOK) reviewed the factors
contributing to the ineffectiveness of the population program and agreed to start a new
project to support activities which would have a greater impact on fertility in the areas of
prevailing demand.
3.    Population III, approved by the Board in May 1988, was developed in close
collaboration with GOK, IDA, the Overseas Development Administration (ODA), United
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) and the Norwegian Development Agency (NORAD) to
focus on increasing FP services throughout the health sector. The various activities of this
project were to be undertaken mainly by the Ministry of Health (MOH) and the National
Council for Population and Development (NCPD).
4.    The Task Manager for the project's preparation and supervision up to September
1995 was Vulimiri Jagdish, up to March 1996 was Beatrice Helbling, and up to closing
was Kaori Miyamoto. The Division Chief during the project's preparation stage up to
September 1988 was Francis Lethem, during supervision up to March 1992 was Dennis
Mahar, and up to June 1996 was Jacob van Lutsenburg Maas. The Director of the region
up to December 1991 was Callisto Madavo, up to January 1995 was Francis Colaco, and
up to June 1996 was James Adams.
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
5.    The objectives of Population III were to:
(a) strengthen the capacity of NCPD to plan, program, finance, coordinate and monitor
population program activities;



Part I Implementation Assessment                                              2
(b)  create acceptance of and demand for FP services through the implementation of a
strategically planned and coordinated Information, Education and Communication
(IEC) program; and
(c)  increase the availability, accessibility, and quality of FP services provided by the
Government and NGOs.
6.    To achieve these objectives the project was to implement the following activities:
(a)  improve NCPD's effectiveness by (i) developing a management information
system (MIS) for FP databases; (ii) establishing district computer facilities; (iii)
enhancing the research and evaluation component and staff training activities; (iv)
constructing 14 District Population Officer's (DPO's) offices; and (v) constructing
the national headquarters (HQ);
(b) strengthen the demand for FP by: (i) expanding IEC services of four government
ministries and departments and six NGOs; and (ii) producing IEC materials for
NCPD; and
(c)  expand the supply of FP services by: (i) establishing 14 MOH facilities for
voluntary surgical contraceptive units (VSCUs); (ii) expanding urban FP programs
through the upgrading of clinics; (iii) expanding service delivery points through the
upgrading of 140 clinics and dispensaries; (iv) establishing community-based
distribution programs; (v) establishing training facilities; (vi) constructing,
rehabilitating, and upgrading clinics, dispensaries, and staff houses for two NGOs;
and (vii) providing training support for four NGOs.
7.    The objectives of the project were appropriate for the situation and needs of the
sector and country at that time. The project was restructured after the Mid-Term Review
(MTR) in 1993 mainly to remedy poor performance in disbursement, but also to address the,
emerging crisis of the Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). However, no
changes were made in the project's objectives or components.
ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
8.    Overall Objectives: During the first four years of project effectiveness, the pace of
fertility decline accelerated and demand for smaller families increased. However, the
changes were already underway before the project had made significant disbursements. In
fact, they may well have been the result of earlier investments in FP service delivery and
education. Since 1993, fertility decline appears to have continued, and the demand for
smaller families has probably grown --though definitive measurements will have to wait for
the 1998 Demographic and Health Survey (DHS). Therefore, even if there had been a clear
logical framework linking Population III inputs to the overall objective of reducing Kenya's
fertility, one cannot necessarily attribute this to the project.
9.    The project's contribution needs to be assessed by its indirect impact on the program
as a whole and not just on the success or failure of its individual components. Population III
was highly successful in facilitating the development of the Population Policy by
underpinning the policy dialogue and helping to ensure that reproductive health issues were
at the top of the political agenda. Furthermore, Population III maintained the support and
interest of other bilateral and multilateral donors in the FP field and acted as a catalyst for



Part I Implementation Assessment                                                 3
their funding. ODA states that participation with other donors in Population III offered them
an opportunity to increase their own contribution to the population sector and that related
projects in the health sector should benefit from the lessons learned.
10.   The Population Policy developed during Population III has been a notable
achievement, especially in the African context, as many Sub-Saharan African countries are
still unconvinced about the need for a population policy. For the first time in Kenya, this
policy outlines a multi-sectoral approach to population, recognizing that the roles of
education, health and legal reform must be explicitly articulated to make the environment
more conducive to smaller families. The policy also recognizes that successful
implementation depends mainly on the effectiveness of the institutional framework; it
clarifies the mandate of NCPD as a policy-making body and recommends that it be given an
autonomous status. NCPD's new status should empower it to respond rapidly and flexibly to
program needs. Reproductive health issues also feature prominently in the Health Policy
Framework Paper that was recently approved by Cabinet. Furthermore, as part of a health
sector reform initiative, the Division of Family Health (DFH) of MOH has issued an
implementation plan for its Reproductive Health Strategy. This new strategy will
progressively integrate FP, Sexually Transmitted Infections (STI) programs, and safe
motherhood activities, which is in line with current global thinking on service delivery and
consistent with Kenya's current level of epidemiological and demographic development.
The fact that Kenya is capable of adapting its approach in service delivery to changing
conditions can be considered a positive institutional outcome of the investments by IDA and
other donors.
11.   The population program in Kenya has been a continuous learning process. Although
individual components of Population III may not have been necessarily successful, the
lessons learned benefited other related projects in the Kenyan health sector. For example, in
the STI Project, Letters of Credit are now issued by GOK to suppliers for IDA procurement
in order to minimize delays in payment; the districts are now allowed to open a Paymaster
Generals Account to facilitate speedier disbursement; a procurement agent will handle all
large IDA procurements in the health sector; and guidelines for NGO selection and a
standard Memorandum of Understanding between GOK and NGOs have been developed to
facilitate better collaboration. These are all direct outcomes of various trials and errors
experienced in Population III.
12.   Specific Objectives: Achievements in the three specific areas of project objectives
were, on the whole, rather mixed. Nevertheless, there are some positive results in the
support for service delivery, and the overall significance of IDA support towards this sector
should not be ignored.
13.   Strengthened Capacity of NCPD: The original plan was to support NCPD's
facilities, staff training, and development of monitoring capacity. After the MTR, IDA
scrapped plans to build an NCPD HQ and district offices. Much of the investment in training
has been lost through staff attrition, (though many individuals trained are involved in
population activities in other institutions), and the service delivery monitoring system has
been transferred to the DFH. Over the life of the project, NCPD's effectiveness has been
undermined by several changes in the Director's position and its low profile relative to the
mainstream of national development policy - though its recent relocation from the Ministry
of Culture and National Heritage to the Office of the Vice President and Ministry of



Part I Implementation Assessment                                             4
Planning and National Development has improved its potential impact, partially due to
increased budgetary allocation. Furthermore, taking on too many tasks as part of their
mandate has also hurt NCPD, particularly in the coordination of NGO activities. However,
new thinking in the Population Policy, which is to be ratified shortly, calls for NCPD to
focus on cross-cutting links between population and other development agenda. It is hoped
that a leaner and more effective NCPD will emerge from the current reassessment process.
14.   Increased Acceptance of and Demandfor FP Through IEC: Demand for FP has
increased. FP education, particularly when combined with service delivery at the
community level, has been a factor in changing reproductive attitudes and behavior. Multi-
sectoral and other outreach activities have also contributed to maintaining a favorable policy
climate for FP in Kenya. NCPD has, with UNFPA support, recently developed an advocacy
strategy incorporating the broader approach to the new Population Policy. However, the
MTR of the project noted the poor quality of IEC work and called for greater emphasis on
information to support service delivery and reduce unmet need for FP. NCPD's limited
programmatic and management capacity was also a factor in delayed disbursement of IDA
funds for production and distribution of IEC materials.
15.   Increased Availability, Accessibility and Quality of Services: Although this project
placed less emphasis on the creation of service delivery capacity than the previous projects,
support to NGOs has been hampered by GOK funding delays, MOH's failure to procure
contraceptives and supplies using IDA funds caused other donors to reprogram resources in
order to make up for the shortages created, and only five of the proposed 14 VSCUs were
fully operational. Therefore, while there is evidence of increased availability of services,
whether one can attribute these gains to IDA investments is yet to be determined. A study
would also be needed to measure the extent of quality improvement and actual availability of
contraceptive choices.
16.   The involvement of NGOs in the national effort of FP is strong, despite the difficulties
in funding them, and working relationships between GOK, NGOs, and donors have continued
to progress. There are also positive signs on the procurement front: MOH has selected an
international procurement agent and is moving quickly to complete long-delayed
procurements of condoms and other contraceptive supplies using funds from Population IV.
A cutting-edge logistics management system, funded by USAID under parallel financing of
Population IV for the delivery of contraceptives, is also up and running at MOH. Thus, once
FP commodities are procured, their efficient distribution to the district level should be
guaranteed.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
17.   Financing Arrangements and Actual Costs: Total project cost at the time of the
Staff Appraisal Report (SAR)'s write-up in 1988 was $28.3 million, with IDA to finance
approximately $12.2 million (43%), ODA $8.4 million (30%), NORAD $5.0 million (18%),
and GOK $2.7 million (10%). However, due to severance of diplomatic relations between
GOK and the Norwegian Government, NORAD withdrew before any funds were disbursed.
ODA funded the NGO component through parallel financing. After project closing, the
principal value of the credit increased to approximately $12.9 million due to the fluctuation
of the SDR against the U.S. dollar. An amount of about $0.1 million was canceled for



Part I Implementation Assessment                                             5
misprocurement in 1995, and $0.2 million was canceled at closing. The IDA funds disbursed
amounted to about $12.6 million or 97%. As shown in Table 7A, the overall project cost
calculated after closing amounted to approximately $21.5 million, with IDA financing
approximately 59%, ODA contributing 36%, and GOK's contribution representing 5%,
which was only half of the counterpart funding requirement. This brings into question
GOK's commitment towards the project.
18.   Table 7B shows the planned and actual allocations of the Credit. Since these
categories are consolidated, the breakdown is unclear as to, for example, how much was
actually spent on training, NGO activities, STI/Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
drugs, civil works for MOH, and civil works for establishing the NCPD rented office. Table
7C is based on the financial data forwarded by NCPD, MOH, and the ODA evaluation team.
In the process, the team discovered that NCPD and MOH had inadvertently included in the
data many of the charges that were actually made under Population II or IV. This
demonstrated, firstly, the difficulty in maintaining separate accounts for similar projects that
are on-going concurrently, and secondly, that NCPD and MOH's capability in financial
management was weak. Therefore, Table 7C is only a best estimate, and the figures may
differ from the actual ones. The SAR provided for a total project cost of approximately
$28.3 million, but due to NORAD's withdrawal, this was reduced to approximately $23.4
million. The actual total project cost was about $22.0 million, thus fulfilling 94% of the
plan. Of the IDA credit, 19% was disbursed to NCPD activities and 81% to MOH activities.
Within NCPD activities, approximately 50% of the allocation was spent on institution
building (staff training and furniture procurement and partitioning for their rented HQ), and
the rest on FP programs implemented by NGOs and other government ministries and
departments. The restructuring utilized over 43% of the funds to: (a) STI/HIV drugs; and
(b) an AIDS care joint-research by two universities.
19.   Project Design and Restructuring: The project design included very little
financing of contraceptive supplies: there is minimal reference in the SAR to projected
contraceptive requirements or on the expected contribution of supplies by donors outside the
project. At Appraisal, it was assumed that demand for contraceptives in Kenya was not high
enough to require financing of supplies under Population III; this assumption was based on
surveys and studies, but was also a reaction to major over-estimations of demand under
Population I and II. After project effectiveness, however, the 1989 DHS revealed that
contraceptive demand was higher than expected. Instead of restructuring Population III,
Population IV - with a credit of $35 million - was immediately designed to finance the gaps
in the contraceptive supplies. The concurrent implementation of the two projects with
similar objectives resulted not only in additional paperwork for both the Borrower and the
Bank, but also projected an annual disbursement rate that was beyond the financial and
administrative capacity of the Borrower.
20.   The restructuring was the result of the emerging AIDS crisis and the urgent need for
STI/HIV drugs and supplies. Agreement was reached during the MTR mission to reallocate
$12 to $15 million from civil works to activities in STI/HIV and IEC related to AIDS within
Population III and IV. While this may have been justified in light of conditions at the time,
there is no evidence to suggest that an evaluation of MOH's capacity to handle large
procurements of drugs was conducted. There was inadequate review of the actual selection
of drugs to be ordered and also no planning as to how these drug consignments were to be



Part I Implementation Assessment                                                6
distributed. In addition, the selection of ajoint-research activity by two universities on AIDS
care was carried out on a single-source basis with only minimal explanatory documentation.
21.   The restructuring was carried out by amending Schedule 1 (Allocation to Categories)
but not Schedule 2 (Description of the Project) of the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA). The underlying rationale was to minimize the possible time loss in addressing the
AIDS crisis necessitated by changing Schedule 2. Based on the notion that STI/HIV infected
mothers could transmit to their children and increase child mortality, potentially resulting in
higher fertility as women seek to replace children who have died, activities related to the
treatment, prevention, and research on STI/HIV were considered justifiable components of
the population projects and did not require the amendment of Schedule 2.
22.   Population III, in any case, was not supposed to be affected significantly by the
restructuring since the shift was only in the reduction of Civil Works and increase in NCPD
Office Rental, as shown in Table 7D. The plan called for Population IV to have a
reallocation of approximately SDR 5.45 million ($8.2 million) from Civil Works to
Materials; however, the actual payments for the drugs were made mostly from Population
III. This was considered justifiable by both GOK and IDA since the projects had similar
objectives and utilization of the Population III credit that was closing first made sense. Thus,
approximately $4.5 million was spent on STI/HIV drugs that was not in the plan for
Population III restructuring. In addition, about $1 million out of a $5 million budget was
also disbursed from Population III to two universities for their joint-research prior to being
subjected to the Bank's normal review process.' The technical value of this research is yet to
be substantiated. In sum, the restructuring may have enabled GOK to utilize Population III
funds almost completely, but the extent to which 43% of the funds disbursed actually
contributed to meeting the objectives of the project is debatable.
23.   Project Timetable: The identification mission took place in September 1985 while
Population II was still being implemented. Population III was approved by the Board in May
1988 and became effective in January 1989. In the meantime, Population II continued until
December 1990, and Population IV became effective in September 1990. Consequently,
Population III overlapped with other population projects at all times. The MTR, originally
stipulated in the DCA to take place before December 1990, was delayed until August 1993
and covered both Population III and IV. The duration of Population III was designed for
seven and a half years, and the project implementation was completed on June 30, 1996,
according to the original closing date.
24.   Bank Resources and Supervision: According to the Bank's MIS data,
approximately $651,000 from the Bank's administrative budget was spent for Population III
from FY83 to the finalization of the ICR, as shown in Table 11. The records show that a
total of 355 staff weeks were spent on various tasks of the project: 205 staff weeks to Board
approval and 105 staff weeks on supervision, which included 38 staff weeks on mission.
Resources spent on supervision totaled about $202,000, less than one third of the total
administrative budget spent on the project. The adequacy of this amount cannot be assessed
A detailed proposal was submitted and approved by the Bank only after this initial amount had been
disbursed. The financial expenditure of $1 million is still under review, and the balance of over $4
million is now scheduled to be financed out of Population IV after a full audit.



Part I Implementation Assessment                                               7
without further analysis. Fourteen supervision missions were carried out, generally twice a
year, except for a 13 month gap from February 1992. The ICR team established that
insufficient site visits were carried out: the Bank was unaware or had not documented that
several civil works contracts had stopped, leaving buildings half-completed and idle for three
or more years.
25.   Covenant Compliance: As shown in Table 9, the record of covenant compliance
was generally Deficient. Of the 19 agreements stipulated in the DCA, only four were rated
as Complied, two Partially Complied, eight Complied After Delay, and five Not Complied.
Two that were rated as Complied were conditions of credit effectiveness, and those that were
Not Complied related to timely submissions of audits, quarterly activity reports, annual work
plans and budgets, and holding regular meetings between NCPD and MOH.
26.   Submission of Audits: No audit report was submitted on time during the entire
project life; until the MTR, both NCPD and MOH submitted the Project Account audit
reports on average two years after the due date. The Bank withheld replenishment of the
Special Account (controlled by Treasury) in December 1994 until the overdue audit reports
were received in April 1995. During the MTR, NCPD claimed that six months was
insufficient for them to receive and verify the financial statements of NGOs and have them
audited. Therefore, the credit was amended to require GOK to submit all audit reports
within nine months instead of six after the end of each fiscal year. Subsequently, delays in
the submission of audit reports reduced substantially, with NCPD's nine months late and
MOH's six months late. On average, the audit reports for the Special Account were six
months overdue. The quality of the audit reports was not commendable. Of 14 audit reports
submitted by GOK, eight were qualified, with qualifications relating to missing
documentation in accounts submitted by NGOs to NCPD and districts to MOH.
27.   Disbursements: The disbursement pattern of the project was unusual. After
effectiveness in January 1989, no disbursement was made for one and a half years until the
initial deposit of $1 million was made to the new Special Account. One of the reasons for
the non-disbursement was that funds were still being utilized from Population II which
overlapped with Population III by two years (see Table 4B). However, even after Population
II's closure, disbursement remained slow, resulting in a disbursement lag of over 50% by
FY93. This was partially due to GOK's unfamiliarity with using the Special Account, and
also to the utilization of funds from Population IV, which became effective in September
1990. The main reason for the low disbursement during the entire project period was the
inability on MOH and NCPD to carry out procurement processes adequately.
28.   While it may be more appropriate to treat Population III and IV as one project,
disbursements combined for both projects in FY93 was as low as $1.3 million. Even after
the restructuring, procurement problems maintained 40% disbursement lag for Population III
until the last four months of the project, when $4.5 million was disbursed mainly to pay
suppliers for the STI/HIV drugs. In other words, of the $12.6 million credit spent for
Population III, approximately 36% was disbursed in the last four months of the credit period
with the rest disbursing on an average of $1.1 million per year.
29.   Procurement: Throughout the project cycle, the procurement process experienced
extensive delays and substantial cost increases. Despite responsible officers attending
procurement seminars and specialized training, the processing of documentation, evaluation



Part I Implementation Assessment                                             8
procedures, requests for IDA "no-objection" and final payment to suppliers took too long.
Delays affected civil works, technical assistance contracts, and procurement of drugs,
condoms and laptop computers. Suppliers continuously sent letters to the Bank asking for
assistance on overdue payments. There was a lack of procurement planning, coordination,
and follow-up within MOH, and a more streamlined system with better checks and balances
was needed. In particular, procurement of contraceptives and STI drugs required a higher
degree of technical expertise and closer attention to process.
30.   A misprocurement in 1995 involved an attempted contract award to the second
lowest bidder for the supply of a drug. After receiving complaints from the lowest bidder,
IDA sent a team to investigate and confirmed that the procurement of this particular item
was not in compliance with IDA guidelines. As a result, an amount of $112,778 was
canceled from the credit. Due to this incident and other procurement problems, IDA made it
a condition for MOH to appoint a procurement agent to handle procurements under the new
STI Project. Subsequently, MOH and IDA decided that the agent should also handle
procurements under Population III and IV. However, this process was delayed, with a
procurement agent being competitively selected by MOH only after the closing of Population
III.
31.   The procurement of approximately $4.5 million of STI/HIV drugs from Population
III under the restructuring was another example of unacceptable procurement practices. The
original drug list cleared by IDA included: supplies that had little to do with STI/HIV, such
as dental cartridges; bandages procured from South Africa that were more expensive than
those available locally; and expensive patented antibiotics for limited usage when cheaper
generic types would have been adequate. Most drugs remained uncleared at Mombasa Port
and the NaiTobi Airport, in some cases for a year, resulting in huge amounts of demurrage
charges and risking expiration. Drug suppliers were not paid for months due to
complications at port entry, quality testing, low GOK budgetary allocation, and so on, which
induced pressure on IDA to inform MOH of overdue payments. This continued until project
closing became imminent. Until recently, MOH could neither confirm that all drugs had
arrived at the Central Medical Store nor provide an inventory, and thefts were reported to the
police for only some of the stolen drugs. Mechanisms for the distribution of the
commodities and the appointment of responsible officers to take charge of the drugs were not
agreed upon at the time of restructuring. These critical issues remained unresolved until
after the project closed.
32.   Civil Works: The project originally included several civil works components;
however, the MTR concluded that the construction of a new HQ building for NCPD and the
14 DPO offices were unnecessary. Although civil works contracts for 14 VSCUs (carried
over from Population II) were signed, only five became operational. The excessive delays in
these contracts were due to lack of funds from GOK, price escalation of materials, increased
labor costs, deviation in exchange rates, and slow processing of documentation by MOH and
Ministry of Public Works (MOPW). In particular, delays by MOPW in processing the
contractors' claims for revision of rates led to the contractors abandoning sites. Due to
MOH's inadequate progress reporting and lack of ownership towards these VSCUs, as well
as insufficient supervision by IDA, these civil works contracts had stopped and buildings
were left half-completed and idle for three years or more after the MTR. Little effort was
made by MOH to correct the state of affairs until early 1996, when it was agreed that all



Part I Implementation Assessment                                             9
contracts would be reviewed and completed with funds from Population IV. At the time of
the ICR mission, one VSCU was completed and financially settled, four were at final
account stage and the remaining nine were at varying stages of completion. It is now
expected that an additional $1.5 million is required from Population IV funds to complete all
remaining VSCUs before June 1998.
33.   In visiting the VSCUs, it was apparent that the accommodations provided were
excessive, considering the flow-through of patient traffic and the activities to be carried out.
There was no evidence to show that careful planning had been made to prepare programs for
accommodations, corresponding to anticipated patient volume, or to facilitate phased
construction, with expansion undertaken only in response to actual increases in demand.
Furthermore, the ICR team determined that the particular locations chosen for the
construction of VSCUs were based on the "size of catchment area and length of waiting
lists", even though no realistic nor documented needs assessment had been carried out. It
also became apparent that nobody in MOH knew who was responsible for following-up on
the incomplete VSCUs, raising the question of MOH ownership over this component.
34.   Training: Numerous training and study tours were financed by IDA through NCPD
for a total of 29 people, including 19 NCPD staff, amounting to approximately $0.5 million.
Furthermore, a total of 40 people, including 24 NCPD staff and nine NGO staff, received
graduate school training from ODA funds, costing $ 0.7 million. Trainees who went to
universities obtained degrees in, inter alia, Bachelor of Arts in Communication, Master of
Public Health, and Ph.D. in Demography. Of the 43 NCPD staff who received training or
participated in study tours from either IDA or ODA funds, 10 have become DPOs and three
are still at NCPD HQ, but the remainder have either left, retired, were discharged, or are still
studying (with funds from Population IV). It is hard to determine the extent to which the
training component contributed to NCPD's institution building. That said, many of the
trainees have returned to the country and are working in the population sector or in a related
field. Therefore, even if the training component may not have had much impact on the
institution building of NCPD itself, it may still have brought benefits to the country as a
whole. In the future, however, training programs should be better prioritized and staff only
be sent to address an obvious need and where there is a clear prospect that the training will
help the project or the sector. It is also recommended that, to increase Borrower ownership,
new projects require counterpart funding for training.
35.   ODA and Other Donors: ODA participation in the preparation and implementation
of the project has been participatory and effective. The ODA part of the project focused on
increasing the numbers of clinics offering FP services, production of IEC materials,
development of new NGO programs, FP education, staff training and research and evaluation
studies. IDA and ODA held joint supervision missions throughout the implementation
period, and collaboration was particularly strong when an ODA technical advisor was placed
in the World Bank Resident Mission to coordinate the project. The relationship between the
two parties remained good throughout. The ODA Project Completion Report2 states that
despite management difficulties, the project made an important contribution to NGO service
delivery but less on increasing client demand for services through NGOs' IEC programs.
ODA determined that the goal of this part of the project had been largely achieved, though
2 Available in the project file



Part I Implementation Assessment                                            1O
attempts to improve NCPD's capacity to coordinate and manage the population program
were largely unsuccessful and unsustainable.
36.   Many other donors are also participating in population activities. USAID has
provided the largest financial support for FP in Kenya, including funding of contraceptives
and international NGOs and providing technical expertise in IEC and logistics management.
UNFPA has supported contraceptive procurement and the development of the Population
Policy and the new Reproductive Health Strategy. The Finnish International Development
Agency has been a partner in Population IV for the procurement of Norplant. The Swedish
International Development Agency has supplied low-dose oral contraceptives and is also
pilot testing new approaches to reproductive health service delivery in several districts. The
German Technical Cooperation (GTZ) has a procurement section, which was selected by
MOH to carry out all major procurements under Population IV and the STI Project.
MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
37.   Factors which contributed to delays that were within MOH and NCPD's control
included: (a) poor procurement planning; (b) slow and flawed procurement procedures
under IDA guidelines; (c) unfamiliarity in the use of the Special Account at the early stages;
and (d) difficulties in coordinating financial statements and audits from NGOs. In general,
the project suffered from a lack of experienced staff, especially accountants and procurement
specialists. Factors that influenced the project but were beyond the control of MOH and
NCPD included GOK liquidity problems resulting in slow release of funds from Treasury,
lack of ministerial counterpart funds, and Treasury limits on the release of loan funds in the
last year. Some factors affecting implementation were under the control of other GOK
agencies (i.e., MOPW was responsible for the physical implementation of the civil works
program). Slow clearance by the GOK Clearing Agent of exempted items through the Ports
Authority also resulted in lengthy delays in the receipt of urgently needed supplies.
BANK PERFORMANCE
38.   The ICR team evaluated as Satisfactory the performance of IDA at the time of
Identification and Project Preparation, through its developing a project consistent with the
sector strategy when the prospects for fertility control appeared bleak. However, by failing
to fully address the problems in MOH's administrative capacity at Appraisal when they were
clearly manifested in Population I and II, the performance of the Bank was Deficient. The
selection criteria and needs assessment for the 14 VSCUs have been undocumented, and it is
still unclear as to why these locations were chosen. The performance of IDA during the
early stages of implementation and up to MTR continued to be Deficient because it failed to
address on-going defects in the implementation process, especially when a more rigorous
approach and follow-up could have alleviated some of the problems. Moreover, instead of
immediately developing Population IV, which expected the GOK to substantially increase
disbursements, Population III could have been restructured to procure needed contraceptives.
39.   The performance of IDA remained Deficient at project restructuring. Although the
process was carried out in consultation with GOK, IDA did not sufficiently emphasize the
need for careful planning of the STI/HIV drug procurement, and subsequently failed to
exercise adequate care in reviewing bidding documents and bid evaluations. Furthermore,



Part I Implementation Assessment                                            11
justification for the single-sourcing of research on AIDS care was undocumented and carried
out without adequate scrutiny by a wider audience. Subsequently, IDA performance
improved substantially and was Partially Satisfactory, particularly in the last year of the
project, given closer monitoring and follow-up on outstanding issues. Disbursement picked
up dramatically during the last quarter, and the project was able to close on-time with almost
all the funds utilized.
BORROWER PERFORMANCE
40.   Borrower performance at Preparation was Satisfactory: the project was developed in
a collaborative manner with IDA and other donors and was consistent with the policies being
pursued by GOK at that time. Borrower performance during the early stages of
implementation and up to MTR was Deficient when major institutional weaknesses were
apparent and which were to severely constrain progress in many areas of project activities.
There were serious bottlenecks in the implementation process, some of which were out of the
hands of MOH and NCPD and were generic problems being experienced in most IDA credits
at that time. Problems occurring in-house included: inadequate procurement planning; slow
and flawed tendering procedures; inaccurate and misleading bid evaluations contrary to IDA
procedures; delayed payments to overseas suppliers; difficulties in obtaining financial
statements from NGOs; lack of compliance with covenants, particularly audits and progress
reporting; inability to effectively monitor and direct MOPW staff to satisfactorily finalize the
civil works; and inability to retain key personnel within NCPD. Borrower performance after
MTR and restructuring until closing was Partially Satisfactory. Though disbursement still
remained stagnant and civil works did not pick up, there was progress in implementation,
such as improved audit submissions, coordination of NGO activities, and development of the
Population Policy and the Reproductive Health Strategy. Furthermore, in the last year of the
project, both MOH and NCPD started to submit annual training and procurement plans. In
the last quarter of the project, disbursement picked up substantially and the credit was almost
fully spent.
ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
41.   The Development Objectives (DOs) stated in the Form 590s were changed several
times during the project period. Generally up to September 1993, the DOs resembled the
project objectives stated in the SAR. However, they were changed to "reduce the TFR to
6.97" and "increase the total number of FP acceptors to 1.96 million adults" until March
1995. It is unclear as to how they were to be measured and why these indicators were
continuously used after the 1993 DHS showed that the TFR was 5.4. As for the number of
acceptors, there is no record of any data being presented during supervision missions from
MOH or NCPD to confirm whether or not the target had been met. Nevertheless, the ratings
for the DOs were consistently rated "1" or Highly Satisfactory from project inception up to
March 1995. It was down-graded to Satisfactory only when the DOs were subsequently
changed in June 1995 to "promote demand" and "increase supply" for FP services, which
were only part of the project objectives stated in the SAR. This rating remained unchanged
until project closing. In sum, there appears to have been ambiguity in the definition of DOs
and in the methodology of evaluating whether they were met or not. It is, however, probably
justifiable to rate IDA and Borrower performance as Satisfactory for certain periods of the



Part I Implementation Assessment                                            12
project. Nevertheless, the ICR team concluded that based on an evaluation of the individual
components, the overall assessment of the project is Unsatisfactory.
SUSTAINABILITY
42.   NCPD: NCPD, whose activities have been heavily donor dependent, has been
caught in a downward spiral of staff attrition, declining program support, and donor
skepticism about its effectiveness. Even donors still sympathetic to NCPD have become
cautious about further support. On the other hand, the agency's total recurrent budget has
been funded by GOK since 1992 (except for NCPD's HQ rent that IDA has financed). The
new Population Policy calls for NCPD to narrow its focus to policy development, advocacy,
and oversight of population related activities, with an emphasis on coordinating cross-cutting
issues rather than service delivery. The GOK's implementation of the proposed Population
Policy and NCPD's role in it will not only send an important signal to donors about the
Government's ownership and commitment to NCPD, but will be the primary factor in
determining the sustainability of the agency.
43.   MOH: The success and sustainability of the new Reproductive Health Strategy will
depend on whether the Ministry can strengthen capacity at various levels of the health
system in procurement, logistics, staffing, and financial management. Over the short term,
some shortages of contraceptives and supplies are anticipated; however, it is now expected
that these shortages will be funded under Population IV. Furthermore, the newly appointed
procurement agent is expected to complete long-delayed procurements of condoms and other
contraceptive supplies. Over the longer term, major effort is needed to set up an effective
and financially sustainable system for the procurement of contraceptives to meet the rapidly
expanding demand. Enhanced cost recovery and private sector involvement will be
important for success in this effort.
FUTURE OPERATIONS
44.   Kenya's demographic and epidemiological transitions have moved beyond the take-
off phase, but require additional effort if the momentum is to be sustained. Demand for FP
services is strong, and the country has begun to address FP and other reproductive health
needs through an integrated service delivery approach under the umbrella of its health sector
reform initiative. Concurrently, several obstacles stand in the way of effective
implementation of the reproductive health component of the national health strategy:
potential shortfalls in contraceptives, essential drugs and supplies once Population IV is
completed and if support from other donors declines; weak managerial and technical
capacity in procurement and financial management; funding gaps due to budgetary
constraints; and Treasury limits on the release of loan funds. These need to be addressed
under the proposed Health Sector Reform Project.
45.   The DFH has now developed an implementation plan for its Reproductive Health
Strategy, which should form the basis for dialogue with donors to identify investment needs,
resource gaps, and address obstacles to effective service delivery. While IDA should
encourage such strategic thinking, further support from IDA should be contingent on the
effective implementation of procurement under Population IV, and on demonstrated
commitment by GOK to address the obstacles outlined above. This should be in the form of:



Part I Implementation Assessment                                            13
(a) plans to decrease donor dependency and increase GOK's self-sufficiency in financing
contraceptives and other supplies, including cost recovery and involvement of the private
sector; (b) developing and maintaining managerial and technical capacity to implement its
proposed program; and (c) resolving procedural issues that have hampered effective
implementation of Population III. Given the poor performance with civil works under the
project and evidence of a need for effective utilization of existing facilities rather than
further building, IDA should not support additional construction in the health sector, except
for upgrading or repairs, unless different implementation arrangements can be established,
such as contracting out the supervisory function that is currently assumed by MOPW.
46.   The new National Population Policy recognizes that poverty reduction and
completion of Kenya's demographic transition require effective policy and programmatic
links between population and other areas of social and economic development, particularly
those that affect the role and status of women. The policy document calls for NCPD to play
a leadership role in policy development, advocacy and oversight. Though GOK has
transferred NCPD to the higher profile and policy oriented Ministry of Planning, IDA and
the other donors need further indication from GOK of its commitment to bring NCPD more
clearly into the mainstream of development policy. While recognizing that failure to support
NCPD could send a negative signal within and outside Kenya, IDA needs evidence that there
is real refocusing of NCPD's mandate before further funding to the agency can be
considered.
KEY LESSONS LEARNED
=> It is better to restructure a project instead of developing a new one with similar
objectives, as the overlap could result in additional paperwork, create difficulty in
maintaining separate accounts, and project an annual disbursement rate beyond the
financial and administrative capacity of the Borrower,
=> Financial, managerial, and monitoring systems of MOH and NCPD should have been
addressed earlier and strengthened for better project implementation. Future operations
should focus on ensuring clear and effective implementation and management
arrangements, particularly in financial accountability.
> When the Borrower's procurement capacity is deficient, the use of an outside
procurement agent should be considered at an early stage, particularly for the
procurement of contraceptives and STI drugs, which requires a high degree of technical
expertise.
=> Construction of facilities under IDA financing has contributed little to the achievement
of project objectives, and has generally proved to be a wasteful and inefficient use of
resources. Civil works should be kept to a minimum in future operations, focusing
primarily on rehabilitation or upgrading.
=> Close supervision as well as quality assurance mechanisms are essential. The need for
adequate field visits by both the Bank and the Borrower cannot be over-emphasized.
=> NGOs are playing an important and effective role in the delivery of reproductive health
services in Kenya at the grassroots level. However, in future operations where NGOs



Part I Implementation Assessment                                               14
will be used, GOK needs to improve NGO coordination, and NGOs also need to
strengthen their weak financial accountability.
= Although significant amounts of funds were spent on training NCPD staff, they did not
contribute much to the capacity building of the agency itself. Training programs should
be better prioritized, and staff only be sent on training in areas of identified needs and
where there is a clear prospect that the training will help the project or the sector. Future
projects should require counterpart funding for this component to ensure rational use of
training funds.



PART II: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives    Substantial     Partial      Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies                                                           X
Sector Policies                     X
Financial Objectives                                                             X
Institutional Development                                        X
Physical Objectives                                              X
Poverty Reduction                                                                X
Gender Concerns                     X
Other Social Objectives                           X
Environmental Objectives                                                         X
Public Sector Management                                         X
Private Sector Development          X
(including NGOs)
Other (specify)
B. Project Sustainability            Likely             Unlikely            Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance            Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                                             X
Preparation Assistance                                     X
Appraisal                                                                       X
Supervision                                                                     x
D. Borrower Performance        Highly Satisfactory     Satisfactory          Deficient
Preparation                                                X
Implementation                                                                  X
Covenant Compliance                                                             X
Operation                                                                       X
E. Assessment of Outcome Highly Satisfactory Satisfactory Unsatisfactory Highly Unsatisfactory
x



Part II Statistical Annexes                                                                                    16
Table 2: Related Bank Credits
Credit Title                               Purpose                        Year of Approval   Status
1. Preceding Operations
First Population             Significantly reduce the population growth rate.           1974         Closed
Second Population            Reduce fertility and improve the accessibility and quality of  1983     Closed
rural health services.
2. Following Operations
Fourth Population            Increase the availability, accessibility, quality of family  1990      On Going
planning; strengthen the demand for family planning
services through IEC activities; and strengthen the capacity
of NCPD.
Health Rehabilitation        Support the government's reform of the health sector by:  1991         On-Going
(a) rehabilitating Kenyatta National Hospital to reduce its
burden on the overall budget and permit an increase in
expenditure on preventive and primary health;
(b) improving delivery of health services in the Nairobi area;
(c) preparing for future policy and managerial reform; and
(d) support the development of a National Household
Welfare Monitoring and Evaluation System.
Sexually Transmitted Infections   (a) strengthen the institutional capacity at the national and  1995  On-Going
district levels to design, implement, monitor and evaluate
interventions;
(b) promote preventive measures to reduce the risks of STI
transmission; and
(c) enhance both health sector and community provision of
physical and psychological care and develop strategies to
mitigate the socioeconomic consequences of STI/HIV.



Part 11 Statistical Annexes                                                          17
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle       Planned                 Actual
IdentificationlPreparation  September 23, 1985    September 23, 1985
Pre-appraisal              June 30, 1986          February 16, 1987
Appraisal                  September 30, 1986     August 31, 1987
Negotiations               March 31, 1987         March 14, 1988
Board Presentation         June 1,1987            May 10, 1988
Signing                    June 15, 1987          October 24, 1988
Effectiveness              July 1, 1987           January 31, 1989
Midterm Review             December 31, 1990      August 27, 1993
Project Completion         June 30, 1996          June 30, 1996
Credit Closing             October 31, 1996       December 9, 1996
Table 4a: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated & Actual (US$ million)
Fiscal Year      FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95   FY96   FY97
Appraisal Estimate      0.2    1.3    3.4    5.8       8.0     10.0    11.5      12.2    12.2
Actual                  0       1.0    2.9    3.1      3.4      4.9      7.3     10.6    12.6
Actual as % of Estimate  0%    75%    84%    53%      42%      49%     63%      89%    103%
Date of Final Disbursement/Refund: Dec. 2, 1996
Table 4b: Annual Disbursement of Population II, III and IV (US$ million)
Fiscal Year/Project  Population 11  Population III  Population IV
83              0.38
84              1.90
85              2.73
86              3.48
87              1.53
88              3.71
89              1.61
90              4.21           1.00
91              3.45           1.86
92                             0.24           4.04
93                             0.29           0.96
94                             1,49           0.18
95                             2,41           0.53
96                             3.31           2.58
Total            23.00         10,60*          8.29
* Remaining balance from the credit was disbursed in FY97.



Part I Statistical Annexes                                                        18
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation/Operation
Key Implementation Activities                     Achievements
1. Strengthen the capacity of the NCPD to plan,
program, finance, coordinate and monitor
population program activities.
i) Establish MIS                             i) Effective MIS system was not developed.
ii) Develop research and evaluation programs  ii) Research and evaluation programs were
on-going on an ad hoc basis.
iii) Strengthen institutional development    iii) 69 people (NCPD and other staff) received
short or long term training with IDA and
ODA funds. HQ construction component
canceled by IDA.
iv) Implement district focus programs        iv) DPO system was effective in coordinating
NGOs; component for constructing DPO
offices canceled by IDA.
2. Further create acceptance of, and demand for FP
services through the implementation of a
strategically planned and coordinated IEC
program.
i) IEC material production                   i) IEC materials were produced by NCPD on
an ad hoc basis.
ii) Training district administration         ii) Some training conducted, especially in
early years under multi-sectoral
component by various ministries and
departments.
iii) Use of extension workers in key ministries  iii) Active participation of extension workers
in key ministries did not take off.
iv) IEC programs through NGOs.               iv) Continuous IEC programs were carried out
by NGOs.
3. Increase the accessibility, and quality of FP
services provided by government and NGOs.
i) Voluntary surgical contraception in urban FP    i) NGO services carried out.
services
ii) Upgrade clinics and dispensaries         ii) Only five out of 14 VSCUs became
operational. Remaining ones scheduled to
be constructed using Population IV funds.
iii) Services through NGOs.                  iii) NGOs have been active in provision of FP
services.
iv) Community based distribution of contraceptives iv) This component never took off.
through District Population and FP Committee.



Part II Statistical Annexes                                                                19
Table 6: Studies Included in Project
Study                        Purpose                     Status       Impact of Study
Internal and External   To assess the impact of FP services by    Completed   Marginal follow-up
Evaluation of KCS       the NGO.
Internal and External   To assess the impact of FP services by    Completed   Marginal follow-up
Evaluation by CHAK      the NGO.
Internal Evaluation by  To assess the impact of FP services by    Completed   Marginal follow-up
FPAK                    the NGO.
Internal Evaluation by  To assess the impact of FP services by    Completed under  Marginal follow-up
NCCK                    the NGO.                             Population IV
Intemal Evaluation by   To assess the impact of training carried   Completed  Marginal follow-up
Department of Adult     out by DAE.
Education
Study for Social Marketing  To determine the willingness to pay for   On-Going  Not yet due
of Contraceptives       different contraceptives and to
recommend a plan for social marketing.
Table 7a: Project Financing
Source        At Appraisal    % at Appraisal     Actual         Actual %
(Million)                       (Million)
IDA                 $12.2            43%            $12.6           59%
GOK                  $2.7            10%             $1.1            5%
ODA                  $8.4            30%             $7.8           36%
NORAD                $5.0            18%             $0              0%
Total               $28.3           100%            $21.5          100%
Table 7b: Planned and Actual Allocation
Category Description     Planned Allocation   Actual Allocation   % of ActuaUPlanned
(US$ million)      (US$ million)
Civil Works                       0.6                  0.9                141%
Office Rent for NCPD              2.0                  0.2                 12%
Materials                         4.3                  6.8                161%
Consultants and Training          2.0                  3.3                162%
MOH Recurrent Costs               2.1                  1.3                 61%
Unallocated                        1.8                 0                    0%
Canceled                          0                    0.3
Total                            12.9                 12.9                100%



Part 11 Statistical Annexes                                                                                                 20
Table 7c: Project Costs Based on NCPD, MOH and ODA Data
Categories             Planned Total Actual GOK  Actual ODA   Actual IDA   Actual Total  % of Actual Breakdown of
Project Cost*   Funding    Funding     Funding    Project Cost Over Planned  IDA Funding
I. NCPD                               (millions)    (millions)   (millions)   (millions)    (millions)
A. Strengthening of NCPD
MIS/Evaluation/Research              $0.30        $0.01       $0.13       $0.04        $0.18        61%           0.3%
HQ Construction/Work                $1.19         $0.11                   $0.68        $0.79        66%           5%
Training                            $0.71         $0.02       $0.66       $0.49        $1.17       165%           4%
District Focus                       $2.80        $0.005                  $0.01        $0.02         1%           0.1%
Subtotal                               $5.00        $0.15        $0.80      $1.21        $2.16         43%           9%
B. Multi-Sectoral
IEC                                 $0.86         $0.04                   $0.21        $0.25        29%           2%
Office of the President             $0.37                                 $0.06        $0.06        17%           0.5%
Ministry of Agriculture             $0.30                                 $0.03        $0.03        11%           0.2%
Department of Social Services       $0.88                                 $0.15        $0.15        17%           1%
Department of Adult Education       $0.53                                 $0.13        $0.13        25%           1%
Subtotal                               $2.95        $0.04        $0.00      $0.59        $0.62         21%           4%
C. NGOs
Family Planning Assoc. of Kenya     $2.90                     $2.95       $0.61        $3.56       123%           5%
Christian Health Assoc. of Kenya    $2.29                     $2.01                    $2.01        88%           0%
Kenya Catholic Secretariat          $0.32                     $0.36       $0.05        $0.41       128%           0.4%
Nat'l Council of Churches of Kenya   $1.39                    $1.23                    $1.23        89%           0%
Kenya National Union of Teachers    $0.62                     $0.35                    $0.35        57%           0%
NGO Study/Initiatives                $0.55                    $0.09                    $0.09        16%           0%
Subtotal                               $8.07        $0.00        $7.00      $0.66        $7.66        95%            5%
Total for NCPD                        $16.02        $0.19        $7.80      $2.46       $10.44        65%           19%



Part ll Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                    21
Table 7c: Project Costs Based on NCPD, MOH and ODA Data (continued)
Categories                Planned Total Actual GOK  Actual ODA   Actual IDA    Actual Total   % of Actual  Breakdown of
Project Cost*    Funding       Funding       Funding      Project Cost  Over Planned  IDA Funding
(millions)    (millions)    (millions)    (millions)     (millions)
I. MOH
Civil Works/Architectural Work            $1.57          $0.90                       $3.61          $4.51         287%            28%
Training                                  $0.09                                      $0.02          $0.02          28%             0.2%
Consultancy/Monitoring/Evaluation         $2.59                                      $0.41          $0.41          16%             3%
Community Nurse Program/Districts         $1.34                                      $1.02          $1.02          76%             8%
Recurrent Cost DFH                        $1.78                                      $0.12          $0.12           7%             1%
STIIHV Drugs                                             $0.03                       $4.49          $4.52           -             34%
HIV Care Research                                                                    $0.92          $0.92            -             7%
Total for MOH                                $7.37          $0.93         $0.00       $10.59          $11.52         156%            81%
Grand Total                                 $23.38          $1.12         $7.80       $13.05**        $21.96          94%           100%
Note: * is the planned total cost at Appraisal less the estimated NORAD contribution.
** IDA financing does not total $12.6 million as the disbursement record shows. This is partially due to the use in this calculation of an average US$-KSh exchange rate for each
fiscal year for expenditure items reported by GOK in KSh, instead of the real exchange rate that was used for each disbursement. Another explanation might be inaccurate
financial records of GOK.



Part 11 Statistical Annexes                                                    22
Table 7d: Schedule 1 Before MTR and After Amendment For
Population III and IV
Category/Project                    Population III
Before MTR        After
Amendment
(SDR)
1. (a) Civil Works                         1,000,000        450,000
(b) NCPD Office Rental                     830,000       1,380,000
2. Materials                               3,030,000       3,030,000
3. Consultant Services and Training         1,380,000      1,380,000
4. MOH Recurrent Costs                      1,480,000      1,480,000
5. Unallocated                              1,280,000      1,280,000
Total                                      9,000,000       9,000,000
Category/Project                    Population IV
Before MTR        After
Amendment
(SDR)
1. (a) Civil Works other than I (b)        5,700,000        700,000
(b) Civil Works for DPO offices            450,000              0
2. (a) Materials other than 2(b)           7,370,000      13,570,000
(b) Materials for DPO Offices              750,000              0
3. Consultant Services, Training, and Research  4,500,000  4,500,000
4. Materials and Services for Women's Groups  2,260,000    2,260,000
5. Materials for IEC Strategy              2,260,000      2,260,000
6. Unallocated                             3,010,000       3,010,000
Total                                     26,300,000     26,300,000
Table 8: Economic Costs and Benefits
No Economic Rate of Return was calculated for this project at the time of appraisal.



Part 11 Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                       23
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Section    Covenant  Present      Original         Actual               Description of Covenant                         Comments
Type     Status      Fulfillment     Fulfillment
Date            Date
Article III   10        CD        Oct 31, 1988        1989     By October 31, 1988, NCPD to submit to IDA a  Met: cf. Aide-memoire of Supervision Mission
para 3.03                                                      timetable for national, regional and district  January 16-17, 1989.
workshops with NGOs.
Article III    10, 12   CD        Oct 31, 1988        1989     By October 31, 1988, NCPD shall submit a plan  Met: cf. Aide-Memoire of Supervision
para 3.04                                                      to ensure the quality of voluntary surgical  Mission January 16-17, 1989.
contraception with MOH.
Article III   5, 9      CD        Dec 31, 1989        1995     a) By December 31, 1989 to undertake a study of Met.
para 3.05                                                        NGO financing, sustainability and
organizational capacity.
CD       Dec 31, 1990        1995      b) By December 31, 1990 review its         Met.
recommendations with IDA for
implementation.
Article III    5, 9     C              -           1992, 1994  Proposals for funding new NGO initiatives to be  Met in 1992. Proposals by NGOs for IDA
para 3.06                                                      in accordance with criteria and guidelines  funding from Jan-June 1995 was received and
satisfactory to IDA and donors.            approved.
Article III    5        CD        Oct31, 1989         1992     By October 31, 1989, key personnel to be    Met, but component was restructured.
para 3.07                                                      appointed in Media Production Center,
satisfactory to IDA.
Article IV     I        NC    March 31, Annually       -       Submission of audited accounts to IDA within    NCPD and MOH have never met deadline;
para 4.01                                                      nine months of close of each financial year.  eight out of 14 audits were qualified.
Article IV     5                                               As a condition of credit effectiveness:
para. 6.01              C              -             1989      a) the borrower shall have established an  Met: cf. Aide-Memoire of Supervision
organization structure satisfactory to IDA for  Mission January 16-17, 1989.
the Media Production Center within MOH;
C             -              1989     b) fulfilled all conditions precedent to the ODA   Met: ODA and NORAD Agreements signed
and NORAD Grant Agreements.              (cf. Aide-Memoire of Supervision Mission
January 16-17, 1989).



Part 11 Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                           24
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Section    Covenant  Present       Original         Actual                Description of Covenant                           Comments
Type     Status       Fulfillment     Fulfillment
Date            Date
Schedule 4    5, 9      CP              -                -       In each ministry or NGO, a Project Coordinator  Project Coordinators reported to NCPD and
para. 2                                                          to be identified: quarterly progress reports to be  not to IDA. NCDP prepared and submitted
prepared and submitted to IDA.              NGO progress reports to IDA semi-annually
during supervision missions.
Schedule 4   5, 9, 12   NC              -                -       a) Coordinating committee to be formed: to meet Coordinating Committee proposed for
para. 3                                                            quarterly to review Project Implementation.    approval by the Executive Committee of
NCPD and MOH to meet monthly to review    NCPD Council did not meet regularly. NCPD
progress in implementation.               and MOH did not meet regularly.
NC        Dec 31, 1990          -       b) By December 31, 1990, review its
recommendations with IDA and Donors for
implementation.
Schedule 4     9        CD        Dec 31, 1990         1993      Mid-Term Review by December 31, 1990.       August 1993. Projects subsequently
para. 4                                                                                                       restructured.
Schedule 4   5, 9, 10                                            NCPD to submit results of these studies and
para. 5                                                          surveys within six months of their completion.
CD             -                        a) NGO activities;                           a) NGO reports were delayed.
CP         1990, 1992         1993      b) evaluation of all project components in second b) Some evaluation of NGOs have been
and fourth year of project;                 carried out.
C         1990, 1992       1990, 1992, c) research seminars in second and fourth years   c)Research seminarsheldin 1990, 1992 and
1994, 1995    of project.                                 1994, 1995 (on AIDS, IPR and DHS
Schedule 4   5, 9, 12   NC      March 31 annually        -       By March 31 of each year, submission of draft   Work Plans were never submitted on time
para. 9                                                          Annual Work Plans by NCPD.                  partially due to NGO delays.



Part II Statistical Annexes                                                                                                                                   25
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants (continued)
Section    Covenant  Present         Original          Actual                 Description of Covenant                             Comments
Type      Status       Fulfillment       Fulfillment
Date             Date
Schedule 4   10, 9, 5     NC      March I annually          -       By March 1, 1989 and by March I annually       Usually not met. Research agenda consultancy
para. 10                                                            thereafter a list of research priorities to be agreed  report was submitted in September 1995.
with IDA.
Schedule 4  5, 10, 12     CD         Oct 31, 1988         1989      By October 31, 1988, NCPD to have defined the  Met: cf. ILO/UNFPA Consultant's Report,
para. 11                                                            roles of DPOs and proposed appropriate          1989. Plan of action based on consultancy
institutional arrangements and training program   report on district level implementation was
for them.                                      submitted.
Covenant Types:                              Present Status
I = Accounts/Audits                          C = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue generation from   CD = complied with after delay
beneficiaries                             CP = complied with partiality
3 = Flow and utilization of project funds    NC = not complied with
4 = Counterpart funding
5 = Management aspects of project or executing
agency
6 = Environmental covenants
7 = Involuntary resettlement
8 = Indigenous people
9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting
10 = Project implementation not covered by 1-9
11 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other
resource allocation
12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
regulatory/institutional action
13 = Other



Part II Statistical Annexes                                                    26
Table 10: Compliance With Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title                     Comments
OD 10.60 Accounting,            There were serious delays in submission of audit
Financial Reporting, and Auditing   reports throughout the project period; and eight out of
14 audits were qualified.
OP 6.30 Local Cost,             Although the OP states that the borrower is expected to
Financing and Cost Sharing      make a 10% minimum contribution to the project cost,
and this was agreed to at the time of Appraisal, GOK
contribution amounted to only 5% of the total project
cost.
OD 11.00 Procurement            When the borrower failed to award the contract to the
lowest evaluated responsive bidder, misprocurement
was declared, and an amount of $112,861 was
subsequently canceled from the Credit.
OD 11.10 Use of Consultants     Single-source selection of consultants needs to be
critically examined; particularly large-valued contracts
need to be cleared with OPRPR. However, in one case
this was not done. A detailed proposal was submitted
to the Bank for review only after the selection was
made and $1 million was disbursed.
Table 11: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
Stage of Project Cycle                  Actual
Weeks      US$
Preparation to appraisal                          44       66,006
Appraisal                                         69      114,323
Negotiations through Board approval               92      176,879
Supervision                                      105     201,551
Completion                                        45       72,200
Total                                            355      650,959



Appendix A
Page I of I
Kenya Population Project III
Implenentation Completion Report Mission
July 30 To August 20, 1996
Final Aide Memoire
1.    A mission comprising of Ms. Kaori Miyamoto (Task Manager, AFTHI), Ms.
Wacuka Ikua (Operations Officer, RMEA), Mr. Tom Merrick (Population Advisor,
HDD), and Mr. Pat Walker (Implementation Specialist/Architect Consultant), conducted
a review of the Population III (Credit 1904-KE) for the Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) in Kenya from July 31 to August 20, 1996. The mission wishes to place on
record its appreciation of the cordial and committed cooperation it received from all
government officers met during the course of the visit. The findings, recommendations,
and agreements presented in this Aide Memoire are subject to World Bank management
review and approval subsequent to the mission's return to Washington.
2.    The project was successfully closed on June 30, 1996, according to the original
schedule. The mission is pleased to note that the credit has been utilized almost
completely except for approximately $11,927.64, which has already been allocated and is
expected to be disbursed shortly. This amount is to be expended before the end of the
four months' grace period to October 31, 1996 to avoid cancellation.
3.    The mission received extensive collaboration from officials in drafting the ICR,
which is attached.3 However, some main points in this draft report still require follow up
and action by GOK. These are as follows:
(a) Attachment Sheets:
Table 4. Credit Disbursements;
Table 5. Schedule of Activities in Project Implementation
Table 6. Key Indicators in Project Operation
Table 7. Major Studies/Training/Seminars
Table 8. Project Financing - IDA/ODA/GOK Fund Source
(b) The breakdown of actual expenditure by year against each project component:
NCPD
Multi Sectoral
NGO
MOH
(c) A revised submission of the Borrowers report (MOH and NCDP)
incorporating any amendments and additions which now need to be made in
light of the zompletion mission findings; and,
(d) Notification of the date when IDA will receive the 1995/1996 audit reports
which are currently four months overdue.
4.    The Borrower is requested to confirm that all information requested under (a) to
(d) would be made available to IDA by 20 September, 1996.
3 Available in the project file.






Borrower's Evaluation (MOH)                                         Appendix B
Page I of 12
REF NO: IB/11/1/12 VOL.XXXVI
17th JULY, 1996.
MS. KAORI MIYAMOTO,
Task Manager,
The World Bank,
AF2PH
1818H Street N.W.,
Washington D.C. 20433,
USA.
Dear Ms. Miyamoto,
RE: DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORTT FOR KENYA POPULATION III
(Cr.1904-KE)
Forwarded herewith please find a draft Implementation Report for POP.III for
your further action.
(a)   ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
The objectives of the Third Population Project were twofold: (a) to promote
the growing demand for family planning services and (b) to increase
availability, accessibility, and quality of Family Planning Services provided
by the Government and NGO'S. Part (a) of the objectives were to be realised
by the National Council for Population and Development while part (b) objectives
were to be realised by the MOH through establishment of :voluntary surgical
contraception facilities at 12 district hospitals, strengthening of facilities
at Pumwani Maternity Hospital to provide surgical contraception services
for Nairobi, expansion of existing urban clinic's in Nairobi to provide
family planning services, upgrading of 140 clinics in 14 districts and
establishment of 12 decentralised MCH/FP training centres with vehicles and
training materials but which was later abandoned by the donor due to suspension
of diplomatic relations; support for revising curriculum of clinical offiices
to include Family planning establishment of the Kenya Registered Community Programme
in Nairobi and Mombasa, Establishment of a media production centre and
support for a management review of the Division of Family Health and for
its strengthening.
Except for the components that were to be financed by Norad and the establishment
of media production centre at the MOH's Division of Health Education,all
the other objectives were achieved during the life of the Project which
became effective on 31st January 1989 and closed on 30th June 1996.
(b)  ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME - PROJECT IMPACT
Building on the achievements realised under the Integrated Rural Health
and Family Planning (IRHFP) Project (Cr. 1238 KE) which supported and
tested a variety of activities designed to promote small family norms and
to provide integrated health and population services through MOH and NGO'S
the Third Population Project inputs together with those of the KEPI,
Nutrition and Child survival Programme had a significant impact in realising
the objectives of the family planning programme as follows:-



Borrower's Evaluation (MOH)                                         Appendix B
Page 2 of 12
In 1986 the population growth rate stood at 4.1% p.a. Today the growth rate
has declined to 3.1% p.a according to the latest edition of the Kenya
Demographic and Health Survey and is projected to decline to 2.5% p.a by the
year 2000. Total Fertility rate was 7.7 children per woman in 1986. This
decline to 6.7 in 1989 and is currently down to 5.4 the highest decline
ever recorded anywhere in the world. This precipitation decline in fertility
since 1989 has been accompanied by aconcomotant increase in the contraceptive
prevalence rate (Modern Methods only) from 27% to 33% in 1996.
In addition to the above achievements the following attributes of the Kenya's
Family Planning programmes in the Public sector deserve a mention from the
point of view of quality and safety.
CLINICAL SERVICE DELIVERY
- Service delivery points ensuer that FP services are accessible, affordabl9
acceptable and convenient to all users.
- The super market approach ensures voluntary choice from a number of available
methods.
- All FP services are monitored routinely from the district level and periodically
from the central division of Family Health.
- The MOH provides services for Pre-Natal, safe delivery and post-natal care
and promotion of breast feeding.
- The programme helps women of reproductive age to avoid unwanted pregnancies
and management of complications of incomplete abortion.
- The programme is providing not just Family Planning Services but also
facilities for delivery of ante-natal andSTD sreening equipment in Public
Health Facilities.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
The MOH proposes to implement a reproductive Health Pr6ject after Pop IV closes
on 30.6.1997. This proposed project will not only cover Family Planning
activities but a wider scope to include safe motherhood, adolescent reproductive
health and intensidication of community awareness including the youth through
IEC on how to address the indentfied areas of need,among others. A draft concept
paper has been prepared for discussion with donors and the World Bank.
PROJECTED FERTILITY REDUCTION
Current fertility reduction level indicate that with the proposed'Rproductive
Heg-ttrP-oject total fertility rate will be reduced fromL5.4 to 3.65 by the
year 200
IM?ACT OF HEALTH SECTOR REFORM PROGRAMME.
With the adoption of the Reform Agenda included in KENYA'S HEALTH POLICY
FRAMEWORK NOVEMBER 1994 future projects in the area of reproductive health
will focus on capacity building at the district level to facilitate further
decentralization of management,implementation, monotoring and evaluation of
population and health activities.



Borrower's Evaluation (MOH)                                         Appendix B
Page 3 of 12
(d) BANK PERFORMANCE
Based on the achievements made unde'r the Second Population Project (IDA Cr.1238.
KE) the Third Population Project was developed in a collaborative manner
as indicated in the Staff Appraisal report (SAR) dated April,20 1988 prepared
by the World Bank. The focus on NGO'S and other Government Sectors in Part
(a) of the Project was consistentwith the policy being pursued by the Kenya
Government.
Population IV followed almost immediately to address an upsurge in the demand
for Family planning Services in the Public Sector by addressing the following
key aspects: acquisition of contraceptive supplies, including inter alia oral
pills,IUDs, condoms and injectable contraceptives, intrduction of NORPLANT as
a method of contraception in Kenya, strengthening of the Ministry's Logistics
Management System for supplying contraceptivesto MOH facilities, establishing
systems to monitor side effects of clinical contraception and training to
monotor such effects and acquisition of equipment for provision of FP services
om 300 MOH Facilities (SDPs).
During the reprogramming of Pop III and IV between August and December 1993,
the World Bank durin the Mid Term review agreed to the Government's request
to reprogramme funds to meet high priority activities in the area of STDs/
HIV/AIDS Control in the light of the rapid spread of the epidemic. This was
an act of a partcipatory approach.
(e) BORROWER PERFORMANCE
The Borrower through the MOH did the best that could be done to implement
the Project with diligence. Some of the major problems faced during the
project were low loan ceiling for the MOH, slow procurement process coupled
with slow clearing of imported intems as exemptions had to'be sought for
each consignment, delayed pauments to overseas suppliers due to the terms
of payment (CAD) and weak procurement planning which resulted in funds not
being spent during the year in which they are provided by the Treasury.
The MOH os pleased to report that in the latter part of the project's life,
most of these problems were addressed and resolved and the MOH was able to
disburse all the funds that were allocated to it under the Project by
30.6.1996.
(f)   KEY LESSONS LEARNED
Important lessons were learned during implementation of the Third Population
Project. Key among these are:-
(1)     The need for and the mechanisms for preparing Annual Project
Implementation Plans, including Procurement Plans.
(ii)    The intricacies of effecting procurement of pharmaceuticals and
caccines internationally, and-
(iii)   Improving overall project implementation and the disbursement
process.



Borrower's Evaluation (MIOH)                                        Appendix B
Page 4 of 12
These lessons have been applied to improve the planning and implementation
of the Fourth and the Health Rehabilitation Projects through to June, 1997.
(g)   DONOR INVOLVEMENT
Active IDA involvement in the latter part of the project life by increasing
the staff strength and the role of the Regional Mission in Eastern Africa
went a long way in improving project implementation performance. The other donors
continue to support Kenya's Family Planning Proframme and have indicated
willingness to make financial commitments on the proposed reproductive
Health Project which has been briefly described above.
The support of the donors and IDA to Kenya's Family Planning Programme has
borne tangible results as indicated under (a) above. With the proposed
reforms to the Public Health Sector efficiency and effectiveness of project
implementation is expected to improve and more support is expected tp flow
from the major donors to the population and health sector namely ODA, USAID,
FINLAND, SIDA, UNICEF,FRG,UNFPA and the World Bank and a major financier.
S.J.M.KALAMA
FOR: PERMANENT SECRETARY.



Borrower's Evaluation (NCPD)
Appendix B
- Page 5 of l2
OFFICE OF THE VICE-PRESIDENT AND MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND NATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
XATIM"L COtENC!L FOR POPULATiON aAN  DPVKLOPMEN
Trm:-au: 2N". Na1."HL=( C                                                   CANCY BULLMI4
Ta.paaM: ) t =717                                                          VAAllSY ROAD
Pe: 7142aL                                                    Pj                  Bo 44
W~gre na p1m qu  f3a
Au. i'4a.WeNlJ   W1  Yll (40)
Ks laorL Mlyamoto
world Barn
Washtugc,an, D.C
Dear t(s K4yamocC
RE    . I%LEHENEvTIOI  COWPLETLON RZPORT FOR POP. III
-o asasis  in Praparing the above docuiasc, w- haav  prepared a skcatchy
PtoJecc ImplementacLoc Assezsmant which we hope will be useful. It is
very ra. draft and does mot include MOK componenta. among cthArs.  We
cha"L. try to LmpTove on ic prLcr to your Hission.  Please do let tvi
knLow lho" we cau becter accomplish thw assignment since we heav, lit;1 e
expe?ieluce in preparing projecr compLecilol reporu.
Yours uincerely
K. CrEPSIROR
For:  DIRECTOR Z(CPD



Borrower's Evaluation (NCPD)                                                Appendix B
Page 6 of 12
POPULATION 1I, CREDIT 1904 K;E
PROJECT 1,'VPLEEINTATION ASSESS&NIENT
PROJECT OBJ.ECTi ES
At the time the proje: was approved in 1988, key demographic indicLors reflc=:Fd a conainuing
popularion prublem. The population growth rate, although having coae down from thc record
hreadng ram2s of the late '70s' which were estimatxd a the irme by some authorites at 4. 1 %,
was still rClarively high at around 3.4%. Fcrtility rates wer: also showing appreciable declines
but were still high at arn estimated TFR of around 7. Another indicator, the contraceptlvc
prevalence rare among married women, was relatively low and had only ruachcd 27% by the
1989 KDi-'S.
In eddition to the above, the population structure was quite skewed whercby around 50% of the
population were under 15 years of agc, itid thrcearening to wideti. This mant that the'
dependency burden was deeply felt. Furthermnore, with only 17.5% oF Kenya's land area
xuirabe fhor culivarion, there was some Ltrgcncy in geting the message acrxs of the n=d for
relevant activnrs as well as providing the necessary services.
The project hpd two broad cbjecrivus. nanety, to promote the growing demand for family
planning services and, Lo increse the supply of such services. Tis project consisrd of three
large components each addressing soine aspect of thc above objectives- The specific objcctives
for the three compunents were rnant ro:-
(a)   Improve NCPD's efFetiveness by suppornirig the development of a Management
Information System for the population program, a resrch and evaluation prograM and
staff rraining activities. The projeT wouldl help tu establish diswict population o Ffices.
in conformity with the government's disLricLs focus policy and a headquares was to be
cwiisEruc:ed for NCPD.
(b)   SzrengLhern demand for family planning services by expanding IEC servic=s for four
Govcrnment  ministrics  and  deparunents  and  sibx  NGO's.    The  targeted
oninistriesldepartmenLi were Office of the President, Ministry of Agrculture, Ministry
of Culture and Soia] Se.rvices, Department of Adult Education while the NGOs were
MYWO, FPAX, CIAK, NCCK, KCS and KNUT.
c)   -Expand supply of FP services by ;etablishnict of additional MOH facilities for
Voluntary Surgical Contracr-ption, development and rehabilitation of facIities suppurtext
by FPAK and CHAK. expansion of urban family planning programs, expansion of
servicu: delivery points in rural areas, providing family planning services, establishment
of commuruity based distribution programs, and training of health staff in family planning
inelLiding establishment of training facilities.
The project had a total of 16 sub conmponents.  This therefore carlled for a diversified
implemenranon plan which would accommodate issuea ranging frorn civil works prmcureinent,



Borrower's Evaluation (NCPD)                                                 Appendix B
Page 7 of 12
procurement of equipmcnt and supplies to setting up of an MIS and staff development. The
rnultipliCity of not just the sub-zr:mponents but also of the impleincflnors placed a lot of strain
on the process and on the coordinaung agtuicy, I! also rneans that an assessment of the project
would naturualy vaz,y widcly.
ACRIEVENItNT OF OJE:CTIVES
(a)    Strengtheah3pg of the NCPD
The averall objetive under this component was the strengthening of prograznming, funding,
cvrordination and monicoring capabilities of NCPD. This was lo be accomplished through,
craining, construction of dis=irct offices and a headquarters building, establishment of a district
manugemnent Informatiotn sysTem and support for institutional research.
To es:btish a district management information systerm for the population prugram, project funds
were to be used to support the design, inuallation, training/staff development and:
implementation of the MIS in the 14 districts with population officers (DPO's). This component
wa.S to complement the central MfIS which was furded ouLside the project by USAID.
The initial I4 DPO's were housed in mnostly inadcquace office spaces provided by respective.
district adrniristrations or rentid by NCPD. As mosr of the offices were too small or not
considered secure erough, it was decided Lu defer the procurement and installarion of computcrs
in the districts anId o await the con-strction of DPC offices which were epected to be more
permanent and sccurt. In doing this. NCPD was trying to avoid any unneces&ay losses duo to
thelt or spoilage that could arise from  frequent movements in temporary accommodation.
Unfortenately when the planned construction of the district offices did not takze place, this
t.mporoenr was nor implemcnted altogether and computers were nor bought.
Additionally ani in line with the Disricr Focus scrategy adopted by the Government to improye
the prospects for achicving population and development margets by esmablishirig a supporing
infrastrctture. another suibcomponent was to providt funding for tihe corissruction of 14. district
offices as well as for the procurement of office furniture, equiprnent and vehicles. A portion
of the sub componeant implenented by UNFPA was to support the correspnding staff salaria
supplies and fund serninars/training.
Wrhile the porrion implemented by l,NFPA has perforrned relatvely well, the main par
consisdng of construction of 14 offices was canceled by IDA just as the tendering process wras
about to begin. The cancellation of this part of the subcoinponcrnc has meant that not only thc
substanti-al funds meant for the civil works could not be disbuTsed but also that the MI.S
SubcnrOponent could not he implemnented for reasons already highlighted.
The other objecEive of this subcomriponents was to strcngthen the NCPD throughi provision of
training for NCPD's staff. This woUld be mcL through a combination of short and long-t*rnr
ovcrwcas and local tr2ining as well as study tours. The subcomponent was to provide funds for
short and long rterm fellowshlips and was to bc closely cuordinased with the manpower
development activities funded by IJSALD outside the project. In additiocr, this subcomponent



Borrower's Evaluation (NCPD)                                               Appendix B
Page 8 of 12
was to support thc constructon, furnisling and equipPing of a new hadqjuarters building for
NCPD in Nairobi. This was in recognition of the need to accommodatc NCPD's growing
cormplement oa professiornal staff in more appropriate and permanent prcnuses for purposes oa
hetng better equipped to provide more effective technicl services.
The taining portion of this subcomponent has been relatively successful. A good number of,
NC.PD staff have urnderone long-tctin training at Masters level as wel as divese short coures. .
Speciically 10 NCPD officers underwent long training overseas whike three were sponsored for
short uaining. Approximately USSS00,000 has heen udlizAe under dtis subcomrponeCt Valuable
study tours were organized to successful population programTnes such as those ii Indonesia and
Thailand.
The phnned construction of NCPD hladqujarters, as was the case with the DPO offices, was,
canceled by TDA during one of iis supervision missions. The unfortunate aspect of the
cancellation is th3t substantial ffnances, rime and effort had been expended by the zime of
cancellation and in f4ict(contractors had already been prequaiified through ICB. The stoppage ac
the stage appeared somewhat cynical. As with the canceled DPO offices, funds for the poztion
of the subcomponent could not and were not dishursed.
Constraints
The following constraints hindcred the implementation of this component.
i)    World Bank and (icjvernmcnt (Ministry) staff often took on divergerni rather than
collaborative relationships. This resulted in implemtentation delays as much btne was lost
in unnecessary correspondence.  This Was particularly the case oa  die civil worki
components.
ii)   Inability by government to disburse funids to lhe sub-projecLs in a timely manner parly
3S a result of Government having to meet conditionalities demanded by other sactions af
the Bank.
iii)   Peristenc cumbersomeness of the special account channel due to multiplicity of
procedures and responsibility centres nmaking it difficult to ensurm speed or absolute
accountability. The project coordinator, for example, culd not always ensure that
urgent payments such as those for Students were effectcd in a timely manner since many
uf the sLeps were ouLside his control or intluence.
(h)   mNultisectoral ActivitLs
One objective of thi.s sub componcat was to use the agricultural extension woricers and Cthe
training progridn uuidertalen by the blinistry of Agriculture for population awareness cration.



Borrower's Evaluation (NCPD)                                             Appendix B
Page 9 of 12
Specifu aliy. the component was vtt carry out the following:
i)    Train extension staff in populalion education
ii)    Prepare and impLement youth programs on ppulaiion
iii)   Train farmers and farmer groups on population and development as it pertains to
agriculture and food; and
iv)   Use nutrition education and fami nanagement models to Influen= family size.
Anothct objective was to utilize the youth devcJopment programme of Ehe Ministry of Trchnical:
'raining & Applied Technology to reach the "out of school' youth with an intensified Family'
Life Education Programme. The implemnentation was to be done by inegrating the training
progamme for family life educaLion into the overall youth polytechnic training prograrnme.
fnstructors of home economics were to be equipped with slills anud positive attitude on FLE.
MTis training was then to be expanded to cover youth polytechnic managers and instructors as
well a.s provide FLE to the various cadres of youth thcmselves.
Dunrng the first two years of iniplrementaion, the component irnplmented by Ministry of
Agnculture wa;i relatively sucocssful in addressing its main objectives. During 1989/90 financial
year alone, 42 seminars were held in all the provinces and around 2,500 extension workers were
*mined. Among the topics covered were che following:
i)   C(auses of high population growth ra(t and its effects on die economy %et family ana
narional level.
ii)    Nutritional related problems and role of Ministry of AgTiculture
iii)   Food production and food policy in relation ta rapid populadon growth. Subqc~uently,
however, chis project bcgan to stall due to fundin, difficultiez. 
For lbe Mlinistry of Technical Training & Applied Technology, requirtd audio-visual equipm4en
was procured and a ntmber of workshops and seminars were held. Some of the topics addressmc
in the seminars included:
i)    PopulaTion and Dvcelopment
ii)    Human Growth and Developmen
iii)   Family Planning
iv)   Drug use and Abuse
v)    Sexually Transmitted DLseases/AIDS
vi)   The Family and laws regulaing individual family member-
Apptoximarely 150 Youch polytechnic managcrs and youth ofFccrs were trained during 1993,



Borrower's Evaluation (NCPD)                                                 Appendix B
Page 10 of 12
thc l;.sr year this mubcomponent was implemented.
The deartment of Adult Educacon was to implemernt a component aimed at incorporating
populac.on and family plainning informacioon into the curriculum and caching of the DAE's adult
Litcracy classcs. This cornPonent has been relatively successful and has trained all is ftul time
reacners as per their original oxbjective. The project carried out an inhouse evaluation in 1993
in 8 of the project districts and the results were ccouraging. The projert has printed many useful
Dublications covenng such subjets as:  Populaimon growth in reladon to sucio-economric
Development; Family Resources and Management, and; Aids and other STDs.
'Staff of the department uwdernook successful study tours to Indonesia and Zimnbabwe and
prepared detailed reports on their cxperiences.
Constraints
This cnmponent sufferel from one major constraint; the delay and the cumbersomeness of
funding. The furiding arrangement provided for in the agreelent between IDA and (he
government was that government would advance ftunds to the agencies and then subsequenLly
seek reirrmbursement fronm IDA.
Tu fund thesc othler governmenE departments, NCPD was to issuC thcm with Authority to Tncur
Expcnditure (AIE). The departments were then to "incur experidirure" i.e fund the project
acnvitiv , wich their internal resourccs and then submit the expenditure documcims to the NCPD
for reimbbursemtnt.
This worked relatively well at the beginning. Huwever, as the government began to experience
liquidity problems beginning in 1990, competition for the limited revenue funds meant that
CutE.ide agencies became less of a prioricy. To NC-PDs parent Ministry, the different govemrment
Ministrys/departmen.rLi fall in the category of outside agencies and thus their reimbursement
Claimns were not readily hooored,
So that whilc NCPD continued to issuc AIE's to the governmnent depa-rtments implernenting
sections of the project, their respeAlive accounting units would no longer allow them to incur
expenditure by utilizing the ininisEry's financial resources since they were not certain they would
he reitnbursed. These other mrLinistries were themselves affected by che overal liquidity squee2
within government.
The sum effect of thceie aclons was to SL,ll the inplenntation of the mnulii-toral component
of the project. Save for the subcnmponenc implemented by the Department of Adult Education
which has remarkably concinued unin:crrupted partly due Lo the ingenuity of the Department, the
Gciher subcomponcnLs have been dwrrnanr most from the 1991l2 financial year.



Borrower's Evaluation (,N'CPD)                                               Appendix B
Page 11 of 12
(c.)    Noak-Governrnenttl Organizations INGO's)
The brvcad objective under this suhcomponent was w be achieved through strengthening of
demarna for family planning by expanding IEC services in six NGO's, narnmly. MYWO, FPAX.
CHAKi, NCCK. KCS and I(NUT. in addition the supply of FP services was to be expanied
through rehabilitation of clinics supported by FPAX and CHAIK.
The yourh iniformation and e4ucation component implemented by CHAk  was aimed at providing
IEC through trailning and recorced thc fol1owing buecc=ses:-
i)    2237 Youth C-ainers MTained out of a planned 1300
ii)    88    one wcek trainer courds held out of a pla.nned 72
iii)    5 out of 5 planned youth 'forums held
iv)    5 out of 5 planned parent fonnms held
v)    8 1 Bible student training sessions held ouI of planned 650
vi)    Only 8373 follow up visits undertaken our of a planned 13.000. The riehabiliation of
healult units pnxeeded as plaiine4i with all 30 planned staff houses constructed and all
planned 20 clinics upgraded.
NCCK's Family Life Education proqjt was to support Training activides so as to establish lay
rarnily planning teachersIcouns4liors ini member churchcs and provide FLE to congreganons and
staff support for central and regional offices. This was to be accomplished through Integradng
FLE in church ac6vities,; facflitcing FLE and conselling in schools; providing rspnsible
parenthood eduication Lo parants, providing sexuality and adulthood educaion to young people;
and motivating opinion leaders and creating awareness on FLE issues.  The following
accomplishmentrs werc noted.
i)    18 in service courses were held and 562 teachers trained
ii)    2 peer counselling cour-ses fr students and 200 students trained
iii)    8 seininars hrld in Teachers colleges and 4,927 Traine-5 participaled
iv)    40 serninar-s on sustainable marriagmi held reaching 2739 paticipants
v)    5S group discus&ions for parniLs involving 8541 parents
vi)   39 seminars for oul of schtx-l youth reaching 3191 pa.ricipants
vii)   20 group counselling mee=ngs held reaching 924 parlicipants
viii)  L2 motivaional seminars for churchi leaders rahing 488 church leaders.
ix)    S seminars for opinion leaders held involving 264 leaders
x)     L192 active primary and &7 secondary FLE teachers.
Thw proiecUmplemented by the Kcnya Catholic Sec.retariat which was to support training of
Natural Family Planning tcachers ,5nd counsulivr.i .iorde4 the fn]lowing successes.
i)    Trained and qualified 78 NFP teachers ouE of a planned 60
ii)    Rcfresher cour  for 10 NFP teachers our of planned 300



Borrower's Evaluation (NCPD)                                               Appendic B
Page 12 of 12
iii)   Traiied 80 youth animators c,xcteding the planned 60 and reazhed 30,(X  yolth.
Aniinator awareness on AIDS was given to 100,000 pcople which exceedd the planned
target of 20,000.
Tte componcent of the project implemented by FPAKC was to establish and suppyrt four new and:
two renovated full service and 24 oualeacl fnmily planning clinics. 11e project was also to:
support Ehe prinuing of postcrs, tchnical FP pamphlets and paricipation of FPAK staff in shows,"
seminars and workshops. Finally, the project was to support pilot CBD progrv.Ime.
The achievements were as follows:
i)    Three clinics were build and two renovated in Kisumu, Nyeri, Meru, Kakamega arnd
Eidoret. The one for Nakuru was not constructed due to problems with the site.
ii)    Static-based delivery of FP services were quite successful and surpassed targets in many
cases. Vascctomy higher in FPAK clinics than Government or other private clinics.
Norplant usage and papsmear services were well rmceived.
iii)   Targets wpere also reached for ouLreach clinical family pianning services. Tne outresdh
clinics were used as referral cenrres for CBD clients-
iv)    A variety of [EC materials were developed and TV shows and radio programmes
undertaken
The component implemented by Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNU`T) was intended; to
support the training of primary and secondary school teachers, paxticularly school heads and
counsciiors from secondary and teachers colleges. Judged alongside the other components, this
component was largely a failuru since very few hrads were reached. Ar the end of the project
o-nly 1680 teachers had been reached.
Comrraint5
The main constraint affecting all the NGOs during the implementation of the project was
fr&quenr delays in releasc of funds. Because of these delays, many activitiCs were undertakcn
bchisd schedule or not ar all. Another constraint for some of the projects was lack of pr6jcct
vehicles whichi resulted in coordinators having to travel long distances by public reansland
thereby not always meeting their targtts. For sonic of the scrvices, comptiton fromt prjvate
clinics resulted in minor disrupdons such as when CBD's got paid for clients they referr#d to
private clinics.  This also made it difficulI to carry out irnpact asessrnent.  Firally,
counteractive competition by churches and religious groups tended to neutralizc FP messages and
effort.



Borrower's Comments (MOH)                                Appendix C
Page I of 5
MINSTRY OF HEALTH
Telegr3ms: -MINALTH. Nairobi                                     AFYA HOUSE
Telephone: Nairobi 71W777                                    CATHEDRAL ROAD
When replying piase quote                                      P.O. BOX 30016
Rer.No .  .......   11-11//12. Vol. XXXVII
and date                                3rd Mac
mdQte 3rd ,Mar,,c,,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.,h,,, ,,, ............  . .   .   .  ...................
Ms. Kaori Miyamoto,
Task Team Leader,
Human Development 1,
Eastern & Southern Africa,
The World Bank,
1818H Street N.W.,
Washington D.C. 20433,
U.S.A.
Dear Ms. Miyamoto,
RE: DRAFT IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR POPULATION III
(CREDIT 1904-KE.)
I acknowledge receipt of a draft Implementation Completion
Report (ICR) on the Third Population Project (IDA Cr. 1904-KE)
which was forwarded vide your letter dated February 11, 1997
and wish to make the following comments to enable you finalise
the report for submission by March 31, 1997.
1.      OVERVIEW OF THE REPORT.
I wish to commend you and your team at the World Bank
for coming up with a positive, balanced, informative
and analytical ICR on Population III.  I particu-
larly wish to single out the sections on sustainabi-
lity, future operations and the key lessons learned
and congratulate you and your team for helping both
the NCPD and the MOH to use the experiences and the
key lessons learnt from implementing Population III
to improve the design of future Population Sector
Operations and to start focusing on the very impor-
tant aspect of the future sustainability of population
activities ad programmes that are currently heavily
dependent on donor funding.
2.      SPECIFIC COMMENTS.
The following specific comments are made to update the
report on matters of facts, details or figures and to
clarify areas of the report which the MOH feels need
further clarification and elaboration in order to put
the issues articulated in their proper perspective viz:-



Borrower's Comments (MOH)                                  Appendix C
Page 2 of 5
(a)     Paragraph 3 (c)
The number of VSCUs completed and operational as at
1.7.1996 was five (5) and not one as indicated in
this sub-paragraph. The completed and operational
facilities are Malindi, Voi, Makindu, Kerugoya and
Molo VSCUs.
(b)     Paragraph 7
Going by the status report on the civil works that
has been compiled jointly by the MOPW, MOH and IDA
most of the on-going VSCUs as at 1.7.1996 were well
beyond the 50% completion stage. It would therefore
be more appropriate to say that the remaining VSCUs
are at various stages of completion rather than saying
that they "were left half-completed"'..................
(c)     Paragraph 12
It is the understanding of the MOH that the refocusing
of the NCPD's mandate before further funding can be
considered by IDA will not adversely affect the flow
of IDA funds to the MOH under the Health Sector Reform
Reproductive Health Component which has already been
presented to IDA and has been well covered in para-
graphs 8, 9 and 10 of the Report.
(d)     Paragraph 37 : STDs/HIV Drugs
(i)     The second sentence of this paragraph implies that the
original list of drugs cleared by the Bank included
supplies that had little to do with STD/HIV such as
dental cartridges; bandages etc. The MOH wishes to
point out that during the MTR the Ministry requested
IDA for financial support from the Reprogramming of
POP. III and IV funds to procure STDS/HIV/AIDS drugs
and protective non-pharmaceuticals that are necessary
for proctecting MOH staff from opportunistic infec-
tions brought about by HIV infection. These non-
pharmaceuticals included dental sundries. The list
as approved was therefore consistent with the original
request made by the Government.
(ii)    The reason why the STD/HIV drugs remained uncleared
at the port for a long period was inadequate GOK
budgetary allocation to pay for the non-waivable port
charges such as wharfage, container-deposits, KPA
charges etc. which accumulated because the terms of
payment were CAD-Cash Against Documents, which meant
that original clearing documents could only be re-
leased by the Central Bank of Kenya (CBK) upon con-
firmation that payments had been made to the suppliers.



Borrower's Comments (MWOH)                                 Appendix C
Page 3 of 5
This situation was brought about by the fact that
the drugs and non-pharmaceuticals were ordered
during 1993/94 FY and paid for .1994/95 when there
was inadequate provision and the MOH had to look
for supplementary funds during 1994/95 FY.
With approval by the Treasury of use of Letters of
Credit (LCs) to settle international commitments on
IDA funded procurement the issue of the CAD mode of
payments will not arise and we do not expect delays
such as the ones experienced under Population III.
(e)    Paragraph 38
It is pertinent to mention that long delays by the
MOPW in processing contractors' claims for revision
of rates (price fluctuations) resulted in contractors
abandoning the sites while waiting for the process to be
completed.
(f)    Paragraph 39
The Ministry wishes to clarify that the VSCUs are multi-
purpose operating theatres with six-bed recovery wards
and handle both Voluntary Surgical Contraception as
well as other surgical cases including major surgeries.
The flow-through of patient traffic and the activities
therefore justify the investment in the accommodation
and facilities provided. The Government decided to
have multi-purpose theatres in order to address the
problem of inadequate theatre facilities and to meet
demand for Voluntary Surgical Contraception.
Decisions to locate the various VSCUs in District and
Sub-District Hospitals were taken after a needs assess-
ment survey based on population; accessibility and
fertility rates was carried out country-wide. Proposed
sites were then discussed with IDA and the other donors
supporting the population programme before final deci-
sions were made to locate them where they are.
(g)    Paragraph 51
The conclusion of the ICR team given in this paragraph
falls short of the detailed analysis and the positive
Borrower Performance attributes described in parag-
raphs 48 through to 50. A more consistent overall
assessment should be "Partially Satisfactory".  Please
consider and amend.
(h)    Paragraph 56
The sentiments expressed by IDA in this paragraph are
consistent with the Current Government policy on
health infrastructure development which gives priority
to repair, rehabilitation and consolidation of existing
infrastructure  and facilities as opposed to investing
in additional infrastructure which has recurrent cost
imDlications .



Borrower's Comments (MOH)                                 Appendix C
Page 4 of 5
However the Government will still Invest in additional
infrastructure In those areas that are currently
underserved. The MOH hopes that where cases of real
need have been documented and satisfactory implemen-
tation arrangements have been put in place IDA would
consider future requests from the Ministry to support
limited investment In putting up additional infras-
tructure.  The Ministry appreciates IDA's support to
the rehabilitation and institutional development of
Kenyatta National Hospital and health facilities In
Nairobi Area Outside KNH that is being provided under
IDA Credit 2310-KE. The Ministry looks forward to
further support during the next operation.
Yours Sincerely
./'I
DR. J.N. MWANZIA
DIRECTOR OF MEDICAL SERVICES
cc
V'Mr. Harold Wackman,
Country Director for Kenya and Djibouti,
The World Bank Country Office,
P.O. Box 30577,
NAIROBI.



Borrower's Comments (NCPD)                                                   Appendix C
Page 5 of 5
OFFICE OF THE VICE-PRESIDENT AND MINISTRY OF PLANNING AND NATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
NATIONAL COUNCIL FOR POPULATION AND DEVELOPMJNNT
Telegrams: "NCPD", Nairobi                                                   CHANCERY BUILDING
Telephone: Nairobi 710275                     i                                  VALLEY ROAD
Fax: 710281                ~"P.O. Box 4899
When replying plase quote                                                               NAIROBI
RkWJED .181.3- Vel -V4i 76)7 ...
and  data.................                                                           ..
21st March, 1997
Ms. Kaori Miyamoto
World Bank
Washington, DC
Dear Ms. Miyamoto
RE: IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT FOR THIRD POPULATION
SUGGESTED AMENDMENTS
PARAGRAPH 57: Should read as follows:-
The new National Population Policy recognizes that poverty reduction and completion of Kenya's
demographic transition require effective policy and programmatic links between population and other areas
of social and economic development, particularly those that effect the role and status of women. The
policy document calls for NCPD to play a leadership role in policy development, advocacy and oversight.
Govemment of Kenya commitment was demonstrated by the transfer of NCPD from the low key Ministry
of Home Affairs and National Heritage to the high profile and policy oriented office of the Vice President
and Ministry of Planning and National Development. Thus NCPD has been brought into the mainstream
of development policy. Inspite of this, there is still need for the Government to empower NCPD with the
necessary status and instruments to enable it carry out its mandate effectively.
Yours sincerely
K. Chepsiror
FOR: DIRECTOR, NCPD
CC
Ms Wacuka Ikua
World Bank Regional Office
Nairobi






MAP SECTION






BRD 261 OR
SUDAN
TS Kopo-t
5 '-.                      KENYA
~~~ts                                               ...              \, ~~~~~~         ~        ~~~~~         ~          ~~~~~~To A ddo  Abac bos>E
>                        ._/                     & ANI,I          SANOR
61/ 0~~~~
RIF1-T                                                                                                                                /
<  n    VALLE',Y         ' e               EASTERN                                                                          K'
U <  S   > 9                 0                                            NORTH
y                                 /                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~      ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~WAJIR$>>     
IL VVCSThRN                                                                                                               EASTERN |
g eN| ~~KAKAEGA   
i    {  X  / 4s!   \             / <   '  E                                                                <     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~T. G me
KISUM+                        U       U                                                                                   /
| * % \ t t.Ar t r : QY~~~~~ERI                                                 ;                                RSSA
T T., Te .
To Tr r me   \ ~ ~     ~    ~ ~ V             C)                                                0  ,A,. S    TV8    
a<:>d\,            /J}                                         \        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LAMU  0,c
O        MAJOR TOWNS                  4i
Indias
(i3       NATIONAL CAPITAL                 T. Ar-hoo S\
MAIN ROADS                                                                                                      ND]
4         NATIONAL AIRPORTS                                                             Vol_
i i    _     T. A_.._h.                     _,_
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS                                                                                      /SUDANJ
s~~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~ J                          5,EH OPIA
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                                                    >,o es                                      
INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                                                                                           -T  SO--A
0        50      100      150      20J iomnters',                            ZAIRE  ,r,>#  KENYA
0                                                                                      IRUND 
This mop w0s prepared by the Mop Unit of the World Bonk.               50             lOOMiltAe.                                                TANAN
The booodories, coiors, denominations and any other information                                     DoT Es Saloon,                                             I
sho- on ithis mop do not Imply. on the part of The World Bank
Group, any o.dgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
endorsement or acceptance of soch boundaries.                                                                                        ''-1
MWAY 1997









IMAGING
Report No.:          16514
Type;      ICR



