Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7053-KE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
KENYA
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
April 20, 1988
Populat-on and Human Resources Division
Eastern Africa Department
This document has a restricted distribution and maW be used by eipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed twithou. World Bank authorization.



XMA:  TIU  POPMATI   ?S1J3Cr
CRuuc, =VIVALURrS
Currency IJnit              Kenya Shilling (KSh)
KSh 20             =        Kenya Pound (KL) 1
US$ 1.00           =        KSh 16.66
US$ 1.00                    SDR 1.36a/
TEUC Xn;IVALZUTs
1 meter (m)                   =  3.28 feet
1 square meter (sq.m)         = 10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)              =  0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (sq.km)  =  0.386 square miles
GOvfWm IT riscAL  AR
July 1       =      June 30
a/   As of February 1988.  Since August 1985 the Kenya shilling has been
pegged to the; SDR at a rate of SDR 1 = KSh 19.66. The rate vis-a-vis
the US dollar fluctuates. A rate of US$1.00 = KSh 16.66 has been used
in appraising this project.
This Report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Kenya in Augu.st 1987 and consisted of Dr. V. Jagdish, Mr. E. Ndungutse. Dr.
D. Sebina. Ms. B. Bashore (Bank staff). and Dr. K. Ksnagazetnam and Mr. B.
Jacobson (Consultants).  Mmes. I. Ofstad and S. Moegedal (NORAD). and Mr. C.
Walker (ODA) participated in the mission.



mro OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Baic Data
Area                                                          569.249 sq.ka
Population (1986)                                             21.2 million
Rural                                                   13.6 million
Urban                                                    7.6 million
Population Growth Rate                                        4.1S
Population Density                                           38 persons/km2
Crude Birth Rate                                             52.6/1000 births
Crude Death Rate                                              12.2/1000 birtbh
Infant Mortality Rate                                        76/1000 births
Total Fertility Rate                                         7.7 children per
volma
Contraceptive Prevalence Rate                                1O0
(1984: modern methods only)
Total No. of New Acceptors (1986)                             103.147
GNP per capita (1986)                                        300
This docurant has a  trcud distribution and may be ued by rdeients only in thU pofonms 1of
their offia dutius. Its cntents nmy not otherwise be disloed without World enk authoaduom.



KNUEAt TKMS POfiNATIOK ?M1UM
hbbrerlatioms
AWR            Age Specific Fertility Rate
CID            Ccommunity Based Distribution
CJR            Crude Birth Rate
cBs            Central Bureau of Statistics
CDR            Crude Death Rate
cmK            Christian Health Association of Kenya
DAR            'Department of Adult Education of the Ministry of Culture
and Social Services
DhNIDA          Danish International Development Agency
DWPC           District Population and Family Planning Committee
DPO            District Population Officer
D8S             Department of Social Services of the Ministry of Culture
and Social Services
U(Q             Enrolled Community Nurse
nRU            Family Life Education
U'             Family Planning
lPhK           Family Planning Association of Kenya
1P5SS          Family Planning Service Statistics System
GD P           Gross Domestic Product
GNP            Gross National Product
GMK            Government of Kenya
INC            Information, Education and Communication
DMR            Infant Mortality Rate
1391?          Integrated Rural Health and Family Planning
1u             Intra-uterine Device
KCeS           Kenya Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
KCS            Kenya Catholic Secretariat
KFS            Kenya Fertility Survey
KFN             Kenya National Union of Teachers
KICK            Kenya Registered Community Nurse
mmB            Maternal and Child Health
HIS            Management Information System
MR             Ministry of Health
mmN             Msendaleo Ya Wanaawke
NCoC           National Council of Churches of Kenya
National Council for Population and Development
inC            National Family Welfare Center
nGO            Non-Government Organization
NORAD          Norwegien Development Agency
ODA            Overseas Development Administration
SGDA           Swedish International Development Agency
SDP            Service Delivery Point
SOF            Statement of Expenditure
TmR            Total Fertility Rate
UDIPA          United Nations Fund for Population Activities
USAID          United States Agency for International Development



4t. Secifie *ertility Rate               mer of live births to vwo_n in a
give  age group per 1.000 w nin
the ame a group. in a give. year.
Contraceptive Prevalme Rate:           The percentage of mrrie  oman of
reproductive age who are using (or
whse, husbands are using) any for
of contraception.
Crude Iirth Ratet                      The nubr of births per 1.000
population in a given year.
Crude Death late:                      The nmber of deaths per 1,000
population in a given yer.
Dependency Ratio:                      The ratio of the economically
dependent part of the population to
the productive part, arbitrarily
defined as the ratio of the young
(those under 15 years of age) plus
the elderly (those 65 years of age
and over) to the population in the
sorkizg ages  (those 15 to 64 years
of age).
Infant Mortality Rate:                 The number of deaths of infants
under one year old in a given year
per 1,000 live births in that year.
Life Expectancy at lirths              The average number of years a
neborn would live if current age-
specific mortality rate trends
prevailing at the tine of birth were
to continue.
Not Rprotduction late:                 The average number of daughters that
would be born to a womn (or group
of women) if during her lifetim she
were to confors to the age specific
fertility and mortality rates of a
given year.



RLte of Natural IncreJe:                The rate at which a population is
inereaing (or decreasing) in a
given year due to surplus (or
deficit) of births over deaths
ezpressed an a percentage of the
bas population.
Rate of Populavion Growths              The rate at which a population is
increasing (or decreasing) in a
given year due to natural increase
and net migration, expressed as a
percentage of the base population.
Total Fertility Rate:                   The average number of children that
would be born alive to a womn (or
group of women) during her lifetime
if during her child-bearing years
she were to bear children at each
age in accord with prevailing age-
specific fertility rates.



RAM: THIND POPULATIM PDGJU
STAFF AIUXSAL ZIW
TARE OW COMTTS
CMIT AD    roaJZ
Xatroductir ...................................... 1
A.  Population Sttus .............................2
D.  Sectoral Issues 1...........................12
Co Role of the e l
B.  Olec toi te  adDsg........................ 17
-.  *jectiveu m.d Design...... 000 0..17
C.  Summary Project Descriptio .................. 18
D.  Detailed Project Description        ........   .21
III.      P3OJ3C COST AM  JUAUCIYS.                                33
A.  Csts .............33
S. t4s'"eiq8--- ............. eeoeea&*..*eee,,,,,,..... ,,,,35
C. Peoeet....,3
D. Daw xz....4
R.   ccounts and Audit    ........41
IT.       PRID.J            -3
AL  Statu  of Project Preparatio ................43
S.  Orgoni uatiun and msaet.................. 43
C.  Nonitoring. Reporting and Uveluati o........ 44
V.        PROJ3T  INEDITS. JUSTIFICAITII  AMD RIMS ............6.. 6
A..  Benefit  and JustifiCtio ................... 46
TX.       A8^" ARM  AND  MY         O     t     SD       T     o 



TAIE in DU?
1.  Project Costs by apImdlt.ze Cstesory ............. 34
2.  Project-Costa by I'aI ei.3   Sosrce .................37
3.  Prospod Project Financing    ............... o39
4.  P?ocerinnMt Sable.......... ................. 4 0
S~
1.  Statistical^n ..............wS
2. Project objectives and Activities by
asponsible Inatitutiom .......... ............ o o56
3.  District Lel l  117y Plaiag Trg.et. ........o...57
4.  Documnts Awailble in Project liLl...............73
5.  Project Costs and  cbs      s. . ....e......     74
MAP             NID Nb. 17216



KENYA
THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Credit cnd Pro1ect Summary
Borrower:           Kenya
Amountt             SDR 9.0 million (US$12.2 million equivalent)
Beneficiary:        National Council for Population and Development (NCPD)
Tenrss              Standard, with 35 years maturity
Prolect             The proposed project has two main objectives: (a) to
Obiectives          promote the growing demand for family planning services
and                 and (b) to increase the supply of such services. It
Description:        will accomplish this goal by mobilizing and
coordinating the resources of both Government
ministries and Non-Government Organizations (NGOs).
Regarding demand, the project will expand the coverage
of information and education activities by
strengthening mass media and publicity campaigns and
encouraging the integration of Information, Education
and Communication (IEC) activities into other
governmental and non-governmental development programs.
Regarding supply, tbhs project will expand the coverage
of family planning services under both the MOH and
NGOs. More specifically, the project will: (a)
strengthen the capacity of the NCPD to plan, program,
finance, coordinate and monitor population program
activities; (b) further create acceptance of, and
demand for family planning services through the
implementation of a strategically planned and
coordinated IEC program; and (c) increase the
availability, accessibility, and quality of family
plsnning services provided by the Government and NGOs.
Risks:              Based on past experience with population and health
projects in Kenya, the main risks of this project
relate to the administrative, managerial and financial
problems in the family health division of the MOH, the
ability of the NCPD to coordinate and manage an
expanding multisectoral population program, and the
nearly total NGO dependancy on the NCPD for funds to
sustain their activities. The appointment of senior
staff to strengthen the family health division,
establishment of working level links with the NCPD and
the appointment of a technical deputy director in NCPD
to provide professional guidance to its staff are
expected to alleviate the first and second risks,
respectively. In order to address the third risk, a
study will be undertaken to examine possible
alternative mechanisms to finance NGOs including
development of fund raising techniques and improving
local support and contributions.



I.    POIUAn1Qff-6EUM- -VrAM6 AM -1S3
Ineroduction
1.01      Kenya's health status improved significantly in the immediate post
independence period as evidenced by the dramatic drop in infant and child
mortality and the concomitant increase in life expectancy. The drop in
mortality vas not followed by a similar drop in fertility. In fact
fertility rose primarily due to a decline in breast feeding and a reduction
in the period of post-partus abstinence. As a result Kenya's population
grew at a rate that is currently the fastest in Sub-Saharan Africa. In
response to this alarming situation. the Government of Kenya. with the
assistance of multilateral and bilateral donors. started supporting family
planning activities (FP) since 1967 and initiated a more comprehensive
population program in 1982. All indications are that these efforts which
for a long time did not seem to have much impact are finally bearing fruit.
Contraceptive acceptance. though still low. has been increasing steadily.
Pilot Non-governmental Organizations (NGO) run projects have achieved
contraceptive prevalence rates of up to 35% for modern methods (as opposed
to a nationwide average of 10X in 1984-also for modern methods). Both
government and non-government facilities have waiting lists of up to six
months for voluntary surgical contraception procedures. All indications are
that these trends will be sustainable and that the rate of population growth
will slow by 1995.
1.02      The changing environment of Kenya's population program can be
explained by the following developments:
(a)  the political. cultural. and economic factors which favored large
families have fundamentally changed; there is now a clear national
consensus in favor of population planning and strong political
support for it;
(b)  the design of family planring activities. which originally
emphasized the supply of services on the assumption that there was
an already existing demand. has now shifted to a combination of
demand promotion and improved supply;
(c)  demand promotion. which initially relied on one primary vector.
the Ministry of Health (MOH). has now evolved towards a concept of
redundancy through a multi-sector approach to ensure that all
target groups (particularly men) are reached;
(d)  supply is no longer confined to rural areas. but is now being
extended to the urban areas. and involves Government. NGOs. and
the private sector as complementary channels. and a combination of
FP techniques has been adopted ranging from natural family
planning to the voluntary surgical sterilization method; and



-2-
(e) there now exists a sound and sustainable institutional basis for
the family planning program. The structure consists of the
National Council for Population and Development (NCPD) located in
the Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Home Affairs; the
MOH and other Ministries;  nd a number of NMe. There are also
tested mechanisms for sonitoring, coordination and funding, of
these agencies' BP activities, as well as for enlisting continuous
donor support.
The following paragraphs deal in greater deptb with the demographic
situation, past experience with population programs including evolution of
strategies for dexand generation and supply of services, IDA's role and the
rationale for the proposed project.
A. Population Status
Dremgrvphic--Situation
1.03      According to the results of the most recent census (1979), the
population of Kenya was then an estimated 16.1 million persons. Official
projections indicate that by mid-1987, assuming constant levels of fertility
and mortality, the population had increased to 22.1 million at an average
annual rate of increase of 4.1%. Kenya's population is the fastest growing
in Sub-Saharan Africa. At this rate of increase the population of Kenya will
double in approximately 17 years. A time series analysis of census results
indicates that Kenya's rate of population increase has accelerated during
recent decades from 2.52 per annum in 1948 to its present level of 4.1S per
annum. This acceleration in the growth rate is due. primarily. to a
combination of increases in fertility levels and decreases in mortality
levels indicative of improvements in health and socio-economic status.
Kenya has the highest estimated crude birth rate and second lowest crude
death rate (only South Africa's is lower) of al1 Sub-Saharan African
countries with populations of more thart ten million.
1.04      Given this sustained combination of high fertility and declining
mortality. Kenya's current population is extremely young. The median age of
the population is 14.1 years and almost 531 of the population of Kenya is
below 15 years of age. Considering that 4.11 of the population is above 64
years of age. the total dependency ratio has grown to 119 economically
dependent persons to every 100 who are economically active. The Population
Reference Bureau (PRB) estimates that this is the highest dependency ratio
observed in the world for 1986. The average population density is
approximately 38 persons per km2   With only 17.51 of Kenya's land suitable



-3-
for cultivation. population densities vary considerably. Within those areas
with large proportions of !rable land. protincial population densities have
reached 300 persons per km (e.g. Eastern. Central and Nyanza Provinces),
while in the dry North Eastern Province average density is only 4 persons
per km.  (Annex 1 Table 1).
1.05      Kenya's populstion is characterized by rich ethnic diversity and
is composed of nine major ethnic groups. The largest one is the Kikuyu with
212 of the population. followed by the Luhya (142). Luo (13X). Kamba (112).
Kalenjin (11). Kisii (6S). Meru (6S). Mijikenda (5Z) and Taita-Taveta (12).
The remaining 122 of the population is composed of a large number of small
ethnic groups. Europeans and Asians.
1.06      Kenyan women still tend to marry young though age at first
marriage has increased during the last two decades. More than 252 of the
15-19 year old and 75Z of the 20-24 year old were reported ever-married in
the 1977-78 Kenya Fertility Survey (KFS) and the 1984 Kenya Contraceptive
Prevalence Survey (KCPS). The KFS estimate of mean age at marriage was 19.8
years. while the median age was 18.1 years. More than 852 of the women
between 25 and 49 years of age in the KCPS were currently married and four
out of five women were married to their first husband. Increased age at
marriage usually results in a lowering of fertility but, this has not yet
happened in Kenya. Significant socio-economic and regional differentials in
age of first marriage have also been recorded by the surveys. In the KES
the median ages of marriage for women in Coast and Nyanza Provinces were
16.3 and 16.6 years respectively. These ages were significantly lower than
median ages in Nairobi, Eastern and Central Provinces. Educational and
ethnic differences also affect the age of marriage: women with no education
marry younger (median age of 17.5 years) than do those vith an education:
Kikuyu and Meru/Embu women marry later than do the Luo, Mijikenda. Luhya and
Kisii women. (Annex 1, Table 2).
1.07      Fertility rates in Kenya are extremely high.  According to the
KCPS survey of Kenya's fertility, the Total Fertility Rate (TFR) in 1984 was
an estimated 7.7 children per woman. This is the result of nuptial patterns
favoring early marriages and high age specific fertility rates throughout
the childbearing years. Due primarily to improvements in health status, it
appears that fertility levels have increased from a TFR of 6.8 prior to the
1962 Census to 7.7 at present. Survey estimates also indicate that
important fertility differentials exist among Kenyan women associated with
area of residence and education. For example, the TFR of women in the urban
centers of Nairobi and Mombasa (4.7 children per woman) was 42Z be'ow the
level recorded for women from rural areas (8.1) during the KCPS. Similarly,
the TFR of women with more than nine years of education was 402 lower than
the TYR of women with only 1-4 years. Reflecting differentials in
educational. socio-economic and cultural factors, significant provincial
variations in the estimated levels of current fertility have been recorded
by surveys, with Nairobi and Coastal Provinces recording lower TERs in both
the RES and the KCPS. (Annex 1. Table 3).



-'4--
1.08      Levels of mortality in Kenya have declined steadily during the
last four decades. Infant mortality is estimated to have declined from 184
deaths per 1000 births in 1948 to 104 deaths in 1979. (Annex 1. Table 4).
As a result, estimated life expectancy at birth has increased from 38.6
years in the early 1950s to 54 years in 1979. The PRB estimates the current
infant mortality to be around 76.
1.C9      While levels of international migration have remained negligible
during this period of high population growth. rural to urban migration
within Kenya appears to have been a substantial factor leading to new
patterns of residence. The proportion of Kenya's population resident to
urban areas increased from 5.11 in 1948 to 15.1Z in 1979. During the ten
year period between the 1969 and 1979 censuses Nairobi's population grew at
an annual rate of 6.7Z. However, it is interesting to note that even with
this high level of sustained growth, Nairobi's share of Kenya's total urban
population declined from 47.21 to 35.9Z as the urban populations of centers
in other provinces grew more rapidly.
Population-Growth
1.10      World Bank projections based on the assumption that the net
reproduction rate would reach 1 (i.e. each generation of mother having
exactly enough daughters to replace itself in the population) by the year
2030, indicate that the current population would reach 36.45 million by the
year 2000. and would triple in size within 35 years. (Annex 1, Table 5).
lank projections assume that fertility levels will decline a modest 201.
from a TFR of 7.7 to 6.2 by the end of the century. Over the same period.
expectation of life at birth is assumed to increase from 55.5 to more than
60 years of age. (Annex 1, Table 6). Under these fertility and mortality
conditions, the rate of natural increase would still be greater than 3.51
per annum in the year 2000. and the dependency ratio would remain above 105.
1.11      The rapid growth of Kenya's population is having a severe impact
on socio-economic development by: (a) creating an increasing demand for
public and private expenditures to provide basic human services; (b)
placing growing pressure on Kenya's land and natural resouzces; and (c)
increasing the numbers of those who need to be absorbed by the economy but
may not find employment in the modern sector.
1.12      The growing demand for public services will create considerable
pressure on the Government of Kenya (GOK) to increase the budget. In
education. for example, under the current projected demographic parameters.
the number of children between the ages of 6 and 12 will increase nearly 70X
by the year 2000. To maintain present enrollment levels, with no increase
in the quality of instruction or in efficiency would require a concomitant
increase in expenditures. At present however, the budget for education
alone accounts for more than 36Z of G4K's total budgeted recurrent
expenditures and the country can ill-afford any increase in resource
allocation to education. While government is looking for ways to control
the growth of its education budget through greater efficiency of



-5-
expenditures. such measures cannot cope with the magnitude of the problem-
let alone absorb the cost of essential qualitative improvements and some
ezpansion of secondary and higher education. If. on the other hand.
fertility were to decline nore rapidly than is currently projected, in
accord with the most optimitic projection by GC's Centra'l Bureau of
Statistics (CBS), there would be nearly llZ fewer children in the primry
age group in the year 2000. resulting in a significantly lessened demand for
clasrooms and teachers, and hence considerable potential saving of scarce
budgetary resources.
1.13      As currently projected, the size of Kenya's work force, growing at
a rate of 4.3S per annum, will nearly double from 7.9 million in 1985 to
more than 15 million by the year 2000. But as the economy is unlikely to
grow at a pace sufficient to absorb such an increae in the labor force in
the modern sector, the pressure on the traditional sector and its limited
resources will increase rapidly :L' the coming years. It has been estimated
that there will be between 450.000 to 500.000 primary school leavers
annually through the 1980s and that the number of new jobs, even with an
increase of 5S per annum, will only amount to approzimtely 70.000 annually
in the modern sector of the economy. Fertility declines will not affect
inereaes in the numbers of persons entering the labor market until after
the year 2000. The increasing demand on natural resources has already
resulted in severe pressure on farmland and other resources eag* water.
firewood. etc.). The population density of those districts with significant
cultivable land areas has increased drmatically with consequential declines
in the per capita availability of good agricultural land.
1.14      While all these factors underline the negative consequences of
population growth on socio-economic development they may also become a
powerful incentive towards a decline in fert:lity rates and population
growth. A lower fertility scenario is obviously conducive to per capita
income growth, reduction of the budgetary burden of human service
expenditures as well as improved long term employment prospects. A major
challenge for Kenya is to reduce the dependency rate and the rate of growth
of the labor force in the next century through an effective population
program. These factors have facilitated the increasingly active promotion
by GOK of a comprehensive population policy.
Past- Prorm - Efforts
1.15      Voluntary efforts to provide family planning through information,
education and communication (TIC) and services began in the early 1950s.
These pioneering efforts led to the establishment of the Family Planning
Association of Kenya (FPAK) in 1961. In 1967 the GOK. recognizing the
potential severe impediment to economic and social development implied by
rapid population growth, planned and implemented Sub-Saharan Africa's first
national Family Planning (PP) program. This initial effort to establish VP



-6-
services was designed to limit the size of families an,d to provide clients
with modern means for child spacing. The Program was characterized by the
attempted integration of maternal and child health (MCH) services with the
provision of family planning.
1.16      The results from the 1969 Census indicated that despite the
launching of PP activities designed to reduce fertility levels. the rate of
population increase actually had accelerated. This unexpected phenomenon
heightened government concern and the FP Five Year Program, 1975-1979. for
the implementation of which the NOR was given responsibility, included as
its primary objectives: the establishment of the National FaYily Welfare
Center. 400 MCHR/P daily service delivery points and 190 clinics. in-
service nurse training and the development of a cadre of more than 800
family health educators. Though successful in providing health services.
this Program. again. did not meet its FP goals. In attempting to implement
a nationwide FP service delivery system the MOH was severely constrained by:
lack of experienced, well-trained, motivated staff; inadequacy of
facilities; shortages of contraceptive supplies: poor management; and a
paucity of timely. accurate service data. In retrospect. it was determint4
that the Program (which had been supported by IDA's first Population Project
in Sub-Saharan Africa Credit 468KE) relied too heavily on a single source of
supply of services, namely the NOH; that provision of service needed to be
preceded by much more intensive demand generation through IEC activities;
and chat the family planning program activities of HIOH should be more
closely integrated with other family health activities of the MOH including
those of NGOs and other GoK ministries. Family health educators were poorly
trained and supervised and were performing non-family planning activities.
The MOR felt that the environment for field workers in family planning was
not appropriate at that time and hence, abandoned the outreach worker
concept.
1.17      Most fundamental was the issue of demand generation.  In reviewing
the IEC program as it then existed. the GOK recognized a number of
constraints. including: the absence of a coordinating mechanism for the
promotional activities of ministries and NGOs; neglect of key audiences
(e.g. men. youth in schools. professional and leadership groups); over-
emphasis on health, to the exclusion of family size and population issues;
insufficient use of opportunities to provide IEC messages in clinics and
maternity wards: inadequate scope. quantity. and pre-testing of IEC
materials; limited use of radio and other mass media; insufficient use of
extension workers and non-formal education programs; and ineffective use of
schools for education in population. family life and health.
1.18      The Integrated Rural Health and Family P1anning (IRHFP) Project
starting in 1982, funded jointly by the GOK. IDA (Credit 1238KE) and six
other donors attempted to address the dual need for expansion and
improvement of family planning services and the establishment of a strong
IEC Program. Part A of the project. aimed at creat:ing awareness and demand
for services and encouraging support of the population program. funded the
establishment of the NCPD and the implementation ol IEC projects to be
carried out by ministries and NGOs. Part B of the IRRFP Project supported



-7-
the ezpansion of MNO and NGO family planning services. A Division of Family
Health incorporating the National Family Welfare Center. the control of
diarrheal diseases program and the expanded program for immunization was
established in 1985 to integrate family planning activities with other
family health activities. The structure of the NCPD has evolved and in
proving to be viable (see below paras. 1.28-1.34).
Demand-for-?erviee.
1.19      Although the Government has established ambitious goals for its
fasily planning program, the data available from service statistics systems
and surveys show that the numbers of new acceptors has grown slowly over the
paat two decades. Prior to the 1975-1979 program the MOH set a target of
640.000 new acceptors for that period. Reportedly, however, the program
only achieved 42Z of this goal. The 1984 Sessional Paper No. 4 set a five
year target of nearly 1.4 million new acceptors for the period of Kenya's
Five Year Development Plan (1984-1989). This target was aimed at achieving
a 25Z reduction in fertility by the end of the Plan period. However.
limited service statistics from 1985 appeaL to indicase that less than one
half of this projected target will be reached. This is probably because
while aggregate benefits of population control had become clear to
government, such benefits had not yet become obvious to individuals or
couples. Furthermore. there was considerable ambiguity within government
and the public about open discussion of FP questions. These socio-economic
barriers appear to have now been overcome, at least in urban areas thanks to
strong and consistent political support for the population program. Studies
indicate progress in rural areas, as well. Annex 1. Table 7 presents annual
contraceptive acceptors from 1981-'986 and shows a steady increase for all
methods.
1.20      Data from the two surveys KRS and KCPS provide, the most reliable
picture of contraceptive use and prog-am characteristics up to 1984. These
two survey instruments, approximately seven years apart, indicste that the
proportion of married women using a modern contraceptive method rose slowly
from 6S in 1977 to 10S in 1984. In examining contraceptive mix, it appears
that the prevalence of women who used modern methods was nearly equal for
the pill (331). Intra-uterine Device (IUD) (32Z), and female sterilization
(28S). Both surveys indicate that rhythm and truLditional methods have also
been popular with Kenyan women. Data from the KCPS show that 7.31 of all
married women were using either a modern or a traditional method (e.g.
rhythm, withdrawal and abstinence) in 1984. Overall, the reported total
proportion of women (married and unmarried) using either a modern or
traditional method had increased two-aund-one half times in a seven year
period from 71 at the time of the KFS to 172 in the KCPS.



-8-
1.21      The groving demand for services, evidenced by the prevalence data
from the surveys, corresponds to a noticeable modification in ideal family
size.  The mean number of children desired reported by the surveys dropped
from 7.2 in the KFS to 6.3 in the KCPS.  In nearly all age groups and at
each parity, women reported a desire for fever children in the 1984 survey.
(Annex 1. Table 8).
1.22      Greater proportions of women in childbearing age also reported to
the KCPS that they wished to stop having children.  During the KFS 15X of
the married, fecund women between 25 and 34 years of age said that they did
not want any more children; in the KCPS the proportion in the same age group
had risen to 372. The KCPS data also indicates provincial variations in the
proportion of women desiring to cease childbearing, with more than 352 of
the women with four living children in the Eastern. Central and Nairobi
Provinces reporting that they wished to stop having children. (Annex 1.
Table 9).
1.23      Survey results indicate that knowledge of family planning methods
was reportedly widespread at the time of both the KFS and the KCPS with more
than 802 of all women interviewed reporting that they had knowledge of at
least one modern method of contraception. The pill, familiar to 732 of all
women. was the best known of the modern methods. When non-users were asked
if they approved of family planning, 762 approved, while only 112
disapproved. In general. this approval rating was higher for women less
than 30 years of age and for women with more than five years of education.
More recently strong political support has resulted in a clear national
consensus in favor of family planning. Pilot projects run by NGOs heve
achieved contraceptive prevalence rates of up to 352 and demand for all
methods of contraception, particularly surgical contraception. is growing.
Policies
1.24      It is the policyl of the Government to promote a reduction in
population growth by achieving a sustained reduction in fertility.
Specifically, the Government has set the ambitious goal of reducing the
population growth rate from "the current 3.8Z to 3.32 by 1988" by promoting
a 242 reduction in the level of fertility. The Government intends to
encourage Kenyans to have small families. motivate males to practice family
planning. reduce infamt and child mortality. improve the status of women and
provide the population with appropriate population education and
contraceptive services. This includes the promotion of population
information activities. in general. and in particular of family life
education in schools and population awareness through the mass media.
Regarding other services. the Government stresses that it will only support
services that are non-coercive. Induced abortion is strictly illegal.
Voluntary sterilization requires written consent of the client. In
addition. to reduce the creation of unplanned settlements in marginal land
1    Population Policy Guidelines.  Sessional Paper No. 4. 1984.



-9-
areas and to ease pressures on public services in urban areas the Government
plans to promote the reduction of both rural-urban and rural-rural migration
through rural development activities.
1.25      To achieve these goals. the Government proposes a broad effort on
the part of ministries, NGOs and community leaders to guide, organize and
integrate population and development programs. Particular attention is to
be paid to the role of the schools. In noting changing traditional norms.
the need for population and family life education is stressed.
1.26      To coordinate the population activities of the ministries, NGOs
and the private sector, the Government in 1982 created the NCPD in the
Office of the Vice President and Ministry of Home Affairs. In 1986 the
Office of the President issued "Guidelines for District Population and
Family Planning Committees" to ensure that population and family planning
activities were integrated with district development activities.
1.27      The GCK has promulgated a meaningful and appropriate population
policy. There is now an urgent need to strengthen institutions and
carefully translEte stated objectives into an effective population program.
one which is capable of influencing societal norms and guaranteeing quality
services to the public. While Sessional Paper No. 4 puts forth broad
guidelines it does not detail the procedures and program actions required to
bring about desired changes. From these guidelines. effective strategies
must be developed, priorities established, realistic targets set and
responsibilities assigned. The Government has already demonstrated its
commitment to change by strong political support for population issues and
the administrative changes referred to in the preceding paragraph.
NCPD and its Evolving Role
1.28      The NCPD established in 1982 initially coordinated the
Government's IEC Program. In 1984 it was assigned a broader mandate.
including: the development and promotion of a population policy; the design
of IEC. research and service programs; and the monitoring and evaluation of
population program activities. At present. the NCPD's Secretariat is
staffed by 33 professionals. divided into four divisions: the Planning.
Research and Evaluation Division; the Finance and Administration Division;
the Programs Division; and the Information, Education and Cotiunications
Division. NCPD's Secretariat is charged with oversight of all projects
approved by the NCPD Council and implemented by NGOs and Government
ministries. A satisfactory long term manpower development has been prepared
by NCPD and has been approved.
1.29      During its first full year (1983) NCPD was primarily involved with
the details required in establishing a new organization (staff selection.
budget approval. establishment of procedures. arrangements for office
accomodation and transport) and with the initial planning and development
of its functions. In the second year of operation (1984) IEC projects
funded by the Council and implemented by the NGOs became operational. The



-10-
NCPD secretariat produced Po2 l.tion-P  icy--Guideline. for approval by the
Council and the Cabinet and the guidelines were subsequently issued as
Sessional Paper No. 4. Also in 1984. NCPD was responsible for the
organization of the National Leaders' Conference on Population in Nairobi,
and preparation of the Kenya Positien Paper and Statement of the Vice
President at the International Conference on Population in Mexico City.
Both of these tasks were highly successful efforts in raising the awareness
of the political leadership to the problems implied by rapid population
growth in Kenya.
1.30      In 1984 NCPD funded the population IEC activities of six NGOs:
National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCQC). Maendaleo Ya Wanawake
Organization (MYWO) which is the national women's organization, the Family
Planning Association of Kenya (FPAK), Protestant Churches Medical
Association which has been renamed and is now called the Christian Health
Association of Kenya (CHAK). Kenya Catholic Secretariat (KCS) and the
Salvation Army. During 1985 three more NGOs were added to this list: Young
Men Christian Association, the Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT) and
the Family Life Counselling Association of Kenya. The mix of IEC services
provided by these organizations includes publications, mass media material.
seminars. workshops. curriculum development. teacher training. counselling
services. etc. for a variety of specified target groups.
1.31      The initial years of NGO implemented IEC programs have been
characterized by efforts devoted to start up activities. and the development
of a variety of IEC approaches for the promotion of population/PP.
Unavoidably. and not undesirable perhaps. there are a number of conceptual
overlaps in the types of IEC services provided by the different
organizations.  In operational terms. as the activities are generally small
and aimed at selected, constituent target groups. counter-productive
redundancies have not occurred. However. if these pilot programs are to be
subsequently expanded to include larger audiences. careful planning and
coordination will be required to avoid serious inefficiencies and potential
confusion in the delivery of IEC services; it would then be necessary to
more clearly sharpen the objectives and target audiences of the activities
and the responsibilities of participating organizations. At the same time
it must be recognized that IEC services from different organizations to the
same target population can have a positive. mutually reinforcing effect.
Handling these issues will be the responsibility of the head of the IEC
division of the NCPD (para 1.39).
1.32      In addition to the promotion of IEC services through NGOs the NCPD
has encouraged the provision of population/PP information by Government
agencies. The Office of the President and the Ministry of Information and
Broadcasting have each provided IEC services under the program. The Office
of the President is responsible for the organization and conduct of
population-education seminars for locational chiefs and assistant chiefs.
while the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting has been contracted to
produce radio and television soap operas aimed at increasing the general
acceptance of family planning.



-11-
1.33      Several other ministries and departments also receive support for
the integration of population IEC activities within their on-going programs.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock Development has been supported in
its efforts to train extension personnel to incorporate population and
family planning information in their advice to farmers. In a similar
fashion. funds have been provided to the Department of Social Services for
the training of field staff and to the Department of Adult Education for the
training of teachers and the development of population teaching materials
for adult education classes. In addition. the program provides direct
support to the MOR Health Education Unit for the development and
dissemination of educational materials relating to health and family
planning. The NCPD has grown in stature and is evolving into an effective
population organization.
1.34      With the issuance in 1986 of "Guidelines for District Population
and Family Planning Committees" (para. 1.26) the impact of rapid population
grovth rates on local services is now strongly emphasized. In each of the
country's 41 districts. District Population and Family Planning Committees
(DPFPC). as special purpose sub-committees of the District Development
Committees are being established. These committees. composed of
representatives of government ministries. the district administration and
locally active NGOs have as their secretary the District Population Officer
(DPO). The DPO will be answerable administratively to the District
Commissioner and functionally to the NCPD. DPFPCs are expected to encourage
local populations to accept small family norms; set local family planning
acceptor targets and promote the reduction of fertility; promote programs to
reduce infant and child mortality; and oversee activities involving family
life and population education. and family planning motivation and services.
DPFPCs will also review district level population programs and initiate the
formation of committees at the divisional. local and sub-local levels.
Detailed administrative arrangements for the DPFPCs and DPOs still need to
be worked out (para. 1.42).
Delivery of- Family Planning - Servicees
1.35      By the end of 1986. the MOR and the NGOs had established about 850
family planning service delivery points throughout Kenya. Despite the
substantial increase in service outlets there has been so far little
emphasis by MOH. on programmatic aspects such as development of a
supervision system for FP services. retraining of health staff in FP. and
education of the public properly coordinated with service availability.
Management of the PP program is poor and funding is inadequate (primarily on
the recurrent budget side). There is poor communication between the
Division of Family Health. other MOH offices. NCPD and the NGOs. There have
also been difficulties in the procurement and distribution of
contraceptives. These deficiencies which negatively impact on service
delivery are prominent in rural areas. KCPS data indicate that in 1984
hospitals provided services to 792 of the clients choosing clinical methods
(i.e.. IUD. surgical methods) and 55S of those choosing supply (i.e. pills.
condoms. foaming tablets) methods. while clinics provided family planning



-12-
clients with only 12S of the clinic-based and 35Z of the supply-based
methods. These data illustrate the point that the MON, potentially the
largest provider of services, is not meeting its full potential. Despite
all its weaknesses the MOR ranked as the primary source of modern family
planning methods (581). while the remainder of the clients obtained services
from FPAK (27Z). churches (6X). and private groups (8Z). Private agencies
were important service providers in urban areas. and churches in the rural
areas. while the MOH and FPAK were consistently active in providing services
in both rural and urban areas.
1.36      In assessing their current source of supply the KCPS found that
cost. distance. fear of young nurses and poor services were important
reasons that respondents might have for not using the services available
from their reported source. In addition. in probing for responses
concerning knowledge of available sources. KCPS interviews revealed that 52Z
of the non-users did not know where they could obtain family planning
services. Of the non-users who knew of a source. 76Z mentioned they would
prefer to obtain their services from a hospital. 22Z from a clinic and less
than 31 from other sources. These data suggest that the MOH is potentially
the largest provider of FP services.
1.37      Though the MOH has begun to upgrade service delivery points and to
provide in-service training to hospital and clinic-based personnel this has
been extremely slow. This is due primarily to a shortage of trainers at the
MCR/FP training centers. shortage of classroom accommodations and inadequate
training materials. Statistics available from the MOH. however. show the
positive influence of this training in improving family planning services.
For example. 1985 data available for 19 service delivery points from Siaya
district indicates that 27 (411) of the 65 eligible staff members had
received family planning training and only those clinics that had health
staff trained in FP had acceptors. Similar findings have been noted in
other districts. Commitment to family planning unfortunately remains weak
among MOH staff and managers and also from clinical specialists and hence,
the family health division is unable to develop an effective FP program.
B. Sectoral-Iusues
1.38      The geographic. developmental and ethnic diversity of Kenya's
population requires the establishment of a Population Program which is
sensitive to local conditions and sufficiently flexible to provide a variety
of TEC and family planning services. At present. IEC and family planning
services are provided by the government and NGOs. The NCPD was originally
organized to guide and coordinate the IEC activities of government
ministries. NGOs. donors and the private sector. More recently the NCPD has
evolved into a national population agency and is expected to establish
niational policy. promote a coherent. effective IEC program and ensure the
atvailability and quality of family planning services. Much progress has
been made in i cent months to strengthen the NCPr. but more visibility.



-13-
authority, and experience are required for it to effectively coordinate and
manage Kenya's population program.
1.39      In order to coordinate the population related activities of the
ministries and to promote the integration of program goals with on-going
government programs. the NCPD must be placed at a sufficiently high level
within the bureaucracy to speak on an equal-footing with the appropriate
leadership of cooperating ministries. Within NCPD itself, it is necessary
for well trained officials with adequate experience to head its respective
divisions.  Hence. to be recognized as the institutional authority on
population related issues in Kenya. NCPD must be guided by highly trained
and respected technical leadership.
1.40      A primary function of the Council is to coordinate and monitor
donor project funding of population program activities. In 1984 15 IEC
projects were approved by the NCPD. These projects were conducted by
government ministries. NGOs and the private sector. Implementation of such
projects has often been hampered by heavy NCPD's administrative procedures.
NGOs in particular found it difficult to quickly respond to operational
needs when confronted with the obstacle of prevailing budget authorization
procedures and other detailed requirements for the supervision of their
work; at the same time donors seemed to encounter difficulties in obtaining
timely reports describing with appropriate detail the disbursement of funds.
Since then. there has been considerable progress in streamlining procedures.
However. with new NGOs coming into the program there is a need to ensure
that existing procedures have the flexibility to satisfy the needs of both
experienced and new NGOs, as well as the degree of thoroughness necessary
for NCPD to perform its own fiduciary responsibilities. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that by October 31. 1988 the NCPD would submit a
timetable for national. regional and district workshops with NGOs. (Para.
6.02(a)).
1.41      At present. the management of the population program is severely
hampered by the lack of a comprehensive. well-established management
information system; one that would guarantee the prompt. regular collection
and reporting of standardized family planning service statistics. and
provide well-designed database support for planning and project monitoring
functions of the national program. The development of family planning
targets by district based on a good understanding of local circumstances is
an essential prerequisite for the development of the system. Such a system
would enable the monitoring of district level family planning targets and
their regular revision as well as identification of situations requiring
additional support or adaptation of prevailing strategies.
1.42      Responding to the government's stated desire to establish a
"district focus" for the planning and administration of development
statistics. NCPD has begun establishment of population programs in all 41
districts. The success of this program to decentralize the administration
of population activities depends on the ability of the NCPD to establish
strong district offices and to provide them with appropriate supervision and
support. To ensure the success of this effort. the functions of the



-14-
population comittees and officers must be carefully programed as an
integral part of the national government and NGO programs. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that, by October 31. 1988, the NCPD
would have defined the roles of district population officers and would
present proposals for appropriate institutional arrangements to ensure
coordination with other agencies at the district level as well as a training
program to help the district population officers perform such coordinating
functions (para. 6.02(b)).
1.43      Based on a review of recent survey data and the reference to
waiting lists for female sterilization. it is apparent that in particular
areas, the demand for quality family planning services has exceeded the
supply. Supply constraints have been serious. particularly in the MOH. due
to lack of trained staff, equipment. supplies and facilities. To ensure the
availability of reliable services for female sterilization, it is not only a
requirement to build and stock appropriate facilities. it is also necessary
to ensure the availability of vell trained personnel and the use of the
facilities for their intended purpose. During negotiations assurances were
obtained that the MOH would submit by October 31. 1988 a plan. acceptable to
IDA. to ensure the quality of the voluntary surgical contrqception program
(Para. 6.02(c)).
1.44      Another important issue is the sustainability of family planning
services provided by NGOs especially as these programs expand. At present
NCPD is financing virtually all costs incurred by NGOs in implementing
population activities. The NCPD and NGOs need to examine alternative ways
of financing these activities in the long term. During negotiations
assurances were obtained that, by December 31. 1989. a study on NGO
financing and critical factors for sustainability and organizational
capacity. with a focus on alternative mechanisms for funding NGOs be
undertaken and its recommendations be reviewed with IDA and that mutually
agreeable recommendations would be implemented by December 31. 1990. (Para.
6.02(d)).
C. Rol-e--of--the-Bati
1.45      Initial Bank involvement in the early t705 had -he primary
objective of strengthening the FP program. in keeping with prevailing policy
in the country at that time. Since the only network for delivery of FP
services were MOH facilities. it was important to strengthen the provision
of health services. particularly at the primary level. There have been two
IDA lending operations in population/health. based on the rationale
described above. The First*Population-Project (Cr.468-KE of US$12 million
with cofinancing from DANIDA. SIDA. ODA. USAID, UNFPA and the Federal
Republic of Germany) began in 1974. The project sought to expand 8'
strengthen MC/PFP services. improve trair.ing of Enrolled Community irJrses
(ECNs). develop an IEC program in MOB to stimulate demand for FP services.
and strengthen MOB's abilities to plan and manage MC}/FP service delivery.
While physical execution of the project proceeded largely as planned, a



-15-
cultural environment favoring high fertility, insufficient FP education
efforts and inadequate service coverage. resulted in only 50s of the target
number of new PP acceptors. At appraisal it was estimated that: the project
would reduce the annual population growth rate from 3.3Z to 3.32. with the
CBR declining from 50 to 47 per thousand, and the CDR remaining at 17 per
thousand. In fact. estimates based on the 1979 census showed that the CBR
reached 53 per thousand. while improved nutrition and general socio-economic
development led to a reduction in the CDR. to 14 per thousand. Thus. the
population growth rate increased significantly. to about 3.92 in 1979. The
Project Completion Report also underlined poor design of the family health
educator program which was since discontinued. and excessive reliance for
project implementation on a single agency. MOH, which had only lukewarm
support for PP concepts.
1.46      The second IDA lending operation is the ongoing Integrated-Rural
Health-end--FamilY--P-anning-P-roject--t-IRFP). which is financed by IDA and six
other cofinanciers - DANIDA, ODA(U.K.). SIDA. UNFPA. UNICEF and USAID.
Credit 1238-RE (SDR 20.5 million) was approved by the Executive Directors on
May 4. 1982. The objectives of the IRHEP project are to: (1) create demand
for family planning services; (2) expand access to FP in rural areas; and
(3) continue reduction of mortality and morbidity. In mid-1984. it became
clear that the IRHFP project was failing to meet its fertility objectives.
The NCPD had been slow to establish itself. and had not yet developed an
effective IEC program. As a result. there had been little progress in
creation of demand for FP. Again, as in the first project. the MO4  had paid
more attention to the development of health infrastructure than to the
effective delivery of FP services. In addition, the IRHFP project, which
had an entirely rural focus. had not been designed to strengthen FP services
in district hospitals or in urban areas. where unmet demand was much greater
and is further growing. To remedy these weaknesses. IDA staff engaged in a
wide-ranging dialogue with G(K to review the factors that were contributing
to the ineffectiveness of the population program. and jointly drew up a plan
of action to address its weaknesses. Simultaneously. nationwide political
and social commitment to fertility reduction had been increasing as a result
of which the role of NCPD was broadened; and the MOH took initial steps to
improve the management of FP services. to develop responsive PP services in
urban areas and to put in place a national program for surgical
contraception. In support of these changes. IDA agreed in November 1985
that US$6.5 million in uncomm-icted and unallocated IDA funds from Credit
1238-RE (which arose as a result of currency fluctuations) could be utilized
for new activities designed to have an impact on fertility in areas of high
prevailing demand. The Closing Date of the Credit was extended by one year.
to December 31. 1987. Implementation of activities under Part B (i.e. the
MOH component) of the Project continues to be slow (in part because of l1cal
financial constraints) and the Closing Date has now been extended to
December 31. 1988.
1.47      The proposed Third Population Project entails a change in IDA
strategy on population and health in Kenya. The revised strategy, reviewed
and approved in August/September 1986. recognizes the great potential of the
health sector in increasing family planning services.  However, the MO1's



-16-
structural. managerial and financial problems are too eztensive to be
addressed from the partial viewpoint of family planning. The MOR has begun
preparation of a national health plan and with IDA assistance an analysis of
financing of the health sector; this will lead to identification of policy
options for the management and financing of the sector. These two exercires
are now almost       completed.  The financing study will be used as a basis
for the' development of a policy package around which a policy based
operation to revitalize the health sector could be developed.
1.48      For the foreseeable future. the focus of Bank work in population
and health in Kenya should remain primarily on increasing the efficiency and
quality of the population program and on improving the management and
financial mechanisms in the health sector. The completion of the National
Health Plan, the Bank Health Sector Financing Study and two other studies.
currently underway with other donor financing (pricing of health serv:,ces
and hospital management) are expected to provide the framework for
addressing major constraints in the health system. Bank staff have in the
past two years reviewed with the MOH the question of whether the Bank group
should extend its involvement to encompass nutrition. but assistance being
currently provided by UNICEF and other donors is covering current needs and
is as mucb as can be absorbed.
1.49      In summary. to judge from the present promising state of affairs
in the population sector. IDA and other donors were justified in providing
support to Kenya during the early difficult years of the program. UNFPA has
been playing a key role in donor coordination and has developed a mechanism
for regular consultations between donors and government. ODA continues to
strongly support the population program. NOPAD has recently indicated its
interest in supporting population activities in Kenya. Through the proposed
and future projects. IDA and these donors should continue their support with
emphasis on the development of a multi-sectoral population program and its
coordination by NCPD. Of high priority will be the strengthening of NCPD's
IEC coordinating capacity. the establishment of population education
programs in schools (through the Ministry of Education. where work on this
has already begun). and the provision of adult literacy courses (through the
Ministry of Culture and Social Services). Other key ministries with field
staff need also to be brought into the program. In addition, IDA should
continue to encourage G(K to strengthen the management and delivery of PP
services. while continuing separate efforts to help the MOH overcome its
organizational and financial problems and develop its capacity.



-17-
II. E-mbJUo
A. General
2.01      The proposed project has two main objectives:  (a) to promote the
growing dema"d for family planning services and (b) to increase the supply
of such services. It will accomplish this by mobilizing and coordinating the
resources of both Government ministries and NGOs. Regarding demand. the
project will expand the coverage of information and education activities by
strengthening mass media and publicity campaigns and encouraging the
integration of IEC activities into other governmental and non-governmental
development programs. Regarding supply, the project will expand the
coverage of family planning services under both the MOH and NGOs.
B. Objective&-and--Design
2.02      The IRHEP project (CR-1238KE) supported and tested a variety of
IEC activities designed to promote small family norms and to provide
integrated health and population services through MOH and NGO service
providers. The proposed project will continue and broaden the population
activities. strengthening the efforts of those institutions which have
demonstrated the ability, in the long run, to deliver needed IEC and to
provide services on a nationwide basis. More specifically, the project
objectives are to:
(a) strengthen the capacity of the NCPD to plan, program, finance.
coordinate and monitor population program activities:
(b) further create acceptance of, and demand for family planning
services through the implementation of a strategically planned and
coordinated IEC program: and
(c) increase the availability, accessibility, and quality of family
planning services provided by the government and NGOs.
2.03      To achieve these objectives the project would:
(a)  improve NCPD's effectiveness by supporting the development of a
management information system for the population program, a
research and evaluation program and staff training activities.
The project would help er:ablish district population offices under
NCPD in conformity with GGK's district focus policy: a National
Headquarters would be constructed for NCPD;
(b) strengthen demand for FP by expanding IEC services of four
government ministries and departments (Office of the President.
Ministry of Agriculture. Departments of Social Services and Adult
Education) and six NGOs (MYWO. FPAP. CHAR, NCCR. KCS and KNUT);
and



-18-
(c) expand supply of FP services by the establishment of additional
MOH facilities for voluntary surgical contraception, development
and rehabilitation of clinics supported by FPAK and CHAK,
expansion of urban family planning programs. expansion of service
delivery points in rural areas providing family planning services.
establishment of community based distribution programs. and.
training of health staff in family plannig including
establishment of training facilities.
2.04        To facilitate project implementation, the project is described
according to institutional responsibilities, rather than according to
specific objectives. A matrix showing both project objectives and
responsible institutions is provided in Annex 2.
C. Summary Doqcription
2.05      The project is designed for implementation over a four year period
starting on July 1, 1988. It consists of the following three major
components. each subdivided into a number of sub-components:
(a) Strengthening the Natioyal Council for Population and Development
(NCPD) (US4.9 million) :
ObJective :   Planning, Programming, Funding, Coordination and
Monitoring Capabilities of NCPD
(i)       management information system.  The design and
development of a district family planning service
statistics system and the design and construction
of databases to support program planning,
monitoring and evaluation; and the establishment of
district computer facilities including equipment.
programming support and training;
(ii)      research and evaluation program.  Support for
institution-based research to meet the needs of the
population program;
(ii)      institutional development.  Staff truining.
including study tours and short- and long-term
study courses; construction of NCPD national
headquarters building; and technical assistance for
follow up project preparation; and
(iv)      district focus.  Establishment and construction of
14 district population offices.
1    Codts excluding contingenc'es.



-19-
(b)  Multi-sectoral Population Program (US$10.0 million):
Objective      Promotion of Demand
(i)       IEC materials production for NCPD.  Design and
production of family planning calendars, car
stickers, bi"lboards, posters. t-shirts and
khangas; training in communication techniques. and
the pretesting of IEC materials;
(ii)      Office of the President.  Support for training of
chiefs, assistant chiefs. district officers in
population activities;
(iii)     Ministry of Agriculture.  Support for training
extension staff in population education;
preparation of youth programs on population and
training of trainers and trainer groups in
population and development;
(iv)      Department of Social Services.  Establishment of a
central coordinating unit for population
activities. including staffing. training. vehicles
and equipment; development of curricula and
production of training manuals; and training of
department personnel at district and field levels;
(v)       Department of Adult Education.  Support to ongoing
program to incorporate family life education in
adult education curricula, through design and
production of materials; in-service training of
adult education teachers; and staffing, training
and equipment for the Department's Family Life
Education Unit;
Objective:     Promotion of SUPlY sad De-and
(vi)      Ministry of Health.   Establishment of voluntary
surgical contraception facilities at 12 district
hospitals. strengthening of facilities at Pumwani
Hospital to provide surgical contraception services
for Nairobi. expansion of existing urban clinics in
Nairobi to provide family planning services.
upgrading 140 clinics and dispensaries in 14
districts to service delivery points capable of
providing FP services. MCH/FP equipment for 100
additional clinics. establishment of 12
decentralized MCH/FP training centers with vehicles
and training materials. support for revising
curriculum of clinical officers to include family
planning. establishment of Kenya Registered



-20-
Community Nurse program in Nairobi and Mombasa.
establishment of a media production center and
support for a management review of the Division of
Family Health and for its strengthening.
(c) Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs)(US$8.7 million):
Objective:     Promotion of Demand
(i)       Kenya Catholic Secretariat (KCS).  Support for
training of Natural Family Planning
teachers/counselors and for central office staff;
(ii)      National Council of Churcheis of Kenya (NCCK).
Support for training activities to establish lay
family planning teachers/counselors in member
churches and provide family life education to
congregations; and additional staff support for
central and regional offices;
Objective:     Promotion of Supply and Demd d
(iv)      Maendeleo Ya Wanawake (MYWO).  Support for the
development of training capability in MCH/FP and
CBD activities of Women's groups, through
vehicles, establishment of a. central training unit.
technical assistance for development of 2urricula
and training materials and training of women's
organizations from the 14 districts;
*v)       Family Planning Association of Kenya (FPAK).
Establishment of four, and upgrading of two, full-
service family planning clinics, including:
construction and support (eqtuipment, staffing.
utilities, vehicles, maintenance, etc.); design of
printed and design and production of audiovisual
materials; participatiGn in community shows and
exhibitions; and the provision of specialized FP
training;
(vi)      Christian Health Association af Kenya (CHAK).
Expansion of MCH/FP services, through the upgrading
of 20 dispensary facilities, and construction of 30
staff houses; central office sitaff support;
motivational and training workshops; and support
for the IEC program to train teachers to teach
family life education in secondary schools; and



-21-
(vii)    Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT).  Support
for training of primary school heads, secondary
school heads and counsellors from secondary and
teachers colleges.
D. Detailed Description
(a) Strengthening of NCPD
Management Information System (MIS)
2.06      The primary objective of this sub-component is the establishment
within NCPD's Planning. Research and Evaluation Division of a district
Management Information System (MIS) for the population program. It would
follow the establishment of a central MIS to be funded outside this project
by USAID. Project funds would support design (technical assistance,
materials), installation of 14 district computer facilities (technical
assistance. hard- and software), training (per diem. transport. materials).
staff development (per diem. tuition). and implementation of tue MIS
(technical assistance. printing. supplies. transport. per diem). District
population officers would collect and report monthly summary information on
family planning acceptors. MIS data would be used by the NCPD to monitor
program performance. identify weaknesses and provide service providers with
feedback on characteristics of users. This data will enable managers to
review and redesign program activities as necessary. The project will
support the phased implementation of the MIS with 1002 coverage of &11
service delivery points (SDPs) in the 14 districts selected for the District
Focus sub-component (see para. 2.12). All service providers would be
included in the MOH, NGO and the private sector.
2.07      To develop the central MIS and databases for planning. monitoring.
and evaluation of population program activities a needs assessment would be
carried out shortly. USAID would also support the development of management
and financial systems at NCPD headquarters including technical assistance
and all commodities. The population database will include the district
level data from su-veys, censuses. and program activities required for the
setting and adjustment of program acceptor targets. A program database will
consist of information describing scheduled activities of projects,
supervisory personnel. outputs. budget allocations and disbursements. etc.
Details of the MIS and the databases are provided in Working Paper I which
is available in the Project File.
2.08      To familiarize NCPD district level staff in the basic operation of
microcomputers. local. one month, fellowships will be provided. Staff
members of each division will be selected for training. A local consultant
for systems design programming will provide t.aining support to ensure that
the NCPD district staff will be capable of independently operating and
maintaining the computer facilities.



-22-
Reeeareh--an-vwaluation- -Progra
2.09      The primary objectives of this sub-component are to strengthen
institutional capacities for population research. and to develop mechanism,
for a comprehensive evaluation of GGK and NGO population program activities.
This would be accomplished by the provision of support to Kenyan
institutions to undertake research on priority issues relating to the
population/family planning program. seminars for the dissemination of
research results, independent evaluation of pri,4ect sub-components. and
specialized staff training. Costs for research. technical assistance.
seminars (per diem, transport, and materials), and training (transport, per
diem, and tuition) are included in the sub-component's budget. The research
program funded under this sub-component includes population research
conducted by research organizations, government ministries and NGOs active
in the population program. All funds for research included in this project
will be approved and administered according to a b'-annual cycle of
procedures described in Working Paper 1 which is available in the Project
File. A list of research prioritieF has been agreed with IDA for the first
year of implementation. During negotiations it was agreed that priorities
for the subsequent years of the project will be agreed by March 1 of each
year thereafter. (Para. 6.02(e)).
2.10      Three-day Research Seminars will be conducted in Nairobi during
the second and fourth years of the project. These seminars will discuws
completed and on-going research related to Kenya's population program and
will serve as a forum to discuss research results and future needs.  Members
of the NCPD Council and Scientific Advisory Committee will be invited to
participate in the seminars.
2.11      In the second and fourth years of the project, funds will be
provided to perform independent evaluations of program sub-components.
These evaluations will be carried out by local consultants/organizations
with the necessary experience/expertise required to effectively judge the
specific program sub-components. Reports of these evaluations will be
submitted to IDA and other co-financiers as appropriate after review by the
NCPD and the organization evaluated. These reports will be used for program
review and reprogramming.
Distriet Foeus
2.12      Recognizing a significant regional diversity in development needs.
the GOK has launched a "District Focus Policy" which is intended to enhance
prospects for achieving population and development targets by establishing
the infrastructure needed to plan, monitor and supervise development
projects at the district level.  In repponse to this decentralization
policy. DPFPCs are being established in a phased manner. Within this
framework. NCPD is planning a decentralization of its own coordinating
functions and the proposed project would assist with the establishment of 14
District Population Offices. Funds would be provided for the construction
and support of District Population Offices. national seminars, and



-23-
supervision. Costs for construction and office support (furniture.
equipment, vehicles, salaries, supplies, utilities, and maintenance) and
seminars/training (per diem, transport) are included in the budget for this
sub-component.
2.13      The project will finance the  construction, furnishing and
equipping of 14 District Population Offices in the districts of Nairobi.
Muranga. Meru. Machakos. Uasin Gishu. Bungoma. Kisii, Nyeri. Kirunyaga.
Kericho. Saya. S. Nyanza. Kakamega and Mombasa. The project will provide
salaries, office supplies and materials for each office. The sub-component
will also support the costa (per diem, transport. local technical
assistance. materials) of a series of training workshops and seminars. This
component would be implemented by UNFPA and would be closely coordinated
with SIDA financed activities at the district level. Details of the
district focus sub-component are presented in Working Paper I which is
available in the project file.
Institutional Development
2.14      This sub-component's main objective would be to strengthen the
NCPD through the provision of training for NCPD's staff and the
establishment of facilities appropriate to the needs of the institution.
Staff developwent needs would be achieved through a combination of short-
and long-term overseas and local traineeships and one-month study tours to
relevant countries following the successful precedent to Mexico. The
majority of the Secretariat's new staff are university graduates in
demography and other social sciences. They must, therefore. gain the skills
required for their assignments through on-the-job training, additional
academic training, and specialized short courses. This sub-component
supports the staff development needs of the Secreta.ziat by providing funds
for short- and long-term fellowships.  This component would be closely
coordinated with manpower development activities being funded by USAID
outside the project.
2.15      Now that NCPD activities are well underway there is a need to
provide accommodation for their 33 professionals and 50 support staff in one
location and in permanent quarters. The project would support the
construition, furnishing and equipping of a new headquarters building of
1.130 m for NCPD in Nairobi. Support for the technical assistance needed
to plan and prepare a follow-up project is also included in this sub-
component. The provision of these funds will ensure that technical services
will be available teo assist NCPD with project preparation. Details of the
Institutional Development sub-component are given in Working Paper I
available in the project file.



-24-
(b) Multisectoral Population Program
Information. Education and Communication Program of NCPD
2.16      The primary objective of this sub-component is to produce
effective IBC materials for Kenya's population program while strengthening
the role of NCPD's IEC Division in the coordination and design of required
posters. pamphlets. billboards. stickers. etc.   The project would support
the design and production of IEC materials. In addition. the Division would
subcontract the mass production of IEC materials required by other
organizations involved in the population program. Costs for the design
(technical assistance. materials). production (materials. supplies.
printing) and NCPD staff development (per diem, transport, tuition) are
included in the budget.
2.17      This sub-component provides support for the annual design and
production of IEC material required by the pizogram as specified by NCPD's
IFC Division. other ministries and NGOs.  As budgeted annually. the sub-
component would provide the costs for the design and production of NCPD
calendars. the production of stickers for buses. for cars and for Matatus
(minibus). the production and advertising of billboards for country buses.
posters. metal sign boards. t-shirts, and khangas (dress). The IEC
materials will be distributed by NCPD. as well as other Government
ministries and NGOs who are active in the population program.  The NCPD will
also be responsible for the production of mass print media materials
required by ministries and NGOs who are involved in the population program.
Design for publicity materials would be previously approved by regular IFC
strategy meetings for all participants in the population program. This
procedure would provide an oversight mechanism. guaranteeing a continuity of
IEC materials correspondence with program policy. and incorporation of
feedback from the monitoring and evaluation systems. Five months of
technical assistance are provided in each year to fund consultants who will
be hired to independently pretest all new materials designed for the
population program. Funds are included in the sub-component to provide
local training for NCPD staff.
Department of Social Services (DSS)
2.18      The activities of the DSS cover a wide range of programs.
including social welfare. community development. youth development. and the
Women's Bureau. The Department's primary mandate is to create awareness and
mobilize Kenyans to accept new ideas for improving communities and family
life. With nearly 35.000 continuing or on-going development projects. the
DSS is an ideal organization for the diffusion of FP SEC activities.
2.19      This sub-component has as its primary objective the incorporation
of population/family life education within the on-going activities of the
DSS through the establishment of a central unit to develop and coordinate
population activities. the development of specialized curricula. training



-25-
for department personnel, and district-level seminars. The project would
p;ovide funds fo- su;port of the central unit (technical assistance.
equipment. vehicles. maintenance, supplies), training (materials, per diem,
transport), and staff development (overseas/local fellowships and study
tours). Details of the DSS sub-component are given in Working Paper II
available in the project file.
2.20      Given that the DSS sponsors more than 35.000 projects through
various women's and community groups and assuming a minimum of 15 persons
reached per project, it implies that with this sub-component. 450.000
persons could be given population education messages during the normal
course of DSS activities, while another 4.100 community leaders would
receive population messages directly related to social development programs
in the sub-component sponsored seminars. However, it must be kept in mind
that delivery of messages through extension groups and the like is never
likely to reach 100S of the target audience. Regular evaluations will be
carried out to assess the impact of the program and to modify strategies as
necessary.
Department of Adult Education (DAE)
2.21      The primary objective of this sub-component is the incorporation
of population and family planning information into the curriculum and
teaching of the DAR's adult literacy classes. This would be accomplished
by: supporting a central unit to develop, coordinate and implement
population activities; development of curricula and production of teaching
materials; training additional trainers; and providing supervisory follow
ups. Support for salaries, training facilities. and office space would be
provided by DAE; the project would fund training (transport. per diem. and
materiAls) and supervision (one vehicle. maintenance. per diem. and
transport).
2.22      The major responsibility of the DAE is the provision of literacy
education to Kenya's illiterate and semi-literate populations. This mandate
includes both the teaching of reading and writing and the provision of
knowledge and skills that will enable this segment of the population to
function in a changing. increasingly modern society. The DAB with a long
and reliable outreach program. has already begun the work of integrating
population and family life education (FLE) with its normal teaching duties.
The project would provide support for the development of curricula and
teaching materials. training of 200 trainers and subsequently for 3.000
teachers and classroom FLE for semi-literate populations. Assuming that
each teacher provides instruction to 100 students in a year. 300.000 semi-
literate persons could receive instruction in FLE every year. by the third
year of the project.
Office of the President
2.23        The Department of Provincial Administration and National
Security in the Office of the President has a line of authority and a



-26-
network that reaches the local communities through the District Officers,
chiefs and assistant chiefs. This network plays a valuable role in
orienting local leaders to significant national issues; its potential for
doing this in population matters is great and has been tested in a pilot
fashion. The introduction of the District Focus enhances the role of the
Provincial/District Administration for creating the right climate in
communities for small families and for the practice of family planning.
Different levels of the District Administration including the District
officers. the chiefs and the District Development Committees will provide
the leadership for this effort.
2.24      District officers. chiefs and assistant chiefs will attend one
week seminars on population and development; they will acquire sufficient
knowledge and skills in promoting population awareness and providing
information on population matters. The seminar content will include such
areas as population growth and Kenya's development. family planning services
and contraceptive methods and cultural barriers to the practice of
contraception. These leaders trained in the seminars. can provide (to the
extent that they themselves are persuaded) through an effective traditional
authority system, the impetus for u change that will result in a positive
climate for family planning practice and for the small family.
2.25      The project will train some 4000 chiefs. assistant chiefs and 200
district officers and other officials. Once they are trained and persuaded
the chiefs will systematically introduce population and family planning
matters in the chief's barazas (i.e. meetings). The project will finance
seminar costs. local travel and subsistence. costs for participants and
resource persons and the cost of training materials and of project
evaluation.
Ministry of Agriculture
2.26        The Ministry of Agriculture has a well-established network for
development activities. in particular agricultural urnd rural development.
Some 500 extension agents are on the front line working with communities and
the local farmers. youth and women's groups. Those extension workers have
been successful as change agents for farmer communities in the adoption of
new technologies and in the overall improvement of their livelihood.
2.27      The National Population Policy Guidelines recognized the potential
of the agricultural extension workers and the training programs undertaken
by the Ministry are an excellent vehicle to infuse population awareness. To
use the extension network, it will be necessary to equip extension and other
personnel with populatiou education. information and relevant skills to
enable them to relate population problems to the rural communities they
serve once they are convinced of the validity of the issue and feel an
incentive to do so. The extension workers and the Ministry's programs
provide a constant contact with farm families in the country. Through
support for this component. NCPD would be able to access an extensive and
credible infrastructure to promote population and family planning awareness.



-27-
2.28      The component will carry out the following:  ti) train extension
staff in population education (different messages for male and female
extension agents); (ii) prepare and implement youth programs on population;
(iii) train farmers and farmer groups on population and development as it
pertains to agriculture and food; and (iv) use nutrition education and farm
management models to influence fadily size. The project will finance
training of extension staff and other ministry staff involved in the
supervision and evaluation of the extension program. By the completion of
this component. agricultural extension staff in all districts will be
trained and will be able to carry out activities with farmers and youth.
The component provides funds to be used for seminars. education material
production, local travel and subsistence. and for evaluation and
supervision.
Ministry- -of--Realth
2.29      The NOR is potentially the single largest provider of family
planning services in the country. However, the effectiveness and efficietuc
of its PP program has been extremely poor (para. 1.33). A number of
important steps have recently been taken at government initiative to iupr'we
the MOH's FP program and the project would build upon these by: (a)
expanding family planning services to select target groups; and (b)
improving the quality of PP service.i provided by MOH through improved
management. supervision and training of health staff.
2.30      The project would support the expansion of FP services through
expansion of voluntary surgical contraception facilities at Nairobi and 12
di trict hospitals, upgrade 10 existing healthi units in Nairobi to provide
MCH/FP services, upgrade 140 health clinics and dispensaries in 14 districts
to Service Delivery Points (SDPs) capable of providing NCH/FP services. In
addition the project would support the provision of MCR/FP equipment to 100
health facilities in the 14 districts. Facilities to be upgraded have been
identified. Equipment lists for the voluntary surgical contraception
facilities and equipment lists for MCH/PP facilities have been reviewed by
IDA and found acceptable.
2.31      The project would continue support to the MOH to further improve
the management of the FP program. Technical assistance to undertake a
management review of the Division of Family Health would be provided. The
project would further support implementation of the findings of the review
through management training. staff development. motivational workshops and
incremental staff positions. In addition, the project would provide the MOH
with budgetary support of US$500.000 annually to be disbursed for recurrent
materials and supplies expenses upon implementation of an agreed plan of
action. Thus, a condition of disbursement of the funds relating to the



-28-
incremental recurrent operating costs of MOH would be the submission by NOR
of the agreed plan of action (para. 6.03) by March 30 of each year of an
annual plan of action focusing primarily upon policy and implementation
issues, for review and agreement by IDA, as well as its implementation by
March 30 of the subsequent year.
2.32      In-service training of MOR personnel is having a positive impact
in improving FP services (para. 1.37). To enable the MOH increase its
capability to undertake in-service MCH/FP training the project would support
the construction of an additional classroom at 14 decentralized training
centers together with vehicles and training materials. In the area of basic
training the project would support the development of FP curriculum for the
clinical officers course. The project would also support the establishment
of the Kenya Registered Community Nurse (KRCN) program at Nairobi and
Mombasa. KRCNs would be trained for three years in nursing and public
health and would become supervisors of the ECNs in the health system.
2.33      Through the First Population Project (Credit 468-KE) a health
education unit capable of producing radio, TV and other mass media materials
was established. Recurrent budgetary support has been a major problem and
hence the production facilities of the health education unit have never been
utilized. The project would support the conversion of the production
facilities of the health education unit into a Media Production Center
through provision of additional equipment and incremental staff salaries.
The Media Production Center would be an autonomous body under the MOR and
would produce required materials for the MOH. NCPD and NGOs in the
population and health sector. The center would be run by a professional
production manager and would be operated on a fee for service basis. An
advisory committee. comprising of representatives of the MOH. NCPD and NGOs
would be established and would be chaired by the Director of the Division of
Family Health. A condition of project effectiveness would be the
establishment of an acceptable organizational structure for the Media
Production Center (para. 6.01(a)). Appointment of its key personnel whose
qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA would be required by
October 31, 1988 (para. 6.02(f)).
(c)--NGO-Zo=Ronent
Kenys Cathol-ic--Secret-aiat--(KCS->
2.34      The primary objective of this sub-component would be to continue
KCS IEC activities funded in Part A of the ongoing IRHFP project. Project
funds would be provided for the support of natural family planning (NFP)
educational activities associated with Catholic churches. Costs incurred
for central and regional offices (salaries. stipends, equipment, furniture.
materials and supplies, utilities. and maintenance). NPP teachers (salaries.
stipends). and materials). and training/seminars (per diem. transport. and



-29-
materials) would be included in this sub-component's budget. This component
would supplement funding being provided outside the project by USAID and
would begin in the third year of the project.
2.35      This sub-component is expected to train 45 full-time project-
supported NFP teachers. They will. in turn. recruit and train 3720
Voluntary NFP teachers during the project period. It is projected that each
full-time NFP teacher will recruit and train 240 NFP clients per year. while
each Voluntary NFP teacher will recruit and train 60 acceptors annually.
Ideally.it is expected that 37.000 clients will be recruited and trained by
full-time NFP teachers. and more than 200.000 clients will receive training
from volunteers (assuming no dropouts over the course of the project).
Details of implementation of this sub-component are presented in Working
Paper III which is available in the project file.
National Council of Churches of Kenya (NCCK)
2.36      The primary objective of this sub-component is to continue the
family life education activities of the NCCK. started under the IRHFP
project. The activities include seminars for church school advisors.
marriage counsellors. married couples, teachers, young people, and church
leaders. in addition to the production of booklets and radio programs.
Project funds would be provided for the support of a FLE office (salaries.
stipends. furniture. equipment. materials and supplies. utilities, and
maintenance). training/seminars (per diem, transport, and materials). and
design/production of IEC materials/programs (technical assistance and
materials).
2.37      During the life of the project. this sub-component will train
5.040 church affiliated participants. 2.520 volunteer motivators. 1.260
church elders. and 1.260 youth leaders; 9.300 men. women and youth
coordinators. 1.680 women volunteer motivators; and 840 evangelists.
Details of implementation of this sub-component are presented in Working
Paper III which is available in the project file.
Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organization (MYWO)
2.38      There are numerous women's groups in Kenya. the largest of which
is the MYWO. These groups are involved in a variety of activities aimed at
improving the life of women. MCH/FP is a prominert activity amongst
projects executed by women's groups. MYWO. in particular. has undertaken
MCH/PP activities in a number of districts in Kenya. Pilot CBD activities
undertaken by MYWO have been very successful and have achieved a CPR of 35X.
MYWO has developed the expertise to train women's groups in MCH/FP and CBD
activities.



-30-
2.39      The objective of this sub-component is to enable the IYWO
undertake training of women's groups in MCH/FP; project supported activities
at NYWO would include support for a central training unit to develop
curricula and teaching materials for women's groups, technical assistance
for developing training activities. and training costs for women's groups.
2.40      In addition to MYWO there are numerous small and effective women's
groups in the country. The emphasis on district focus and the development
of district population programs provides a unique opportunity to identify
and support these groups to undertake MCH/FP and CBD activities. On an
annual basis DFPPCs will identify MYWO or other women's groupe that are
active in the district. The project would support the training of
representatives of these groups in MCH/FP and CBD, by MYWO. A women's
group, thus selected by the DFPPC and trained by MYWO. would be eligible to
receive funds and supplies from NCPD to initiate MCH/FP and CBD activities
(para. 2.12).
Family- -Planning- Association- of-Kenya--(FPAK}
2.41      This sub-component's objectives are to expand and strengthen the
service delivery capacity of FPAK and to provide continued support for PPAK
IFC activities. With project funds, FPAK would establish and support four
new, and two renovated, full-service and 24 outreach family planning
clinics. IEC activities will include: design of posters and technical FP
pamphlets; film translation and production; and participation of FPAK staff
in shows. exhibitions, seminars. and workshops. The project will provide
support for (the construction/renovation. furnishing and equipping of the
clinics. supplies, salaries, and six 4-wheel drive vehicles). design of IEC
materials (technical assistance. materials and supplies), and staff
participation in IEC activities (per diem. trargport, materials and
supplies). The project would also support pilot CBD programs to be.
initiated by FPAK. Details of the sub-component are given in Working Paper
III which is Available in the project file.
The- Christian- -Health- Asociation-of-Keny'- - (GRAK
2.42      The objectives of this sub-component would be to both expand the
family planning services provided by CHAK clinic facilities and continue the
organization's teacher's training program in family life education (FLE)
started under Credit 1238KE. Family planning services would be expanded
through the upgrading and support of about 20 existing CHAK dispensary
facilities; CHAK trainers would teach secondary school teachers subject
matter relating to the G(K's Department of Education FLE curriculum. Funds
would be provided for the support of clinics (civil works, furniture.
equipment. salaries, stipends, utilities, materials and supplies. and
maintenance). organizational activities (per diem, transport). supervision
(per diem aud transport), a training office (salaries. stipends, materials
and supplies, equipment. furniture. utilities. and maintenance). and
training (per diem. transport, and materials).



-31-
2.43      It is assumed that during the four-year period. the project vill
train 1.280 teachers, and that ideally each of these teachers, working an
average of 10 years. vill provide PLE instruction to 50 youths per year. A
total of up to 640,000 students can receive information concerning
population and family planning due to activities funded by this sub-
component. Details of implementation are provided in Working Paper III
which is available in the project file.
Kenya National Union of Teachers (KNUT)
2.44      The Kenya National Union of Teachers is an NGO with 116.232
teachers as members. One of its objectives is to participate in all matters
calculated to lead to the improvement of education and to promote the
establishment of a common system of education. One of the policy guidelines
on population education contained in Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1984 spells
out the need to integrate study units on population into existing courses at
all levels of schooling, emphasizing population processes. the consequences
of such changes on the individual. community and the nation, the
implications of uuplanned parenthood and the need for and benefits of small
families. The sessional paper also recommends that parents should be
motivated through Parent Teacher Association (PTA) and Board of Governors to
follow up their children's education and sociological aspects both at home
and in school. The objective of this component is for KNUT to use the PTA
structure to organize on a voluntary basis infusion of population edue.ation
among teachers by organizing in-service courses and seminars. These
seminars will be conducted for the primary school heads, secondary school
heads and school counsellors from secondary and teachers colleges. During
the seminars the teachers will be taught counselling skills. the role of
schools in population education. effective communication skills and methods
of family planning applicable to Kenya. Project funds would be provided for
the support of a project unit (office space, salaries, materials and
supplies) local workshops, seminars (per diem and transport), one vehicle
and IBC materials.
2.45      It is assumed that during the four-year period, the project would
train 50 teachers in each of the 41 districts as vell as three elected top
officials of the union. If all 2.050 teachers were to introduce population
education in an effective manner, and assuming a student/teacher ratio of
26, up to 53,300 students could be reached.
Funds for New Initiatives by NGOs
2.46      The project will set aside US$500,000 in unallocated funds to
enable new promising initiatives by NGOs to be supported. NGOs funded under
the project vill be able to apply for support, subject to their satisfactory
performance on approved plans. New NGOs will also be able to apply for
support through this mechanism. As part of its supervision missions IDA
will continue to review NCPDs ability to monitor implementation of project
activities by NGOs including cancellation of its support in case of non-



-32-
performance. During negotiations ssurances were obtained that new
initiatives by NGO would be implemmted in accordance with criteria and
guidelines satisfactory to the Association and the Donors (pars. 6.02(g)).
2.47      The project will also provide funds for the NCPD to undertake a
study on NGO financing and other critical factors for mustainability and
organizational capacity. The study. to be completed by December 31. 1989,
would focus in particular on alternative mechanisms for funding HGOs (para.
1.44).



-33-
III.    PPOJDCT COSTS AND fTI&CUI
A. Costs
3.01      Although the project has been designed to be implemented over a
four year period, it has been costed over an eight-year period. to have a
disbursement profile corresponding to the standard profile for Kenya. Total
costs of the proposed project are estimated at KSh472.5 million (US$28.3
million equivalent). Base costs are calculated at US$23.7 million
equivalent (80S) and contingencies at US$4.6 million equivalent (20%).
Foreign exchange costs account for US$9.9 million or 351 of total project
costs. Taxes and duties have been excluded in calculating the project cost.
Project costs by expenditure category are summarized in Table 1 below, and
details are provided in Annex 5. Civil works account for 24% of base costs;
furniture. equipment, vehicles. supplies and materials for 241; monitoring
and research activities 101; technical assistance for 21; training for 18S;
and incremental recurrent costs (salaries and allowances. Luilding.
equipment and vehicle operation and maintenance) for 222.



-34-
Table 1:  PROJECT COSTS- BY  0EXPENI)ITUE  CATEGORY
(KSH '000)                                      1USs '000)
X Total                                       Z Total
% Foreign  Base                               Z Foreimn  Bnsc
Local   Foreiin   Total    Exchutrn   Casts    Local   Fonijin  Total   Exchan1e   Costs
33:~u22 322~U~   22S~2  23222   UzxzU   22-'ZuX UZ"3UZ  2UUUUUU a               UUZUUUU
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL U0RKS                             32,525.9  60,405.2  92t931*0         65      24   1,p52.3 3,675.9 5578.1          65       24
I. UEHICLES                                   560.0  10,640.0  11,200.0         95       3      33.6   638.7    672.3         95        3
C. FURNITURE                                1,955.8   3t632.2   54598.0         65       1      117.4   218.0    335.4        65        1
D. MATERIALS                               16,456.7  16,456.7  32,913,3         50       8     987.8   987.8  1,975.6         50        8
E. EUIPHENT                                16,003.8  29,721.3  4!,725,0         65      12     960.6 1,784.0  2,744.6         65       12
F. TECNNICAL ASSISTANCE                           -   R,522.6   8,522.8        100       2          -   511.6    511.6       100        2
A. IONITORIN6 , RESEARCH , EVALUATION      409501.3         -  40,501.3          -      10   2,431.1        -  2t431.1         -       t0
H. TRAINING                                58,482.5         -  58,482.5          -      15  3,510.4         -  3v510.4         -       15
I. OVERSEAS TRAINING                              -   9,977,4   9,977.4        100       3         -   59R.9    598.9        100       3
Total INVESTHENT COSTS                       166,495,9 1379355.5 305w841.3         46      78   9.993.t e8364.7 18,357.8         46       78
Ph%sical Contingencies                      5,001.4   99063.0  149064,4         64       4     300.2   544.0    844.2         64        4
Price Continmncies                         28,7T5.1   9,907.1  38,642,3         26      10   1s720.0   590.9  29310.9         26       10
Total INCLUDIN6 CONTINSENCIES                200,222.4 1SR,325.6 358,548,0         44      91  129013.4 99499.6 21,513.0         44      91
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. SALARIES                               50,749.8         -  50,749.8          -      13   39046.2       -  3,046.2          -       13
8. ALLOANCE                               14,44A,8         -  14,446.9          -       4     867.2        -    867.2         -       4
C. PER DIEN                                2P920.4         -   2,920.4          -       1     175.3        -    175.3         -       I
u, UTILITIES / SUPPLIES                    4,79R.1   1,199.5   5,997.6         20       2     289.0    72.0    360.0         20       2
E. VENICLE OPERATION ANt MAINTENANCE       3,720.0   3,720.0   7O440.0         50       2     223.3   223.3    446.6         50       2
F. EOUIPNENT MAINTENANCE                   1,291.2   1,281.2   2t562.4         50       1      7S.9    76.9    153.8         50        1
B. PUILDING MAINTENANCE                    3,322.0     174.9   3,496.8          5       1     199.4    10.5    209,9          5       1
R. FURNITUPE MAINTENNCE                      785.4         -     785.4          -       0      47.1       -      47.1         -       0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                         82,023.6   6,375.6  88t399.2          7      22   4,923.4   382.7  5,306,1          7      22
Physical Contintencies                         39.3         -       39.3         -       0       2.4       -       2.4         -       0
Price Contingencies                        24,811.9     689.3  2S,501.1          3       6   1,486.8    41.2  14528.0          3       6
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                106,9874.7   7,064.9 113,939.5         6      29   69412.5   423.9  6.836.4          6      29
Total BASELINE COSTS                          248,509.5 145,731.0 394,240,5         37     100  140916.5 89?47.4 23,663.9         37      100
Physical Continsencies                       5,040.7   9,063.0  14,103.7         64       4     302.6   544.0    946.6         64        4
Price Contingenciis                         53,546.9  10,596.4  64,143.3         17      16   3,206.8  632.1  3,938,9          16      16
Total PROJECT COSTS                           3079097,1 165,390.5 472,487,5         35     120  18t425.9 94973.5 2P,349.4         35      120
S -   S        2 GG=-3 -    S_      ~      zU              2~U= ----SS  S==SSS   SDUS



-35-
3.02      Project costs have been estimated at August 1987 prices and have
been updated at negotiations. Civil works costs have been estimated on the
basis of the value of current Ministry of Works contracts for comparable
buildings. Furniture and equip-ent lists are available and were reviewed by
IDA. Project costs also include provision for a total of 38 vehicles, at a
unit cost of about US$20.000 (on CIF basis); 258 months of overseas
training: 43 months of long-term foreign/local consultants and 52 months of
short-term consultants. About 84S of the technical assistance is expected
to be obtained locally. Incremental salaries. local training costs and
operational and maintenance expenses are based on current Government scales
and rates.
3.03      The total project costs include US$4.6 million equivalent for
contingencies. Physical contingencies have been included at 10 for civil
works and 5S for vehicles equipment. furniture. materials/supplies and
furniture maintenance and amount to US$0.8 million equivalent (4Z of bane
costs). The following price contingencies have been included: (i) on
foreign exchange expenditures. 5.6Z in 1988; 5.4X in 1989; -0.3 in 1990; 1.3
in 1991; 1.3 in 1992; 1.3 in 1993; 1.3 in 1994: and 1.3 in 1995. and (ii) on
local cost expenditures, 101 in 1988: 91 in 1989; and 8S every year
thereafter. Price contingencies account for US$3.8 million equivalent or
161 of base costs.
3.04      The foreign exchange component of US$9.9 million equivalent is
based on estimates of 651 for civil works; 95Z for vehicles; 501 for
materials/supplies; 65X for equipment; 651 for furniture; 10O1 for overseas
training and study tours. The incremental recurrent costs mainly cover
equipment and building maintenance and vehicle operation and maintenance.
3.05      Project costs by functional component are shown in Table 2.
Strengthening the NCPD would absorb 211 of base cost; sultisectoral
population programs 421; and NGO programs 371.
B.  ftnszin
3.06      Of the total project costs of US$28.3 million. the Government's
contribution would be US$2.7 million (10Z). which would cover 21 of
investment costs and 381 of the recurrent costs. The remainder of
investment costs would all be financed fros external sources. Table 3
presents project costs by financing source. An IDA credit of US$12.2
million is proposed. Cofinancing has been confirmed by United Kingdom's
ODA, and Norway's NORAD. IDA will administer the NORAD grant (except for
the district focus component to be implemented by UNFPA). The ODA
contribution would be US$8.4 million and the NORAD contribution would be
US$5.0 million.



-36-
Financial Viability
3.07      Project Investment Costs:    The 1986/87-89/90 Forward Budget has
allocated more than US$8.3 million to the NCPD for the period 1987/88-
1989/90. implying an annual allocation of about US$2.7 million for its
investment expenditures. Assuming that investments will be made over a
four-year period and that the Government allocations for investment in NCPD
activities will remain at the levels provided for in the Forward Budget.
budgetary allocations for the project are conb'dered to be adequate.
3.08      Incremental Recurrent Costs. The Government will finance about
US$2.7 million of the project's incremental recurrent costs for salaries of
incremental staff and maintenance expenditures. The 1986/87-1989/90 Forward
Budget has allocated more than US$76.6 million to the Office of the Vice
President and Home Affairs for the period 1987/88-1989/90. implying an
annual allocation of about US$25.5 million for its recurrent expenditures.
Assuming NCPD maintains its historical 40S share of this amount (i.e.
US$10.2 million) (which would be appropriate to finance all ongoing and
proposed activities of NCPD) the annual project recurrent costs will account
for 2S of NCPD's budget at 1988 current prices.



-37-
Tab1e 2-- -  P ORECT CO8TS -T iINANCING -SOURCE
(KSH '000)                                  (15 '000)
X Total                                   X Total
X Freign ga                               Z Fohuign IB;
Local   Foreign   Total   Excdwa     Costs   Local  Foreign  Total  Ebnie  Costs
82 "uam= amuzu   inaamim uau.i  22mga   u              u=xwuxxzx  matzunrnaw
A. NATIOAL. COIKIL FOR
POPUTION MD IEVEIAMW
t. N1MAEIENT INFORNATION SlYE            1,822.8  2,218.7  4,041.5        55      1    109.4  133.2   242,6         55      1
2. RESEAHAUl eAN MTION                      95.0        -     C5.0         -      0       5.1      -     5.1         -      0
3. INFOATION, EMUCATION
AND CMICATION                         69166,0  5,830.0 11.996.0        49      3    370.1  349.9   720.0         49       3
4. INSTITUTIONAL EEUELOPNENT             6p454.3 19.944.3 2699.6          76      7    387.4 1W197.1 1.584.5        76      7
5. DISTRICT FOCUS                       25,896.5 13,026.3 38.922.8        33     10  1,554*4  781.9 2,336.3         33     10
Stb-Totsl NATtONAL COUNCIL FOR
POPULATION AND UELOPIENT                40,424.6 41,019.3 R1.443.9        50     21  2o426.4 2,462.1  4,888.6       50     21
B NULTI - SECTORAL PROGRAMS
. WEPARTIENT (F
SOCIAL SERUICES                      10,002.4  29230,9 129233*3        18      3    600,4  133.9   734,3         18      3
2. DEPARTMENT OF
DULT EDUCATION                        6,54D.0    780.0  7,320.0        11      2    392.6   46.8   439,4         11      2
3. OFFICE OF TME PRESIDENT               5.200.0        -  5,200.0        -       1    312.1       -   312.1         -      1
4. HINISTRY OF AGRICULTUtE               3,878.7    261.3  4.140.0        6       1    232.8   15.7   248.5          6      1
5. HINISTRY OF WEALTH                   67,294.3 71,917.9 139,112.4       52     35  4.039.3 4,310.8 9.350,1        52     35
Sub-Total MULTI - SECTORAL PROGRAMS        92,915.6  75,090.2 168.005.7     45      43  5,577.2 49507.2 100984.4      45      43
C. NGf PROGRANS
1. NAENDELEO YA VAVAIAKE                3',08.05   1,703.8 32,784.3       5       8  1,865.6  102.3 1t967.8          5      8
2. FAMILY PLANNIN
ASSOCIATION OF KENYA                 23,661.6  16,567.4 40.229.0       41     10  1,420.3  994.4 2,414.7         41      10
3. THE CHRISTIAN HEALTH
ASSOCIATION OF KEYA                  27,489.6  49253.2 319741.R        13      8  1,650.0  255.3 1.905.3         13      8
4. KENYA CATHOLIC SECRETARIAT            3,497.1    934.5  49431.6        21      1    209.9   56.1   266.0         21      1
5. NATIONAL COUNCIL OF
CHURCHES OF KENA                     15,031.9  4,306.9 19,338.8        22      5    907,3  258.5  1.160.S        22      5
6. NEV N60 ACTIUITIES                    7,000.0        -  7.000,0        -       2    420.2       -   420.2         -      2
7. KENYA NATIONAL
UNION OF TEACHERS                     7,409.7  1,189.4  8,599.0        14      2    444.8   71.4   516.1         14      2
8. NEO STUDY                                  -    666.4    666.4        100      0        -   40.0    40.0        100      0
Sub-Total N60 PROGRANS                    1159169.3 29,621.6 144,790.9      20      37  6,912.9 1778.0 9,690.9        20      37
Total IASELINE COSTS                       248,509.5 145,731.0 394.240,5      37    100 14.916.5 8,747.4 23,663.9       37    100
Phvsical Contimnitcies                     50O40.7  9,063.0  14.103.7      64       4    302.6  544.0   846.6        64       4
Price Continmnies                         53,546.9  10.596.4 64.143.3      17      16  3.206.8  632.1 3,838.9         16     16
Total PROJECT COSTS                        307,097.1 165,390.5 472,487.5      35    120 18,425.9 9.923.5 28,349.4       35    120
-    uam U  3=    =m  _                                ,_    



-38-
C. Procurement
3.09      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 4.  ODA funded
project components would be procured in accordance with their procedures.
NORAD funded project components (except the district focus component to be
implemented by UNFPA) would follow IDA regulations. The remainder of this
paragraph describes the procurement arrangements for the IDA credit and the
NORAD grant (except the district focus component being implemented by
UNFPA). It is expected that 20X of total project costs would be procured
through international competitive bidding (ICB), 242 through local
competitive bidding (LCB). and 3% through other means. The civil works
contract for the NCPD headquarters building at Nairobi. estimated at about
US$670.000 would be awarded following ICB procedures. Local firms bidding
for construction contracts under ICB vould receive a preference of 7.52.
Other extension of civil works. including 12 voluntary surgical
contraception units. 150 clinics for the MOB and Nairobi City commission.
extension to Puawani hospital in Nairobi and the RRCN facilities in Mombasa
are too small and scattered to attract firms from outside Kenya.  These
contracts estimated to cost less than US$200.000 equivalent per contract
will be awarded following competitive bidding advertised locally. LCB
procedures as described in the Bank's guidelines will be followed.



-39-
TABLE 3: PROPOSED PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million)
Total       ODA    NORAD    GOK    IDA   P*rcentage
Base Costs                                    IDA
Expenditure
CateXories
1. Civil Works           5.6       .8      2.3             2.5      45
2. Vehicles               .7       .2       .05     -       .4      57
3. Furniture              .3       .03      .07             .2      66
4. Materials/Supplies   2.0        .8                      1.0      50
S. Equipment             2.8       .1               .1    2.6       93
6. Technical
Assistance          .5       .1       -       -       .4      80
7. Monitoring,
Research,
Evaluation         2.4       .5       .01            1.9      79
8. Local Training        3.5       .6      1.5      .2    1.2       34
9. Overseas Training    .6         .4       -       -       .2      33
10. Incremental
Recurrent Costs    5.3      3.0       .3    2.0       -       -
Total
Base Costs        23.7      6.6      4.4     2.3   10.4       44
Total
Contingencies      4.6      1.8       .6      .4    1.8       39
Total
Project Costs     28.3      8.4      5.0     2.7   12.2       43



-40-
Ta 4l 4---    ~       1
nis L= i ii
Civil Works               1.3        4.6        -               .7        6.6
(1.0)     (2.0)                                 (3.0)
Vehicles                    .5       -                          .2          .7
( .5)           -                     -         ( .5)
Furniture                   .1        .3        -               -           .4
( .1)      (.1)                                 ( .2)
Materials/Supplies          .8        .6        .3              .6         2.3
( 8)     (.4)        --(1.2)
Equipment                 2.9         .2        -               .1        3.2
(2.8)                                           (2.8)
Technical Axsistance                            .5              .1          .6
(.5)                       (.5)
Monitoring.
Research/Evaluation                                           2.9       2.9
(2.2)     (2.2)
Local Training                                                  4.2       4.2
(1.5)     (1.5)
Overseas Training                                                .6         .6
(.3)      (.3)
Salaries/Allowance/
Per Dies                                                     5.3        5.3
(-)       (-)
Utilities/Supplies                    .3                         .1         .4
(-)                                  (-)
Vehicle Op./Maintenance               .4                         .1         .5
(-)                                  (-)
Equipment Maintenance                 .2                                    .2
(-)                                  (-)
Building Maintenance                  .2                         .1         .3
(-)                                  C-)
Furniture Maintenance                 .1                                    .1
(  )                                 (-)
TOTAL                     5.6        6.9         .8              15      28.3*
(5.2)     (2.5)      ( .5)             (4)    (12.2)
NEmbers in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
*Includes a*ounts for item financed by ODA and NORAD.



-41-
3.10      Furniture and equipment would be grouped. to the extent
practicable, into contracts valued at US$100.000 or more and procured
through ICB. The vehiclea would be procured as a package through ICB.
Suppliers of vehicles vould be required to agree to maintain an adequate
after sales service and an inventory of spare parts. Furniture and
equipment estimated to cost less than US$100,000 but more than $20.000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$300,000. would be
procured through LCB. A single contract for materials and supplies required
for IEC activities (US$0.9 million) vould be awarded through ICB. Materials
and supplies estimated to cost less than US$50.000 per c.ntract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed US$1.7 million, would be procured through
LCB. Miscellaneor.s items of materials and supplies estimated to cost less
than US$20.000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$400,000. would
be procured through prudent shopping with at least three price quotations.
3.11      All IDA-financed contracts over US$200,000 to be procured through
ICB would be subject to prior IDA review. Other contracts would be subject
to selective post-award review.
3.12      For all IDA-financed consultants employed for this project.
selection procedures, qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to IDA. and in accordance with the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and the World
Bank as an Executing Agency" (August 1981).
D. Disbureements
3.13       Disbursements from the proposed IDA credit will be on the basis
of: (a) 80S of total expenditures on civil works; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 702 of local expenditures on goods. equipment. supplies and
vehicles; (c) 100S of expenditures for overseas training and consultant
services; and (d) 1001 of foreign expenditures tuad 701 of local expenditures
on recurrent operating costs for the Ministry of Health. Withdrawal
applications for expenditures for civil vorks, supplies, materials and
salaries under contracts or purchase orders of less than US$20,000 would be
submitted against statements of expenditure; supporting documentation would
be retained in the implementing agencies for review by Bank supervision
missions and for annual audits. All other disbursements would be fully
documented. It is anticipated that the credit would be fully disbursed by
June 30, 1996. An indicative schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 5.
This schedule is based on the standard disbursement profile for Kenya.
E. Accounts ant-Audite
3.14      Project funds would be maintained in a separate account and would
be channeled from the Ministry of Finance to the NCPD and would be
administered by the Under Secretary (Finance) Office of the Vice President
and Ministry of Home Affairs. Project financial records would be maintained
by the Under Secretary (Finance). Office of the Vice President and Ministry
of Home Affairs. The Project would be subject to ncrmal government



-42-
accotxting  ad auditing procedures. wbich are considered satisfactory to
IDA. During negotiations assurances were obtained that: audits of project
accounto and S0Bs by the Auditor General or independent auditors acceptable
to IDA would be carried out; that all audited accounts would be made
available to IDA witbin nix mouths of the close of each G0K fiscal year
(para. 6.02(h)).



-43-
IV.     -^ -  W1 AI
A. St:tue-of-frolect--Pr.paration
4.01      The project was prepared by the NCPD in collaboration with the
Office of the President, NOA, MOM, the Departments of Adult Education and
Culture and Social Services, MYWO. FPAK, RCS. CHAK, KNUT and the NCUOR
Sessional Paper No. 4. 1984 provided the framework for project development,
Site plans and sketch drawings for the NCPD building and the district
population buildings have already been submitted to IDA for review. Working
drawings, bills of quantity, tender documents and furniture and eauipment
lists for all contracts are expected to be finalized and submitted to IDA
for review about three months after project effectiveness. Detailed survey
work for the upgrading of CHAK and FPAK clinics is available. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that subsequent annual work plans
including adequate budgetary allocations, satisfactory to IDA. would be
submitted by the NCPD, by March 31 annually (para. 6.02(i)).
B. Orlanization-And-Man2gement
4.02      The Permanent Secretary, Office of the Vice President and Ministry
of Hoive Affairg would have overall responsibility for coordination of the
project. The Director of NCPD would have day-to-day responsibility for
coordination, supervision, and implementation of the NCPD component and for
sonitoring activities undertaken by other government and non-government
agencies. In each such agency, a project coordinator has been identified.
All project coordinators work closely with the NCPD. In the case of the
Family Health Component the Director of the Family Health Division would be
the coordinator. A project coordinating committee chaired by the Director
of NCPD. comprising the coordinators of all project components and senior
NCPD staff would be established. The coordinating committee would meet
every quarter to review project implementation. The NCPD secretariat would
be responsible for maintaining minutes of every meeting, initiating follow
up actions and for preparing progress reports.  In addition, monthly
meetings vill be held between the NCPD and MOB. Staff of MOH and NCPD would
meet first to review progress of implementation and any other problems that
nay arise.  The results of this review would be submitted to a subsequent
meeting between the Permanent Secretaries, Office of the Vice President and
Ministry of Home Affairs and the MOH and the Director of Medical Services
either for information or for decision.
4.03      The Executive Director, NCPD and Director, Division of Family
Health MOR. would be responsible for the civil works program. Since the
NCPD and NOR do not have the staff for production of architectural drawings
and for coordination of the quantity surveying, mechanical, electrical and
civil engineering inputs of design work. use would be made of consultant
firms. The Ministry of Works would assist NCPD and MOB in the selection and
briefing of consultant firms and in monitoring the civil works program.



-44-
4.04      Procurement of furniture. equipment and supplies. and recruitment
of consultants for all project components would be undertaken by the
respective agencies.  NCPD. which has developed the capaoility to undertake
procurement efficiently would provide guidance and support as necessary.
4.05      Responsibility for implementation of each sub-component undertaken
under the NCPD component would rest with the applicable section of the NCPD.
The section head (Program. Research and Evaluation) would supervise the MIS
and research sub-components and the section head (IEC) would supervise the
IEC sub-component. The Deputy Director whose position has been established
would supervise the district focus and the institutional development sub-
components. Responsibility for implementation ^f the multisectoral
component would be as follows: the Deputy Director. DAE would be
responsible for the adult education sub-coqponent; the Deputy Director. DSS
for the social services component; the Director, Family Health Division, MHO
for the family health sub-component; the Deputy Secretary Office of the
President for that sub-component; and the Director. Extension Services for
the Ministry of Agriculture sub-component. Responsibility for
implementation of NGO components would be    follows:  the Chairman, MYWO
would be responsible for the MYWO sub-component; the medical director CHAK
for the CHAK sub-component; the Project Manager. FLE for the NCCR sub-
component; the Deputy Director KCS for the KCS sub-component; the project
manager for the KNUT sub-component.
C. Monitoz!ing-Reportin-g and -Evl-uation
4.06      The Executive Director. NCPD would have responsibility for
monitoring the progress of implementation of all project components. He
would prepare quarterly progress reports. and would highlight major issues
needing resolution. These reports would be approved by the project
coordinating committee (para. 4.02) before submission to IDA and other
donors. Regular coordination meetings of the donor agencies would be held
in Nairobi. As a basis for monitoring. annual implementation plans will be
prepared every year. starting with 1988 (para. 4.01) and byy mid-term review
based thereon would be undertaken no later than December 31. 1990 (para.
6.02(i)).
4.07      A number of process indicators would be utilized to monitor
progress. These would include: for the MIS the percent coverage of service
delivery points in the 14 districts by the FPSSS. the number of databases
established for planning. monitoring and evaluation. and the number. type
and regularity with which reports are produced; for the research and
evaluation program, the development of a priority list of research required
by the population program, the number and type of research proposals
approved for funding annually. the number of seminars held and the number of
reports produced; for the IEC program in the NCPD. other ministries and
NGO's. the production of posters. booklets and other materials by types and
numbers; for the district focus. tbe number of districts in which population
activities are begun annually. the number and type of seminars held annually
in each district. and the number and type of NGO activities (including CBD)
initiated in each district annually; for institutional development, the



-45-
number and type of staff development activities undertaken annually.
4.08      In addition to the process indicators listed above, several
studies and aurveys are plannet. First a review of NGO activities will be
undertaken during 1988. Second, independent evaluations of all prograa sub-
components will be undertaken by local consultants under the direction of
the NCPD during the second and fourth years of the project. Third, research
seminars in the second and fourth years of the project will review research
results and future needs. Fourth. annual work plans will be produce.i based
on a component by component review of progress in the preceding year.
Finally. a comprehensive mid-term review of the population program will be
undertaken during the third year of the project. During negotiations
assurances were obtained fron the Government that the results of these
studies and surveys would be made available to IDA within six months of
their completion for review and comments (para. 6.02(j)). NGOs that are
unable to perform would no longer benefit from NCPD support.
4.09      Sessional Paper No. 4 of 1984 established a goal for fertility
decline from TFR of 7.9 in 1984 to a TFR of 6.0 by 1989 (or a 25S decline in
fertility). The Bank estimates that. by current trends in fertility decline
the TFR will fall to 6.97 by 1994 (equivalent to a 10.52 decrease from
1984). For the same period CBS projects a decline in the TFR to 6.61
(equivalent to a 15.32 decline). Two sets of annual district level targets
have been developed one based on 1987 World Bank projections. the other
based on fertility levels from the CBS. The results are presented in Annex
3. By World Bank estimates the total number of acceptors required to
achieve the above mentioned levels of fertility decline from 1988-91 would
be 1.957.200 whereas using 3BS data the total number of required acceptors
for the same time period would be 2.059.300. Given that in the 14 project
districts the total number of acceptors by 1991 would be one million (para.
5.02) it will be difficult to achieve the sessional paper's fertility goals.



-46-
V. pROm  -pn-. JUST-NC&Oil AM. -RIES
A. Benefits-and Justification
5.01      The proposed project is designed to continue institution building
activities initiated through the IRHFP project, to further strengthen the
NCPD and to consolidate and expand multisectoral population programs through
key government ministries and NGOs. The project is designed to emphasize
service provision as vell as demand creation activities. It draws heavily
on experience in implementation of the IRHFP project, independent reviews of
the NCPD and the population program and studies undertaken by various
university and donor agencies. The project is expected to improve the
effectiveness of the population program and to expand its coverage.
5.02      The aelected districts cover about 14.5 million people or 65Z of
Kenya's population. Comprehensive population programs will be implemented
in these districts. Since the project supports the first attempts by Kenya
to develop district level programs responsive to local circumstances there
is a major opportunity to rapidly improve program performance. By the end
of the project the total number of Eaceptors in the selected districts is
expected to be about one million. CE these female sterilization acceptors
are expected to be 195.000. injectables acceptors 150.000. IUD acceptors
142.000. pills 347.000. other methods 50,000, natural family planning
80.000. and condoms 34.000.
5.03      The population program will benefit overall from a further
strengtbened NCPD. In addition, the strengthening of the family planning
program vould put pressure on the MOH to improve its delivery of family
planning services throughout the health care system. Since the MOH is
potentially the Jingle largest provider of family planning services a
strengthened PP program would result in a substantial increase in FP
acceptors.
5.04      Population IEC activities through the multisectoral approach and
through NGOs are expected to benefit up to 5 million people. Of these.
about 300.000 people would be reached through the DAB program. 450.000
people through thi DSS program, 50.000 through the Ministry of Agriculture
Program and 3.7 million through NGO programs. Several of these programs may
overlap and therefore be mutually reinforcing. At the same time it is well
known that the numbers of those who practice is usually less than the
numbers of those vho obtain knowledge. Nevertheless, if the INC programs
reach even 75Z of this target it would still be an impressive achievement.



-47-
B. Risk*
5.05      The project faces three main risks. The first concerns the
capacity of the MOR to meet expectations regarding the family planning
program. The family health division of the MOH has had serious
administrative. managerial and financial problems. To overcome these, a
number of steps have already been taken. Collaboration between the family
health division and the other units of the MOH has improved. Additional
senior staff have been assigned to the family health division. Attempts
have also begun to establish working level links with the NCPD. The project
is designed to reinforce these measures through both financial and
organizational development support. The pace of project implementation
furthermore has been set so as to avoid overextending the division's staff.
5.06      The second risk concerns the ability of the NCPD to coordinate and
manage an ezpanding multisectoral population program. After a slow start
the NCPD is developing into an effective population agency. Additional
staff have been recruited and a staff development plan is underway.
Nevertheless. the relative inexperience of staff is a major concern. The
appointment of a technical deputy director is expected to provide the
professional guidance that NCPD staff will need. At the same time the
appointment of an experienced individual to head the NCPD's IEC division and
the recruitment of a long7-term local consultant are expected to provide the
division with guidance and technical expertise to develop an effective IEC
strategy.
5.07      The third risk concerns the expansion of NGO activities. Until
the establishment of district population programs NGOs were the main
providers of family planning services. They have been rapidly expanding to
meet the growing demand in the country. However, NGOs are totally dependent
upon the NCPD for funds. If they continue to expand further. without
examining alternate means of financing their activities. their programs may
become unsustainable in the long term. A study will be undertaken to
examine possible alternative mechanisms to finance NGOs including
development of fund raising techniques and improving local support.
However, even with the development of alternative mechaaisms NGOs will
continue to require Government subsidies in the medium term.



-48-
TX.   ABMAm-A-
6.01      The following would be a condition of credit effectiveness:
(a) establishment of an acceptable organizational structure for
the Media Production Center (para. 2.33).
6.02      Other covenants would be:
(a) by October 31. 1988 NCPD would submit a timetable for
national. regional and district workshops with NGOs (para.
1.40);
(b) that by October 31. 1988 NCPD would have defined the roles of
district population officers and would present proposals for
appropriate institutional arrangements to ensure coordination
with other agencies at the district level as well as a
training program to help the district population officers
perform such coordination functions (para. 1.42);
(c) by October 31. 1988 MOH would submit a plan. acceptable to
IDA. to ensure the quality of the voluntary surgical
contraception program (para. 1.43);
(d) by December 31, 1989 a study of NGO financing and critical
factors for sustainability and organizational capacity. with
a focus on alternative financing mechanisms for funding NGOs
be undertaken and its recommendations be reviewed with IDA
and that mutually agreeable recommendations would be
implemented by December 31. 1990 (para. 1.44);
(e) by March. 1. 1989 and March 1 of each subsequent year a list
of research priorities vould be agreed with IDA (para. 2.09);
(f) by October 31, 1989 key personnel of the Media Production
Center, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to
IDA would be appointed (para. 2.33);
(g) proposals for funding new NGO initiatives would be in
accordance with criteria and guidelines satisfactory to IDA
and the donors (para. 2.46);
(h) audits of project accounts and SOBs by the Auditor-General or
independent auditors acceptable to IDA would be carried out,
and that all audited accounts would be made available to IDA
within six months of the close of each Gag fiscal year (para.
3.14);



-49-
(i) by March 31 each year annual work plans. satisfactory to IDA.
would be submitted by NCPD (pars. 4.01) including adequate
budgetary allocations and that a mid-term review based
thereon vould be undertaken no later than December 31. 1990
(para. 4.06); and
(j) results of studies and surveys would be made available to IDA
within six months of completion (para. 4.08);
6.03      A condition of disbursement of the funds relating to incremental
operating costs for the MOR would be the preparation by March 30 of each
year of an acceptable annual plan of action focusing primarily on policy and
implementation issues. and its implementation by June 30 of the subsequent
year (para. 2.31).
6.04      Subject to the above provisions. the proposed project would
constitute a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR9.00 million (US$12.2
million equivalent) to the Government of Kenya.



*50-
Annex 1
Page I of 6
KENYA    THID POPULATION PROJCCT
ANNU 1 - STATISTICAL J.4
Annex 1 - Table 1
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
PROJECTED POPULATION (1986), TOTAL AND  ARAZLZ LAND ARMA (?-2)
AND POPULATION DENSITY BY PROVINCE
-----------------------------------------------------------------__---------
Area                Projected            Land Area             Density
Population        Total      Arable     Total    Arable
('0003)
KENYA                 21,021         569,249    99,050        37        212
Nairobi          1,224              684        --      1789        --
Central          3,160           13,173      9,240      240       342
Coast            1,829           83,041    11,480        22       275
Eastern          3,711          154,540    26,920        24       138
North-Eastern       532         126,902        --         4        --
Nysnza           3,760           12,525    12,520       300       300
Rift Valley      4,504           70,162    31,480        64       143
Western          2,444            8,223      7,410      297        330
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__---
Annex 1 - Table 2
MEDIAN CAE AT FIRST NAURIAGE FOR WOuN 20-24 (IFS)
Level of Education
Nont       1 - 4 Years        5 - 8 Years         9+ Years      All
16.5          17.0               18.3               23.5       18.1
Region of Residence
Nairobi   Central    Coast    Nyanha  Rift Valley   Wetern   Eastern
19.8     19.0       16.3      16.6      17.9          17.5      20.0
Ethnic Group
Kikuyu    Luo   Luhya  Kamba  Kisii  Meru/Embu  Mijikua  Kalenjin  Other
19.7    16.2    17.7   19.7   17.8      20.7        15.?      18.1    18.0
_____________________________--_--       ____________________- ______________-I



-51-                      Annex 1
Page 2 of 6
KENYA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Annex 1 - Table 3
TOTAL FERTILITY RATE AND PROPORTIONS
OF CURRENTLY MARRIED WOMEN USING MODERN AND TRADITIONAL
MMTHODS OF FAMILY PLANNING BY PROVINCE, KFS AND KCPS
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
TFR           | Proportion Using Family Planning
Area                   KFS*            KCPS**I           KFS          KCPS
--------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
KENYA                  8.2              7.7                7           17
Nairobi              6.1              5.6              32            28
Central              8.6              7.8              12            34
Coast                7.2              6.7                7           11
Nyanza               8.0              8.2                8            9
Rift                 8.8              8.6               11           15
Western              8.2              6.3                2            5
Eastern              8.2              8.0              12            26
Annex 1 - Table 4
CRUDE DEATS RATE, IDM AND LIFE MXPECTANCY ESTIMATES
1948, 1962. 1969, AND 1979 CENSUSES
------_--------------------------------------------------..----__-----------
Year             CDR                  In eK
1948               25                 184              35
1962               20                n.a.              44
1969               17                 119              49
1979               14                 104              54
---------------------------------------------------------------------__---



-52-                     Annex 1
Page 3 of 6
WINYAt THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Annex 1 - Table 5
._______________________________________________________________________----
POPULATION BY BROAD AGE GROUP AND DEPENDZNCY RATIOS BY YEAR: 1985-2020
(World Bank Projections, March 1987)
1985     1990     1995     2000     2020
AGE GROUP
.Males:
0-14             5,340    6,506    7,777    9,087   11,691
15-64             4,623    5,704    7,077    8,764   19,139
65+                166      204      251       311      722
Females:
0-14             5,318    6,461    7,705    8,893   11,547
15-64             4,723    5,821    7,217    8,922   19,347
15-49             4,217    5,202    6,454    7,983   17,171
65+                205      251      305       375      894
Total Population   20,375   24,947   30,333   36,452
DEPENDENCY RATIO    118.0    116.5    112.2    106.1      64.6
Annex 1 - Table 6
--------------------------------------------------------------------__----
RELATED INDICATORS, 1985-2020
(World Bank Projections, March 1987)
----------------------------------------------------------------__--------
Indicator    1985-1990   1990-1995   1995-2000   2015-2020
CBR             52.6        49.7         45.9        27.6
CDR             12.2        10.7          9.2         5.0
Growth Rate      4.05        3.91         3.68        2.26
TFR              7.684       7.345        6.578       3.148
InM             83.7        75.7         67.6        57.6
eo              55.5        57.5         59.6        67.64
---------------------------------------------------------------.--__-------



-5 3-
Annex 1
Page 4 of 6
MCNYAt   THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
AN=  1 - TABLE 7
|ANNUAL CONTRACEPTIVE ACCEPTORS 1981-1986
Year      Pills         IUD       Injections          Others
1981      36,182        12,575         1,499          3,410
1982      38,149        14,813         1,928          4,195
1983      42,756        16,812         2,610          4,709
1984      50,839        20,673         4,561          4,324
1985      46,127        19,445         7,321          4,044
1986      61,813        15,558         6,470          9,304



54-
Annex 1
Page 5 of 6
KENYA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Annex 1 - Table 8
---------------------------------------------------------------------__-----
MEAN NMMBER OF CHILDREN DESIRUD BY CURRENTLY
UMRRIED WOMEN (15-49) BY AGE, NUMBER
OF LIVING CHILDREN AND PLACE OF RESIDENCE
---------------------------------------------------------------__----------
KFS                                                     KCPS
________         _______         ________         _______         ______      -________
All                      All                  Nairobi/                  Other                  Rural
Areas                    Areas                  Mombasa                   Urban
-----------------------------------------------------------__-_--_--__-----
Age
Total                7.3                       6.3                      4.9                    5.3                     6.5
15-19                6.6                      5.7                       4.7                    5.5                     5.8
20-24                6.4                      5.6                       4.6                    5.1                     5.7
25-29                6.8                      5.9                       4.8                    4.8                     6.1
30-34                7.3                      6.6                       5.3                    5.2                     6.7
35-39                8.1                      6.9                       4.7                    5.3                     7.1
40-44                8.2                      7.2                       5.3                    6.0                     7.3
45-49                8.7                      7.4                       5.6                    9.5                     7.4
Parity
0                6.3                       5.4                      4.8                    4.8                     5.5
1                6.3                      5.3                       4.2                    4.7                     5.5
2                6.5                      5.4                       4.3                    4.6                     5.7
3                6.9                       5.6                      4.6                    4.4                     5.8
4                6.9                       6.1                      4.8                    4.9                     6.3
5                7.3                      6.4                       5.6                    6.6                     6.4
6                8.0                       7.1                      6.2                    7.3                     7.2
7                8.2                       7.2                      7.3                    8.3                     7.2
8+               9.3                       8.4                      7.0                    8.8                     8.4
-------------------------------------------------------------------__-----



Annex 1
Page 6 of 6
IENYA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Annex 1 - Table 9
PROPORTIONS OF MAUlED, FECUND WOHEN BY NUMBER OF LImVNG CHILDREN
110 DO NOT WANT MOAR CHILDREN BY PROVINCE (KCPS)
Living                              Province/Source
Chil- -------------------------------------------------_-----------___
dren   Nairobi    Coast    Eastern   Central       Rift      Nyanza   Western
KFS KCPS KFS KCPS KFS KCPS KFS KCPS KFS KCPS KFS KCPS KFS KCPS
--------------------------------------------------------------------__---___
0      0   3      7    3    6    1    0    4    1    9    0    0    0    0
1      2   2      0    6    1    1    0    4    1    4    0    5    2   11
2      5  14      8    9    3    4    0    9    3   11    2   *8    7   11
3     20  28      8    9    5   16    a   19    5   15    6   14    8   18
4     25 52    13   23   13   42   24   36   13   17   14   29   17   20
----------------------------------------------------------------------__---



-56-
OJ3T  GJUCrII  AND ACIVITIIS Sr U            I  
Project Objectives             Activities                      Responsible
Institution
(1) Strengthen the        (i)   establish MIS                  NCPD
capacity of the       (ii)  develop research and
of the NGPD to              evaluation program
plan, program,        (iii) strengthen institutional
finance, coordinate         development
and monitor           (iv)  implement district focus
population program
activities
(2) further create        (1)   IEC material production        NCPD Office of
ngeeptance of, and   (ii)  training district               the President
demand for family           administration
planning services    (iii) use of extension workers        Ministry of
through the                 in key ministries              Agriculture;
implementation of                                          Departments of
a strategically                                            Social Services
planned and                                                and Adult
coordinated IEC                                            Education
program               (iv)  IEC programs through           KCS; NCCK;
NGOs                          FPAK; CHAK;
MYWO and KNUT
(3) increase the          Voluntary surgical contraception   MOH
accessibility, and   Urban PP services                     Nairobi City
quality of family                                          Commission
planning services
provided by           Upgrade clinics and dispensaries   MOH
government and NGOs  in 14 districts
Services through NGOs               FPAK; CHAK
Community based distribution of    NCPD
contraceptives through DFPPCs



-57-
Annex 3
Page 1 of 16
KENYA: THItD POPULATION PROJECT
Annez 3
DISTRICT LEVEL FAMILY PLANNING TARGETS FOR KENYA 1988 - 1991
I. Methodolog,
District level targets for Kenya's Family Planning Program
presented here were derived through application of methodology developed by
John Bongaarts (1982). Two sets of district level targets have been
estimated - one based on the fertility decline assumptions used in the most
recent (1987) World Bank projections, the other employing the fertility
levels of the official GOK projections. Data from the 1984 Kenya
Contraceptive Prevalence Survey (KCPS) were used to establish baseline
levels of contraception usage for each district.
Bongaarts (1982) has identified seven proximate determinants of
fertility - factors which influence fertility:
-    marriage
-    contraceptive prevalence
-    induced abortion
-    postpartum infecundability
-    spontaneous abortion
-    sterility
Of these seven factors, the first four, listed above, are
considered the most important determinants of trends in fertility.
Expressing these four determinants in a simple multiplicative model yields
the relationships
TM - CaCiCmCcTF                           (1)
where
Tm  -   Total Fertility Rate;
C    -   Marriage Index (proportion of women of childbearing
ages at Risk);
Cc  -   Index of Contraception (Contraceptive Prevalence Rate
with Adjustment for Involuntary Sterilization and
Contraceptive Effectiveness);
Ca  -   Indez of Abortion (Function of the Average Number of
Abortions per Woman);
Ci  -   Index of Infecundability (Function of Duration of
Breastfeeding); and
TF  -   Total Fecundity Rate (total fertility in absence of
fertility inhibiting effects, of marriage pattern,
contraception, induced abortion and postpartum
infecundability).



-58-
Annex 3
Page 2 of 16
For target-setting purposes this model can be expressed in terms
of the TFR of the first (o) and the last (t) years of a given projection
period.
TFR(t) - Cm(t)Cc(t)Ca(t)Ci(t)TF(t)       (2)
TFR(o)   Cm(o)Cc(o)Ca(o)Ci(o)TF(o)
If it is assumed over the time period of the projection that:
1. TF will remain constant;
2. Induced abortion is absent or negligible; and
3. Trends in Cm ane Ci wili compensate one another.
The equation above can be simplified to:
TFRIt) - Cc(t)                            (3)
TFR(o)   Cc(o)
or
PRF  -l-TFR(t) -1- Cc(t)                  (4)
TFRCo)     Cc(o)
Where the PRF is the proportional reduction in fertility between
base and target years.
The index Cc is based on estimates of contraceptive prevalence and
effectivenesst
Cc - I - 1.08 x   xe                      (5)
WaGre
ontraceptive prevalence among married women of reproductive
ages (MVRA)g and
o Sontraceptive use-effectiveness among MWRA.
Thus equation (4) becomest
PU=1- 1-1.08x   (t)xe(t)                  (6)
1-1.08x   (l)xe(o)
The reader is referred to Bongaarts and Stover (1986) for
additional details of methodology and the programs used in this application.



-59-
Annex 3
Page 3 of 16
II. Application
The estimated  argets displayed in Tables 1 through 4 were derived
by standardized application of the Bongaarts and Stover TargetO Program.
Data required for this program were provided by three primary sourcest
1.   The 1979 Xenya Census;
2.   The 1984 Kenya Contraceptive Prevalence Survey
(KCPS); and
3.   Population Projection for Kenya, 1980-2000.
To obtain the detailed district level assumptions required for the
model it was necessary to adopt a variety of estimation strategies,
including, for example, the substitution of provincial for district level
fertility rates and the use of program default values. A brief explanation
of the methodologies employed to describe inputs required by the program is
listed below.  A detailed listing of the assumptions used for each of the 82
district level estimation runs has been done and is availa'le in the project
file.
Age-Specific and Total Fertility Rsates
With the exception of Western Province districts, provincial level
rates from the 1984 KCPS were applied as estimates of ASFRs and TFRs for
each district. As the KCPS fertility estimates for the Western Province
were suspiciously low, estimated rates from the 1978-79 Kenyan Fertility
Survey were substituted for Bungoma, Busia and Kakamega districts.
Targeted Fertility Decline
Projected fertility declines were based on published estimates of
decline from the 1987 World Bank population projections and projections
produced by Kenya's Central Bureau of Statistics (1983). Interpolated World
Bank estimates project a lO.5 decrease in fertility between 1984 and 1994
(TPR falling from 7.8 to 6.97), while the CBS projections describe a 15.32
decline (TFR declining frm' 7.8 to 6.61). For this targeting exercise, it
was assumed that the pror tional fertility declines in each district would
match the projected nati fia decrease in fertility levels. Given first yea
ASnR and a last year TFR tne target program derived ASFRs for intervening
years based on an assumption of constant fertility decline. Numbers of
Women by Age for First and Last Year of the Proiection Period (1984.1994).
The numbers of women in each district for the f'rst year of the
projection period (1984) come directly from CBS projections, while numbers
of women 15-49 years of age for the lapt year (1994) of the period were
derived by direct application of estimated 1984-1989 survivorship
probabilities to the 1989 population.



-60-
Annex 3
Page 4 of 16
Proportions of Married Women (15-49)
National level estimates for proportions of married women by five-
year age group from the 1978-79 Kenya Fertility Survey were employed to
describe marital status. It was assumed that proportions of women married
in each of the five-year age groups remained constant throughout the
projection period.
Contraceptive Method Use-Effectiveness
As no reliable estimates of contraceptive use-effectiveness were
available from the Kenyan references reviewed, the values recommended by
Bongaarts were applied to meet the requirements of the program.
Method                    Use-Effectiveness
Sterilization             1.00
Injectables               0.98
IUD                       0.95
Pill                      0.90
Others                    0.70
Prevalence of Contraceptive Use
Data from the 1984 KCPS supplied district-level estimates of
contraceptive prevalence.
Provincial-estimates of prevalence by method (contraceptive mix)
were substituted for district level rates.
For districts not covered by the KCPS, contraceptive prevalence
inputs were based on a common low use level and pattern derived from
adjaceut districts.
The mix' of contraceptive use for each district was modified only
slightly from the prevalence-by-method rates estimated by the KZPS. These
modifications generally called for reductions in the prevalence rates of
those women using 'traditional' methods.
Moon Duration of Postpartum Infecundability
Program-derived estimates of postpartum infecundability were used
for each district.
Xnduced Abort in
Abortion was assumed to be lo' for all ages throughout the
projection period.



-61-
Annex 3
Page 5 of 16
Discontinuation Rates
Lacking reliable estimates from Kenyan data, discontinuation rates
recommended by Bongaarts were applied throughout this targeting exercise.
Method                    Discontinuation Rate
Sterilization                  0.010
Injectables                    0.667
IUDs                           0.333
Pills                          0.667
Others                         0.667
III. Results
The Bongaart's 'Target" Program used for this exercise employees
five-year projections to estimate levels of contraceptive use and
acceptance. The following discussion is limited to a description of
projected acceptors for the four calendar years of the planned Government of
Kenya/Worle Bank Population III Project - 1988-1991. A full set of results
for the 10 years of the projection period are contained in the computer
output included in two volumes available in the project file.
Tables 1 and 2 of this report present four-year totals for
projected family planning acceptors by district and province for the 1987
World Bank and Government of Kenya Projections, respectively. Under the GOK
projections, with a larger decline in fertility, acceptor targets would
reach nearly 2.3 million married women, while more than 1.9 million
acceptors would be required to meet World Bank projections.
Under the World Bank projection Eastern, Central and Rift Valley
Provinces would account for 63.6Z of the acceptor total. Reflecting 1984
prevalence patterns, acceptor targets for districts such as Machakos, Meru,
Nairobi and Muranga are substantially greater than those for districts with
less active family planning programs.
Under the assumptions used in this exercise the pill would account
for 30Z of all family planning acceptors. Natural Family Planning would be
the second most popular family planning method, with 25Z of the acceptors.
During the four years of the project, under the assumptions of
this version, nearly 600,000 new acceptors would begin using oral
contraceptives, while less than 300 thousand would request IUDs. The
Eastern Province with more than 550,000 acceptors would have the greatest
number of acceptors.
Tables 3S-3d and 4a-4d contain annual breakdowns of acceptors by
district, province and method. Due to population and family planning
program variation, acceptors per DistLlct range from le  than 1000 (1988,
Samburu World Bank projecticn) to more than 46,000 (1989, Machakos, CBS
projection).



-62- X 
Annex 3
Paps 6 of 16
REFERENCES
1. Bongearts, J., 1982. The Fertility-Inhibiting Effects of the
Intermediate Fertility Variables, Studies in Family Planning, Vol.
13, No. 6/7.
2.  Bong-arts, J., and Stover, J., 1986.  The Population Council Target-
Setting Model: A User's Manual (Preliminary).
3. Central Bureau of Statistics, 1983. Population Projections for Kenya,
1980-2000, Ministry of Planning and Development, Nairobi.
4. Central Bureau of Statistics, 1984. Kenya Contraceptive Prevalence
Survey 1984: First Report, Ministry of Planning and National
Development, Nairobi.
5. Central Bureau of Statistics, 1986. Kenya Contraceptive Prevalence
Survey, 1984: Provincial Report, Ministry of Planning and
National Development, Nairobi.



Annex 3
Page 7 of 16
YTAW It PROJECT   11R IF FAMY PU6UC AETSS By DISIlCT/PRO1INCE, u IETHW
(M.i M , mojEzONS, ENA,  t3-91)
FEMAL
STERIL&ZATION  INJECTABLES   ISU  PILLS  OTHER   WF   CONOONS   TOTAL
' NAIRUI                 2.2         55.3      15.9  37.4   18.4   5.9    6.4    112.7
KIAMNW                  .9           3.7     14.6   20.4   21.1  35.5    4.4    105.5
* KIRINYAGA              1.7          3.3       6.2    3.6    6.7  14.4    2.2       46.3
*ULANMA                  4.1          9.2      15.4   21.4   21.1  35.3    4.5    111.9
WYAWSA"U               1.1           2.5      4.2    5.3    5.6   9.3    1.2       39.2
eNVERI                   3.0          7.2      12.6   16.6   16.4  27.6    3.6      86.3
-                  -     -     -     -~~~~~wm  tua  m  ara
Cetral Prov.         13.6         81.4      $2.4   73.6   71.8 120.6   15.9    376.8
KILIF                   1.4          9.6      2.6   17.3   4.7   7.2    1.S        36.6
KALE                   1.0          9.6       1.3   11.8    3.2   3.0    1.2      24.8
LAWU                    1.           1.6      2.6   16.7   4.6   7.1       1.6     35.2
. MOMBASA                1.4          1.6       8.3   25.3    7.9  19.6    2.6       52.3
TAITA-TAVETA           9.4           9.4      1.3    A.4    2.4   8.6    0.9       17.4
TANA RIVER              .4           9.4      9.6    3.6    1.9   1.6    0.4        8.0
Coast Pro.            6.9          4.8      12.7   83.1   22.9  35.1    8.7    173.3
EUBU                   0.4           1.6      5.7   11.9    7.6  13.6    1.8       42.6
ISIOLO                 0.8           3.0     10.9   23.2   14.8  26.2    3.6       62.5
KITUI                  0.4           1.9       7.0   14.5    9.4  16.3    2.2      51.7
* MACHAKOS               1.7          7.4      26.6   54.6   35.3  61.7    8.5    196.2
MARSABIT               e.2           0.8      2.6    5.6    3.7   6.6    0.9       20.8
. MERU                   1.3          6.o      21.1  44.7   26.6  60.4    7.6    169.1
_ _                                      -   =
Eastern Prow.         4.6         29.7      73.3  164.9  99.4 174.7   24.6    661.6
OARISSA                 9.4          6.6      1.3    2.2    2.9   2.5    6.6        9.6
MENOERA                0.4           9.4       9.3    1.3    1.2   1.5    6.4       6.o
WAJIR                   6.4          9.7       1.4    2.3    2.2   2.6    e.6      19.1
NtEastrn Prow.    .   1.2          1.7       3.6    6.6    6.4   6.6     1.4      25.6
* KISIL                  2.1          4.4       6.1   24.1   6.8  14.4    5.0        64.9
KISUM                   1.4          3.6       4.9   15.6    5.8   9.3    3.4      42.7
*SIAV4                   1.5          3.4      4.6   17.7   6.6  14.0    3.6        43.2
,S. NYANZA               2.6          6.0       4.6   26.6    9.6  13.1    5.6       69.5
HNyanza Prow.                      7.6         15.3      21.6   U4.4   39.8  47.4   17.8    226.3
smNO                    9.6          1.9       1.6    2.7    4.7   4.6    6.7       16.1
ELMEYO MARAKET         9.4           9.4      9.6    1.1    2.9   1.9    0.3        6.9
KAJIADO                 1.1          2.2       3.9    6.6   11.4  11.6    1.7       37.9
'KERIICHO               2.9           3.3       6.6   11.9   19.2  16.6    2.0      64.2
LAIKIPIA               0.4           0.7       1.4    2.2    8.6   3.6    9.6       12.9
NAKURU                  2.7          4.6       3.6   14.1   24.?  23.7    3.6       01.7
NANDI                   9.3          1.      * 2.3    3.7    6.4   6.3    0.9       21.7
NAROK                  *.7           9.9       1.6    2.6    4.4   4.3     9.6      16.1
SAMBURU                 6.1          9.3       6.4    0.3    1.3   1.3    6.2        4.4
TRANS-NZOIA             6.6          1.1       2.0    3.1    5.4   5.3    9.6       18.5
1IURANA                 9.4          0.4       9.3    1.3    2.6   2.1    0.4        7.4
UASIN OISHU             0.7          6.7       1.6    2.4    4.2   3.3    9.6       14.0
VSW POKOT               9.6          9.3       1.4    2.2    3.7   3.6    9.6       13.1
-       -   ~~~~~~~=am  so"   M= uum         Us=3 -    ourmn.
Ritt Valley Pr.      11.3         13.4      33.4   53.6   92.7  99.5   13.6    313.9
*SUNOWMA                 1.2          1.5       7.9   12.5    2.7   2.3    1.4       29.1
JSIA                    g.8          1.2       5.6   10.3    2.3   2.2    1.1       25.5
,KAKAMEGA                2.9          2.3      12.7   23.3    5.9   5.9    2.4       53.2
Western Prow.         4.9          6.5      25.3   46.1   19.0  16.9    4.9    106.6
TOTAL              69.9         163.6    235.0  568.7  343.4 490.7   91.9   1967.2



-64-                           Annex 3
Page 8 of 16
TAKE 3t  P CO     mMS O FAMILY PLA6IIDC ACCET=S my DISIciCTrawmiN , m  mEHm
(CBIRL 3W   OF STATISICS PUJCT ,  f r A, 1966-31)
FEMALE
ST!RILIZATION  INUECTASLES   Iuw$  PI" OI4E    NFLr   CGW     To-L,
NAIROlI                   2.7          06.3        17.7   96.5    11.5   0.1       5.7      201.5
KIAMU                     4.6            9.4       15.S   21.9   ?1.4   55.9       4.0      113.7
KIRINYAGA                 1.9            4.0       6.4    9.4    9.2  15.4         2.6       49.8
UJRANaA                   4.4            3.2      16.3   22.2   22.4  36.9         4.6      115.7
NYANDARWA                 1.5            2.7        4.6    6.5     6.1  10.4       1.4       32.6
NYERI                     *.3            7.5       12.6   17.6   17.5  29.9        5.9       91.1
Central Prov.          15.4           32.        55.4   77.5   76.4  127.6    17.2        402.1
KILIFI                    2.9            9.3        5.4   21.5    9.3   9.1        2.2       44.9
KWALE                     1.5            6.9        2.6   15.9    4.4   6.3        1.6       $5.7
LAMU                      2.5            1.3        3.5   26.3    5.7   3.7        2.2       44.6
UOMBASA                   1.6            1.6        4.2   27.3    7.6  11.7        2.0       $7.3
TAITA-TAVETA              0.6            O.5        1.4    9.4    2.7   4.6        1.6       19.6
TANA RIVER                8.4            0.4        6.7    4.5    1.2   1.9        0.5        9.6
Coa.t Prow.             3.1            5.5       15.6   99.9   27.5  42.2    16.5         209.1
EMBU                      *.4            1.9        6.5   13.5    8.6  16.2        2.2       48.3
ISIOLO                    6.3            3.5       12.4   26.1   16.6  29.4        4.0       92.5
KITUI                     0.9            2.3        3.3   17.3   11.5  19.6        2.7       62.9
MACHAKCOS                 2.6            8.2       26.9   69.6   39.6  66.2        6.3      213.7
MARSABIT                  9.4            6.9        3.1    6.6    4.2   7.3        1.0       23.4
MERU                      1.7            6.6       23.5   49.4   31.6  65.6        7.7      176.1
0~                m-        -      -     mzm        -        UAgai
Eastern Prov.           6.1           2S.4       05.2  173.9  111.5  192.7    26.4        617.2
CARISSA                   6.7            6.9        1.t    5.1    2.9   *.4        6.6       18.4
MENDERA                   6.4            3.5        1.6    1.9    1.7   2.0        8.4        7.9
WAJIR                     *.9            1.9        1.9    5.2    2.9   3.6        9.7       14.2
N Erst.rn Proy.         1.9            2.4        4.7    9.2    7.0   9.0        1.7       55.3
KISIL                     3.1            5.6        6.1   31.4   11.4  13.7        6.5       05.9
KISUMU                    2.0            5.7        5.5   26.1    7.2  11.9        4.1       54.6
SIAYA                     2.2            4.1        6.9   22.4    9.2  13.3        4.7       61.1
S. NWANZA                 *.9            6.0        9.1   *4.9   12.6  21.9        7.4       95.4
-       .      _-_ .    _-mmm                             -         -
Nysang Pr.O.           11.1           29.4       23.5  1n.3   39.5  64.9    22.9         296.1
IARDN1O                   *.9            1.2        2.1    8.4    6.7   5.6        6.3       13.6
ELOEYO MARAKJET           0.4            6.5        9.9    1.4    2.4   2.4        0.4        1.4
KAJ"IO                    1.2            2.5        4.2    6.9   12.9  11.6        1.B       49.0
KERaIO4                   2.5            4.4        7.8   12.5   21.7  21.2        3.2       73.5
LAUKIPIA                  6.6            6.9        1.6    2.6    4.5   4.4        6.6       16.2
NAKWlU                    5.0            5.5      .. 9.5   14.3   26.7  26.6       5.3       33.6
NKAMI                     1.1            1.6        8.1    4.5    7.3   7.6        1.1       26.7
NARCK                     9.9            1.1        2.2    5.2    5.5   6.4        6.B       19.1
SAMSJRU                   8.4            *.4        *.6    1.6    1.7   1.7        6.3        6.1
TRANZ-NZOIA               1.1            1.4        2.6    4.9    7.6   6.7        1.0       28.3
TUIKAMA                   *.4            3.5        6.9    1.6    2.9   2.6        0.4        9.2
UASIN OISHU               1.6            1.6        2.2    3.4    5.9   5.4        6.3       19.7
WiT PDKOT                 6.6            0.9        1.3    2.6    4.7   4.4        6.7       16.1
-    -                        3am   mm.~~~~~~~X    noun  33mm
Rift Val oy Pr.        14.2           21.5       39.4   61.6  16n.4  165.0    15.7        S65.3
BUNCOU                    1.6            1.7        8.7   15.3    3.5   3.3        1.6       36.2
SUSA                      1.1            1.6        6.2   12.5    2.7   2.6        1.4       23.7
KAKCAMEA                  2.8            5.6       16.4   29.9    6.5   6.4         3.9      63.6
_u        .333    353a   ftuum  onm"       mwem     00_"m
Western Prov.           5.5            6.9       31.9  65.2   12.?  12.3         6.0      153.5
-        _                -               m     333s
TOTAL                t6.3          173.7 276.4634.
2 396.1                 50.5           16.3    222J.6



-65-                           Annex 3
Page 9 of 16
TALE M:t ASNAL (19SS) NUM  OF FAUILT PLANK H      ACCWTS BY DICSTUICTjrROMICE. AN  METNO
(IS  i_  UWt PRJECTIONS, KENYA)
fERALE
S1EtLIZATION  ___ECTA_ _      DUDS  PILLS  OTHER   NFP   CONWOMS   TOTAL
hnASot                    0.5           12.3        3.5   19.4    2.3   1.3        1.2       40.5
KIAWU                     0.9            1.5        3.2    4.5     5.6   7.8       6.6       24.6
KIRDIVABA                 6.4            6.S        1.4    1.9    2.2   3.4        8.4       11.5
URANUA                    0.9            1.6        3.4    4.7    5.3   3.3        6.9       25.4
NYANSDAIA                  .2            k.S        6.9    1.3    1.4   2.3        6.2        6.s
NYU?                      6.7            1.5        2.7    3.7    4.2   6.5        0.7       20.6
Cotwral Prow.           S.1            6.5       21.6   16.1   19.1  26.3        3.6       36.7
KILl?!                    6.3            9.1        8.5    3.6    1.1   1.5        C.S        7.3
KWAL.                     9.2            6.2        6.4    2.4    6.8   1.1        8.2        5.3
LAMU                      0.3            0.2        6.5    3.3    1.1   1.5        6.3        7.2
OMBASA                    4.3            0.4        0.c    5.6    1.8   2.4        6.5       11.3
TAITA-TAVETA              *.1            6.1        0.3    1. .6 0.6    8.         6.2        3.9
TANA RIVER                6.1            6.1        6.1    9.7    8.2   0.3        *.1        1.6
-              -m-                _  w   _ ="
Co ut Prow.             1.3            1.1        2.6   17.3    5.6   7.6        1.8       37.1
EU                        *.1            3.3        1.2    2.6    1.8   3.1        0.3        9.4
ISI0WO                    6.2            6.6        2.4    5.1    3.6   6.8        0.7       18.6
KITUI                     6.1            0.4        1.5    3.1    2.2   3.7        8.4       11.4
MACHUKOS                  0.4            1.5        6.7   12.2    8.6  14.3        1.6       44.3
MARSASIT                   .6 00.2                  8.6    1.3    0.9   1.6        8.2        4.7
MERU                      6.3            1.2        4.7   10.0    7.6  11.7        1.3       36.2
Easten, Prov.           1.1            4.2       16.1   34.3   24.1  40.3        4.5      124.6
CARISA                    8.1            0.1        0.3    6.4    6.4   6.5        8.1        1.9
UBERA                     *.1            0.1        0.2    6.3    6.3   8.3        *.1        1.4
WAJIR                     0.1            9.1        0.3    *.5    9.6   3.5        8.1        2.1
-              ma  m  -   _ _                                 
HNEseter Prow.          0.3            0.3        8.3    1.2    1.2   1.3        8.3        5.4
KISIL                     0.5            0.9        1.3    5.1    2.0   3.3        1.0       14.1
KIS W                     6.3 *.6 0.C    3.4    1.3   2.1                          *.7        9.2
BIAYA                     0.3            0.7        1.9    S.$    1.5   2.4        0.8       16.5
5. NYANZA                  .06           1.0        1.4    C.0    2.1   3.6        1.1       15.4
Nyamas Prow.            1.'           3.2        4.5   17.9    6.9  11.4        *.6       49.2
SARINO                    6.1            0.2        0.4    6.6    1.1   1.3        0.1        3.5
.LAO  MARCAKET            6.1            0.1        6.2    0.2    8.5   8.4        0.0        1.5
KAJIADO                   3.2            0.4        0.9    1.4    2.9   2.6        0.3        8.7
KS1010                    6.4            0.7        1.4    2.3    4.7   4.2        *.5       14.2
LAIDKPIA                  0.1            *.1        9.3    6.4    6.9   6.3        6.1        2.7
NAMMU                     6.6            0.       _ 1.9    3.0    5.0   5.4        6.6       13.2
WNDSI                     6.2            *.2        0.5    6.7    1.5   1.4        6.1        4.6
NAMRK                     8.1            0.2        0.3    6.5    T.0   0.9        0.1        3.1
USUU                      0.6            0.6        6.1    6.2    6.3   6.3        6.8        6.9
TRANS-NZGOA               *.2            0.2        0.4    6.6    1.2   1.1        0.1        3.4
TIWXAMA                   *.1            *.1        0.2    O.,    0.65    .5       0.1        1.4
UA3IN OISHU               *.1            *.1        0.3    0.4    0.2   0.7        6.1        2.6
WUT POKOT                 0.1            *.1        0.3    0.4    0.        .   *8.  8.1      2.6
magam   stmama   man=%  mammam East"    mama"    Mamm
RIft Vlley Pr.          2.5            3.5        7.1    11.0   22.2  29.1       2.2       63.2
WOGOmA                    0.2            3.3        1.4    2.5    6.6   0.6         6.2       5.3
USIA                      6.2            *.2        1.2    2.2    0.3   6.5        0.2        5.0
KUSAICEGA                 6.4            0.6        2.6    4.9    1.2   1.1        8.4       11.
no           matm"      mama,  wmamm   mamma Nma"maa.
Western Prov.             .8.          1.6        5.2    9.5    2.3   2.2        *.6       21.3
TOTAL                11.1           31.0       11.4   126.7   82.7  12.5    11.1       433.5



Annex 3
-66-                           Fage 10 of 16
TAMS U:% MNISL (ISM~ suaM OF FAMILY PLANDIC ACCWTM BY SISIRCTfl'ROVINCI AMS Enm
(INS WOD aSN  ProJECTIONS, KEYA)
LEMA
STEILUZATION   IJECTAJLES    IUDS  PILLS   OTHER   NFP   CONDOMS   TOTAL
NAIROI                     06.5          13.2       3.3   21.6    2.6   1.4         1.3       43.7
KIAMU                      6.9           2.6        3.5     4.9     5.0   3.2       1.6       25.5
KIRIWAC                    6.4           6.9        1.5    2.1      2.2   3.5       6.5       11.1
MURANC                     1.6            2.2       3.7    5.1    5.3    3.6        1.6       29.9
WYANDSAMA                   .3           6.6        1.6    1.4    1.4   2.4         6.3        7.4
NYERI                      O.7            1.7       2.9    4.0    4.1    6.S        6.9       21.0
Central Pr.v.            3.3           7.4       12.6    17.5   18.6  29.5        3.6       91.9
KIUFI                      0.3           6.1        0.6    4.0      1.2   1.7       0.4        3.3
KWAUE                       .2           0.2        0.4     2.8    6.8    1.2       6.3        6.9
LAMU                       6.3           6.2        6.6    3.9      1.1   1.6       0.4        8.1
MOMEASA                    6.3           0.4        0.9    6.6      1.$   2.6       0.6       12.6
TAITA-TAVETA               0.1           6.1        6.3     2.6    6.0    0.9       6.2        4.2
TANA RIVER                 0.1            6.1       6.1    6.8    0.2   0.4         6.1        1.3
Coaet Pr.v.              1.3            1.1       2.9   19.5    6.7   8.4         2.0       40.9
E01U                       0.1           6.4         1.4    2.3     1.9   3.3       6.4       16.3
iSIOLO                     0.2           0.7        2.6     6.6    3.7   6.4        0.3       20.0
KITUS                      0.1            0.4        1.7    3.4     2.3   3.9       6.5       12.3
MACHAKOS                   0.4            1.7       6.2   13.1    8.9  15.6         1.9       47.2
MARSABIT                   0.0           0.2        0.7     1.4    0.9   1.6        6.2        5.6
MMRU                       0.3            1.4       5.0   10.7    7.1  12.3         1.6       38.4
-             m         mm        - _    czin  wom                s  m__
Eastern Prov.            1.1           4.8       17.6   37.0   24.8  42.6         5.4      133.2
CARISS                     0.1            IL1       0.3    0.5    0.5   6.6         0.1        2.2
MENDERA                    6.1           6.1        0.2    6.3    6.3   6.4         6.1        1.6
WAJIR                      0.1           0.2        6.3    6.5    6.5   6.6         6.1        2.3
N"laaten  Prow.     -    .3             0.4       6.8     1.3    1.3   1.6        6.3        6.6
KISIL                      0.3            1.6       1.4    5.7    2.1   3.5         1.2       15.4
KISJW                      6.3           6.         0.9 0     .7    1.4   2.3       0.3       16.1
SIAVA                      6.4           6.8         1.1    4.2     1.6   2.6       0.9       11.6
S. NANZA                   6.6            1.2       1.6    6.3      2.3   3.9       1.3       17.2
Nyanza Prov.             I.s           3.7         5.6   19.9    7.4  12.3        4.2       54.3
BARNDO                     *.1           6.2        6.4     6.0     1.2   1.1       6.2        3.3
L4YO MARAKUET            0.1            *.1        6.2     6.3    6.5   6.5        *.1        1.6
KAJIDO                     6.3            6.5       6.9     1.6    2.9   2.?        6.4        9.3
KmICHO                     9.5           0.9        1.6    2.6    4.8   4.5         6.6       15.5
LAIKIPIA                   0.1           6.2        6.3     6.5    6.9   6.9        0.1        3.9
NAUJ                       6.6            1.1     .. 2.6    3.3    6.6   5.7        6.3       19.5
NMRI!                      0.2           *.3        9.5     6.9     1.6    1.5      9.2        5.2
NAROK                      0.2           0.2        8.4     6.6     1.1    1.6      6.1        3.6
AMIWU                      6.0           *.1        6.1     6.2    9.3   6.3        6.0        1.6
TRAIS-NZOIA                6.2           6.2        6.5     0.7     1.3   1.2       9.2        4.1
lUWKXNA                    6.1           *.1        6.2    6.3    6.5   6.5         *.1        1.3
UASIN GISH                 6.2            *.1       6.4     6.6      1.6   6.9      0.1        3.2
WT POKOT                   9.1            0.2       6.3     0.5     6.9   6.9       6.1        3.6
-                       mm -  m - -   -   mui
Rtift VaIle Pr.          2.7            4.2       7.8    12.0   23.0  21,7        3.6       75.6
BUNOSGW                     .3            6.3       1.6     2.9    6.7   6.7        6.3        6.8
mUSI                       6.2            6.3        1.3    2.4      1.6   0.5      6.2        3.5
KAjAME4A                   6.5            6.6        3.0     5.4     1.2    1.2     5.5       12.4
Weeteir Prow.            1.6            1.2       5.9   19.7      2.5    2.4      1.6       24.7
lOTAL                 12.9           30.6 .       .4  139.5   85.2  119.9    26.9        419.7



-67-                           Annex 3
Page 11 of 16
TANSE UCs AUSML (192) EUU   OF FAMILY PLAIIINC        BCCyTS EY ASnStT/PROVINCE, UD HETSC
(I999  K"O SAW PROJ.ATMOIS, KINA)
FEMALE
STERmILZATION  CNJEcTADLS   IUD5  PIL    OTHER    W        CONDOMS   TOtAL
MALCES                   *.6           14.3       4.1   22.7    2.7   1.5        1.4      47.3
KIAMUJ                    1.0           2.3       3.9    5.3    5.0   9.6        1.2      27.2
KIRINYWAG                *.4            1.0       1.6    2.3    2.2  317         0.6       11.3
MW4uQA                    1.1           2.4       4.9    5.6    5.3   3.9        1.2      22.6
WYANIAUA                 0.8            9.7       1.1    1.5    1.4   2.5        9.3       7.8
NYMEI                    *.9            1.9       3.1    4.3    4.1   7.8        1.0       22.2
mum       mm"         =     mau'  ma'" MMI    amm"            m"
Central Pro..           3.6           3.3       1.6   19.9   13.9  39.3        4.3       97.6
KISUFI                    0.4           0.2       9.7    4.6    1.2   1.9        9.*        9.5
KIALE                     9.3           9.2       9.5    3.1    9.3   1.3        9.3       6.5
LAUW                      8.4           9.3       9.7    4.4    1.2   1.9        9.5        9.4
MOMBASA                  8.4            0.4       1.9    4.6    1.7   2.7        0.7       13.5
TAITA-TAVETA              0.1 .         0.1       0.3    2.2    9.6   *.9        9.2        4.4
TANA RIVER                9.1           0.1       0.2    1.9    0.3   0.4        0.1        2.2
Coast Prov.             1.7           1.3       3.4   21.9    5.3   9.1        2.3       46.5
EM.U                      9.1           9.4       1.5    3.1    1.9   3.5        9.5       11.0
SSSOLO                   0.2            9.3       2.3    6.O    3.7   6.7        1.0       21.2
MTIU                      0.1           0.5        1.3    3.3    2.4   4.2       9.6       13.4
MACHAKOS                  0.4           2.6       6.7   14.2    3.9  165.        2.3      56.3
UARSABIT                  C.1           9.2       0.7    1.5    0.9   1.7        0.2        5.3
mEmU                      9.3           1.6       5.5   11.6    7.2  12.9        1.9       41.0
Eastara Prow.           1.2           5.5       19.9   49.2   25.9  44.3       6.5      142.2
GCRISSA                   *.1           0.2       9.3    9.6    9.5   0.7        9.1        2.5
MWERA                     9.1           9.1       9.2    *.8    9.3   *.4        0.1        1.5
WAJIt                     g.1           0.2       0.4    9.6    9.6   9.7        0.1        2.7
N Emtarm Prow.         90.            0.5        *.9    1.5    1.4   1.2       9.3        6.7
KMSuL                     9.5           1.2        1.6    6.0    2.3   3.7       1.3       16.9
MISWUJ                    O.4           *0.        1.1    4.1    1.5   2.4       9.9       11.2
SIATA                     O.4           9.0        1.2    4.6    1.7   2.7       1.9       12.5
S. NTANZA                 *.7           1.3        1.2    7.      21.5   4.2     1.5       19.0
N"Yen  Prow.            2.0           4.2        5.7   22.9    3.0  12.9       4.7       51.6
IIARDSO                   9.2           9.3       9.5    *.7    1.2   1.2        9.2        4.3
ELOEO MARAKUET            1.1           9.1       8.2    9.3    9.5    .5        9.1        1.6
KAJIADO                   9.3           0.6        1.9    1.7    2.9   2.8       9.5        3.7
Kniaeo                    9.5           1.9        1.6    2.0    4.8   4.0       9.3       19.6
LAUKIPIA                  0.1           *.2       9.4    *.6    1.9   1.9        9.2        1.5
MKWUU                     *.7           1.3      .2.3    3.7    0.1   6.1        1.9       21.2
KAR1                      0.2           9.4       9.6    1.*    1.6   1.6        9.0  0.7
MAROK                     0.2           0.2       0.4    *.7    1.1   1.1        8.2        2.9
S&UUN8U                   0.0           0.1       0.1    0.2    9.3   9.3        9.1        1.1
TEANS-NEOKA               0.2           *.3       N.5    9.2    1.4   1.4        9.2        4.3
T1"ANA                    9.1           9.1       9.2    9.3    9.5   9.5        i.1        1.
UASIN IS01                0.2           9.2        0.4    9.7    1.1   1.0       9.2        3.4
EUTPOMOT                  *.2           0.2       *.4    9.6    1.0   1.9        9.2        8.6
Rift Volley Pr.         3.9           5.9        3.3   14.2   25.4  23.3       4.1       31.3
KUNOOMA                    .3           9.4        1.9    3.3    9.7   0.7       9.4        7.7
MUSIA                     8.2           9.3        1.5    2.7    9.6   9.6       9.3        6.2
KAKAEGA                   9.5           9.3        3.3    6.2    1.3   1.3       9.7       14.1
_            ma        ma_u   1         _      ass     rn"      a.....
Weoera Prow.            1.9           1.5        6.7   12.2    2.6   2.6       1.4       28.9
-U 18m.                 mag    Mu ma   10W9   -        ama 2.    mm6.
TOTAL                13.4          49.6.      62.2  153.7   36.0  126,0    25.9       561.7



*68-                           Annex 3
-68-                           Page 12 of 16
TAM  3D& MMNAL (iM9) iUMUiE OF FAMILY PLANNSIC ACCEPTORS BY DSThICT/PtInNCE, AND UETHOD
(1990 WWD AtIK POJECTIONS, KENYA)
FEMALE
STERILIZATION  INJECTAB ES   IUOS  PILLS  OTHER    WP   CONDOMS   TOTAL
NAIRUK                    9.6          15.6        4.5   24.5    2.9   1.7        1.5       51.2
KIAU                      1.1           2.6        4.1    5.7    5.O   9.9        1.4       28.9
KIRINYAOA                 *.S           1.1        1.7    2.5    2.1   3.8        0.7       12.4
MURANSA                   1.1           2.7        4.3    6.0    5.2   9.4        1.4       30.1
NYANDAUA                  9.3           9.7        1.2    1.6    1.4   2.6        0.4        0.2
NYERI                     0.            2.1        3.3    4.6    4.9   7.2        1.1       23.1
-               mummu    21=  m    m=un
Central Prov.           3.3           9.2       14.6   2a.4   17.7  31.9        5.0      102.6
KIS UI                    9.4           0.2        0.3    5.2    1.2   2.1        0.6       19.6
KWALE                     0.3           9.2        O.5    3.6    0.8   1.4        0.4        7.1
LAUW                      9.4           0.3        0.6    5.1    1.2   2.1        0.6       10.6
MOMBASA                   0.4           0.4        1.1    7.1    1.7   2.9        0.8       14.4
TAITA-TAVETA              0.1           0.1        0.4    2.4    0.6   1.0        0.3        4.9
TANA RIVER                0.1           9.1        0.2    1.1    0.3   0.5        0.1        2.4
az=uS                  =uzau    uzu_u  u=U              a
Coast Prow.             1.7           1.3        3.8   24.4    5.8  16.0        2.8       49.8
EUBU                      0.1           9.5        1.6    3.4    2.0   3.6        0.6       11.8
ISIOLO                    0.2           0.9        3.1    e.5    3.8   7.1        1.1       22.7
KITUI                     9.1           0.6        2.0    4.2    2.6   4.5        0.7       14.6
MACHAKOS                  0.5           2.2        7.2   1S.S    8.9  16.6        2.7       63.4
MARSABIT                  0.1           0.2        0.8    1.8    1.6   1.8        0.3        56.
MERU                      0.4           1.8        6.9   12.4    7.3  13.6        2.2       43.6
WA=          mu         uu uzz man    c  =Auzu                  X: mu
Eastern Prov.           1.4           6.2       20.6   43.4   25.5  47.1        7.6      151.8
GANISSA                   *.1           0.2        0.4    9.7    0.6   0.7        0.2        2.9
MEICERA                   0.1           0.1        9.2    0.4    0.3   0.4        0.1        1.6
WAJIR                     0.1           9.2        0.4    0.7    0.6   0.8        0.2        3.0
N'Esstorn Prov.         0.3           O.5        1.0    1.8    1.5   1.9        0.5        7.6
KISIL                     0.6           1.8        1.8    7.0    2.4   3.9        1.5       18.5
KISUMU                    0.4           0.9        1.2    4.6    1.6   2.5        1.6       12.2
SIAYA                     0.4           1.0        1.3    5.1    1.3   2.9        1.1       13.6
S. NYANZA                 9.7           1.5        2.0    7.9    2.7   1.4        1.7       17.9
Nyorzo Prov.            2.1           4.7        6.3   24.6    8.6  10.7        6.3       62.2
BARINGO                   *.2           0.3        O.5    0.8    1.2   1.3        0.2        4.5
ELCEYO UARAKWET           *.1           0.1        0.2    0.3    6.5   0.5        0.1        1.8
KAJIADO                   3.3           0.7        1.1    1.9    2.8   2.9        0.5       10.2
KERIOIO                   0.6            1.2       2.0    3.2    4.9   5.1        0.9       17.9
LAIKIPIA                  9.1           0.2        0.4    0.7    1.9   1.1        0.2        3.7
NAKNUU                    9.3            1.5      . 2.5    4.1    6.2   6.5       1.2       22.3
KAROl                     9.2           0.4        0.7    1.1    1.7   1.8        0.3        6.2
NAROK                     0.2           0.3        0.5    0.8    1.2   1.3        0.2        4.5
SAUSUl                    9.1           O.1        0.1    0.2    0.4   0.4        0.1        1.4
TRANS-NZOIA               0.2           *.4        0.6    1.O    1.5   1.6        9.3        5.6
TURKANA                   0.1           0.1        0.2    0.4    0.5   0.6        0.1        2.0
UASIN CISHU               9.2           0.3        *.5    0.8    1.2   1.2        0.2        4.4
WEST POKOT                0.2           *.3        0.4    9.7    1.0   1.1        0.2        3.9
Rift Valley Pr.         3.3            5.9       9.7   16.0   24.1  25.4        4.6       88.9
WNmCOUA                   0.4           O.5        2.1    3.8    9.7   0.8        0.6        8.3
WUSIA                     0.2            0.4       1.6    3.0    0.6   9.6        0.4        6.8
KAKAMECA                  V.6            0.9       3.3    6.9    1.3   1.4        0.8       15.7
amsm     r    -         ==I    ==       mu=   muumu    mum       uzmm
Western Proe.           1.2            1.8       7.5   13.7    2.6   2.8        1.7       31.3
-ow& 14.m               mm.mum ---    stanz             mum=    muumu
TOTAL                14.4           45.1      68.0  168.8   83.6  131.5    23.9        545.3



Annex 3
-69-                            Page 13 of 16
TABU 4At ANNUIL (1063) MUMER OF FAMILY PUANNINC KCCPTORS Y DISIRIC1jPROVDNCE, AND MEflTH
(CEITRAL 04U OF STATlSTICS PRoECTIONs, KENYA)
FEMULE
STERILIZATION   INJECTA8LES    TUDS   PILLS  OTHER    NFP   CONDOMS   TOTAL
NAIROSI                    0.6           13.2        3.9   21.0    2.5    1.6        1.2       44.0
KIA W                      1.0            1.9        3.4     4.7     5.3    8.3      0.9       2S.5
KIRINYACA                  0.4            0.8        1.4     2.1     2.3    3.6      0.5       11.1
MURANGA                    1.0            2.0        3.6     5.9    5.0    8.7       0.9       26.8
NYANOARUA                  9.3            9.0        1.0     1.4     1.6    2.4      9.3        7.6
HYERI                      0.7            1.8        2.3     3.9    4.4    6.8       0.7       20.9
_ _   ,-                                ,, _- m        _       
Contral Prow.            3.4            6.9       12.2    17.1    19.1   29.3      3.3        0.9       91.
KILIFI                     *.4            0.1        0.7    4.3      1.4    1.9      0.4        9.2
KWALE                      9.3            0.2        0.5     2.9     9.9    1.3      0.2        6.3
LAMU                       9.4            0.3        9.8    4.0      1.3    1.8      0.4        8.8
MOMBASA                    9.4            0.4        0.9     6.9     1.9    2.7      0.5       12.8
TAITA-TAVETA               0.1            9.1        0.3     2.0     0.6    0.9      0.2        4.2
TANA RIVER                 9.1            0.1        0.1     0.9    0.3    9.4       0.1        2.0
_33             _        =s==      _3 _           _-53
Coast Prov.              1.7            1.2        3.1    20.1     6.4    9.0      1.8        0.0       43.
-EMBU                       0.1            0.4        1.4     2.9     2.0   3.4       0.4       10.6
ISIOLO                     0.2            0.7        2.7     5.7     4.0   6.6       0.7       20.6
KITUI                      0.2            0.4        1.8     3.7     2.8    4.3      0.5       13.5
MACHAKOS                   0.4            1.6        6.3    13.2    9.3  13.6        1.7       46.0
MARSABIT                   0.1            0.2        0.7     1.4     1.0    1.6      0.2        6.2
MERU                       0.4            1.3        6.1    10.8     7.6   12.7      1.4       39.3
Eastern Proe.            1.4            4.6       18.0    37.7    28.6  42.1       4.9        0.0      135.
GARISSA                    0.1            0.2        0.3     0.6     0.6    9.7      0.1        2.6
MENDERA                    0.1            0.1        0.2     0.4     0.4    0.4      0.1        1.7
WAJIR                      0.2            0.2        0.4     0.6     9.6    0.7      0.1        2.8
m=MU          =MUS         -    3=333  =_=33=3=            =         -
N'Eastern Prov.          0.4            O.5        9.9     1.6     1.6    1.3      0.3        0.0        7.
KISIL                      9.7            1.2        1.6     6.5     2.5    4.1      1.3       17.9
KISUlU                     0.4            0.8        1.1     4.2     1.6    2.6      0.9       11.6
SIAYA                      9.6            0.9        1.2     4.6     1.3    2.9      0.9       12.3
S. NYANZA                  9.3            1.3        1.3     7.0     2.7    4.6      1.4       19.6
Nyanza Prow.             2.4            4.2        6.7    22.3     9.6   14.2      4.6        0.0       61.
BARINGO                    8.2            0.2        0.4     0.7     1.3    1.2      0.1        4.1
ELGEYO MARAKWET            9.1            0.1        0.2     9.3    0.6    0.6       0.1        1.9
KAJIADO                    9.3            O.5        0.9     1.5     3.0    2.7      0.3        9.2
KERICHO                    O.5            9.8        1.6     2.6     5.2    4.7      0.5       15.9
LAIKIPIA                   *.1            0.2        0.3     0.6     1.0    9.9      0.1        3.1
NAKUtRU                    9.6            1.9      . 2.9     2.2     6.4    5.8      0.6        18.6
NANDI                      9.2            O.3        0.6     0.9     1.8    1.6      0.2        5.6
NAROK                      0.2            0.2        0.4     9.6     1.2    1.1      0.1        3.8
SAMBURU                    0.1            9.1        0.1     9.2    0.4    8.4       0.0        1.3
TRANS-NZOIA                9.2            0.2        O.5     0.7     1.6    1.3      0.1        4.5
TURKANA                    0.1            0.1        0.2     9.3     0.7    0.6      0.1        2.1
UASIN GISHU                9.2            0.1        0.4     0.6     1.2    1.0      0.1        3.6
WEST POKOT                 9.2            8.2        0.4     0.6     1.0   0.9       0.1        3.3
Rlft Valley Pr.          3.9            4.0        8.0    11.6    25.3   22.7       2.4        0.0       77.
tM OKA                     0.3            0.3        1.8     3.1     0.8    0.7      0.2        7.2
BUSIA                      0.2            9.3        1.4     2.6     0.6    0.6      0.2         6.9
KAKAMEGA                   o.6            0.6        3.3    6.0      1.6    1.4       0.6       13.9
_=   _Z                  =,=                      =    Y =c =
Western Prow.            1.1            1.2        6.5    11.7     2.9    2.7      0.9         0.0       27.
3s3=                     al 3=3=3          -         =m=  
TOTAL                 14.0           36.8      65.3  143.1   92.9  123.9    19.3            9.9      437.



Annex 3
-70-                            Page 14 of 16
TAME 43: UNNUAL (1399) 10OCm  oF FAMILY PLANIBtC ACcOrS BY NIST1ICTjpIOVINCE, AND NETmb
(CENIMAL WNWAI OF STATISTICS PROJECTZONS, KENYA)
FEYALE
STERILIZATION   INJECTA8LES    IUDS  PILLS   OTH       NFP    CONDOMS   TOTAL
NAROBSI                    0.6           14.5        4.2   22.9    2.7    1.6        1.4       47.9
KIAMdU                     1.1            2.2        3.8     5.2    5.a    8.7       1.1       27.4
KIRINYAGA                  0.4            0.9        1.5     2.2     2.3    3.3      0.6       11.7
*UANOA                     1.O            2.0        3.9     5.4     5.6   9.1       1.1       28.1
NYANDARUA                  0.3            9.6        1.1     1.5     1.5   2.5       0.3        7.8
NYERI                      9.3            1.7        3.0    4.2      4.3    7.1      0.9       22.9
Contral Prow.            3.6            7.4       13.3   13.6   19.0  31.2         4.8       97.0
KILIFI                     9.5            9.2        0.3     5.9     1.4    2.1      O.5       1O.5
KWALE                      *.5            0.3        0,8     4.8     1.4    2.1      9.5       19.4
LAMU W.5                                  0.3        0.8     4.8     1.4    2.9      0.6       10.3
MOMBASA                    0.4            0.4        1.0     6.6     1.9    2.8      9.6       13.7
TAITA-TAVETA               O.1            0.1        9.3     2.2    0.7    1.0       0.2        4.6
TANA RIVER                 O.1            9.1        0.2     1.9    0.3    0.4       0.1        2.2
Coast Prov.              2.1            1.4        3.9    24.4     7.1   19.4      2.4       61.7
.EMBU                       0.1            0.4        1.5     8.2    2.1    3.7       0.5       11.5
ISIOLO                     0.2            9.8        3.0     6.2    4.1    7.1       0.9       22.8
KITUI                      0.2            9.5        2.1     4.2     2.8    3.8      9.6       14.2
MAOHAKOS                   9.5            1.9        6.9   14.4      9.6  18.5       2.1       61.9
MARSABIT                   9.1            0.2        0.7     1.6     1.0    1.8      0.2        5.6
MERU                       9.4            1.5        5.6    11.3     7.8   13.5      1.7       42.3
SIMN          11:10001   mu.   muan    u.m  gom           an"      amu
Eastern Prov.            1.6            6.3       19.8    41.3    27.4   46.4      6.0      147.7
GARISSA                    0.2            0.2        0.4     0.7     0.7   9.0       0.1        3.1
MENOERA                    9.1            9.1        0.2     0.4     0.4    9.5      9.1        1.0
WAJIR                      0.2            0.2        0.4     0.7    9.7    0.8       0.2        3.2
_              mu    _      u    as   _       _mu          -        mm
N'Eastern Prov.     -   0.5             0.5        1.0     1.8     1.3    2.1      0.4        8.1
KiSIL                      0.7            1.3        1.9     7.8     2.7   4.5       1.5        19.9
KISUMU                     0.5            9.9        1.2     4.7     1.8    2.9      1.9       13.6
SIAYA                      a.5            1.0        1.4     6.3     2.9    3.2      1.1        14.5
S. NYANZA                  0.9            1.5        2.1     0.1     3.9    5.0      1.7       22.3
- _ -s _m _ - _
Ny.nza Prow.             2.6            4.7        6.6    25.4     9.5   15.6      5.3        69.7
BARINGO                    0.2            9.$        9.5     0.8     1.4    1.3      0.2        4.7
ELAEYO MARAKWET            *.1            9.1        0.2     0.3     9.6    9.6      9.1         2.9
KAJIADO                    9.J            6.5        1.9     1.6     3.9    2.8      0.4         9.6
KEP'ICHO                   9.6            1.0        1.8     2.9     5.4    6.1      0.7        17.5
LAIKIPIA                   0.1            9.2        0.4     *.6     1.1    1.9      9.1         3.5
NAKURU                     0.7            1.2        2.2     8.6     6.6    6.3      9l3        21.4
NARDI                      O.3            0.4        8.7     1.9     1.9    1.8      0.2         6.3
NAROK                      9.2            *.2        9.6    0.7      1.3    1.3       0.2        4.4
SAMBURU                    9.1            9.1        9.1     0.2     0.4    0.4      0.1         1.4
TRANS-NZOIA                9.3            9.3        9.6     0.9     1.7    1.6       0.2        6.6
TURKANA                    9.1            9.1        9.2     9.4     9.7    9.6      9.1         2.2
UASIM CISHU                0.2            0.2        0.6     9.8     1.4    1.2       0.2        4.5
WEST POKOT                 0.2            9.2        0.4     0.6     1.1    0.9       0.1        3.6
-   mu      11-11      1 am     mt"                  -
Rift Valley Pr.          J.4            4.8        9.1    14.4    26.6   24.9       3.4       86.6
BUNOOMA                    8.4            9.4        2.1     3.6     0.9    0.8       0.3        8.5
BUSIA                      0.3            0.4        1.6     2.9 *  0.7    9.6        0.3        6.8
KAKAMEGA                   0.7            0.8        3.8     6.9     1.6    1.5       9.6       15.9
Western Prow.            1.4            1.6        7.5   13.4      3.2    2.9       1.2       31.2
ma             mu         3m1    mu  _m          mu         m. 
TOTAL                 15.7           40.2       66.4   162.1    97.3  135.1    24.1        639.9



-71-                          Annex 3
Page 15 of 16
TAKLE 4C: ANNUAL (1999) NUWER OF FAMILY PLANNWIC ACCEPTORS BY DISTRICT/PROVINCE, AND METHOD
(CENTRAL BUREAU OF STATISTICS PROJECTIONS, KENYA)
FEMALE
STERILIZATION  INJECTABLES   IUoS  PILLS  OTHER   NFP   CONDOMS   TOTAL
NAIRO8I                   6.7          1C.8        4.6   26.1    3.0   1.7        1.5      52.4
KIAMU                     1.2           2.5        4.1    5.7    5.4   9.2        1.3      29.4
KIRINYAGA                 6.5           1.1        1.7    2.4    2.3   3.9        0.7      12.6
WMRAN4A                   1.1           2.3        3.9    5.4    5.6   9.1        1.1      28.5
NYANDARUA                 0.3           6.7        1.2    1.6    1.6   2.7        0.4       8.5
NYERI                    .09            2.0        3.3    4.6    4.3   7.4        1.0      23.5
Central Prov.           4.6           8.6       14.2   19.7   19.2  32.3        4.5     102.5
KILIFI                    O6.           0.2        0.9    5.7    1.5   2.4        0.6      11.8
KWALE                     0.3           0.2        0.6    3.8    1.0   1.8        0.4       7.9
LAMU                      0.5           0.3        0.9    6.8    1.5   2.3        0.6      11.7
MOMBASA                   0.4           0.4        1.1    7.3    1.9   3.0        0.8      14.9
TAITA-TAVETA              0.2           0.1        0.4    2.6    0.7   1.0        0.3       6.2
TANA RIVER                O.1           6.1        0.2    1.2    0.3   0.5        0.1       2.5
Coast Prov.             2.0           1.3        4.1   26.1    6.9  10.8        2.8      64.0
EMBLU                     0.1           0.6        1.7    3.5    2.2   3.9        0.8      12.6
ISIOLO                    0.2           0.9        3.2    8.8    4.2   7.6        1.1      24.0
KITUI                     0.2           0.6        2.3    4.7    3.0   6.2        0.7      16.7
MACHAKOS                  6.S           2.2        7.6   16.8    9.8  17.6        2.6      56.9
MARSABIT                  0.1           0.2        0.8    1.7    1.1   1.9        0.3       8.1
MERU                      0.4           1.8        6.1   12.8    8.0  14.3        2.1      46.5
_=             3         = _  =  =  =5 
Eastern Prov.           1.5           6.2       21.6   45.3   28.3  560.        7.3     180.7
GARISSA                   0.2           0.2        0.5    0.8    0.8   0.9        0.2       3.6
MENDERA                   0.1           0.1        0.3    0.6    0.4   6.5        0.1       2.0
WAJIR                     0.2           6.3        0.6    0.9    0.8   1.0        0.2       3.9
=                       =ss     =5   =5- =    =5         =_
N'East.rn Prov.         6.5           0.6        1.3    2.2    2.0   2.4        6.5       9.6
KISIL                     0.8           1.6        2.2    8.3    3.0   4.9        1.7      22.4
KISUMU                    6.S           0.9        1.4    5.3    1.9   3.1        1.1      14.2
SIAYA                     0.0           1.1        1.0    S 9    2.1   3.5        1.3      16.1
S. NYANZA                 1.0           1.8        2.4    9. 3    3.3   6.5       2.0      25.3
=              -ss       =   =     _     =sssss          -       -__
Nyanza Prov.            2.9           5.3        7.6   28.8   10.3  17.0        6.1      78.0
BARINGO                   0.2           0.3        0.6    6.9    1.5   1.5        0.2       6.2
ELGEYO MARAKWET           0.1           0.1        0.2    6.4    0.6   0.6        0.1       2.1
KAJIADO                   6.3           6.6        1.1    1.3    3.0   3.0        6.5      10.3
KERICHO                   6.7           1.2        2.1    3.3    5.5   5.5        0.9      19.2
LAIKIPIA                  0.2           0.2        0.4    0.7    1.2   1.2        0.2       4.1
NAKURU                   068            1.4      _ 2.5    4.0    6.8   6.7        1.1      23.3
NARDI                     0.3           0.4        0.8    1.2    2.0   2.0        0.3       7.0
NAROK                     6.2           0.3        6.6    0.9    1.5   1.4        0.2       5.1
SAMBURU                   0.1           6.1        0.2    6.3    0.4   0.4        0.1       1.6
TRANS-NZOIA               0.3           0.4        0.7    1.1    1.8   1.8        0.3       6.4
TURKANA                   0.1           0.1        0.2    0.4    6.7   0.7        0.1       2.3
UASIN GISHU               6.3           0.3        0.6    0.9    1.6   1.5        0.2       5.4
WEST POKOT                0.2           0.2        0.4    0.8    1.3   1.2        0.2       4.3
=                   5=5=~=     =__5  =__ss =====    5=__=    ===
Rift Valley Pr.         3.8           5.6       10.4   16.7   27.9  27.5        4.4       96.3
BUNGOMA                   0.4           0.4        2.1    4.2    0.9   0.8        6.5       9.3
BUSIA                     0.3           0.4        1.8    3.3    0.7   0.7        6.4       7.6
KAKAMEGA                  0.7           1.0        4.4    8.0    1.7   1.7        0.8       18.3
Western Prov.           1.4           1.8        8.3   15.5    3.3   3.2        1.7       36.2
TOTAL  16.845.2          721=--=  1.===4==  1- 66== =1.===    ==2
TOTAL                10.8          46.2       72.1  179.4  100.9  14S.4    28.8        688.0 



-72-                           Annex 3
Page 16 of 16
TABLE 40:  ANNUAL (1901) NIWER OF FAMILY PLA9W1NC ACCEPTORS BY DISTRICT/PWOVINCE, AND MElHO
(C!NRAL BUREAU OF STATISTICS PROJECTIONS, KENYA)
FEMALE
STERILIZATION  INJECTABLES   IUDS  PILLS   OTHER   NFP   CONDOwS   TOTAL
NAIROBI                   6.8           17.3       5.6   27.3    3.3   1.9         1.6       57.2
KIAUBU                    1.3            2.3        4.6    6.2    6.4   9.7        1.5       31.4
KIRINYACA                 *.5            1.2       1.8    2.7    2.3   4.1         6.3       13.4
MURAN4A                   1.3            2.9       4.6    6.4    5.6  16.6         1.3       32.3
NYANDARUA                 6.4            6.8        1.3    1.8    1.S   2.8        0.4        9.0
NYERI                     0.9            2.2       3.6    4.9    4.3   7.7         1.2       24.7
-             mom          an   EU'g  ==: ==:ms           3 , =  .
Contral Prov.           4.4            9-9       15.7   22.6   19.1  34.3        5.4      110.3
KILIFI                    6.6            0.3        1.0    8.5    1.6   2.7        0.7       13.4
KWALE                     o.4            0.2       0.7    4.4    1.1   1.8         0.5        9.1
LAMU                      6.6            0.4        1.0    6.4    1.5   2.6        0.7       13.2
MOMBASA                   0.4            0.4        1.2    7.9    1.9   3.2        0.9       15.9
TAITA-TAVETA              0.2            0.2       0.4    2.7      6.7   1.1       0.3        5.6
TANA RIVER                0.1            0.1       0.2    1.4    0.3    6.6        0.2        2.9
_X            G__=       _-- S-         -==== ==GS    _-=__=
Coast Prov.             2.3            1.6        4.5   29.3    7.1  12.0        3.3       a6.
EMBU                      0.1            0.6        1.9    3.9    2.3   4.2        0.7       13.7
ISIOLO                    0.2            1.1       3.5    7.4    4.3   8.1         1.3       25.9
KITUI                     0.2            0.8        2.6    5.2    3.1   5.7        0.9       18.5
MACHAKOS                  0.6            2.6        8.2   17.2   10.3  18.6        2.5       S9.9
MARSABIT                  0.1            0.3       0.9    1.9    1.1   2.0         0.3        6.6
MERU                      0.5            2.0       6.7   14.0    8.2  16.1         2.5       49.6
=              _3       _=3=__    3= =         _==s=    =         =3
Eastern Prov.           1.7            7.3       23.8   49.6   29.3  63.7        8.2      173.6
CARISSA                   0.2            6.3       6.6    1.6    0.8   1.0         0.2        4.1
MENDERA                   0.1            0.2       0.3    0.6    0.6   0.6         0.1        2.4
WAJIR                     0.2            0.3       6.6    1.6    0.9   1.1         0.2        4.3
UZ                =ZZ        m    =--=    u 
N'Eastern Prov.         0.5            0.8        1.5    2.6    2.2   2.7        6.5       10.3
4ISIL                     0.9            1.8        2.4    9.3    3.2   6.2        2.0       24.6
KISLqmU                   6.6            1.1        1.8    5.9    2.0   3.3        1.3       15.3
SIAYA                     6.6            1.3        1.3    6.6    2.3   3.7        1.4       17.7
S. NYANZA                 1.1            2.6        2.8   10.6    3.6   5.9        2.3       28.2
Nyanza Prov.            3.2            6.2        8.6   32.3   11.1  18.1        7.0       86.5
BARINCO                   0.2            8.4       6.6    1.6    1.6   1.6         6.3        5.6
ELGEYO MARAKWET           0.1            6.2       6.3    0.4    6.6   6.7         6.1        2.4
KAJIADO                   0.3            6.7        1.2    2.0    3.6   3.1        6.6       19.9
KERICHO                   8.7            1.4       2.3    3.7    6.6   6.9         1.1       20.7
LAIKIPIA                  0.2            9.3       6.5    6.6    1.2   1.3         0.2       4.5
NAKURU                    0.9            1.7        2.3    4.6    6.9   7.2        1.3       25.3
NARDI                     6.3            6.5       6.9    1.4    2.1   2.2         6.4        7.8
NAROK                     6.3            0.4       6.7    1.6    1.6   1.6         0.3       658
SAM9URU                   0.1            0.1       6.2    6.3    0.6   6.5         0.1        1.9
TRANS-NZOIA               6.3            6.6       0.3    1.3    2.0   2.0         6.4        7.3
TURKANA                   9.1            0.2       6.3    0.5    6.7   6.7         9.1        2.6
UASIN CISHU               6.3            0.4        6.7    1.1    1.7   1.7        6.3        6.2
WEST POKOT                0.2            6.3        6.6    0.9    1.3   1.4        0.3        S.6
asss  t--     CS=   -a=.: ==-3-== =mu
Rift Valley Pr.         4.0            7.1       11.9   16.9   23.6  29.9        5.5      165.9
BUNCOMA                   6.5            0.6        2.7    4.9    0.9   1.6        6.6       11.2
BUSIA                     6.3            6.5        2.6    3.7     6.7   6.7       6.5        8.4
KAKAMECA                  0.8            1.2        4.9    9.0    1.7   1.8        1.1       29.6
=== ===   =7=   t__3  3=:=    r-=- nx
Western Prov.           1.6            2.3        9.6   17.6    3.3   3.6        2.2       46.1
TOTAL                13.5    5       2.5      a86.   199.6   1=64.  156.1 3==37 ,    XZZ
TOTAE     18.6          62.S      ~~~~~~80.0  199.0  104.0  1 U.1  33.7     C4C.4



-73-
KUWAe THIK POPULATION PADJUC
Annex 4
Co,en_t of KanyA
National Council for Population and Develoment - Project propoal 197
Ministry of Usalth - Project Proposal 1987
Population Policy Guidelines - Ses sioal Papr No. 4 -  1964
Guidelines for District Population and Family Planing Comitte-
1986
World Baik
Working Paper I   -  Strengteing Ng D
Working Paper II  -  Multi-Sectoral Population Progrm
Working Paper III - DGO Programs



-74-                                                            ANNEX 5
Table 1
KENYA: THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Project Components by Year
Totls Ircludi,u Cw,ttimwi                                               Totals tWluiudi.  C.ttnwreie
((SB  3800                                                              (di 'WI9
13       23         MW      t9l    192    11    1994   1099    Totl          1        9      190    l91 I92  199   9   199  1Totl
0. h1241       tUItIL FIR
PI33UTIO M t      2I~
3.         27 2W0u IW W  ITI  TEIB        2.I0O.9    412.0   513.0   19.   23.1   271.7   M2  3Nt.9  4.312.3   126.5   24.7   35.0    3535 15.5  16.4  17.1 3U.1 2U 3.7
2. ltt  5M 41111 ?4N                         393          _        _               _               _       _ -       1     5.4                                        _ -54
1. DWFMTIU. 0367TIO
AS  OUIcATlt                           1.761.7  3516.2  ,714.15  3,14.2                                -  14,33.6      9.1  211.0  222.9  213.0        -    -    -    - 86,0
4. WTI T3ISL 3MW T                         MT72),411 11,1.7  4.429.5  23U.5  5344.7  502.S    3.9   4.2  3-0679.   574.4  713.6  265.3  141.  12.7  IS,0  37.4  0.1  1,40.7
s. IitCT  FrCUR                           10,2.9  3720.0  919.3  4275.1 4.615. 49M.3 5.191.2 5301.3  12,431.9   41.0  761.3   M7    21.5 277.0 79.0327.9 340,6  3,146.3
IbA-Totl SIMS.L tcIn rtFl
0     aTIONS AO   LSIT                    25722.0  M2551.3 12,616.7 1241t.1 5.419.. 5,11.3 6,290.04,7779.3  202403,0  1.54134 2713-1  761.2   66.N 325.1 330.3 m.3 446.3  ,44..2
3, OUT I - .V,P P.SIF
1. E TEIDT OF
ItSL SEINICES                           2.354.2  4,071.0  1,919.4  1.9921,   62.4   47.4  701.5  749.1  15,071.3   142.5  244.7  213.2  I19.5  37.0  9.4  42.1  44.    904.3
2. 31137211  IF
MAYT CCAT1IO                            2,191.1  2,422.2  7,449.8   513.3  129.T  135.9  142,9  150,4  5.28.0   135.0  141.3  147.0   30.1  7.8  1.2  3.6  9.0   312.7
3. WVIcE U  12 9O(TCV1T76.1  1,173.2  1,273.1  2330.4  40.8  412.0  466.3  101.9  4,715.1    4.6   70.7   76.7   32.0  24.0  25.9  23.0 10.2   402.9
4. I3I3S1 ff  WICULttEI                    1034.1   2,20.4  12213.6  #310.1   6u.    6.2    2.7   76.6  4,90.4    62.8   67.    73.4   79.1  3.9  4.2  4.4  4.6   749.4
S. 3l261n1   or NE2.T1                    7li3.9  129M.t,9 27,770.2 29039.9    9.7   49.3   52.3   56.5 162379.1  4,311.1 2035.0 l,66.7 3,745.4  5.4  I.0  1.2  1.4  9.777,0
-rtotal SIM1  - 32T10k 90I1                 72,9061  42,713. 342.1 349.1 97 1,302.2 1,343.7 3.164 3e3.4 193,234.7  4,714.4 ?.50.& 2.213. 2.0357.6 73.2  30.6  3.2 92.2 32392.2
C. a   3s*0
1. IW 2LE0 TV VA A                        2t-61.3   722.1 122,40.3  7.316.1        -       -       -      - 3,537.0   697.9  479.8  747.6  439.0          -    -    -            .h4.3
2. FUlLY PLANING
ASCIAIIO OF   IA                       23,MA2.4  12232.5 21130.1 195112.         -      -       -       - 47.337.5    37.7  73.0  73.3  570.7    -    - - -752.3
3. 1M1 DIsMAn "1*TN
A3 T0          OF 22A1                  T.900.6  20,456.1  3.329t  93 ?.7        -      -       -       -   .34U.7   194.2  627.4  4".o  552.4         -    -               2.272.9
4. N1A CATUIILIC fCf TA1AT                  443.9    251.4  2t295.2 2h57.S         -       -       -      -  5,10.3    26.6   35.2  137.7   155.9               -    -    *       5:3
5. IATIN3    W0EIL 'F
t81    IF or   TA                       43917.2  6,9*1.4  1,445.7 3,12.7         -      -       -       -23.0   293.1  427.   326.7  340.9             -    -               2,379.0
6. to  M  CTIviS 12137.3  2.121.6  2,132.2  21.0                                                                    1 *  -  -  -  83.  230.1  120.7  210.9  242.4    -  -  -    503.3
7. 98(1  07TIO3w
331a 0     TEAM"03                      2.133.1  2,292.4  2,746.5  2,632.7       -      -       -       -  10,244.4   133.2  137.3  164.8    0.2    -    -S4.7
8. MS ST3                                       -    723.0         -        -      -       -       -             M 23.0      -   41.4       -       -     -    -     -     -     43.4
2,*-TOuI  M  9335                           43,227.5 42.80.1 45,277.6 19306.*         -       -              - 1712 .9  2713. 22.3 2,726.7 2r4l.4    -    -    -    - 30,334.0
Total UJECI esTs                             149,16.3 113,163.6 9440.4 340714.7 .77r.3 7,1k2.0 7727.2 13215.8 472,47.3  0,914 61902.0 3,676.2 3,62.9 403.2 430.9 463.6 499 23,349.4
__fl  *.Wsan   ,.  sasM  .r                   _ _    Vs.  mn   _in            _S        n          . .f   flS         g tfl,  Sn.*SSl



-75-                            ANNEX  5
KEIIY                         'Table  2
THIID PUTION PROECT
Pro.rwt Cospants bi Year
(KSH '000)
3a.u Costs                                       Total
19       199        190      1       192    193    194    195           KS     (LUSt '000)
333333WWx assmx32m35 3r33333s s332sn3m z333233 U3m32ce 323m s3332*x 3ss:3x333 x3322x222
A. NATIONAL CObIJCL FOR
PO1lATION AND  E PELENT
i. MMAWEWT  XIiFORNATIGr S73TEN             19414.    3m5.0    40.0    465.0   200.0   v0.0   200.0   700.0    4,441.5          242.6
2. fhEMSO  UN EVALUATION                      e5.0          -        -        -       -       -       -       -       35.0        5.1
3. TIWRATION, EDUATION
AS  CDIICAYION                           2999.0   2999,0  2.o99,  249.0            -       -       -       -   11,996.0      720.0
4. IMSTITUTIUWNAL DELOPNT                  1O699.6  10.165.4  34943,1  2,047.7  339.2   388.2   33.2   381.2   26,399.6   1,84.5
S. PISltICT FOCUS                           9,400.0  10.480.0  3.173.0 373.,  3.173.8 3,173.8 3,173.3 39173.8  38,922.3   2P336.3
9h-ToUtl NATIONAl. COIICIL FOR
POPATION MS MVEL D                         23,115.1  23,99.4 109595.9 3,65.5 30762.0 3.762.0 3,762.0 39762.0  81,443.9    4.999SM
3. MULTI - SECTORAL PROAMS
1. KPARTMET 1W
SOCIAL SERVICES                          2w213.4  3,553.8  3,155.1  1w518.2  449.2   448.2  448.2   449.2   12,233.3         734.3
2. DEPARTNENT OF
ADULT EWCATION                          2.450.0  ',110.0  1,970.0   390.0  100.0  100.0  100.0  100.0   7.3?0.0              439.4
3. OffICE OF THE PRESIDENT                  1,025.0   1.025.0  1,025.0  1,025.0  275.0  275.0  275.0  275.0   5Y200.0           312,1
4. NINISTRY OF ARICULTUAE                     984.2     984.2   994.2    *912   50.8   50.8   50.8   50.9    4,140.0            249.5
5. NINISTRY OF  ALTH                      659?47.7  2,8396.3 22,401.1 22,401.1    66.5   33.2   33.2   33.2  139,112.4   8,350.1
Sub-Total MULTI - SECTORAL PPORAS             71,920.3  369569.3 29,535.4 269318.5  940.5  907.2  907.2  907.2  168,005.7  10.084.4
C. NM  PROGAMS
1. N1IEL    YA IANAUMI t 11059.5  6,247.7 109012.7  5,464.4                           -      -       -       -   32,74.3    10967.0
2. FMILY PLANING
ASSOCIATION OF KYA                      12,85.3  10,499.3  99591.0  7,244.4        -       -       -       -   *09229.0   29414.7
3. TIE rWISTIAM HEALTH
ASSOCIATION OF KENYA                     9,232.4  09966.7  6.0#5  6,O62.2          -       -       -       -   319741.9    1,905.3
4. KENYA CATHOLIC SECRETARIAT                410.0    220.0  1t89508  1,950.8         -       -       -      -   4.431.6       266.0
5. NATIONAL COWEIL SF
CICES OF KENYA                           49604.7  69029.7  4,04.7  42.7                                        19338.8   1.160.8
6. NO1 NO ACTIVITIES                       1,750.0   19750.0  1,750.0  19750.0       -       -       -       -    7,000.0      420.2
7. KWEYA NT10N
LIDION OF TEACIERS                      2409.0  1990.0  2P210.0  1,90.0          -       -       -       -    9,599.0      516.1
8. NW STUDY                                       -    666.4         -        -       -       -       -      -      666.4       40.0
Sub-Total NM  PRORM                           42t360.9  36,363.8 36,4".7 29561.5         -       -      -       -  144..9    *690.9
Toal MELIIE COSTS                             1379396.3  964937.5 76,631.0 64t565.5 4702.5 t669.2 4*69.2 4,669.2  394t240.5   23,663.9
Phvsical Cot.nthncits                        6t732.2   49129.6  1,660.0  1.556.6    7.6    5.9    5.9    5.9  14,103.7           846.6
Price Continucios                            59728.1  1229.4 16.314.3 18.5V2.6 2,010.2 2506.9 39052.2 39640.7  641434 3    39P38.9
Totl POECT COSTS                              149,856.5 113,365.6 9",605.4 89714.7 6,720.3 7,192.0 7,727.2 89315.8  472,487.5  289349.4
Forin Exchca                                70c411.0  47,2t2.1 24944.? 21,107.3  457.2  437.0  442.7  44.5 65. 390.5   S923.5
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  -   __ --    -- - -- - -- - -   _, _ ------   __ -__   



-76-
TjflAO oPoq.rL ATI   0079                                                                                                                         ANNEX  5
.m.ry A'v,,rt OV "'*c#Ort,                                                                                                                              Table 13
rWPST2IO,                                              - -------       --------  - -                                                ANfLo         t.:1:                           WArT10AL                  K0004                             P05jiv.2
WW,MT                 EPWATI"6580                                                               OFFCE OF00NIr W54*20                                                         To~                      100CCR 0'                NATIONAL                         cotimre.w,
.w-ArpOq6fly   SIEA9cU  WEs     AND3      04T7JTIS4AO   8'90t20T   980457E54 Dr    DEP40T0EN4  OF         TWE     o1ISTPY OF  404IS000 OF  800E95E0 YA  990r20TT04 OF    00&sus OA!NrF  '7600 CO'KLCL0   CI4"WS OF   -Ek 400    UNION DF
A. Cl-It I48S                                      -                                      9*100   o,o.                                                               -     .074-                          '.2.                                    -                                o.- i0          -1 0 3.97,   10.0  '.383.1
IF 147C1Eq                                                               - -                    -         -           05.0              400,0                               5  0620.0       800.0          2d00".0                             ot                                 400.0          -   1*200.0   5.0   564.0
FU:q178                                          -             -                          9'5.0   i.240,0                --                     -                  -      2,8'1.0              -I~2                                            -                          --              -          5.302.0   9.0    279.4
P0. 9A7E010L0                                 .-009.0             -                              -         -                                             -        20.0       4.191.2              -        22441.!             -040             420.0      2.49t.2           -    .000.0           -    , 52919.3   5.0  0.645,7
F. E90100065                                  I .840                              -          9'.5          -             I0 14.5              -          --                 '.9846,9              -           '7  8                             100.       2.40              -        9.0          - 45-772,0   5.0  2.206.!
F. TECIINICAL AS01044TW                          80.0             -                         .664.0         -            240.0                 -          --                  4.012,0          200.0          .37,              200,0                -        140.0           --                666.4    9,522.9   0-0      0.0
0,. 410007F06.4  . 0108E90CH   F'050ATI4                       8.0-                                  -                 -                            -             229.4      1!,956.7             -                            042.0M-~         050.0            -     '401.0      240.0          -    402,s   0.0        0.
u. '062404                                    100.0              -          336..              -          -          '202.            6.I20.0    3.000,0       3,384.0        638.2,     22,723.5           531             4'961.I           850.0      4,370.0           - 4.620.0             - 59.492,5   0.0        90
I,u00095A; 0041040                                               -                       9.150,4                           -             - -                                   94.0-                                              --- -            -             -                                    91977,4   0.0       0.6,
5Q,0,  248S'8ENT COSTS                           2F"0             8 0         12.'90.0       24.0094  18.080,2           0.647,7          6*520.~    3,6000,0      3.727.A    139,?13.2       23.7235         25.161,4         10.917,8          "2?40.0     10.090.8     7.000.0  6.3'-.0       660.4  0505.41.3  4.6 14.064,4
A. 'A 0188                                                       -       -                         16z,4'ooe-                                              -                              2.856.0         20.884.0         1129,92719,6                  6,527.6            -     960.0          -   0.,749.8   0.0      0.0
P. 010404C                                                                                                                                        2 -    -           -                     2.337.6               -          8.22-                          996,06                 700.0              1 4-446.8   0.0      0.0
7.rf   00                                                        .              -               -         -          342A2.4                      -                                        I,3A- .348            -                .            05.0-- -                                    -          '.920.4   0.0       0.0
P. OFTILITOrS .* SIFPL8                            -             -              --                                     672.0-                           -          6.4        280.2       1.719,2          2,020.8          0.22,0                -      -           -            160.0          -     .007.6   0.0       0.0
9. 90111CL  00P04700  AND 44400078KW               -                            --                        -           .70.4              eoo.o          -         0,                         00.0          2.P000,0               -           120.0      1.600,0           -      400,0         7- ~440.0   0.0           0.0
F. EPL'209897 40140T4446                     2,204.0             -                           3.                          22-                            ----                                                 200.0             40.0             2.0        228.4            ---                       2.24 00            00
0. D01LD24* 460784400-                                           --WA7"E                            2.08106                -                                                      --0.4                                           -               .            -            -                    -    1.4940   0.0       0.0
4. PUR4IUJ0[Pf 8  E400(460-                                                                 2608.     43'.4                                                                                              -                                                                                              7       -'.  ----      8.4   5.0  39,3
Ttotl 880050090 ((14TS.300                                                                    2.329.2  '9.0428           3.585,6             04.0    2-.200,         406.4        29A,2        9,060.9        15.067.6         00.8040          72-9[.4     '.242.0            -   0220,0            -  88.399.2   0.0    38.3
Total 1498I2E 800T5                               4.R, 5.0                    22.94,0         290".A  30.;22.9           12233             "70.0    5".20           4.140.0    109.222,4      12.7e4.!         40.229.0         11,741.9         4.43126     'p.039.8    '.040.0   8.590,0        666.4  384,240.5   3.6 14,10077
pt0"I4e2ca  ,,T,t                                150.2             -          5p0.0         J.7J7.0   2.947,0              1.7l             20.0          -          6.0      7.590,9           40.0         2.532.0            774,7            0          007.3            -      00.0          -   24,223.7  0.0       0.0
PF  rq09ogenc,% ,.                              A4.                 1      0.8V4.4         ;.0.624  011.58.2          7. '10,9.0                   0525.3         844.4     16.1'5.8       '.',46.7         .".'5 9 8.                      0.104,7      3.137.2      0.329,2   2.564.4       36.0  644143,3   2.0  12,20.0
's'ol4811 PROEC 00'T                              4.8'!!           8-.7       14.011.6       5'-A9.9  591-4389.          l0.0'2.8          8.529.  .i5. ~3         4-.000,4   1j2679.1'      39.5'2.0        ".-53,-s          1186,            589e3      22."350      8.309. I 2.244.4        7:.3.0  872487.5   3.3 10.394.7
.       ......                       ..............                                                                                                              .-0. ..........,.... -......
#09.14, Erhang.                                '.~.                      ~     4.4         21.212.2  15.21'.9          2,442.1             850.7          .        73,;    00,779.3          2.819.5        09.844,'          4.002 0          .-045.6     4,957,2             1-2323-2        723.8  165.390.5  5.9  T.643,7



-77-
KENYA:   THIRD POPULATION PROJECT
Annex 5 - Table 4               Page 1 of 2
ESTIMATED SCREVULE OF DISBURS}WS
(US$ '000)
IDA Fiscal Year     Disbursement         Accu-lated          Accamolated
& Quarter Ending    During Quarter       Disbursement        Disbursement Z
FY89
Sept. 30. 1988                                                    0
Dec. 31. 1988            -                    -                   0
March 31. 1989           120                  160                 1
June 30. 1989            120                  240                 2
FT90
Sept. 30. 1989           180                  420                 3.5
Dec. 31. 1989            180                  600                 5
March 31, 1990           370                  970                 8
June 30. 1990            370                1.340                11
FY91
Sept. 30. 1990           490                1.830                 15
Dec. 31. 1990            480                2.310                 19
March 31. 1991           590                2.900                 24
June 30. 1991            500                3.400                 28
n92
Sept. 30. 1991           600                6.400                 33
Dec. 31. 1991            600                4.600                 38
MHrch 31. 1992           600                5.200                 43
June 30. 1992            600                5.800                 40
FY93
Sept. 30. 1992           600                6.400                 53
Dec. 31. 1992            600                7.000                 58
March 31. 1993           600                7.600                 63
June 30. 1994            600                8.000                 67
F4
Sept. 30. 1993           500                8.500                 71
Dec. 31. 1993            500                9.000                 75
March 31. 1994           500                9.500                 79
June 30. 1"94            500               10.000                 52



-78-
KURA: THIED POPULATION PUOJIC?
Amm S  - Table 4                Pag 2 of 2
ZSTIMAIM   CL3 OF DISBIURSOM31TS
(US$'000)
IDA lPiacl Year    Disbursemmt          Accumulated          Accumulated
& Quarter Iding    During Quarter       Disbursemet          Disburswnt Z
FY95
Sept. 30. 1994           400              10.400                  8.5
Dec. 31. 1994            400               10.800                 88
March 31. 1995           400               11.200                 91
Jue 30. 199S             300               11,500                 93
FY96
Sept. 30. 1995           200              11.700                  95
Dec. 31. 1995            200               11.900                 97
March 31. 1996           200               12.100                 99
June 30. 196             100              12.200                 100



S U D A N                                                           ;
_.t   <                            ~~~~~~~~~K E N Y A
ELEVATION AND RAINFALL
UGANDA~~~~~~
/ '/         \                                            A
G. AE>QM4W~ N D    4A Ps~                                                            N i A A
. ~~~~~'                                           Th-U                 _________
Ri               3,00
=  ronk  <20              isAQ                             b 
P-     Inrqe B-d..,s L  200/ 1  1\  
ftoWllr A.D DElYlKTS                                 _              IE 0    _ /
rurerd~~~~~N           E..G    /t?<4 -M    >+ f                   NE
-* /I lY~^  . _ . OkIEllldE_~1 ,_'.KS  ET 



