Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1904-KE
                    (Third Population Project)
                              between
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated October 24, 1988
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 1904-KE
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 24,  1988, between REPUBLIC OF KENYA
(the  Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project; and
     (B)  the Borrower has requested  the  United Kingdom of Great
Britain and  Northern  Ireland  through  its  Overseas Development
Administration, (ODA) and the Kingdom  of Norway (NORAD) to assist
in  the  financing  of  the  Project  in  an  aggregate  amount of
approximately US$ 13,500,000 equivalent; and
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed,  on the basis, inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
Page  2
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02. Unless  the    context  otherwise requires, the
several  terms  defined  in  the  General  Conditions  and  in the
Preamble to this  Agreement  have  the respective meanings therein
set forth and the  following  additional  terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "NCPD" means  the  National  Council  for Population and
Development established  in  the  Borrower's  Office  of  the Vice
President and Ministry of Home Affairs;
     (b)  "MOH" means the Borrower's Ministry of Health;
     (c)  "MOA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
     (d)  "MCH/FP" means  Maternal  and  Child  Health  and Family
Planning;
     (e)  "CBD" means Community  Based  Distribution of contracep-
tives;
     (f)  "NGO" means a Non-governmental Organization;
     (g)  "IEC" means Information,  Education and Communication of
health and population activities; and
     (h)  "Donors" means ODA and NORAD.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
     Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set  forth or referred to in the Deve-
lopment Credit Agreement, an  amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to nine million  Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,000,000).
     Section 2.02. The amount of  the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for  expenditures  made  (or, if the Association
shall so agree, to be made)  in  respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required  for  the  Project described in Sched-
ule 2 to this Agreement and to  be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
     Section 2.03. The Closing  Date  shall  be  June 30, 1996, or
such  later  date   as   the   Association  shall  establish.  The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates  as  may  be  set  from  time  to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above.   The  rate  set as of June 30 in
Page  3
each year shall be applied  as  of  the  next payment date in that
year specified in Section 2.06  of this Agreement, except that the
rate set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as  the  Association   shall   reasonably  request;  (ii)  without
restrictions of any kind imposed  by,  or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in  the  currency  specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section  4.02  of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency  or  currencies  as  may from time to
time be designated or selected  pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
     Section 2.05. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15,  1998,  and  ending  February 15, 2023. Each
installment  to   and   including   the   installment  payable  on
February 15, 2008, shall be one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of
such principal amount,  and  each  installment thereafter shall be
two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for  five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this  end,  shall  carry out the Project through
NCPD, with due  diligence  and  efficiency  and in conformity with
appropriate  administrative,  financial,  family  planning, public
health and technical and engineering practices, and shall provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
Page  4
     (b)  Without limitation  upon  any  of  its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall exercise any right, power
or remedy available to it to ensure that the NGOs carry out Part C
of the Project with  due  diligence  and efficiency, in accordance
with  appropriate  administrative,   financial,  family  planning,
public health, and technical  and  engineering practices, and that
they shall provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources required for the purpose.
     (c)  The Borrower shall make  the  proceeds of the Credit for
Part C of the Project  available  to  the NGOs promptly as needed,
under arrangements satisfactory to the Association.
     (d)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and  except  as  the  Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
     Section  3.02.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The  Borrower  shall  submit to the Association
and the Donors by not later than October 31, 1988, a timetable for
national, regional and district workshops with NGOs.
     Section  3.04.  The  Borrower   shall,   by  not  later  than
October 31, 1988, submit a plan, acceptable to the Association, to
ensure the  quality  of  voluntary  surgical contraception program
within MOH.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
     (a)  by not later than  December  31, 1989, undertake a study
of NGO  financing  and  critical  factors  for  sustainability and
organizational capacity,  with  a  focus  on alternative financing
mechanisms for funding NGOs; and
     (b)  review recommendations of  such  study with the Associa-
tion and the Donors with a view to implementing mutually agreeable
recommendations by December 31, 1990.
     Section  3.06.  The  Borrower  shall  implement  the  new NGO
initiatives under  Part  C.7  of  the  Project  in accordance with
criteria and guidelines  satisfactory  to  the Association and the
Donors.
     Section  3.07.  The  Borrower   shall,   by  not  later  than
October 31, 1989, appoint  key  personnel  of the Media Production
Center, with  qualifications  and  experience  satisfactory to the
Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained by all agencies  participating  in the Project, records
and  accounts  adequate  to   reflect  in  accordance  with  sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the  Project  of  the  departments  or  agencies of the
Borrower responsible for  carrying  out  the  Project  or any part
thereof and of said agencies.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a)  of  this  Section  for  each fiscal year
Page  5
               audited, in  accordance  with  appropriate auditing
               principles  consistently  applied,  by  independent
               auditors acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
          (a)  Subject to subparagraph  (b)  of this paragraph the
               right of the Borrower  to  withdraw the proceeds of
               any grant made to the Borrower for the financing of
               the Project shall have been suspended, cancelled or
               terminated in whole  or  in  part,  pursuant to the
               terms of the agreement providing therefor; and
          (b)  Subparagraph (a) of this  paragraph shall not apply
               if the Borrower establishes  to the satisfaction of
               the Association that:  (i) such suspension, cancel-
               lation, termination or prematuring is not caused by
               the failure of the  Borrower  to perform any of its
               obligations under such agreement; and (ii) adequate
               funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
               from  other   sources   on   terms  and  conditions
               consistent with  the  obligations  of  the Borrower
               under this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
Page  6
     Section 6.01. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to  the  effectiveness  of this Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
     (a)  the Borrower has established an organizational structure
satisfactory to the  Association  for  the Media Production Center
within MOH; and
     (b)  all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the ODA
and NORAD Grant Agreements,  except  for the effectiveness of this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section  7.01.  The  Minister  at  the  time  responsible for
finance of the  Borrower  is  designated  as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of  Section  11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
     Section 7.02. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30007
          Nairobi
          Kenya
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                FINANCE                         22003
                Nairobi                         FOREIGN Nairobi
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          440098 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names  in  the Paris, France, as of the
day and year first above written.
                          REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                          By /s/ George Saitoti
                                         Authorized Representative
Page  7
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Callisto Madavo
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 1,830,000       80%
(2)  Goods,                      3,030,000       100% of foreign
     equipment,                                  expenditures; and
     supplies and                                70% of local
     vehicles                                    expenditures
(3)  Consultants'                1,380,000       100%
     services and
     training
(4)  Recurrent
     operating
     costs for
     MOH:
     (a)  for fiscal              370,000)
          year 1988/89                   )
                                         )
     (b)  for fiscal              370,000)       100% of foreign
          year 1989/90                   )       expenditures; and
                                         )       70% of local
     (c)  for fiscal              370,000)       expenditures
          year 1990/91                   )
                                         )
     (d)  for fiscal              370,000)
          year 1991/92                   )
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(5)  Unallocated                 1,280,000
                                __________
         TOTAL                   9,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
Page  8
the territory of the Borrower; and
     (c)  the term  "recurrent  operating  costs"  means recurrent
materials  and  supplies   expenses   incurred   by   MOH  in  the
implementation of its Family Planning Program.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  any payments for expenditures under: (i) Category (4)(a)
until the Borrower has furnished to the Association an annual work
plan for  MOH  satisfactory  to  the  Association;  and (ii) Cate-
gories (4)(b), (c) and (d) until the Association is satisfied that
the Borrower has implemented its annual  work plan for MOH for the
preceding fiscal  year  and  the  Borrower  has  furnished  to the
Association MOH's annual  work  plan  for  the current fiscal year
satisfactory to the Association.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of  the  Project  are  to:  (i) strengthen the
capacity of NCPD to plan, program, finance, coordinate and monitor
population program  activities;  (ii)  increase  acceptance of and
demand for, family planning services through the implementation of
a  strategically  planned   and   coordinated   IEC  program;  and
(iii) increase  the  availability,  accessibility,  and quality of
family planning services.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Strengthening of NCPD
1.   Development of a management  information system for the popu-
lation program, including the  establishment of a central computer
facility at NCPD.
2.   Development of a research and evaluation program.
3.   Provision of training  to  NCPD  staff, including study tours
and short- and long-term study courses.
4.   Construction of NCPD national headquarters building.
5.   Establishment of  14  district  population offices, including
construction of office buildings and provision of operating costs.
Part B:   Multisectoral Population Program
1.   NCPD
     Design and production of IEC materials for NCPD.
2.   Office of the President
     Training of chiefs, assistant chiefs and district officers in
population activities
3.   Ministry of Agriculture
     Training of agricultural extension staff in population educa-
tion, preparation of youth programs  on population and training of
trainers and trainer groups in population and development.
4.   Department of Social Services
Page  9
     (a)  Establishment  of  a   central   coordinating  unit  for
population  activities  including   the   provision  of  staffing,
training, vehicles and equipment.
     (b)  Development  of  curricula  and  production  of training
manuals for  population  education  and  training  of personnel at
district and field levels.
5.   Department of Adult Education
     (a)  Further development  of  ongoing  program to incorporate
family life education in adult education curricula.
     (b)  In-service  training  of  adult  education  teachers and
provision of staffing, training and  equipment for the family life
education unit.
6.   Ministry of Health
     (a)  Establishment of voluntary  surgical contraception faci-
lities at 12 district hospitals.
     (b)  Strengthening  of  facilities  at  Pumwani  Hospital  to
provide surgical contraception services for Nairobi.
     (c)  Expansion  of  existing  urban  clinics  in  Nairobi  to
provide family planning services.
     (d)  Upgrading clinics and  dispensaries  in  14 districts to
service  delivery  points  capable  of  providing  family planning
services and  provision  of  MCH/FP  equipment  for 100 additional
clinics.
     (e)  Establishment  of   12   decentralized  MCH/FP  training
centers  and  acquisition  of   vehicles  and  training  materials
therefor.
     (f)  Revision of curriculum  of  clinical officers to include
family planning.
     (g)  Establishment of  the  Kenya  Registered Community Nurse
Program in Nairobi and Mombasa.
     (h)  Establishment of a media production center.
     (i)  Review  of  the  management  and  strengthening  of  the
Division of Family Health.
Part C:   Non-Governmental Organizations
1.   Kenya Catholic Secretariat
     Training of Natural  Family Planning teachers/counsellors and
of central office staff.
2.   National Council of Churches of Kenya
     (a)  Training of lay  family  planning teachers/counselors in
member churches.
     (b)  Provision of family life education to congregations.
     (c)  Provision of additional  staff  for central and regional
offices.
3.   Maendeleo Ya Wanawake Organization
     Development of training capability  in MCH/FP and CBD activi-
ties of women's groups, through  the provision of vehicles, estab-
lishment of a central training unit, provision of technical assis-
tance for development  of  curricula  and  training materials, and
Page  10
training of women's organizations from the 14 districts.
4.   Family Planning Association of Kenya
     (a)  Establishment  of  four,  and  upgrading  of  two, full-
service family  planning  clinics,  including  the construction of
buildings and the provision of equipment, staffing and vehicles.
     (b)  Design of printed  materials,  and design and production
of audiovisual materials.
     (c)  Participation in community shows and exhibitions.
     (d)  Provision of specialized family planning training.
5.   Christian Health Association of Kenya
     (a)  Expansion of MCH/FP services through the upgrading of 20
dispensary facilities and the construction of 10 staff houses.
     (b)  Provision of central office staff support.
     (c)  Provision of motivational and training workshops.
     (d)  Support to the IEC  program  to  train teachers to teach
family life education in secondary schools.
6.   New NGO Initiatives
     Support for new intiatives by NGOs.
                           *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the extent practicable, contracts for furniture and equip-
ment shall be grouped in bid  packages estimated to cost the equi-
valent of $100,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof,  the  Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works estimated  to  cost  less  than the equivalent of
$200,000 per contract, may be  procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of competitive  bidding advertised locally in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Furniture and equipment estimated to cost less than the equi-
valent of $100,000 per contract,  but  more than the equivalent of
$20,000 per contract, up to an  aggregate amount not to exceed the
Page  11
equivalent of $300,000, may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of  competitive  bidding,  advertised locally, in accor-
dance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Materials and supplies for  IEC  activities estimated to cost
less than the equivalent of $50,000  per contract, up to an aggre-
gate amount not to  exceed  the  equivalent  of $1,700,000, may be
procured under  contracts  awarded  on  the  basis  of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in  accordance with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
4.   Materials and supplies estimated to  cost less than the equi-
valent of $20,000 per contract,  up  to an aggregate amount not to
exceed the equivalent of $400,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis  of  comparison of price quotations solicited
from a list of at least  three suppliers eligible under the Guide-
lines, in accordance  with  procedures  acceptable to the Associa-
tion.
Part D:  Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more,  the procedures set forth in para-
graphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained in accordance with Section  4.01  (c) (ii) of this Agree-
ment.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the  Borrower  shall   employ  consultants  whose  qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions  of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such  consultants shall be selected in
accordance with  principles  and  procedures  satisfactory  to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consul-
tants by World Bank Borrowers  and  by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.   The Permanent Secretary of  the  Office of the Vice President
and Ministry of Home Affairs shall have overall responsibility for
coordination of the Project.
2.   The Director of NCPD shall have day-to-day responsibility for
coordination, supervision and  implementation  of  the Project and
for  monitoring   activities   undertaken   by   other  government
ministries and NGOs.  In  each  such  ministry  or  NGO, a Project
coordinator shall  be  identified  who  shall  be  responsible for
Project  implementation.  He   shall  prepare  quarterly  progress
reports  and  highlight  major  issues  needing  resolution. These
Page  12
reports  shall  be  approved  by  the  Coordinating  Committee and
submitted to the Association and the Donors for their review.
3.   The Borrower shall establish a coordinating committee chaired
by the Director of  NCPD,  comprising all Project coordinators and
senior NCPD staff. Such  committee  shall meet quarterly to review
Project Implementation.  NCPD  and  MOH  shall,  in addition, meet
monthly to review progress in implementation.
4.   The Borrower  shall  by  not  later  than  December 31, 1990,
undertake with the Association  and  the Donors, a mid-term review
of the Project based on the annual implementation plans.
5.   The Borrower shall  within  six  months  of their completion,
submit to the  Association  and  the  Donors  for their review and
comments the results of the following studies and surveys:
     (a)  The survey of NGO activities  and a list of NGOs removed
from funding due to non-performance;
     (b)  Evaluation  of  all  program  sub-components  during the
second and fourth years of the project; and
     (c)  Research seminars in the  second  and fourth years which
will review research results and future needs.
6.   NCPD shall make funds available to NGOs on terms whereby NCPD
shall obtain  rights  adequate  to  protect  the  interests of the
Borrower, the Association and NCPD, including the right to:
     (a)  require each NGO to  carry  out  its Part of the Project
with due diligence  and  efficiency  and  in accordance with sound
technical, financing, managerial and Family Planning standards and
to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be purchased in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (ii) such
goods and services shall be  used  exclusively in carrying out the
Project; and
     (c)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Association, if the  Association  shall so request, such goods
and works carried out by the NGO.
NCPD
7.   NCPD  shall  establish  within  its  Planning,  Research  and
Evaluation Division a central  Management Information System (MIS)
for the population program.  The  MIS  shall include both a family
planning  service  statistics  system  and  databases  for program
planning, monitoring and  evaluation.  MIS  data  shall be used by
NCPD to monitor program performance, identify weakness and provide
service providers with feedback on characteristics of users.
8.   The population  database  shall  include  district level data
from surveys, censuses,  and  program  activities required for the
setting and adjustment of  program  acceptor  targets. In order to
familarize NCPD Staff  in  the  basic operation of microcomputers,
twenty local one month fellowships will be provided.
9.   NCPD shall, annually by March 31, commencing in 1989, prepare
and submit to the Association and  the Donors draft work plans for
the implementation of the Project. NCPD shall thereafter implement
such work plans, as  shall  have  been agreed with the Association
and the Donors.
Research and Evaluation Program
10.  The Borrower shall  through  NCPD  provide  support to Kenyan
Institutions to undertake research  on priority issues relating to
the population/family planning program,  seminars for the dissemi-
Page  13
nation of research results, independent evaluation of Project sub-
components and specialized staff  training. The Borrower shall, by
not later than March 1 in  each year agree with the Association on
the list of research priorities for  that year and ensure that the
results of such research are widely disseminated.
District Focus
11.  The Borrower shall  establish  in  a  phased manner and shall
cause NCPD to develop  14  district  level population programs. 14
district population offices shall  be constructed in the districts
of Nairobi, Muranga, Meru,  Machakos, Uasin Gishu, Bungoma, Kisii,
Nyeri, Kirinyaga, Kericho, Siaya, S. Nyanza, Kakamega and Mombasa.
NCPD shall, by  October  31,  1988,  define  the roles of district
population officer  and  shall  present  proposals for appropriate
institutional  arrangements  to  ensure  coordination  with  other
agencies at the district  level  as  well  as training programs to
help  the  district   population   officers  perform  coordination
functions.
Multisectoral Population Program
12.  NCPD's IEC Division  shall  be  strengthened  in  its role of
coordinating and  designing  effective  IEC  materials for Kenya's
population program.  The  IEC  materials  shall  be distributed by
NCPD, other ministries and NGOs  active in the population program.
Design for publicity materials  shall  be approved by IEC strategy
meetings for all participants in the population program.
MOH
13.  The Borrower shall, annually  by  March  30, submit a plan of
action by MOH,  focussing  primarily  on policy and implementation
issues for review  and  comments  by  the  Association, and by not
later than June 30 implement  such  plan of action satisfactory to
the Association.
14.  The Borrower  shall  expand  and  strengthen  family planning
services in the 14 Project districts, through upgrading of service
delivery points and the provision of MCH/FP equipment.
15.  The Borrower  shall  establish  the  Media  Production Center
within MOH, following review  and  agreement with the Association,
on the report of the ongoing study on IEC.
16.  The Borrower  shall  strengthen  the  Family  Health Division
within MOH, by developing  a  program  for management training and
staff development.
