Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                  NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1904 KE
                                for
                the Administration of Certain Funds
                    to be made available by the
                GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
         in Conjunction with the Third Population Project
                              in the
                         REPUBLIC OF KENYA
                       Dated March 21, 1989
                  NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1904 KE
                             AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated March  21,  1989,  between the GOVERNMENT OF
THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY (hereinafter  referred to as Norway) and the
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION  (hereinafter referred to as
the  Association)  to  provide   for  the  administration  by  the
Association of certain funds to be made available by Norway to the
Republic of Kenya (hereinafter referred to as Kenya).
     WHEREAS (A)  an  agreement  dated  October  2,  1986, between
Norway and the International  Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment and the  International  Development  Association provides the
framework for co-financing of  development projects by the parties
thereto;
     (B)  Norway is expected to enter into an agreement with Kenya
regarding a  grant  of  up  to  a  total  amount  of fifty million
Norwegian Kroner (NOK 50,000,000) which  will be made available by
Norway to assist Kenya  in  the  financing  of activities aimed at
reduction of population growth in Kenya;
Page  2
     (C)  Norway wishes part  of  the aforementioned grant, namely
up  to  twenty-six  million   Norwegian  Kroner  (NOK  26,000,000)
(hereinafter  referred  to   as   the   Norwegian   Grant)  to  be
administered by  the  Association  as  incremental  to  the Credit
extended by the Association  to  Kenya pursuant to the Development
Credit Agreement concerning  the  Third Population Project (Credit
Number CR-1904-KE) dated  October  24, 1988, (hereinafter referred
to as the Development Credit Agreement); and
     WHEREAS, the  Association,  at  the  request  of  Norway, has
agreed to administer the Norwegian Grant upon the terms and condi-
tions hereinafter set forth;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                         Use of the Grant
     Section 1.01. The Grant  shall  be  utilized during the years
1989-1991 to meet expenditures  in  respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services for  the  execution of the components of the
Third  Population  Project  described  in  the  Schedule  to  this
Agreement. The Grant may also  be utilized for other components of
the Third Population Project  upon agreement between Norway, Kenya
and the  Association.  (The  components  of  the  Third Population
Project to be financed by the Grant are hereinafter referred to as
the Components).
                            ARTICLE II
                 The Authority of the Association
     Section 2.01. The Association,  as Administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall enter into  a  development  grant agreement and such
other agreements with Kenya, as  it  may deem appropriate but con-
sistent with the terms  and  conditions  of the Development Credit
Agreement (excluding the debt  service provisions thereof) for the
purpose of assisting in  financing the Components. Such agreements
with Kenya shall, inter  alia,  provide  that  the proceeds of the
Norwegian Grant may be withdrawn  by  Kenya to finance the reason-
able cost of works  and  goods  required  for the execution of the
Components  and  otherwise   eligible   for  financing  under  the
Development Credit Agreement, and that the amounts to be withdrawn
need not be repaid and shall  bear no interest or other charges. A
copy of each such agreement shall be furnished to Norway.
     Section 2.02. The Association,  as Administrator on behalf of
Norway, shall have the sole  responsibility for supervision of the
Components.
     Section 2.03. The administration  and enforcement of any pro-
visions of any agreement entered  into between Kenya and the Asso-
ciation for the purposes of this Agreement shall be handled solely
by the Association, and  the Association specifically reserves the
right,  at  its  discretion  and  without  notice  to  Norway,  to
exercise, refrain from exercising  or  waive any rights under such
agreement or to modify  any  provision thereof, provided, however,
that before suspending the right  of  Kenya to make withdrawals of
funds under such  agreement,  the  Association shall inform Norway
and afford Norway a  reasonable  opportunity for consultation with
the Association.
     Section 2.04. The Association shall exercise the same care in
the  discharge  of  its  functions  under  this  Agreement  as  it
exercises with respect to the administration and management of its
own affairs and shall have  no further responsibility to Norway in
respect thereof.
                            ARTICLE III
                              Payment
Page  3
     Section 3.01. For the purpose of this Agreement, Norway shall
deposit, subject  to  Parliamentary  appropriations, in semiannual
installments an  amount  of  twenty-six  million  Norwegian Kroner
(NOK 26,000,000) in a trust account with the Bank of Norway in the
name of the  Association  (the  Trust  Account).  The funds in the
Trust Account shall be freely exchangeable by the Association with
other  currencies  as  may  facilitate  their  administration. The
deposits shall be made in  advance  on  each October 1 and April 1
upon receipt of  requests  containing  a statement of expenditures
incurred in respect of the  components  the previous six months as
well as expected expenditures for the following six months.
     Section 3.02. The Association  shall  disburse from the Trust
Account such amounts as from time  to time shall be needed to meet
the reasonable costs of works and goods financed or to be financed
pursuant to Section  2.01  of  this  Agreement. Such disbursements
shall be effected on the  basis of applications for withdrawal for
eligible expenditures submitted  by  Kenya  to  the Association in
accordance with the  Association's  normal disbursement procedures
for withdrawal and disbursement of proceeds of credits made by the
Association.
     Section 3.03. In order  to  assist  in  defraying the cost of
administration and  other  expenses  incurred  by  the Association
under this Agreement, the Association  may invest and reinvest the
Norwegian  Grant  funds  in   the  Trust  Account,  pending  their
disbursement to Kenya,  and  may  retain  for  its own account the
income from any such investment or reinvestment.
                            ARTICLE IV
                     Financial Accountability
     Section  4.01.  (a)  The   Association  shall:  (i)  maintain
separate records and accounts in respect of the funds in the Trust
Account  and  disbursed  by   the   Association  pursuant  to  the
provisions of  this  Agreement;  and  (ii)  the  Association shall
furnish on a semi-annual basis to Norway a statement of account on
such records and accounts; and
     (b)  the Association shall cause said records and accounts to
be audited and certified by the Associations' external auditors as
at each September 30, that funds shall remain in the Trust Account
and shall furnish the  report  of  such  audit by said auditors to
Norway.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Cooperation and Consultations
     Section 5.01. Norway and  the Association shall consult, from
time to time, at their mutual  request, on all matters arising out
of  this  Agreement.  In  addition,  annual  consultations between
representatives of the Government of Kenya and the parties to this
Agreement shall  be  held  to  discuss  the  implementation of the
individual components on the  basis  of progress reports submitted
to Norway and Kenya by the Association.
     Section 5.02. The Association  shall  keep Norway informed of
the progress of the  Program.  To  that end, the Association shall
furnish to Norway all  relevant  progress, performance and assess-
ment reports relating to the Program.
     Section 5.03.  The  Association  shall  inform  Norway of any
forthcoming major missions  and  meetings  in  connection with the
Program and shall afford representatives of Norway the opportunity
to participate in such missions and meetings.
     Section 5.04.  The  Association  shall  inform  Norway of any
proposed significant modification to the Development Credit Agree-
ment and shall afford Norway  a reasonable opportunity to exchange
Page  4
views with the Association before effecting any such modification.
     Section 5.05. If  circumstances  arise during the implementa-
tion of the Components which  could lead to substantial changes in
the project document(s) and/or  the  way of execution the Associa-
tion shall inform  Norway  and  Kenya  in  writing about such cir-
cumstances  and  the  proposal(s)  for  alterations  of  the  Com-
ponent(s). Within a month  after  having received such information
Norway shall consult  the  Association.  If  after consultation no
agreement can be reached between  Norway and the Association about
the proposal(s) for  alterations  of  the  Component(s), Norway is
entitled to terminate the payments from the Grant.
                            ARTICLE VI
                   Effectiveness and Termination
     Section 6.01. This Agreement shall become effective as of the
date first above written  and,  subject  to the provisions of this
Article, shall continue  in  effect  until  all disbursements have
been made from the Trust Account to Kenya.
     Section 6.02. If, at any time it appears to either party that
the purposes of this Agreement can no longer effectively or appro-
priately be carried out, this  Agreement  may be terminated at the
initiative of such party after  sixty (60) days' written notice to
that effect. Before termination of  this Agreement, there shall be
mutual consultations between the  parties  with a view to securing
successful realization of the purpose of the Norwegian Grant.
     Section 6.03. Upon termination  of this Agreement, unless the
parties agree  on  another  course  of  action,  any  agreement or
portion thereof entered into  by the Association, as Administrator
on behalf of Norway, shall be  transferred to Norway and any funds
or other property  of  Norway  held  hereunder  by the Association
shall be returned to  Norway, and the Association's administration
shall be considered terminated.
     Section 6.04. Promptly  after  termination of this Agreement,
the Association shall  furnish  to  Norway  a  final  report and a
financial statement on the Trust Account, together with an opinion
of the Association's external auditors on such statement.
                            ARTICLE VII
                         Final Provisions
     Section 7.01. This Agreement  may  be amended only by written
agreement of the parties hereto.
     Section 7.02. Any notice or  request required or permitted to
be given or made under  this  Agreement, and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by  this  Agreement, shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be  deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered  by hand, mail, telegram, cable or
telex to the party  to  which  it  is  required or permitted to be
given, or made at  such  party's address hereinafter specified, or
at such other addresses  as  such  party  shall have designated by
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
     For Norway:
          The Royal Ministry of Development Cooperation
          P.O. Box 8142, Oslo Dep.
          0033 Oslo 1
          Norway
          Cable address:                    Telex:
            NORAD-N11450                      74256 NORAD-N
            OSLO
Page  5
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                    Telex:
            INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
            Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                               64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  undersigned duly authorized thereto,
have signed this Agreement.
                   GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
                   By /s/ Kjeld Vibe
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                             SCHEDULE
               Description of the Project Components
     The rapid increase  in  population  growth  in Kenya in later
years and the pressure caused  on the country's total resources is
a matter of great concern to the Government of Kenya.
     The issue of population control is given high priority in all
development policies and plans,  and  a great number of activities
are identified for implementation.
     Kenya depends on external financial assistance to take on the
various tasks, and Norway  is  among  the countries approached for
project financing.
     NOK 26 million of the Norwegian Grant of NOK 50 million shall
be administered  by  the  Association,  and  shall  be utilized to
finance  the  following  components  within  the  Third Population
Project, (Credit Number CR-1904 KE).
     -    National Council for Population
          and Development: NGO multi-
          sectorial population programmes
          Approximate costs:                     US$1.9 million
     -    Ministry of Health: District
          Training Facilities
          Approximate costs:                     US$0.5 million
     -    Ministry of Health: Service
          Delivery Points
          Approximate costs:                     US$1.7 million
Page  6
     A project document for each component to be financed from the
Grant shall  be  mutually  agreed  upon  by  the  Association, the
Government of Kenya and  Norway  before project implementation can
commence.
     The  funds  will  primarily  be  utilized  for  the following
components:
     National Council for  Population  and Development: NGO Multi-
     Sectorial Population Programmes.
     A community based maternal and  child health (MCH) and family
planning  (FP)  programme  to   be  implemented  by  various  non-
governmental organizations and coordinated by the National Council
for Population and Development (NCPD).
     The Norwegian  assistance  will  primarily  be  channelled to
Maendeleo  ya   Wanawake   Organization   (MYWO)   to  enable  the
organization to  expand  to  new  districts  an  integrated MCH/FP
programme, including the following activities:
     -    MCH/FP information, education and communication
     -    community based distribution of contraceptives
     -    safe motherhood initiatives
     -    child survival
     -    income generation
     This component is  estimated  to  cost  approximately US $1.9
million.
     Ministry of Health, District Training Facilities.
     A project to  establish  a  training  facility  at one health
centre as required in each of  the 14 districts of the first phase
of the District Focus Population Programme.
     The training facilities shall  be  used for the strengthening
of the  in-service  training  of  health  personnel  and others in
family planning services.
     The component will,  inter  alia,  consist of construction of
two  classrooms,  library,   office,   sanitation  facilities  and
equipment as required. A feasibility  study will be carried out to
assess the needs of construction  of  facilities in each of the 14
districts.
     This component is  estimated  to  cost  approximately US $0.5
million.
     Ministry of Health, Service Delivery Points.
     A project to upgrade and equip up to 140 rural health facili-
ties to Service Delivery Points (SDPs) capable of providing MCH/FP
services and to provide other  rural health facilities with MCH/FP
equipment as required.
     A baseline study  will  be  carried  out  in  each  of the 14
districts of the  first  phase  of  the  District Focus Population
Programme to  assess  the  need  for  Service  Delivery Points and
equipment. Priority shall be given to these districts.
     This component is  estimated  to  cost  approximately US $1.7
million.
Page  7
