Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12468
PROJECT COMPLETIOh REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
(LOAN 2108-TUN)
NOVEMBER 8. 1993
FILE Copy
Report No:         12468
Type: PCR
Infrastructure Operation Division
Country Department I
Niddle East and North Africa Region
This document has a resticted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officdu duies. Its contents may not otherise be d'iclosed wibout Wodd Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (DT)
EXCHANGE RATE;S
Appraisal Year Average 1              DT 0.46
Intervening Year Average 1      =     DT 0.81
Completion Year Average 1       =     DT 0.93
GLOSSARY
BNT   -   Banque Nationale de Tunisie (National Bank of Tunisia)
CTV    -   Cellule Territonale de Vulgarisation Agncole (ExtLnsion Centers)
DGPC  -   Direction Generale des Ponts et Chauss6es (Highway Department)
DPV    -   Direction de la Production Vegetale (Crop Production Departnent)
ERR    -   Economic Rate of Return
GR     -   Genie Rural (Rural Engineering Department)
ICB    -   International Competitive Bidding
LA     -   Loan Agreement
MA    -   Ministry of Agriculture
MPW   -   Ministry of Public Works
MTC   -   Ministry of Transport and Communications
SAR    -   Staff Appraisal Report
REPUBLIC OF TUNISI
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
November 8, 1993
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Tunisia
Fifth Highway (Rural Roads) Proiect (Loan 2108-TUN)
Attached is the "Project Completion Report on Tunisia - Fifth Highway
(Rural Roads) Project (Loan 2108-TUN)", prepared by the Mtddle East and North
Africa Regional Office. Part 2 summarizes the findings of a borrower-produced
PCR.
Project objectives were to improve the standard of living in rural
areas, raise agricultural production, enhance rural communication and strengthen
institutions with rural development mandates. Rural road works (road improvement
and maintenance), complementary investments in extension services and irrigation,
farm credit and technical assistance were main components. Project implementation
and attainment of objectives suffered from complex and unclear objectives,
inadequate preparation and appraisal and weak institutions. Implementation took
five years longer than originally planned for a total of almost ten years. Major
physical targets were achieved or exceeded but institutional development aspects,
including road maintenance, were cut back to varying degrees.
The PCR is frank but lacks basic information about project outcomes
and implications, the reault of inadequate monitoring and evaluation arrangements
and poor supervision performance.   As a result, overall project outcome cannot
be rated. Institutional development is rated as negligible, and sustainability
as uncertain.
The project will be audited.
Attachment
This docxanmnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents .ay not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OFFCIAL USE OiLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE................. I                                                     ........ i
EVALUATION SUMMARY .....................................ii 
PART I: PROJECT REVEW  FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTVE  ..........                          .. 1
ProjectIdentity ......................................... 1
Background: The Agrcultual Sector,
TheTransportSectorandThe HighwaySubsector ......... ..  1
ProjectObjectvesand Description ............................. 3
ProjectDesipnandOrganization ............................... 6
Projectpl nati   .................................... 9
MajorPectResults ................  18
ProjectSustnability ...........                 .... 24
Bank's Perfo.ance ................ 25
Bonrower's Peorance ...............  27
Relations between The Bank and The Borrower  .................                     28
Consultant Services .......... ............................ 28
Project Documention and Data .................               I . ........... 29
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW  PROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTNVE  ...0... 
PART III: STAIISTICAL INFORMATION ........................... 32
IBRD MAP No. 24898
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PREFACE
This Project Completion Rport describes the preparation, appraisal, and
implementation of a Fifth Highway Project in Tunisia, for which Loan 2108-TUN in the amount
of $35.5 million was signed on May 14, 1982. The loan was scheduled to become effective by
September 13, 1982, but became effective nineteen months later on April 24, 1984, due to
delays in issuance of the decree rearding a govemmental committee to coordinate the vanous
activitieq under the project. The loan was closed on October 31, 1991, after four extensions.
Ultimately, $31.5 million were disbursed and $4.0 million were cancelled.
The Evaluation Summary and Parts I and m of the PCR were prepared by the
nfrastructure Operatons Division of Country Departmenit I, Middle East and North Africa
Region, on the basis of the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan Agreement, supervision reports,
correspondence between the Bank and Tunisian authonties, intenal Bank records, and a working
draft prepard jointly with the Highway Directorate (Direction Gen6rale des Ponts et Chaussdes),
Ministry of Equipment and Housing, Tunis as well as other information gathered during a PCR
mission in April-May 1993. The Govenment of Tunisia has prepared a separate Project
Completion Report on the basis of the same working draft. Part II of the present report
summariM3 the main differces between the two documents.



EVALUATION SUMARY
Project Objectives and Experience Gainedh
(i)         The Fifth Highway (Rural Roads) Project was a continuation of activities
undertake in the Third Highway (Rural Roads) Project to improve rural roads and upgrade the
agncultural areas surrounding those roads. In most respects, the two projects had adopted
simiar physical designs, time-frames and analytical and administrative approaches. The number
of rural roads to be improved was roughly equal (1,000 km in the Third and 1,200 In in the
Fifth) and the projects had similar execution p&iods of 8 and 10 years, respectively.
(ii)        L. each project, iurl roads were selected and justed on the basis of combined
transport and .gricultural benefits and costs, and both projects sought to generate agricultur
benefits by ensuring the provision of agricultural investments and extension services (para.
4.02). While the Third Project actually included Bank financing to support agricultural credit,
the Fifth Project only obligated the Govenmment to ensure that credit would be available. On
the other hand, the Fifth Project made extensive efforts, as did the Third, to facilitate extension
services though provision of physical ficilities for the agets and through training.
(iii)       Similar intearental committees were used in both projects to coordinate
various project activities. However, the Fifth Project required a much more detailed planning
and monitoring process, with budget projections and imlementation schedules for all
governmental functions, both in the Ministry of Public Works and in the Ministry of
Agriculture. Moreover, the change in agricultural activities was to have been studied, planned
and executed in detail, wnth comprehensive monitoring to ensure that plans were caried out and
to provide a basis for impact assessment.
(iv)        The Fifth Project also served as the vehicle for a number of activities related to
the rural roads program (para. 3.02 (b) to (M (i), (v), (vii), and (1i) ). Among them were a
program of rural road maintenance, improvement of roads feeding into the rural roads improved
under the project, construction of other rural public works such as irrigation schemes, studies
of rural road construction and maintenance techniques and of a follow-up rural roads project,
and technical assistance and taining to carry out the various road and agricultural components.
All of these, except the rural road maintenance program, received financing under the loan. In
addition, there were activities unrelated to ruml roads, also financed under the loan: preparation
of a classified road rehabilitation program and procurement of equipment for Tunisia's vehicle
testing program as a contribution to road safety (para. 3.02 (f) (vi) and (g)f.
Results
(v)         in general, execution of the rural roads components of the project was more
satisfactory than execution of the agricultural ones. The first extraneous components, the study
of a program to rehabilitate classified roads was mostly executed under another project (para.
5.27) and resulted, under tis Project, only in a modest technical assistance consultancy to help
prepare bidding documents for 312 km of rehabilitation works. The second extneous
component, procurement of vehicle inpection equiptnent, was held up for many years due to
delays in designing the component by the agency in charge, fte Mnin:try of Transport and
Communications (paras. 5.03(b) and 5.12). As a result, this component took up nearly double
the amount budgeted for it under the Project.



- lii -
(vi)        Construction of the Project nrral roads was largely completed by 1988, two years
behind schedule, though supplementary works continued through 1992 (para. 5.01 and 6.03).
While cost performance is difficult to establish accurately due to design changes and changes in
the value of the currency, oveall costs were generally within the parameters established at
appraisal. Hov ever, rural road maintenance posed some problems. Maintenance, especially
routine maintenance, was not carried out systematically (para. 6.02) and even though budgets
for routine maintenance have been steadily increasing (para. 5.14), money may have been
diverted to other works. Spot improvements on *oads feeding into project roads were carried
out mostly in parallel with the work on the corresponding project roads though achievement fell
considerably short of the projected volumes (para. 5.1S).
(vii)      Construction of extension centers (CTVs) was delayed more than coi-truction of
rural roads, and although a substantial number of the CTVs was completed by 1988, the last six
were not finished until 1992 due to hisufficient budgets (para. 5.17). The agricultural
component suffered most seriously from inadequate implementation of planning and monitoring
elements. The Coordinating Committee failed to have regular meetings and the -'anous
supportig consultancies were utilized to an extent much less than foreseen at appraisal.
Timetables and action plans for the govemorates and the extension agreements were not prepared
or submitted to the Bank nor were seminars held for local officials (para. 5.07). After 1985,
the two parties agreed that the Govemment need only to submit the annual budget of the agency
in charge of the agricultural component. All the extension agents received some training and
had introduced extension contacts in various degrees but data is lacking to quantify the extent
of the adoption of new farming techniques and to compare the current use of such techniques
with projections at appraisal. The record discloses repeated references to institutional problems
in Tunisia's extension system (such as parallel extension services dealing with different crops),
which was described as unduly fragmented and inhibited in scope. These problems have recently
been alleviated through a consolidation of extension services. The construction of the CTVs also
contributed to this administrative improvement (para. 6.16). The improved roads in
combination with the CTVs have substantially helped the funtioning of the extension service.
(viii)     The appraisal used a complex procedure to establish an ERR for each rural road
in the first year's program, based on both traffic volumes and agricultural production and not
on simplified methodologies that the Bank had developed (para. 6.10). The complexities were
due not only to conceptual problems but extraordinary data demands (paras. 6.12 and 6.13).
A study is currently under way to establish the impact, including the ERR, of a sample of the
Fifth Highway Project roads, but its results were not available at the time the present report was
finalized. Further, the conceptual and data collection complexities are so great that they cast
doubt on the utility of the procedure, particularly for roads directly affected by Tunisia's
increasingly urbanized and affluent economy (para. (xii) and para. 6.14). Nevertheless, the
vigorous traffic growth on most project roads points to a most likely favorable economic
outcome (para. 6.15).
(ix)        Large scale use of consultants was contemplated at the time the loan was made,
but only about a third of the funds for this purpose was disbursed; much of this shortfall
occurred either because they were not sufficiently defined at appraisal or because the
Government did not view them as necessary or helpful (para. 6.0S). However, the Project
benefited from the continued involvement of the consulting joint-venture (Tunisian and French)
that had prepared the Project with financing from the Third Highway Project, and that, as a



- iv -
group or as separate consultants, assisted in implementation. The same joint-venture is now
carrying out the impact study and the preparation of the proposed Seventh Highway Project.
Sustainability
(x)         The experience of this Fifth Project suggests that it is only partly sustainable. The
roads themselves will require more systematic maintenance if they are to latq to their projected
term, though they are built well enough to last for some time even in the face of insufficient
maintenance. The maintenance of improved roads remains a problem as maintenance budgets
are in general insufficient, fungible between categories of roads, and most personnel concerned
with impaved roads consider them not to be real roads. On the evidence of the Fifth Project,
the systems of identifying and building rural roads in conjunction with agricultur  initiatives
have not become firmly rooted in the Tunisian environment and will have to evolve (pan.
7.01). TIis experience contrasts somewhat with that under the Third Project where the linkage
between road and agncultural investments was considered to be desirable (even though the
provision of agricultural credit was regarded as inadequate) and where several key Tunisan
officials strongly spported the integrated approach.
Conclusions and Lesons Learned
(xii)       General. The Project succeeded in achieving its main physical objectives, the
construction of improvements on nearly 1,200 km of rural roads and the constructing and
equipping of 55 CTVs. The use of a single construction contract to cover work at several
scattered sites is administratively advantageous, contributed to the result and should be
considered for use elsewhere (para. 8.03). Ancillary physical objectives were only partly met
(feeder roads branching off the project roads and vehicles for use by extension agents) or were
not subject to full reporting (rural infrastructure works and farm investments). However, the
Project fell short in the implementation of its non-physical components and was deficient in the
use of consultants toward that end (paras. 5.07 and S.25). The Project, also, is only partly
sustainable because road maintenance is still deficient on some rural roads and because an
effective road maintenance system and integrated rural road - agricultural development program,
stll, do not have an adequate institutional basis (para. 7.01).
(Xiii)      Project Scope. The integrated approach used in this Project presupposed certain
essential requirements which were not met:
(a)   a sense of ownership in the Project by all participating government agencies
(para. 8.04 (b));
(b)   effective mechanisms for coordination among these agencies and within the Bank;
(c)   intensive Bank supervision (para. 8.02); and
(d) clear articulation of the benefits of the integrated approach (para. 8.04 (a)).
(xiv)       Quality at Entry. The Project suffered from serious defects jk initiQ. The
selection of roads occurred without an adequate road inventory (para. 8.04 (c)). The road
designs were inappropriate because in most instances additional improvements were added
shortly after the inital work was completed (pan. 6.02) and Project analysis was too academic
and execution procedures were exceedingly complex (paras. 3.02 and 6.14). In addition, many
Project components were not fully thought through and inadequately laid down in the Project
*~~~~~~~-1 .--  r.  __ '__] A   - * ;e +2osa  a h



- v -
(xv)        Project Execution. This complex integrated Project also fell short of expectations
because of inadequacies in execution including:
(a)   too limited Bank supervision and discontinuities in Bank staff assigned to the
Project, especially for tfie agricultural components (pam. 8.01);
(b)  inadequate information flows and monitoring caused by non-implementation of the
Project component (monitoring and auditing consuitancy (para. 5.24) )
specifically directed to these needs; by too limited reporting requirements (para.
12.04); and, generally, by the Bank's acquiescence in insufficient production of
information on the Project (para. 12.03); and
(c)   insufficient coordination of Bank activities in support of the Project.



REPUIUIC OF TUNISIA
fIHIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
(LOAN 2108-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART k PROJECT REVIW FROM TH1   bANK'S PERSPECTIVE
I: PROJECT IDENTITY
Name:      Fi   Hghway (Rural Roads) Project
Loan Number:      2108-TUN
Loan Amount:      $35.5 million
RVP Un t:      MENA
Country:     Republic of Tunisia
Sector.     Transportation
Subsector.    Highway
11: BACKGROUND: THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR,
THE TRANSPORT SECrOR AND THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
2.01        In the face of rapid urbanization (from 36% in 1960 to 54% in 1990) Tunisia's
gicultural sect has experenced only slow growth over the past seval dedes. The avge
value of the gross domestic product from agriculture rose by about 10% over the decade of the
1980's, with considerable vadaions from year to year due to naturl fctors such as weather ad
locusts. As agrculture grew more slowly than the economy as a whole, its share in the GDP,
fell from almost 18% in 1976 to around 15% in the mid 1980's. It appears that the producin
of several traditional crops such as cerals and olive oil had only slow growth or none at all in
comparison with vegetables and fruits which epanded more rapidly:
Average Annual Production
(thousands of tons)
1974-1980  1982-1986  1987-1991
Cereals       990        1170       1408
Olive oil     107         98         112
Tomatoes      296         378        500
Potatoes      117         143        215
Citrus        188         194        240
This production was achieved with a slightly declining absolute number of persons engaged in
the sector (a decrease of about 4% between 1975 and 1988). Moreover, while the tota
population contnued to rise, the prorton of agrcultural workers in the labor foe feU
steadily from 379O in 1975 to 24% in 1988. These data point to shifts in the nature of
agricultral producdon, to rising productivity in the sector and to improvements in fte conditions
of rura life though not a reversal of the long term exodus from the farms to the cities.



- 2 -
2.02        In contrast to agnculture, the value of output in the transport sector grew
significantly during the 1970's and 1980's keeping pace with the growth in the overall economy
which expanded rapidly in the 1970's at 7 to 8% per year, with rises in manufacturing and
tourism, as well as sharp increasts in Tunisia's oil revenues. In the 1980's average overall
growth remained positive but averaged only 3.6% as the sectors which had driven the economy
in the prior decade experienced reduced demand and lower prices.  By 1988, transport
represented 4.5 % of GDP as against 4.4 % in 1976.
2.03        The overall growth in transport has also been marked by an increase in road
transport's share of surface movement of both passengers and freight, and by the mid-1980's
road transport accounted for more than 90% of all passenger traffc and, if captive phosphate
traffic is excluded, for nearly 70% of freight movements. These developments are evidenced
by increases in traffic density on the paved network (10% annually between 1977 and 1992).
The vehicle fleet also expanded rapidly from 71,000 in 1972 to 258,000 in 1984 and to 350,000
in 1992. While the length of the network increased only marginally, its condition improved
from roughly 7,500 km of paved roads around 1970 to over 9,000 kan in 1984. By then the
network consisted of about 17,000 km of classified roads (roughly half of them paved) and
20,000 km of unclassified roads (about 85% unimproved earth tracks).
2.04       The most important issues regarding Tunisia's road system in the early and mid
1980's were:
(a)   About two tirds of the paved roads were 5.5 m or less wide, according to a
Road Maintenance Study of 1984, financed under the Tunisia Fourth Highway
Project, and many of them needed to be widened to carry their current levels of
traffic;
(b)   Maintenance, which was decentralized in 1981 needed to be strengthened,
parficularly through better organization (e.g. by designating a specific agency to
maintain rural roads), improved central support to regional road units and greater
provision of equipment and training;
(c)   Regional and local roads needed to be improved in support of the Government's
overall program of rural and regional development, which in turn supported
Government objectives for increased agricultural production and more even
income distrbution.
The first two points are being addressed by the Highway Maintenance and Rehabilitation Project
(Sixth Highway Project, Loan 2896-TUN of January 15, 1988), which is currently under
implementation while the last point represented the principal thrust of the Fifth Highway (Rural
Roads) Project. Two new projects are being prepared, covring respectively rural roads and a
road improvement program.
2.05        Public sector investments in Tunisia have oeen guided by a seres of five year
plans, including the Fifth (1977-1981) immediately preceding the Fifth Highway Project, the



-3 -
Sixth (1982-1986) roughly paralleling the original Project peiod and the Seventh (1987-1991)
which covered the extended Project period. Most of the Project rural roads were improved
duing the Sixth plan which increased the Govemment's emphasis on rural development through
the expansion of the rural roads program throughout Tunisia. While the share of transport in
total investments has steadily decreased from 17.6 % in the Fifth Plan to 8.3% in the Seventh
Plan, the share of roads and road transport in total transport investments has gone up from 27%
in the earliest peiod to 52% in the latest period (actual investments for the Fifth and Sixth Plans
and planned investments for the Seventh Plan). Investments in roads (excluding road tra1i.prt)
show a rising trend for the Fifth and Sixth Plans from an annual average in real 1985 DT of DT
27.1 million in the first period to DT 35.6 million in the first four years of the second period.
In the years 1985-86, the Project accounted for roughly 12-15% of all road investments. The
total roads budget (capital, maintenance, administration) averaged DT 39.7 million (in constant
1985 DI) in the Fifth Plan and DT 50.1 million in the first four years of the Sixth Plan, with
recurrent maintenance accounting on average for DT 12.6 million (or 25%) of the average
budget in the latter period, a 28% increase over the average in the Fifth Plan. This works out
to DT 1,378 per kin of paved road in 1984.
2.06        The Ban's policy concerns regardng T:nisia's transport sector have focussed on
issues of productivity, government reguion, pricing and taxation; many of these concerns were
voiced as early as the 1960's and continue in the current dialogue in a proposed Transport Sectr
Development Project. Some of the road tanwsport industry and enteprises in the railway,
maritime and aviation sectors are all state owned and the Bank has continually emphasized the
need for improved productivity of these enterprises. In the roads sector the Bank has advocated
grater flexibility in the management of public sector firms and greater involvement of pnvately
owned opers, processes which are being implemented, albeit slowly. Road transport pricing
is thought to be too rgidly controlled while road user taxation, though ap iat in overall
amount, is thought to be biased in favor of cetain categories of vehicles (heavy vehicles).
Improvements in the review of transport investment proposals have also been a long term
concern, focussing particularly on the creation and strengthening of institutions for this purpose.
There is now greater emphasis on addressing road safety and envirnmntal problems although
of al the above broader policy issues, the Project only focussed on road safety.
2.07        A summary of prior and cunt Bank Group operations to assist Tunisia's road
sector is shown in Table A: Related IDA Credts and Bank Lean.
m. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.01        The Project adopted a similar design strategy and set of d&jectives as the Third
Highway (Rural Roads) Project, which provided for rural roads' improvement in conjunction
with programs of investment, credit and extension to support agricultural activities in the zones
41



- 4 -
of influence (defined as approximately one km on either side of the improved road) of the roads.
However, there were some differences between the two projects:
(a)   whereas the Third Project covered eight governorates, the Fifth included seven
of the same govemorates plus twelve others, thus covering nineteen of Tunisia's
twenty three governorates;
0)   the investment activities in each governorate under the Fifth Project were covered
by a detailed Action Plan and all activities under the Project were to be specified
yearly through annual Action Plans;
(c)  the Third Project provided for an actual allocation from a Bank loan (Second
Agricultural Credit Project) for credit in support of farmers in the zones of
influence as well as credits from various other identified sources. The Fifth
Project only made estimates of the credit likely to be required in each area and
specified that Banque Nationale de Tunisie (BNI) would ensure that credit would
be available as required.
(d)  the Fifth Project added the following elements:
(i)   a speca program to improve selected feeder roads which branched
off the rural roads improved under the Project (though some feeder
roads were included in the Third Project);
(ii)   a program of modest rua infrastructure works (e.g. small dams)
to be designed and executed by the Ministry of Agriculture's G6nie
Rural (GR) or Rural Egineering Department;
(iii) consulting assistance for design and execution of the Project and
study of general issues related to rurl roads; and
(iv) procurement of vehicle inspection equipment to promote road
safety.
The. Fifth Project thus intended to have a more comprehensive investment program and greater
surveillance in the process of execution than the Third.
3.02        As approved by the Board, the Project included:
(a)   A  te-year program (1983-1985) of rural road improvements totalling
some 1,200 km, of which 400 km had been appraised when the Project
was approved and the rest were to be agreed by the Bank in two annual
increments (Table B: Rural Road Improvements as Plroposed at
Appraisal and as Fnally Executed);
(b)   Spot improvements to feeder roads branching off the improved rural
roads: the spot improvements were not specifically idendfied but were
estimated at one paved ford for each 4 kn of feeder road or one culvert



to each 1.5 km of feeder road. Spot improvements were carred out in
only nine governorates or feeder roads of only 23 of the improved rural
roads ( Table C: Spot Improvements on Related Feeder Roads);
(c)   A road maintenance program for the rural roads improved under the
Project: this program was not specified at a isal except with respect to
annual cost ($7.5 million equivalentj but it was to have been descrbed in
detail in action plans to be submitted annually;
(d)   Complementary investments related to agnculture in zones of influence of
each rural road to be improved: while these investments were not hsted
in full detil at appraisal, they included:
-     55 buildings for aetension centers (CTVs) (valued at $1.7 milion
equivalent),
-     equipment for these buildings, (valued at $0.2 mifflion equialent),
-     vehicles for the 55 CTVs (valued at $0.9 million equivalent),
-     rural infrstrucre schemes, which were sometimes also desied
as rigation schemes, small scale irrigation schemes, land dninage
works and small irgation dams, and which were to be submitted
to the Bank for review prior to implementation even though the
Bank was not to finance any of them (valued at $4.5 million
equivalent);
(e)   Credit from BNT at various terms to farmers in the influence areas of the
rural roads subject to improvement. The purposes of these credits were
not spefled out but sample lists of goods to be financed were prepared.
The aggeg  amount of BNT credit included in the Project costs was
$8.8 million equivalent ($2.9 million equivalnt short term and $5.9
millon medium and long term) and BNT credit represented about two-
thrds of credit from all sources (none of them from the Bank) included
in Project costs.
(f)   Consulting services to assist in:
(1)    the feasibility, design and implementation of ruml road
improvements;
(ii)    preaation of guidelines for spot improvements;
(ii)     monitng, auditing and impact evaluation of the Prroject;
(iv)    a study of constuction and maintenance materials and techniques
for unpaved roads in Tniia;
(v)     preparin of a foLow-on project
(vi)     p         of a classified road rehabilitation program;
(vii)    preparion of extension and credit programs for the second ant
third years of the Project; and



- 6-
(viii)    training of extension agents, including overseas traimng missons;
(g)   Procurement of equipment for vehicle inspection stations: no list of
equipment was prepared at appraisal and the list eventually filanced was
subject to lengthy discussions between the Bank and the Government.
This Project element was intended to support a broader highway safety
component in the Fourth Highway Project, a component which itself
remained to be precisely defined at that time (see Report No. 8648,
Project Completion Report for the Fourth Highway Project, Loan 1841-
TUN, March 18, 1990).
3.03        Implementation of the Project was to be the responsibility of an interagency
Coordinating Committee, including rpresentatives of the Ministries of Public Works,
Agriculture, Plan, Transport, Communications, and Interior and BNT (this Committee had
already been established under the Third Highway Project). The Direction Gdn&6ale des Ponts
et Chaussees (DGPC), that is, the Highway Department, was to be responsible for all activities,
mcluding technical assistance, relating to roads as well as the socio-econonic impact study,
while the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) would have charge of all activities related to agriculture,
mcluding technical assistance for that purpose. The procurement of vehicle testing equipment
would be handled by the Directorate of Land Twanspot (DTI) in the Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC). BNT would administer agricultual credit with the assistance of MA
extension staff. The Project was to extend from mid-1982 to mid-1987, about the same
implementation period as originally predicted for the Third Highway Project. This period was
comparable to the profile of disbursements under the Tunisia First Highway Project, but about
two years less than the historical profile for projects in Tunisia generally.
IV. PROJECr DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
4.01        The Project was idendfied during a mission to Tunisia in November 1978 and was
prpared by the DGPC with assistance from French and Tunisian consultants financed from the
Tunisia Third Highway Project (Loan 1601-TUN). The consutants prepared a 17 volume report
(1980 study) on 2,714 km of rural roads. The roads were chosen for study jointly by
representatives of the Ministries of Public Works, Agriculure and Interior from among 18,000
km of rurl roads adned by DGPC. Some of these also were part of the system of 17,700
km of (paved and unpaved) classified roads. The list was further refined to 212 road segments
after consultations between the consultants and the Tunisian authonties. Engineering, traffic and
agronomic data for each road were analyzed and economic rates of return (ERR's) were
calculated using a model called MAGON which was a simplified version of the Bank's Rural
Road Model. Appraisal took place in June 1981 after two and one half years of preparation.
4.02        The Project was to be a continuation of the rural roads lending in Tunisia
supported by the Third Highway Project (Loan 1601-TUN) which was under way in 1978 and
was not completed until 1986. (The PPAR for the Third Project, Report No. 7182, was issued
on April 11, 1988). From the beginning, the Fifth Project, similar to the Third one, was to



-7-
include financing and other activities in support of agriculte in the roads' zones of influence.
However, doubts were raised wthin the Bank whether the agricultural components of the Third
Project were being properly executed and whether similar components should be part of the Fifth
Project. The Government of Tunisia was opposed to discontinuance by the Bank of the
integrated approach in its rural roads lending to Tunisia because this would be contrary to the
Govenment's approach in its overall nrral development program. The Goveement also was
not !nterested in using the Bank's 'new approach" to rural roads lending. Although the Bank
detemined that agricultural support activities in the Tlird Project were not as deficient as had
appeared initially, the decision was made to exclude aU agricultural credit from Bank's financing
under the proposed Fifth Project though such credit would continue to be part of the Project.
4.03       As Tunisia's r   roads program was very large and could not be financed by the
Bak alone, co-financing was envisioned for the Fifth Project from the start. However, the
Government refused to invite any co-financing from commercial banks on the grounds that this
method of financing should be aeserved for projects of a directly commercial chaacter. Nor
could co-financing be raised from any other source. Accordingly, the program financed by the
Bank was scaled back from 5 to 3 years. Road maintenance equipment in support of keeping
the roads maintained was originally included for financing under the Fifth Project, but when co-
financing became unavailable some unused funds under the Fourth Project were reallocated for
this purpose.
4.04       Negotiations took place early in 1982 followed by loan signaue in May.
Effectiveness, which had been foreseen for September 1982 did not occur until Aprfl 1983; this
was due to delays in issuance of the decree establishing the govemmental committee to
coordinate the various actvities under the Project. This was, in fact, the same committee as
the corresponding committee under the Third Highway Project but had to have its jurisdiction
expanded to cover the new project. The planned project timetable and the planned cumulative
disbursements under the loan are shown in Table D: Project Timetable and Table E: Projected
and Actual Cumulative Loan Disbursements rectively.
4.05       Project costs as originally estimated are shown in Table F: Project Costs, and
correspond to capital costs of the improvement works on 1,200 km of roads and related
agricultural support investments over the six years 1982-1987. Of the estimated DT 53 million,
roughly 20% represented transfer taxes. The planned pattern of Project financing is shown in
Table G: Project Fiancing. Recurrent budget requirements in support of the Project were
esdmated to equal about DT 2 million per year by the sixth year of implementation.
4.06       The bulk of civil works procurement under the loan was to be executed under the
Bank's normal ICB rules. Rural road improvement works would be aggregated into lots valued
at a minimum of DT 500,000 each and lots would in tun be bid in groups of at least DT 3
million, with bidders having the option of bidding on one or more lots in each group. CTVs
and spot improvements would be procured under local competitive bidding. Equipment
procurement would be mostly by locally advertised bidding or, in the case of vehicle inspection
equipment, after negotiation with suppliers of equipment ihat would be compatible with wbat was
already in use in Tunisia.



-8-
4.07       The specific items to be included under the Project were spelled out only in part.
Annex 2 to Schedule 2 of the Loan Agreement ()A) showed in the lrst year of the program,
improvement (upgrading or construction) of 400 kn in 33 listed sections of rural roads located
in eight governorates. An additional 800 km of about 70 sections were to be agreed between
the Bank and Government from time to time for the second and third years of the program on
the basis of feasibility studies and detailed engineering. The 55 extension centers and related
equipment to be included under the Project were not identified, but it was noted that the
extension centers would serve the agricultural areas around the roads to be improved under the
Project, nor was there any indication as to the location of spot improvements. Some of this
information would have emerged from submissions under a covenant (LA, Section 3-03 (n))
which required the Borrower to submit annually a plan of activities to be carried out in the
following year. The nature of vehicle inspection equipment for five inspection stations also was
not specified.
4.08       Loan covenants covered the usual requirements related to Project execution (fabin-
H: Status of Covenants).
4.09       Project design and organization were amended on several occasions:
(a) In June 1985, the reimbursable percentage of expenditures for rural road
works was raised from 40 to 52%. After the loan was made, the value
of the DT fell significantly in relation to the US dollar and with that
change the orginal reimbursable percentage of 40% would only have
covered part of the foreign exchange costs.
(b)  In December 1986, the LA was amended to establish procedures for the
use of loan withdrawals on the basis of statements of expendiures. This
procedure was intended to apply to contracts valued under $100, 000
equivalent for agicultural extension buildings and spot road
improvements. The amendment was supposed to facihitate disbursements
and overcome a serious lag in utilization of the loan.
(c)  In January 1989, the provision of vehicle inspection equipment was
reduced from the original five stations to two at Sfax and Tunis. This
change resulted from a decision by the Tunisian authorities to concentrate
vehicle inspection activity at the two most heavily used stations.
However, in the end the equipment financed by the Bank under the Project
was used at six stations and, while the Bank gave its concurrence to this,
the LA was not formally amended.
(d)  In March 1989, the procurement requirements of Schedule 4 of the LA
were amended to allow local competitive bidding on rural road works
financed under the loan, provided that no preference would apply, that bid
and performance guarantees would be equal for every bidder, and that
bids would be opened in public. At this point all of the original rural road



-9 -
works under the Project had been completed and this amendment was
specifically designed to allow financing of pavement on eight previously
financed (under the Third or Fifth Projects) road sections where traffic
had increased beyond expectations. Contracts would not exceed $400,000
equivalent individually or $2,000,000 all together.  The original
requirement for ICB thus was not considered necessary.
V. PROJECr IPLEMENTATION
Timing of Implementation  d Extent of Completion
5.01        The Project, which was scheduled for completion at the end of 1986 (with loan
closing a year later), actually was finished five years behind schedule at the end of 1991 (with
loan closing 3 months later). However, delays varied among individual components, with rural
road works, the major part of the Project in terms of money, being minimally delayed while
other elements were delayed up to five years (Implementation Schedules I and DE and Table
Lo Project Expendkures by Year). Similarly, completed rural road works met the target of the
programmed 1,200 kn while other Project elements fell short of targets in various degrees, as
shown in Table F: Project Costs.
5.02        All of the rural road works were tendered by September 1985. By September
1983, all of the first group of 400 km (the first group) was completed, and by December 1984
al of the second group of 400 km (the second group). Most of the third group of 400 kn (the
third group) was completed by early 1986 as scheduled but two roads were delayed to 1987 and
1988 respectively due to the failure of the original contractor. Table J: Rural Roads
Inprovement Contracts summarizes the information on contracts and contractors in the three
groups of rural road improvements. Later, additional rural road works were included to pave
eight sections improved under this Project and the Third Project.
5.03  (a)  Implementation of the main physical component for agriculture, the construction
of CTVs, went safisfactorily after some delays at the start. By late 1986 less than
half of the CTVs had been built, by 1988 this number had risen to only 43 and
the projected number of 55 CIVs was not reached until 1992 (Table K: Progress
in Consticton of CTVs). Another 41 CTVs were built during this period
financed soldy from the Government budget, which were also to serve the
farmers in the roads' zones of influence. In addition, there were 13 CTVs, which
were in rented buildings and were also linked with these rural roads. Therefore,
there are 109 CTVs among the 400 Centres de Munwon Agricole, most of them
built in the last 15 years, which serve the rural roads under the Project. Training
programs for extension agents began in 1983 and were concluded in 1984 and
1985, even though expenditures extended through 1988. Equipment procurement
for most CTVs was mostly completely by 1984 and the procurement of motor
vehicles, though mostly finished by 1987, continued through 1990 but was never
completed (Table L: Construction of CTVs and Table M: Expenditures for



- 10-
CTVs, CTV Equipment and Vehicles and Extension Iaining and Studies).
Similarly, spot improvements on feeder roads wee only partially executed (Table
C: Spot Inprovements on Related Feeder Roads) and no report is available
ngarding completion of rural infrastructure (which was part of the Project but not
to be financed under the loan) other than an indication of a global expenditure of
$3.4 million equivalent.
(b) The component related to vebicle inspection equipment suffered the most serious
diversion from the schedule; it was subject to repeated redesigns and was finally
not completed until 1992, covering six stations instead of the original five (later
amended to two) stations (Table N: Equipment for Vehicle Inspection
Stations).
(c) Technical assistance and fellowships (overseas missions) are summarized in Table
0: Expenditures under Project for Techal Asstance (including Traing
and Overseas Misions). There were seven consultancies, six with the Ministry
of Public Works and one with the Ministry of Agnculture, which includes the
extension agents training contracts with the Ministry of Agriculture and the
overseas missions. The study of constructing techniques of unpaved roads was
delayed by nearly two years, but the impact study was delivered only a few
months beyond target. The study to prepare a follow on project of rural road
improvements (Part H rf) and riii) of the Description of the Project in the LA)
was delayed due to problems in procurement and eventually was transferred for
financg under the ongoing Sixth Highway Project.
(d)   The reasons for delays of various components was due mainly to failure of
coordination among participants in the Project.
5.04        As a result of the partal execution of the Project (i.e. the purchase of vehicles
and use of technical assistance) and as a result of the change in the exchange rate of the doLar
in rlation to the Tunisian dinar (from $1 = DT 0.46 at appraisal to $1 =DT 0.93 currently),
about $4 million of the loan was not used and this resulted in cancellation of $3 million in April
1990 and $1 million at loan closure.
Coordbiat   Ip      aon of Rura Road Improents and of Supporting Project
Elements.
5.05        More than 70% of the Project's baseline costs were for rural road construction
and associated consulting services. Mos. of the remainder was for elements which were intended
primarily to help stimulate agricultural production in the roads' zones of influence. To ensure
that the supportng elements were properly camred out, the SAR included vanous bar charts,
budget projections and action plans. The Project was to be executed in three groups, beginning
in the first, second and third years of the Project, each extending over three years and each
consising of one year of rural road design and two years of rurl road constuction. During each
three year peiod parallel programs of rura road maintenance, spot road improvements and



- 11 -
agricultural promotion should have taken place; how--ver, many of these activities were shown
to continue for several years beyond the three years associated with each group. The budgetary
consequences of all these activities were originally incorporated into capital and recurrent budget
requireirents for the Project as a whole for each of the six years of Project execution (Tables
2(a) and 2(b) of Annex 8 of the SAR). The capital budget requirements became the "overall
program" (Secdion 3.03 (b) of the LA and Suipplemental Letter No. 1).
5.06        Detailed implkmentation of the Project was to be carried out under various action
plans and annual programs. These included:
(a)   An action plan for extension work for each iiidwiidual road, based on an
agricultural survey made by the extension agents of all farmers served by the road
and specifying 'key farm parameters which affect absorptive capacity for new
techniques and the ability to qualify for new credit". The action plan would
include road by road, extension guidelines, yield targets and credit needs, as well
as a framework for project monitoring and evaluation (Parts C and D of Annex
6 of SAR).
(b)   An action plan for each governorate covering all rural road improvements which
the Project would finance in that governorate and related support activities under
the Project (spot road improvements, CTV buildings and equipment, minor
irrigation works, and agricultural credit).
(c)   Annual programs consistent with the overall program (Supplemental Letter No.
1 contained action plans for the eight governorates included in the first group)
which would include the preparation and updating of road feasibility studies and
the preparation of integrated action plans (Part B of Annex 6 of SAR).
The foregoing provisions of the SAR were incorporated in Secton 3.03 of the LA, which called
for: in subsection (a), execution of the Project in accordance with the agreed overall action
program; in subsection (b), the Borrower, through its Project Coordinating Committee, to submit
annually, for Bank comment, a plan of project operations consistent with the overall action
program; and in subsection (c), submission to the Bank of feasibility reports for rral road
improvements in the second and third groups, and extension guidelines, farm budget analyses
and implementation data for extension to be carried out in each year of the Project.
5.07        The Bank's file does not disclose how the foregoing provisions were implemented.
(a)   While all rural roads in the second and third groups appear to have been included
in the 1980 study, the file contains no reference to their formal inclusion under
the Project or to updating of the feasibility conclusions of the 1980 study.
(b)   While a Tunisian firm was engaged about the beginning of 1986 to make surveys
of agricultural potential and prepare agriculturai development programs for
Project roads in 13 governorates, the results of its work are not on file.



- 12 -
According to the MA, the firm prepared a report for each road in the second and
third groups and by the end of 1987 had completed nearly 70 reports which were
mai3tained only at the Ministry. Neither does the file contain action plans for te
govemorates responsible for the sections of rural roads in groups two and three.
The file does contain copies of budget requests made by the Direction de la
Production VEgeta1e (DPV), or Crop Production Department, for the years 1984,
1985, 1987 and 1989, which provide justification for various expenditures by
DPV nationwide on construction and equipping of CTVs, training of extension
agents and operating costs (such as motor fuel) in support of the Fifth Highway
Project.- According to the MA the two parties agreed to substitute these national
budgets for the action plans for each governorate referred to in para. 5.06 (b)
above. Nor does the file indicate whether seminars were held in each of the
governorates to fmiliarize local officials and extension agents with the Project,
to brief them on the road - by - road action plans or to explain the farm surveys
extension agents would have to make (Part D of Annex 6 of SAR). Accordng to
the MA, the surveys by extension agents referred to in para. 5.06 (a) above were
not made because they were inappropnate to the educational level of the agents
and would require contacts with large numbers of farmers thus diverting the
agents from other essential work.  Finally, there is no record of formal
submission to the Bank of annual programs or action plans for individual roads.
In fact, it was reported in early 1987, that the Project Coordinating Committee
had not met for over a year.
5.08        The abser^,e of documentation on action plans and annual programs suggests that
the supporting elements were not implemented in accordance with the movell progam" and that
monitoring and evaluation could not be done on a systematic basis. Some information was
collected on credits and extension provided in a sample of the zones of influences. ITnis
information permits us to estimate that the credits given in those zones of influences were in the
order of DT 4 million and were adequate.
Civil Works in General
5.09        Detailed designs and contract documents for the first group of mral roads
improvements were prepared under a consultancy financed from the Tunisia Third Highways
Project. Similar documentation for the second and third groups of rural roads improvements
were made available under further contracts with the same consultants financed from the current
loan.  All these works were executed by DGPC after international tendering.  Spot
improvements of feeder roads rumnning into mral roads improved under the Project were also to
be executed by DGPC according to procedures and criteria to be developed by consultants
financed from the loan. However, only a small part of the projected spot improvements was
carried out and DGPC never engaged consultants under the Project to develop special
procedures. Therefore, DGPC executed the works under its normal procedures. Supervision
of rural road works was to be done by DGPC with the assisnce of consultants while the
arrangements for supervision of spot improvemets was to be specified later and, therefore, no
special procedures were used. In general, aU work was supervised by the Regional Directorates



- 13-
of DGPC under the general responsibility of DGPC's Central management. Rural road
improvement works were almost aU awarded to local firms with the exception of a bidder from
Hungary. Spot improvemenits were executed by small local firms experienced in masonry and
concrete work.
5.10        Rural infrastructure works (such as minor irrigation) as well as the design and
feasibility studies for those works, were to be executed by the G6nie Rural (GR) of the MA.
While financing out of the Bank loan was not available for these works, GR was to submit the
details of each scheme for the Bank's review before implementation (SAR, Annex 6, para. 9).
However, it appears in the files that GR did not submit any such designs or studies and specific
infrastructure works that could be attrbuted to the Project were reported only in an aggregate
amount.
5.11        The construction of CTVs was to be the responsibility of the MA. No special
provisions for the design and supervision of the CTVs were included in the Project documents
and procurement was to be carried out under local competitive tendering procedures. The
bidders were provided with building plans and bills of quantities.
5.12        The design of vehicle inspection stations for which equipment was to be procured
under the Project presented major difficulties as it depended on the developraent of a road safety
program. An initial report on this program financed under Tunisia Fourth Highway Project was
submitted in early 1984. A final decision by the Government whereby the inspection statons
became the responsibility of the governorates was not made until early 1990 at which time
another two years would have been needed to design the stations. Instead it was decided that
equipment under the Project would be procured for four (later reduced to two and finally
increased to six) existng stations to replace units which had become worn out.
Rural Road Improvements and Mainte
5.13        The rural road improvements were largely carried out on the roads listed in Annex
H to Schedule 2 of the LA (the initial 400 km) and on other roads tentatively identified at the
time of appraisal (the remaining 800 kin). However, some roads, on the basis of traffic, were
further improved after the initial work prinarily by widening them or by providing them with
bituminous surfaces and a part of these additional works were financed under the loan. The
supervision of the rural road improvement works was done by the regional and central
administaions of DGPC in accordance with their normal procedures and without the assistance
of consulants.
5.14  (a)   Part D of the Description of the Project provided for the implementation of a
maintenance program of 'all improved' rural roads. Section 4.04of the L staes
that the Borrower shall cause all the 'Rurl Roads' (that is, roads improved under
the Project) as well as other rural roads offering an appropriate level of service
to be maintained and to provide the necessary budgetary and other resources to
that end. Table 2  ) ofAnnex 8 of the S4R indicates a projected recurrent road
maintenance budget for 10,000 km rising from DT 187,000 in the first year to



- 14 -
DT 3,750,000 in the last year. The exact coverage of roads to be achieved by
this budget is not indicated.
(b)   Table P: Mlaintenance Expenditures for Rural Roads under the Project, other
Improved Rural Roads and All Roads, 1983-1992, shows actual performance
of various road maintenance budgets in Tunisia in the period 1983 - 1992. This
indicates that all road maintenance expenditures have roughly doubled over the
decade in nominal terms and gone up by about 50%  in real terms.  The
expenditures for rural roads have gone up much more steeply (by a factor of
nearly eight) and, for rural roads under this Project, to DT 1.1 million in 1989
and to an average of nearly DT 2.4 million in *:990-92, or about DT 2000 per km
of such roads. However, it appears that the expenditures for rural road
maintenance include periodic maintenance and minor improvements; separate data
is not available to separate routine from periodic maintenance on many roads.
While the Bank's supervision reports do not indicate which roads were visited
during supervision missions, a mission in late 1988 which inspected rural roads
in four governorates reported that the roads they saw seemed to have had no
routine maintenance. More information on routine maintenance of rural roads
may emerge from a study currently under way. Meanwhile, it will be difficult
to compare budget performance for rural road maintenance, particularly routine
maintenance, with targets at appraisal.
Spot Improvements on Feeder Roads Serving Improved Rural Roads
5.15        DGPC had responsibility for selecting and executing minor improvements on
roads feeding into the rural roads being improved under the Project. Over 90% of these
expenditures occurred in the years 1984 through 1987 and nearly all were for culverts and small
bridges. Of roughly 20 spot improvements, about one half are associated with rural roads
improved under the first group, about one quarter with roads under the second group and the
rest with roads not part of the Fifth Highway Project. The total value of these works is about
DT 0.9 million, roughly 60% of the amount foreseen at appraisal. No information is available
as to the reasons for the final content (location and amount of the works) of this Project
component.
Minor Irrigation Works
5.16        This element was to include small scale irrigation, irrigation dams and land
drainage works.
CTV Buildings
5.17        The phasing of CTV construction is shown in Tables K and L and the location
of these works and the rural roads to which they relate is shown in these tables and in the map.
The most active period of construction was in the five years 1984-1988 when an average of eight
units per year was built annually. Four govemorates had only one unit built while three



- 15 -
govemorates accounted for one third of the units. The general design which was somewhat
adjusted in each region provided for six rooms on one floor, including a meeting room and a
kdtchen, with a total area of about 150 n2. The construction, equipping and staffing of CTVs
apparently was not done in coordination, as equipment purchases and training preceded the
construction of many CTVs. Consequently, extension agents were in their posts and had to
depend on rental accommodations.
CTV Equipment
5.18        This element represented le.s than 10% of the cost of the buildings. It included:
(i) demonstration and testing equipment for extension agents and (ii) office fumiture and
equipment. Nearly all of this equipment was procured in 1983 and 1984, before any of the
CTVs were built.
5.19        Though veiicks were only one of the items of equipment for use by extension
agents, this category was treated separately in Project cost tables and in the LA's List of Goods.
The Project envisioned roughly one vehicle per CTV which represented about 20% of the cost
of CTVs. About one third of the vehicles were procured two years before any CTVs were built
and over 90% were delivered by 1986 when only 28 CTVs had been completed.
Agricultural Credit
5.20        Short, medium and long-term credit was to be provided, without resort to the
Bank loan, to farmers in the roads' zones of influence, in amounts up to nearly DT 7 million
equivalent, and the Borrower agreed that BNT would provide the necessary credit given that it
might not be available otherwise. The Thrd Highway Project had had difficulty in mobilizing
agricultural credit for farmers, but this difficulty was not expected to continue through the Fifth
Highway Project. In addition to BNT financing, capital requirements were to be met by the
farmers themselves and the Government (through a subsidy) for some medium and long term
financing. Total BNT credit commitments over six years were to be nearly DT 4.5 million and
farmer and Government finance was to total about DT 2.5 million over the period. No
systematic evaluation of credit needs was made as the detailed annual programs described in
para. 3.09 of the SAR and referred to in Section 3.03 (c) of the LA were not prepared nor their
related farm surveys or representative farm models. As a result, data was not generated on the
credits actually utilized in the Fifth Highway Project. However, a sample survey has been msvz
for several governorates on the basis of which it was estimated that BNT provided credits to
farmers in the zones of influence in the amount of DT 4 million over the period 1986 to 1992.
While one may conclude that BNT credits were made available in the area which was sampled,
the sample is too constricted to judge whether credit was adequate in all zones of influence.
Moreover, no data is available on the financing (by the farmers and the Government) and the
adequacy of the overall financing provided can, therefore, not be determined.



- 16-
Consultg Servces - General
5.21        Consultant assistance was to phy a crucial role in implementation of the Project.
It was to support the process of rural road design (including economic feasibility determination)
and construction, execution of various other programs, and monitoring and evaluation of project
results. In addition, corsultants were to assist in preparation of two follow-up projects both for
rural roads and for rehabilitation of classified roads. The DGPC and various units of the MA
were to be the principal beneficiaries of the consultants' work.
Consulting Services - DGPC: Design and Supervision of Runl Road Improvements
5.22        A contract was signed in April 1981 for the design of 410 kn of roads in eight
governorates intended for construction under the Project. This contract was with the same group
of French and Tunisian firms who had done the feasibility studies and was financed from the
Third Highway Project loan. Extensions of this contract were signed with the same consultants
for the design (including deterination of economic feasibility) of the remauiing 800 km of rural
road improvements, even though the Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule (Chart 5 of
the SAR envisioned two separate consultancies for the second and the third groups.
Consulting Services - DGPC: Design of Spot Inprovements on Feeder Roads Serving
Improved Rural Roads
5.23        The work concerned primarily the removal of difficulties created by water at low
points in a feeder road's alignment. The consultancy was to provide guidelines for DGPC
regional engineers in developing programs of spot improvements. No terms of reference were
ever drafted for this consultancy (though outline tems of reference were mentioned in the SAR)
and no one was ever appointed to it. The file does not indicate the reason for this omission or
whether it was ever discussed but the reduced size of this part of the Project may have reduced
the need for the conultancy.
Consulting Services - DGPC: Auditing and Monitoring and Inpact Evaluation
5.24        This consultancy was not implemented as originally foreseen. No specific
consultancy related to auditing and monitoring was described in the SAR although an outline
terms of reference was mentioned in the SAR. While auditing and monitorng was refeTred to
in the Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule (Chart 5 of the SAR) and in Part H (1) (7)
of the Descnption of the Project, it was not developed or put into effect. The impact evaluation
was to utilize the traffic and agricultural data collected in Project monitoring and, in addition,
consultants would do surveys on a sample of roads from the Third and Fifth Highway Projects.
These surveys would address the full range of nual development impacts, including household
income, consumption, personal mobility and communication, provision and utilization of services
and migration patterns, in addition to traffic and agricultural data. An initial Impact Stt dy
report was made by some of the same group of French and Tunisian consultants who had done
the feasibility studies, but on the basis of one survey in 1986 concerned primarily with traffic
counts and agricultural production, not a series of surveys. But the Impact Study made use of



- 17-
other data as well, such as the 1984 Census. Currently another study is under way by the same
group of consultants to prepare a further rural roads p;,ject for Tunisia (the Seventhff Highway
Project) and this includes a esurvey of the Fifth Highway Project roads covered in 1986 plus
seven other roads from that Project. As in 1986, the current study is limited in scope and
primarily concerned with traffic and agriculture. Some of the findings of the 1986 survey and
some preJmiary results of the current study are discussed in Chapter VI below.
Consling Services - DGPC: Study of Techniques for Unpaved Roads In Tunsa
5.25        This study was executed by two of the French and Tunisian consultants who were
part of the consortium that had done the feasibility studies for the Project. The study made
detailed laboratory analyses on a sample of 26 unpaved roads and reviewed the geotechnical
methods used in their construction. The study concluded that there were indeed deficiencies
in the construction of the roads (e.g. insufficient fines in the aggregate) and that the most
important problem of unpaved roads in Tunisia was the implicit belief that only a paved surface
made a real "road'. The lack of adequate maintenance was identified as a problem of equal
imporance, pardy related to the derogatory view of unpaved roads. The study recommended
observation of tighter technical standards for construction of rural roads and rationalizaon of
maintenance by concentrating authonty in the govemors and by setting up dedicated budgets,
personnel and equipment for maintenance of unpaved roads. The Bank's file does not indicate
how the study's recommendations were followed up.
Consulting Services - DGPC: Preparatory Study for Next Phase of Rural Road
Improvement
5.26        A Bank mission in late 1988 prepared draft terms of reference for this study for
consideraion by the Govemment; this was originally scheduled for the latter part of 1982, and
by the end of 1989, proposals had been received and evaluated. A British consultant was given
the highest evaluation to which the Bank agreed. However, the Central Tendering Board
decided on cost grounds to give the contract to another bidder. The Bank disagreed, refused
financing under the loan and proposed a rebid (para. 9.03). A high level Bankl mission, a year
later, which was to resolve a number of procurement issues in Tunisia resulted in an agreement
to rebid this work on a modified basis and to finance it under the Sixth Highway loan because
insufficient time remained before the Fifth Highway loan would be closed. In addition to this
principal study for additional rural road improvements, two smaller studies covering about 600
km of rural roads for inclusion in the next rural roads project (the proposed Seventh Highway
Project) had been contacted in 1984 and were financed under the Fifth Highway Project.
Consulting Services - DGPC: Preparation of a Program of Road Rehabilitation
5.27        The study of a program to rehabilitate classified roads was financed under the
Fourth Highway Project and the Fifth only financed the preparation of bidding documents for
312 km of road rehabilitation works.



- 18 -
Consulting Services - MA: Preparation of DetaUed Extension Programs and Credit Need
Projections
5.28        Though this work is described under Agricultural Extension in the Description of
the Project Part B of the LA, it is not included under Part H, Technical Assistance and
Fellowships. However, the Technical Assistance Implementation Schedule envisioned two
separate consultancies for the second and third groups that were to be executed in 1982 and
1983; the record does not indicate how the first group was to be covered. In any event, one
consultancy was arranged in late 1985 with a Tunisian firm (one of the group which had done
the feasibility studies) to study the zones of influence of roads in all three groups. Most of the
consultant's reports, which resulted from this work, are only available in the files of the MA.
It also seems that the 'systematic agricultural surveys of aU farmers served by the project roads"
(para. 3 of Annex 6 of SAR), which were to serve as baseline data for preparation of action
plans, were not carried out. The consultants thus did not have some of the material that was
to underlie their work.
Consulting Services - MA: Training of Extension Agents
5.29        This activity was scheduled to occur over four years (1983-1986). It was
implemented through a contract made with a Tunisian individual in June 1983. The contract
covered 25 one week courses (five series of five one week courses) in communication techniques
for 87 extension agents extending over 14 months. The quality of this training was reported to
have been very effective.
Fellowships
5.30        Part H (2) of the Description of the Project of the LA provided for short training
missions overseas for staff of DGPC and MA. The file indicates that three such missions were
arranged through French entities for visits to France for 25 agricultual engineers of the
Direction de la Production Vegetale (DPV). No other activity of this type was carried out under
the Project.
VI. MAJOR PROJECT RESULTS
Achievement of Project Objectives
6.01        The Project objectives as stated in para. 3.02 of the SAR referred to the specific
rural roads to be covered by the Project and their zones of influence, to the organization
responsible for maintenance of these rural roads, to the institutional framework and process for
improving Tunisia's rural roads and to Tunisia's highway safety program. About 1,200 km of
rural roads were to be improved to "minimum all weather"  standard, and agricultural
production and living standards, including access to social services, in the roads' zones of
influence were to be increased. About 1,186 km of construction have been completed. Whether
the levels of service currently provided by the roads remain at the standard achieved after



- 19-
improvement is uncetain, but the lack of a systematic approach to routine and periodic
maintenance suggests that this is unlikely. On the other hand, many roads received additional
improvements such as pavement strengthening (widenng and/or overlaying), or a double
bituminous surface treatment. These additions were made primarily on the basis of traffic and
are shown in Table B. While some of these improvements were made under the Project, others
were not. Accordingly, there is no comprehensive record of the capital expenditures that were
necessary to bring each road to its present condition. Similarly, there is no overal accounting
of what occurred in the roads' zones of influence. Some impact studies were carried out on
selected roads in 1986 (published in 1987) and others are curren*ly under way (Table Q-1: List
of Roads in lmpact Surveys). The data on the roads of the 1987 study are summarzed in
Table Q-2: Slected Data cn the Sample of Roads Before the Project (1988, 1979 or 1980)
and After the Project (1985 or 1986). Additional data from the impact study currently under
way are smmanzed in Table Q-3: Selected Data on a Sample of Roads Before the Project
(1978, 1979 or 1980) and After the Project (1992). The 1987 study suggests that agricultural
production rose in aU areas but the increase was very modest in 25% of the sample. However,
as the period studied was from several years before the improvement, which obviously is too
long, to only one or two years hrefter, which is too short, the fuU impact on improving
agricultural output could not be captured.
6.02        The Project included a study of rurl road construction and maintenance
techniques for Tunisia, which made concrete recommendations for improvement of rural roads
maintenance organizaions. The file does not indicate any specific follow-up on this study.
Beyond this study and a covenant to maintain 'improved' rural roads (Section 4.04 of LA), the
Project contributed little to help improve rual road maintenance. The SAR did set out cetain
budgetary targets for road maintenance on a 10,000 km road network, and maintenance budgets
did increase. However, it is difficult to establish how much was actually spent on nural road
maintenance, in particular routine maintenance, especialy since maintenance funds are fungible
between categories of roads. Moreover, the Project did not include any rvision of the structure
of the maintenance system which remained essentially unchanged and many works continued to
be more in the nature of emergency repairs rather than scheduled interventions.
6.03        Thc Project was based on an elaborate procedure designed to integrate
improvements to rural roads with their related agriculture. It began with a selection process
including feasibility studies, proceeded to design studies and concluded with the procurement of
the construction of all roads in a particular governorate together in a single contract
Concurrendy, the Project envisioned a system for stimuating increased agricultural production
through ancillary public works, intensified extension, and guaranteed access to credit. The
whole procedure was to be subject to comprehensive monitoring and evaluation. Some of the
procedure was a repetition of what was done in an earlier Bank project (preliminar studies and
road construction). However, the part of the procedure related to agricultural support was only
pardy implemented and cannot be consdered to have been firmly insttutonalized. The special
support provided by several Tunisian officials in the Third Highway Project did not continue
when they were transferred to other duties. The Project thus only pardy met its objective of
improving the institutional framework for rural roads.



- 20-
6.04        The Project was to contribute to a comprehensive road safety program that was
being developed under the Fourth Highway Project. The Project did result in a supervision
mission visit to Tunisia of a Bank highway safety expert in 1984 who formulated a pilot highway
safety program for consideration by the Government. The file does not indicate what the expert
recommended nor the impact of his work. However, the Government's vehicle testing program
has continued to expand gradually so that by the end of the eighth plan (1996), there will be 23
stations in operation. The loan provided financing of equipment for six stations whose existing
stock had become worn out. The acquisition of vehicle testing equipment did help to evidence
the Bank's continued concern about road safety in Tunisia but the discussions related thereto
seemed to have had limited impact on the Govemment's policy or programs regarding the issue.
Moreover, more recent developments indicate that other types of interventions may have a
greater impact on safety than vehicle testing.
Adhievement of Physical Targets
6.05        Physical targets of the most important elements of the Project were mostly met
or even exceeded. Rural road improvements, while slightly under the 1,200 km target, in many
cases involved more extensive and costlier works thanorginally foreseen. The number of CTVs
built also matched the 55 units planned. Several other Project elements, which had not been
specified in physical terms but only in monetary amounts, had significant shortfalls in monetary
terms; namely, spot improvements to feeder roads, purchases of vehicles, and minor irrigation
works. The impact of these short falls on the Project cannot be determined. However, for
vehicle inspection equipment, expenditure was nearly twice the target. Technical assistance
expenditure also was below planned fnancial targets (one half if measured in DT or two thirds
if measured in US$), indicating that much of it simply was not carried out. The consultancies
on spot improvements, on auditing and monitoring were not implemented at all. The
consultancies on the next phase of rural roads improvement and on road rehabilitation were
financed under the Sixth and Fourth Highway Projects respectively. The consultancies on impact
evaluation and for detailed agricultural extension programs were carried out only in part. The
implementation of consultancies would perhaps have been greater if detailed (not merely
outlined) terms of reference had been prepared for them at appraisal. However, the mair. reason
for the non-execution or partial execution of consultancies was that the Governmtent did not view
them as necessary or helpful and the Bank acquiesced in the Government's not pursuing these
components of the Project. The record on Pioject implementation provides evidence that Project
components that had been planned in detail at appraisal, particularly to the point of physical
specification, were much more likely to be camed out than those that were subject to a general
description only.
Project Costs
6.06        Project accounts were kept in DT, the currency in which procurement
overwhelmingly took place. Accordingly, Table F shows cumulative costs in current dinars
converted into US$ equivalent at the average rate of exchange over the course of Project
implementation. In the absence of complete data on agricultural credits, Project costs are shown
without an estimate of such costs ($64 million equivalent). The corresponding totals at appraisal



- 21 -
were $105 (with agricutural credits) and $91 (without) million equivalent. If costs are shown
in this manner, the Project is seen to have cost substantially less than projected, primaily
because rura road works, which were about 70% of the costs, were incurred in dinars, which
lost value in terms of US dollars over the past decade. In addition, the fact that several
components of the Project were not fully implemented also contributed to reduce costs.
Comprehensive information on the foreign exchange content of the Project were not available
as the authorities were not able to quandfy them.
6.07        While project costs were incurred over 10 years, other costs were concentated
between 1984 to 1986; they fell precipitously in 1987 due to the financial problems of two
contractors. If the expenditures for rural road works are expressed in constant 1982 dinars
(using the consumer price index through early 1992), they would amount to DT 32.7 million,
about 11% over the appraisal estimate of DT 29.4 million, including the 10% physical
contingency. A similar comparison of CIV construction costs indicates that they cost only 3%
more than projected, DT 1.23 million, as against the appraisal estimate of DT 1.20 million.
These buildings were substantially executed as designed. For other components of the Project,
comparison of the overall projected and final costs is not meaningful because these components
were not carried out as projected.
6.08        Large numbers of similar units of work were procured under both rural road
improvements and CTV construction. The average cost per km of improvements is roughly DT
30,000 (m 1982 Dinars) or DT 60,000 (in 1992 Dinars) or $65,200 and $64,500 respectively.
An examination of per kn improvement costs of individual roads shows considerable variations.
These variations reflect differences in the nature of the improvements, construction conditions
and the value of the dinar and certain construction materials. The average cost of a CrV was
DT 16,600 (in 1982 Dinars) or DT 33,000 (in 1992 Dinars) or $36,100 and $35,500
respectively. If the costs of CTVs built at roughly the same time are compared, they are very
similar. Also, CTVs built in the early years cost close to the indicated estimates while
discrepancies between projected and realized costs occurred in later years, which suggests that
the original esfimates were used unchanged throughout.
6.09        Table E compares actual with projected disbursements. The relative delays in
physical execution are mirored in the rates of disbursement, with road improvement
disbursements reaching about 70% of their ultimate projected level (including distributed
contingencies) by the beginning of 1988 while all other categories trailed behind. In the end,
road improvements were within 3% of projections, while all other elements fell significantly
below that level with the exception of fellowships, which were as foreseen, and vehicle
inspeion equipment, which absorbed roughly double the amount of loan funds originally
allocated (Table R: Evolution of Disbursements by Category). The actual rate of
disbursement exceeded by about two years the typical Tunisia disbursement profile (Table E).
Economic Evaluation
6.10        The economic evaluation at appraisal concentrated on the roads and related
agricultural activities, which were treatd together as one single economic activity. (rhe SAR



- 22 -
had not quantfied the vehicle safety equipment component). The analysis sought to segregate
traffic on the project roads into passenger, non-agrcultural commodity, and agriculturAl
commodity traffic. Also, tfie analysis sought to establish two types of benefits: (i) traffic
benefits based on improved vehicle operating costs for passenger and non-icultural commodity
flows and (ii) agricultural benefits based on the net value of increments in agricultural production
in the roads' zones of influence, which would include the traffic benefits for agricultural
commodity traffic. These benefits were then compared with costs to obtain an ERR. For
purposes of the analysis, the following costs were considered:
-     the rural road improvement construction costs (but not the cost of spot
improvements on roads feeding into project roads, nor the cost of related studies,
supervision and overseas visits);
-     cost of acquisition of CrV buildings, equipment and vehicles (but not the cost of
related studies, traimng and overseas visits);
-     cost of on-farm investments, except seasonal inputs covered in farm budgets (but
not the cost of minor rumal works such as irrigation);
-     cost of routine and periodic road maintenance; and
-     cost of farm operations.
The SAR does not explain the rattonale behind the inclusion of some costs and
the exclusion of others. All benefits and costs were projected for a period of 21 years.
6.11        The SAR economic evaluation was based on data from the 1980 study. A
swrmmary of this data for the 33 roads in the first group is shown in Table 2 of Annex  of the
SAR. Similar summaries, also based on the 1980 study, for the second and third groups of roads
were not found in the Bank's files. Table S: Rural Road Inprovements and Related
Parameters for Economic Evaluation provides some of this base data as well as the
corresponding information for the present, to the extent it is available.
6.12        The original evaluation had many complexities both in concept and execution.
It sought to segregate agricultural impacts within a particular perimeter and to separate the
prmary impacts of agricultl activities on tnort (through transport of inputs and products)
from their secondary (income) effects. Most frequently road construction costs and traffic
benefits were not lined to agricultural investment costs and incremental agricultural added
value. Sometimes, traffic benefits caried the road investment and sometimes agricultural
benefits provided the bulk of the benefits, though in most cases road investments substantially
exceeded agricultural investments.  While all these vaniations were within the range of
possibility, they showed tat each case was sui gneris and that special plans would have to be
prepared for each case, something which was never done.



- 23 -
6.13        The data requrements also were immense. Existng as well as future traffic
projections of freight traffic needed to be segrated by load type excluding generated non-
agrcultural freight taffic. Passenger traffic had to be projected, though again excluding
generated traffic. Maintenance (routine and perodic) had to be established for each road and
corresponding sevice levels would need to be estimated, including the costs of capacity
expanding investments to maintain these service levels. Crpping patterns needed to be
developed, costs (both on and off-farm), harvests and prices needed to be projected for
individual crops, and investments (oth on and off-farm) needed to be determined. All these
proections were required to be made over two decades. Even if the monitoring system had been
established as intended, the replication of this data on an apost basis would have been very
difficult; the absence of monitoring systems made the task impossible. Accordingly, it was
agreed some years ago that the impact evaluations would be limited to samples, but this work
has only been implemented recently in connection with preparation for the proposed Seventh
Highway Project. Although some data has been collected, which provided the basis for Table
S, further data and calculated results, with ERRs, were not available at the time the present
report was finalized.
6.14        These experiences have raised the issue of whether the existing system for
selection and evaluation of rural roads is the most suitable one that could be devised. It was
developed dunng a period when the country had a substantially lower per capita income and was
substantially less urban. In the Northern and Easten parts of the country where most of the
people live and where most of the roads under the Project were built, rura life is becoming
more closely linked to the city and the role of agriculture is changing, becoming for many a
secondary occupation. This suggests that the planning of rural roads may need to be based
more on traffic and broader social, regional, economic land planning and transport system
considerations, and less on agricultural production, at least in those areas of the country where
urban influences are strongly felt.
6.15        Table S shows that most roads under the Project had a significant traffic increase
which should by itself be sufficient to justify the improvements made. However, it would be
difficult to quantify this point in the absence of reliable data on the condition of the road before
improvement, over the intervening years and today and on the amounts spent for the road over
the past ten years. Also, tffic performance may reflect not so much conditions of the
individual roads but the rise in the general prosperity of Tunisia and the accompanying increase
in motorization.
6.16        Table S as well as Tables Q-1 and Q-2 give some indication on the evolution of
agriculture in the roads' zones of influence. These suggest significant increases. However the
aggregate increases are not of the order of magnitude indicated at appraisal (on a discounted
basis, group one roads at appraisal showed agricultural benefits equal to 2.4 times traffic
benefits). The causal link between the road improvements and the agricultural upswing is
difficult to establish. The increase in production did not follow directly upon ihe improvement
of the roads because of the tee year drought of 1986-1988. In the early years after the roads
were improved, extension services were hampered by the fact that they were scattered among
several administrative organizations but they have recently been combined in one agency, which



- 24 -
opetes under unified programs. The CIVs are managed by agricultural engiees, assisted by
agriculturlist and extension agents together with the chiefs of the suborinate extension units
attached to the CIVs. The estabLishment of the CTVs and the improvement of the roads has
led to improved technical servces to the farmers and more frequent extension contacts. The
constuction of the CIVs permitted the improvement of extension services and of the
adminitrative strucue of the agency which provided them. As rgards the prvision of
agriculural credit and its contribution to the growth of agnculture in the zones of influence, it
was impossible to obtain complete information on the credit activities of BNT, the Government
and the farmers. On the basis of a sample study of the credits provided by BNT in some of the
zones of influence, it can be inferred that the provision of credit by BNT was adequate.
However, the drought has seriously impacted the operations of BNT because of the farmers'
inability to repay their loans and the consequent unwillingness of BNT to provide them more
credit.
Envonmental Impat
6.17        The environmental impacts of the Project would encompass not only the roads but
related agricultural acivities. The road works were carnied out largely on existing ahgnments
and therefore, had limited impact on soil erosion, slope stability or water flows. The
agricutral activities probably had more significant ecological repercussions, especially when
there was expansion of irrigation perimeters and greater use of ferlize  and pesticides with
crop inmensification.
VII. PROJECT SUSTAINABIL1TY
7.01         he issue of sus_ nability is aised in two ways in this Project: the sustainability
of the prcedum for selection and execution of ruml road improvement works with the attendant
support activities and the sustainability of benefits generated by the road improvements. The
seon, design and construction procedure for road improvements have become formalized and
repeated in two project cycles (the Third and Fifth Highway Projects). They require large
amounts of consuting assistance and so far have been assoiated with large infusions of extnal
finance. The willin     and financial capacity of the Tunisian authorities to maintain these
programs on their own remains to be demonstrated. Indeed, the analysis procedures and the
model are very complex and may not be fully understood. The Government, however, wishes
to continue these procedures and has not so far been interested in the Bank's simplified
apprach.  The sustinability of road improvement benefits dqpends on adequate road
maintenance and  estblishment of the necessary organization to achieve this.  While
maintenance budgets have been increasing, the organizational strcture for rural road
maintenance remains unchanged and does not provide systematic maintenance services.



- 25 -
VIII. BANK'S PERFORMANCE
8.01        The Bank made a major effort to resolve the difficulties of an inherently complex
project. Missions and staff inputs which supported tis effort in substantial measures are
mmard in Tables T: MiNions and U: Staff Inputs.  The Project involved close
collaboration of several administrative structures both on the side of the Goverment and the
Bank. Prtect design sought to identify and address potential problems in detail (by the use of
coordinating bodies, action plans, annual programs and other measures) and to assess risks
realistically. Faced with the possibility that difficulties in the execution of the agricultural
support activities of the Third Highway Project would apply to the next project as well, the
Project designers wanted to abandon the integrated approach and concentrate o,. r% d
improvements but were persuaded otherwise by the Government and by more optimistic reports
firom some Bank staff.
8.02        However, in the execution of the Project the Bank did not commit resources
commensurate to the complexities of Project design and particularly of its agricultural
components. Out of 28 supevision missions, only six were by or included agricultural
specalists. After an inital mission within six months of loan approval, intervals between visits
by agricultural specialists became lengthier, with a two and a half year gap from early 1985 and
no visits at all after early 1988. As a result, failures in monitoring and in follow up went
unobserved and unremedied.
8.03        Faced with the limitaion of resources, the Bank appropriately concentrated on the
Project's largest and most manageable component, which was completed close to its physical
targets and its time table. The Project continued the contracting system of the Third Highway
Project whereby works are grouped in lots covering several roads in a governorate but the lots
were considerably higher in value approaching an average of $3 million each. The experience
of this contactg system appears to have been administratively convenient by consolidating a
number of smaller scattered works. This system may have application elsewhere and should be
examined in detail. Even though the rual roads themselves became the primary focus of Bank
concem, the Bank did not expend much effort to draw attention to the fact that maintenance of
these roads was insufficient or to devise means to overcome the problem.
8.04        Beside the undue complexities of the Project (further exacerbated by the highway
safety component which involved a third ministry), the Project had other design weakness:
(a)   The attempt to mix into a single project the construction of rural roads by one
Ministry with the intensive development of agnculture in the adjoining areas by
another Ministry presents inherent difficulties of administrative incongruities and
programmiatc clashes. Both organizations are structured appropriately for
efficient delivery of ffeir respective services and programs, but have difficulty
separating out small sections of road and agricultural areas for special attention.
Moreover, these sections may not correspond with the highest priorities in their
respective road or agricultural systems. A method to combine efficiently rural
roads and rural development is desirable. Such a combined approach was



- 26 -
regrded by the Government as havig been effective in the Third Highway
Project though only a smaU part of the parallel investments were actually made
there (Project Completion Report, Third Highway Project, Report no. 7182 of
April 11, 1988).
(b)   The Bank also should ensure that its projects are based on a sense of ownership
by the relevant agencies of the Government so that the projects do not languish
of effective bureaucratic support. Such support is reported to have been actively
provided in the Third Highway Project but, with personnel changes, was not
maintained in the Fifth Project.
(c)   the selection of the initial array of roads for feasibility study from the universe
of Tunisia's rural roads was made on the basis of an administative process and
without the availability of a road inventory. Under these circumstances priorities,
interdependencies and linkages are difficult to establish and a road's economic
functioning may be unclear. Several roads turned out te '-- near urban areas and
an agricultural methodology may therefore have been inapropriate for them.
(d)   The role of rural roads in an increasingly wealthy and urban economy like
Tunisia cannot be properly defined m terms of surrounding agricultural activities
om;y. Increasingly, rural inhabitants have off-farm employment and resort to
agriculture only as a secondary source of income or as a social safety net. The
analysis of rual roads needs to account for this new dimension and needs to
concern itself with such issues as traffic hierarchies, regional and land planning,
installation of public udlities, provision of social services, the structure of
transport system, the control of urban sprawl and the protection of ecosystems.
The use of agriculture as the primary factor of analysis in rural road projects
should be limited to cases where this is the appropriate context.
(e) The Project sought to use agricultural extension and credit as the major
instruments to promote agricultura development in the roads' zones of influence.
However, Tunisia's extension system was reported to be seriously flawed. With
various project and commodity organizations having introduced their own semi-
autonomous extension systems for individual crops or regions, Tunisia was said
(in December 1984) to have no effective national extension service. Extension
agents were said to be preoccupied with administration and other non-extension
work during up to 70% of teir time and farmers were being advised by seveal
agents, depending on the subject. Demonstration plots were said to be too large
and too few in number. The agents reportedly lacked transport and their link to
research was weak. Information on credit needs and supply, which the agents
were to use, was not being collected but, according to a 1987 report, lack of
credit appeared not to be a constraint. This "classical type" of extension was
thought by some observers to be less effective than the rural development model
where the farm is studied as a whole, not by crop or problem. Bank staff thus
had misgivings about the extension effort applied in this Project and was divided



- 27 -
on what would be better. In this sense the Project provided a poor test of the
hypothesis that extension could help in conjunction with a better road to stimulate
agricultural output.
IX. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
9.01        While the Borrower insisted that the Project be designed on an integrated
road/agriculture basis, it did not pursue the agricultural components vigorously and from the
begnning, failed to carry out the procedures set out therefore in the loan documents. Perhaps
the absence of action plans and other planning documents made no difference to agriculual
growth but without these actions the Project could hardly have served as a fair test for the
k pothesis connecting increased agricutural production with deliberate promotional activities.
9.02        The Project design placed significant responsibility in the Project Coordination
Committee (a simrla committee already was operating under the Third Highway Project) whose
investiture with responsibilty for coordinating the Fifth Highway Project was a condition to the
ffecidveness of the LA. However, the influence of this Committee on Project execution appears
to have been limited pary because the Committee suspended its meetings for a consieable
length of time. However, even when it met, the Committee was unable to overcome the
shortcomings of its constituent agencies, especially the Ministry of Agiculture. The monetary
and institutional stakes of this Ministry in the Project were a small fraction of those of DGPC.
Moreover, its administrative organization did not confonn to the zones of influence associated
with each road and, by offering special savices for the farmers in those zones, the agricultural
staff was required to supermpose seemingly arbity dividing lines on top of the extg
spheres of responsibility.
9.03        By and large procurement of goods and seices and execution of worls went
without complaints from suppliers. The Bank did refuse to finance one consultancy under the
loan because it considered that its guidelines had not been followed (para. 5.26). A number of
Project components (e.g. feeder road spot imprvements) were not fully executed.
9.04        The road safety component, which was under the jurisdiction of MMC, suffered
major delays and restructuring. One reason for this was that this component had not been
designed when the loan was made and more than six years elpsed before the Govemment, after
considering several alternatives in succession, was able to fix on plans for this component.
9.05        The performceof the Government regarding rura road maintenance is variously
reported. There are credible indications that maintenance was deficient. However, the Project
made limited provision for rural road maintenance other than budgetary projections in the SAR
for maintenance of 10,000 km of roads; also the Project contained a covenant that all rural roads
under the Project and "all other improved rural roads offering an appopriate level of service"
should be adequately maintained. The Project did not address the institutional issue of how the
various echelons of Tunisia's road administration should accommodate the maintenance of



- 28 -
scattred road sections, some as short as seven kIn, in their general road maintenance systems.
The task described in the covenant thus may have been difficult to fulfill.
9.06        The Borrower's performance with regard to the LA is summarized in Table H.
There were significant shortfaLs in comphance by the Borrower with LA provisions. In addition
to the points referred to above, the Borrower in all cases but one was late in submitting audit
reports. However, land acquisition was never reported to cause a problem.
X. RELATIONS BETWEEN THE BANK AND THE BORROWER
10.01       Relations between the Bank and the Tunisian authorities were friendly and
cooperative throughout. Two serious issues between the parties occurred in the preparatory
stages of the Project regarding the integrated design of the Project and the possibility of co-
financing. The Government in both instances was able to persuade the Bank to its point of view.
The disagreement on proement of certain consulting work, which involved Tunisia's Central
Tendering Board, was resolved in the context of a Bank mission to Tunisia concerned with a
number of procurement issues.
XI. CONSULTANT SERVICES
11.01       The Project provided for a large amount of consulting services (324 staff -month
or somewhat under $3 million equivalent excluding escalation). The actual amount spent for this
purpose under the Project and financed from the loan was under $1 million equivalent due to the
fact that many of the consultancies were not implemented. Consultants played a major role in
the selection and design of ral road improvements. They took no part in supervision of the
Project and this separation of the designers from any responsibility for execution may have had
impacts also on the quality of the design as well as on the control of the works. The role of
consultants in the design and execution of lesser works (CTVs, spot improvements on rural roads
and lesser rural works) was limited. The designs and studies that were needed for this purpose
were prepared by local officials of the MA.
11.02       Consultant services for this Project, except for tra     work and study missions
abroad, were provided by sub-assemblages from the joint-venture of French and Tunisians firms
that had made the original feasibility studies of 1980. This arrangement fostered a unified
approach to the work, may have helped in coordination of the participating agencies of the
Government of Tunisia and could have helped to reduce costs. However, it probably also made
it difficult for other firms to compete and may have precluded the infusion of divergent views.
11.03       Bank review of the work of the consultants was generally not intensive. As the
consultants had become familiar with the rural roads of Tunisia because of their long work as
a group on these problems, the Bank's degree of supervision may have been appropriate.
However, closer supervision of the work of the consultants concerned with agriculture would
have been helpful.



- 29 -
XI. PROJECr DOCU?MEATION AND DATA
12.01      The SAR contained much detailed information on individual Proect components
and this infomaton was extensively supplemented by material in the Project File. However,
the usefulness of this documentaion was Imited as the Project proceeded from very early on
without reference to this mateial (for example, the action plans and implemenation schedules).
12.02       The requirements for documentaion regarding farm budgets and credit needs wer
very demanding. This may have been one cause why the provision of credit was never
monitored in accordance with Project specifcations because the agricultural investments and the
related records were made for the administive units of MA as a whole rather han for the
zones of influence.
12.03             Data for preparation of the PCR were lacking in significant respects. The
Borrower's PCR was not available at the time specified and, although the Bornower collaborated
in the draRfing of this report, it did Pot produce economic data. On the basis of the Bank's file
there was considerable uncainty as to which Project components had been financed under the
loan or included in the Project, as to the course of the Borrower's expenditures for individual
components and as to the progress of their physical execution (pars. 5.07).
12.04      A more detailed and systematic reporting keyed to the implementation program
envisioned in the SAR and to the principal objectives of the Project would have been desirable.
With the addition of information developed for this Project Completon Report, considerable data
is now available about the Project and its impact on the nrul economy.



REI!WLIC OF TUNISIA
FIf SHIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
(LOAN 2108-TUN)
PROJECT COSCLETION REPORT
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1.1         The Government's view of the Project is contained in the Project Completion
Report (PCR) it submitted in late June 1993 (Republique de Tunisie, Ministbre de l'Equipement
et de l'Habitat, Direction G6n4rae des Ponts et Chaussdes; Rapport d'Achevement Cinqui2me
Projet Roudter Routes Rurales - PMt 2108 Tun). This report is based on the draft prepared by
the Bank, discussed and amended extensively during a Bank mission to Tunisia in April/May
1993. The Government's report is basically very similar to the current Parts I and II of the
present PCR with some changes in emphasis and detail. It is available in the Project files.
1.2         The Govemment's report concurs with Parts I and II that the physical objectives
of the most important Project elements were attained and that achievement of Project elements
that were spelled out in detail at appraisal was generally better than the Project elements that
were descibed only in general terms. The Govemment's report also agrees that there were
serious problems of nt inisa coordination, though the Government's report notes that
coordination of many Project activities took place at the provincial level.
i.3         The main difference between the two documents can be summarized as follows:
The Government's views on regulation of road transport and on pnce
control in transport varies from the Bank's point of view;
rThe Govemment's PCR mentions the existence of EERs for the second
and third groups of roads; and
The Governmet's PCR does not mention the absence of information in
the files about roads -'d related elements.
1.4         The Government's PCR notes several facts concerning the history of the Project
that the Bank's PCR does not mention, but which provides additional useful insights into the
process of Project execution:
There were no foreign construction contractors in this Project except one
Hungarian (previously mentioned) and one Chinese (not yet referred to);
Procurement of vehicles was limited by Government-wide restrictions on
vehicle imports;



- 31 -
Training visits for agricultural experts were made not only to France
(already mentioned) but also to Australia (not yet indicated); and
The third group of roads was not prepared by the original consult^iits but
by another firm.



}REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
(LOAN 2108-TUN)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PART 111: STATISTICAL INFORMATION



Table A: Related UDA Credits and Bank Loans
Loan Number                                                                          FY of
and Title                                         Purpose                          Approval                Status
Loon 746-TUN              Improvemet and construction of about 275 km of primary and  1971    Completed; PPAR no. 2732
First Highway Project    secondary roads; reconstruction and rehabilitation of 51 bridges     12/79
and culverts; resurfacing and rehabilitation of 1920 kn of paved
roads; reorganization and strengthening of highway maintenance
operations; improvement of arrangements for transport
coordination; study of road user taxation and road tanff
rens.                                                                                               I
Loan 1188-TUN             Improvement of 225 km of primary and secondary roads updating  1976    Completed; PCR no. 5647
Second Highway Project    1968 Transport Survey; preparation of rual roads program.           5185
Loan 1601-TUN             Improvement of about 1,000 km of mrul oads and              1978    Completed; PPAR no. 7182
Third Highway (Rural      complimnentary agricultual investments; purdas of road              4/88                               t 
Roads) Project            maintenance eqiipinelt, spwes and tools, studies of about 2,000
|_________________ _ _ km  of additional selected rural roads. 
Loan 1841-TUN             Rehabilitation of about 800 km of eaved roads; first three years  1980    Completed; PCR no. 8648
Fourth Highway Project    of six year ma_itenance program including acquisition of            5/90
equipment and materials; studies and training; materials testig
and trffic counting equipment; studies and entgineenng of about
1000 km of rural roads.
Loan 2896-TUN             Upgrading of maintenance management and rehabilitation of 800  1988    Ongoing
Highway Maintenance and    km of priority roads, five year program of routine and periodic
Rehabilitation Project    maintenance; workshop construction; acquisition of road
maintenance, workshop and laboratory equipment; rehabilitation
of 800 km of roads; preparation and implementation of the five
year training plan; studies related to the foregoing.
Souc: Bank Files



- 34 -
Table B-1: Ruml Roads Improvemente as                                          Page I of 3
Proposed at Apprasa (A) and as Fnmay Executed ()
La"gth       Iment ttLvelI        Vlidth        Cot   (00.0 D    Coot Km(Dl)
_-Ferm oraSeon    Pawed_
Aoe NumblermNe                   . Lots     A      E       A      E        (im)      (ine     A      E       A      E
swtans
204 U047-oEt, d'A210             2A       13,0  16.47     M4      M4          6        5    360          2S823
205 MC 171P-24                   2A        8.8   8,40     N3      N3          6              161   1240  17566  40 12
20S RVSE234tfaia                 28        7,0   el89    N44      N4                   6    160          22657
2658 SdI Ibu Routs-GPO          2WA       2S,3  19.70     N4      N4          6        6    669    818  22490 41 623
707 Noame                        JA        6,2   7,44     NS      N3          S        6    146 26X630  17605  35783
708 Awlsnne CP3                  JA        0.5   6.06     Ns      Ns          7        a    103  171.60  16*46  28364
09 Otrult easa                    A        7.0  S6S1      NO      NS          7              100 162.0  14 266 28 060
710 CirtultToasur                TA        6,6  6590      NO      N3                   5    126  174,97  18024 28665
711 t  ed-Noua                   7A       10.3   7,08     N3      NO          7        6    193 26620  1S736  37560
S07 M9aeth - Osl                 SC        8,0   723      N2      N2          5        S   114.0   75,7  14260  10470
608 mUe-Sra-.Zat                 8C        6.7   6.37     N2      M4          6        6   1S0,2  110,3  21 66   13176
609 KettanaZIg Beranla           SC        6,4   5,12     N5!     N2          5        5   61,2   44,8  1507   6 770
901 bus M'Khfl                   OA       13,0   12,2    NO       N3          a              246         16823
802 Sidi Abd _bset               OA       16,2   12       NS      Ns          6        S    290          22 s76
S03 Eob                          OA        6,0    5.9     N3      NO          6              133   2386  22167  39417
SOSAeKd Crab                     9A        9,7    9.6     N4      N4          a        5      486 36876
807 KetMeaUar                     GA      20.1   19,6    N4       M4          6              750         37313
1602 Berbla-Touam-    Naa         15t      16.1   10.o    N3      NO          6              270          10 917
1503 Ucn-8t HUMsen                15B      12,6   12,e    Y3      NO       6to6              196  802s  16 476  24 729
1508 Sau OthA-Menrme Kwnel        16A      21,2   20,5      4     N4 M        toe    61t06    728  804,6  34s40 40996
15I06 Dou Othnm-Zaut Kontc    1%0           6.0    7,9     Ns     NO          5              128          16000
1602 Bounwrde-SiJem               IOA      15.3  17,82     N4     N4          a         a    7 9641,02 42022 35072
1651 SOU498eura                   ISA      26,   24,94     NS     Me          9         6    408 46E,83  16003 16401
1652 Swas i-Wd1 Bouhble           ISA      10,0  10,04     N3     M4          9         6    171 246,36  17180  24737
1701 DIsbnana-Ageng               17A      16.2  15,38     M4     N3          a         5    1S9    926 13002
1702 El Amm-easg                  17A      11.6  11,36     N4     Ne4         6              064    4e00  ooo
1703 TanikraBuJabOe               17A      12,2  11.98     Me     H4          6       6,2   309    616 27767 34037
1704 SldlAbdeke                   ITA      11,7  11,27     Ns     NO          6              22S   S36  19060
1751 Ould Ah:ned-Cogran           17A      11,0  10,75     NO     NO          6         5    180    363  17273
1501 OugtlhbG                     ISA      S,70   S,40     N3     NO                    6    126 224eo  14108 25600
1802 MaunseSdl Chanwkh            18A     11,60  11,S0     NO     NO                    6    144 350,47  12t22 31 256
1603  dbts-HasJ8etb               16A       ,46    9.45    NO     NO                    0    216 309,50  22867 32751
1604 Moueae- Kantra               ISA     11,S0   11,0     NO     NO                    6    216 2S4,s4  18 05 24s70
1605 KhUEl-Oubbigla               1SA     11,57  11,57     NO     NO                    6    160  269,57  14143 26028
8IToTAL-16sTRANCHE                   -      408 367.40   -.       -                   -      833  12348  21804  61876



- 35 -
Table B-2: Rural Roads Impements as                                             Page 2 of 3
Proposed at Appraisal (A) and as Finally Executed (E)
_        Len __            ___l      4d8th           cost p0.0 01)       Cats KmoD t
*~~~~~rati Pavd _-@
PA" RtUW& _ftwf                     Lts   A   E   A   E                    )    (m)   A    E                  A         E
Kef
151 ElKseur4eto                       IC   27.2  28.      N3    N4           9        6   640    2174.4   1t85       81134
162 Dr Esnabe-Tl El oztoane          1D   263   26.9    N3    14            0        6   448                ?. 708
153 Aln El Kami                       10D  11,2  12,4    NS3      3         s Unpave    136    2053,1    12321    63736
W0S 014l Keabeu.6                     3C    7.0   7,0    NS    N4                   6.5   104   24s.739    14 164    34620
012 C4u YAusef                        SC    6.6    6s6   N3    N4                   6,6   130   172,265    19118    25332
613 &ragChuba                         30    S,t  -e,1   144   144            9            203   214,25    26062    28414
3 Hlaldh                              3C    0.3   0,      N4    N4           O             278   420,2sc   29892    46193
Ot1A IWE 04-UenzalTomlm  Aamour    SD   10.8   1,7    Ni    NIS                     6.    401      6S6,1   37830    39748
BlSb FME 604                          30    4.   8m51    14    44                   6.6   164      141,7   328N3    40370
OlSoO GMhIahaU-Oa Albch               SD    4.8  4,41    N       N4                 64.   144       200    32000    45851
818 TuOatwa                           3D    e,s   7.2    NB    N4                   8.6   110      240.4   174e0    83 31
s18 Der Chbhou PE GM Mad              SD    9.1  S.4    NS   tN4                    C.    101      221.4   11000    26046
Uss Lodino                            sO   10.  s,77    N3    N4                   5,6   141      23,88    13 8s6    2423
Kabw=u
410 GP 2 Oaoba AlaA  mtsth            4A   20.0  20.0    e3   N4                      6   263       781    12 60    39060
454 A      Ra-SzaOuedKcukl            4A   27.0  27,0    NB    N3                     6   639       855    13983    81 667
608 RmihsThala                        60   43.6  43.6    Nt   N4                      6  1486      2110    34083    48534
8kt Bouaii:
09 CF3 Ago-      Jlna. HoAama         so    0.0   6.6    NB    NS        6                 170    747?0     18839    23788
662 SirEa HdaLHblhda                  80   26.6  24,9    Ns    N3        6            5   S4"               21333
Tunl(ahna)
1002  ordiTouQPontde 8Lzkte          laA   12O   12,0    NS    N3                     6   158   428,000    13167    36e67
1008  eJLakhdhma4MHk9m1a             ICA   10.6  106    N4    NI4                    5    18        620  s0000    49057
1005 Oued EUnfu                      IOA    6.2   8.2    NB    N3                    t   146        218    17683    2B666
1054 Jebbo. El Srdl dtYou            1OA     .o 0  6.0    NB    NB                         01       10 16    15167    2SS
1066 WSat-J"e Ammar                  ICA    6.4   5.4    N3    N3            6             03       is9    17222    29444
1401 SWI Sads-UMD-P                  1MA  90.8   052    NB    N2             6        8    174   273,02D    17756    28 879
1402 Moknlne                         14A    8.0   8,0    N3    N2            5             140   143,435    17600    170 9
1455 Essda                           14A    9.0   0,0    Ns    N2            s            188   2,710    20088       29968
t466 AloulChlKnana dUA   10,0  10.0    NB    N2                              6             121   191.130    12100    10118
1480  l Hrik                         14A    s,0   3.0    NB    N2            5      4.2    S6    81.23      11 67    27 077
1404 HtenrChfachir                   148   19,4  14,6    NB    N2            6        5   278               14330
1408 Sebb9hIN.                       14B   14,0  17,1    NS    N2            5        5   290  186S.460    21 07    38 319
1467 ElChoubr                        148   13.4  1S,1    N3    N2            5            238               17012
61TOMAUNDTPMANWE                              94  an                                      8 169    16827    20712    39646



- 36 -
Table B-3: Rural Rgads Improvements as                                            Page 3 of 3
Proposed at Appraisal (A) and as Pinally Executed (E)
ength        Irnpemt Lvel I ld             C4a O     (Qtt0 cm I   Cott Kmrn-T
W ednIhmberlName                        LitefA          E      A      E       (in      (m)
Third   T ra wlhe-                                -------
Zmam
11t6 PItJNFRVEt838                        11C   12.7    1,0S    N3    N8                   6      306      6an    240*4   60 56
152 0. shew SWd1 Mratn                   11C   20,6   19,72    NS    N3                   C      360       824    18002    41 78
1188 MC48BKhdf4g4adhour                  1iC   11.9   12,29    N3    N3           a               238       613    20000    41741
1164 RVE ONO WThlblka                     11c           6,18          la          8                         16C             260S1
116 R8R 514                              110   6C8    4,31    NS    Na                    e       86  110,396    1468      2614
1154 RWE US                               110   10,3   10,04    N3    Ns                   4      138  43.43S    1324    48470
115t  Pbat GdW4*Mtlaha                    110    4,9    4,78    N3    NO          5               121   15S,682    24684    3e130
1C1t RWE501                               110    6,7    5,32    N2    N2          4                es   166,68    18e?   31S31
1182 JebeiT Tf RVE 573)                   1E    4,7    4,35    N3    NS           5        6      120  8,864    25632   115601
1166 Pkis Momeg                           11E           8,16    NO    NO          S                    284,11              29018
1361 S8uan-d Haned-E4ooI                  130   11,2   11,02    NO    N3          6               201  230,056    17946    200 58
1852 Ou.d U -Sldl Baugossa                130    8.6   7r98    N3    N3           6                74  S00,425        e 8708    3788
1158 SidiLaibi                            130   4.6    7,53    NO    NO           6                e5   170,900    15466    22e97
117 Anaou Y M  OPItI                      13C    9,3    8.93    N2    N4          6               170  470,471    1e8S625   564
1169 Eatmotna                             13C     7     7,94    NO    N4          6               140  402,282    2000  G         o6
ra-n
651 6tP7 Own EziOum Hmni                  9E   18.4      18    N4     Na S                        631             S4293
ON2 OwualnB' Assfd-Oouu   FejJa           e8    17   16.76    N3    N3            6       5       S31     1426    1*471    01724
68 &9S   met wla                          S8    58      CM38    N3    N3          6                83             156091
06 Oum eni-Uhu                            sEt    a    4.82    14    W4            6               18e              66600
S04 8.a anou-w ,saw-JaIt         h        go    1s   10,04    N3    NO            6               8761     2566o
o60  8ajbl sougnbmw                       sC    10       12    N3    N3           6               171     14S9   17100    62266
WM Kd) 8eb-lhl-Zdba                       6C    18    I6,4   NO    NO             6       6       408             25800
6  JefsuaG k                              so      7    6S.   NO    N3             6        5      11I             15867
Deja~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1202b Kw VAfsCua- PW                      12C   13,6    8,15    NO    N4         6,6              136  266,702    10000 S 1671
1261 SWdSma-Matouta                      12C   10,6    10.7    N4    H4          9        t      806  8sk,343    26426    81247
1252 KrM HaaMd- La Fag                    120   10.3    9,93    14    N4          9        6      126  472,436    12138    47677
1283 Ajywad Oruaga- blata                 120   33,S6  31.2    N3    NO          O'5     5.5      646   12SMS   1S 78    41661
1264 T.e)ow-An Yoga.                      12D   15.2   16.76    M     N3          9               223  3861766   14871    21 SW
1256 awggR-Fha (aC  74)                   120   162   16,61    NO    N4           9        6      14  1S2,184    95S0        7617
1266 RVE704-7a6                           120  12,39   12.39    N2    N2         e,6              175  2696141    14214    26015
1257 Orbh  EOuOd-Uoutwnaud QPS            12E  21.3   18,06    NS    Ns           0               288  62I.8       1 621    84066
1258 Ha4Swdaux                            12E   10,7   10,31    NO    N2          6               145  26,817   13 851    25879
1266 MedJszS i8b-Midoun                   12E   8,1    7,e8    N4    N4           9               310   892,se     38 272    51 07
120 U0C2                                  128   C,o    527    N       NO          6                73    100,7   105S0    26626
12et MC 131-E                             12E   7,8    9,09    NO    N3           6               121   11,119   1i518    34227
8ItOTAL-smWNdmEi                                37,6s   38,9                                      7062    13865    1 005 _36S036



- 37 -
Notes:
1. Improvement levels are as follows:
N-3: 3m platform covered with 20 cm of selected natural gravel on good soils and 25-40 cm of selected
nabual gavel on poor soils.
N-4: 9m platform covered with 3550 cm of selected natural gravel on each l.Sm shoulder and combination of
15 cm of crushed rock on 6m of cariage way.
N-5: Same as N-4 except platform is lIlm, shoulder 2.5m each and carmage way is sealed with double surface
trment.
2.    Subsequent improvements were made on the basis of traffic and were of two types: Renforcement of the base
through addition of gravel and sealing with double surface tment
3.    Some costs are regrouped for two or moe roads.



Page 1 of 2
Table C: Spot Improvements on Related Feeder Roads
Governorate   No. of nru  roads   zone                       Nature of Works                              Cost (000 DT)
Siliana      204                  Bourouis Agricole          Construction of submersible culvert                   84,4
201 202 & 203       Massouge - Fouma - Rmil    Construction of culverts of which two submersible     28,3
___________ _________________   ______________________________________112,7
Mahdia       1602
1651                Cbhimet ajilet             Construction of culvert                               55,6
1652                GHdarat                    Constrtion of culvert                                 18,6
74,2
Sfax         1701 & 1703          Boujarbouaj-benima         Sealing and Paving                                   167,1
Agenga
Dokhae - Boujarboua   Dokhane                  Culvert                                                 S1
218,1
La Kef       101 to 108           zourine doghra - garnialfaya                                                     58,8
region o. Mellegue        Construction of culvert with head works      ._.___oo
58,8
Nabeul       309
353 & 305           Bo;j Hfaiedh Village       Construction of Culvert                               94,8
Dar Chichou               Construction of Culvert                               33,1
318                 Lezdine Village            Improvement of Base Course and training works           18
355
145,9
Kssserine    506 & 507            Thala - Rouhia             Vanous Improvements                                   44,3
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   ~~4 4 ,3
Sidi Bouzid   652                                            Construction of culvert over Oued eleben              65,7
658 & 659                                      Conshruction of culvert                               103,6
__________ I  I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   I__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _           169J3



Page 2 of 2
Table C: Spot Improvements on Related Feeder Roads
Governorate   No. of rural roads  Zone                       Nature of Works                              Cost (000 DT)
Gafsa        711                  Mezl Mimoe                 Tree Culverts                                         13,8
13,8
Kairoum      454                  Sidi Abdall                Constructon of culvert/O. El Fe
Abida                     Consht on of culvertt/O. Mlayeh                       91,9
Hmaidet                    Costuctiion  of cuet/O. Zeroud
9? ,9
Total                                                                                              929,0
Sourc: DGPC
Not.: lbis table covers aly thos nne govort where spot ixuprovements an feede roads ae made.
w4



- 40 -
Table D: Project imetable
l____________            Planned       Revised        Actual
Identification           1278                  _1
Preparation Beginning     6/80          4/80          4/80
Preparation End          12/80          2/81          5181
Appraisal Mission         2/81          5/81          6/81
6/81    .              l
Loan Negotiations         1/82                        2/82
Board Approval            6/82                       3/23/82
3/82                                 l
Loan Signature            NA                         5114182
Loan Effectiveness      9/13182        12/13/82     04/21/83
03114/83
05/16/83
LoanClsing C            12/31/87       12/31/88     03/11/92
12/31/89
06/30/91
___________________  ______________    10/3 1/91
Project Completion      12/31/86                    12/31/91
Source: Bank Files



- 41 -
Table E: ProJected and AUWl Cumulative Loan Disbursements
(US $ mion equivalent)
All Bank
Projection in     Traroport         All Tunisia        Tunisia:          Actual Amount
Quarter           SAR               Prolects          Project            Highways I        Cumulative
FY 1Y83
Sep. 1982                     .5
Dec. 1982                     .5
Mar. 1983                     .5
Jun. 1983                     .6               3.7                3.9               1.9                .52
Sep. 1983                     .8                                                                       .52
Dec. 1983                    2.4               6.5                6.5               1.9                .52
Mar. 1984                    4.1                                                                       .52
Jun. 1984                    5                 9.8                9.?               4.3                .52
F_ 1985
Sep. 1984                    7.5                                                                      1.66
Dec. 1984                   10.3              13.5               13.2               6.1               1.66
Mar. 1985                   13.3                                                                      3.46
Jun. 1985                   16.3              17.3               16.8              14.5               3.64
Sep. 1985                   19.2                                                                      6.95
Dec. 1985                   21.9              20.9               20.3              21.5               6.95
Mar. 1986                   24.6                                                                     11.87
Jun. 1986                   27.3              24.3               23.6              26.4              11.95
FY 198
Sep. 1986                   30.0                                                                     13.64
Dec. 1986                   31.4              27.2               26.4              27.4              15.95
Mar. 1987                   32.8                                                                     18.45
Jun. 1987                   34.1              29.7              28.8               29.5              20.44
FY 1488
Sep. 1987                   35.4                                                                     21.27
Dec. 1987                   35.5              31.7               30.8              30.6              21.72
Mar. 1988                                                                                            22.86
Jun. 1988                                     33.3              32.4               35.5              24.13
FY 1989
Sep. 1988                                                                                            24.51
Dec. 1988                                     34.6               33.7                                26.50
Mar. 1989                                                                                            27.75
Jun. 1989                                     35.5              34.7                                 27.97
FY 1990
Sep. 1989                                                                                            28.28
Dec. 1989                                                        35.5                                28.48
Mar. 1990                                                                                            29.67
Jun. 1990 I                                                                                          30.04
FY 19"1
Sep. 1990                                                                                            30.30
Dec. 1990                                                                                            30.30
Mar. 1991                                                                                            30.33
Jun. 1991                                                                                            30.33
FY 1992                                                                                              31.06
Sep. 1991                                                                                            31.18
Dec. 1991                                                                                            31.47
Mar. 199          _.                - .. _       , J                     _                  - _ __
Source: Sank Files



Table F: roject Costs
(in milons)
Aepratsal Costs                     Final Costs                  Variations
With contfngences    Wfth Contingencies
8eparate               included
DT         US          DT         US         PT         us       miLlionsm (0)    Nillions (US)
______                     A          B          C          0            CA               0 -8 a
Rural Road Works                    26.70       5207       36.67       71.50     46.36       57.74             9.70            -1376
Spot trprovements on Related
Feeder Roads                        1.61t        31    -    2 05        4,00      0.93        1,16            -1,12             -2.84
Ffnat Agrf0ul. investments
- Constructfon of CNV                0,89        1.74       1,23        2,40      1,34        1,67             0,11             .0,73
- Equipment in CTV                   0,11        0,22       0,15        0,30      0,10        0,13            -0,05             -0,17
- Vehicles in CTV                    0,45        0,87       0,62        1,20      0 28        0,35            -0,33             -0,85
- Irrigation Works                   2.30      3            338         6,60      027         0,34            -3.11             -6.26
Short-Term Credts                    1, 18       2,29       1,79        3,50        NO          ND               ND                ND
Long-Term Credits                    3.42        6          5_23       10.20
Equipt. (Vehicle Inspection)         0,33        063      0-41          0.80      100         1,25             0.59              0,45
Technical Assistance                 1 42        2.76  _    190         3.70      096         120             -094              -2.50
Overseas missions                    0 0          09        0 05        0 10      0 07      0.09               0.02             -0.01              N
sase total                          38.45       74.98      -                      -
Physical Contingencies               3,84        7 50
Financial Contingencies             11 21       21.86
Project Total Cost                  53 50      104.33      -           -         -
Front-ed fee in Bank Loan            0270 050               0,27        OSO       042         053              0.15               003
Total Cost with Credit              53 77      104 83      53,75      104,80        ND          IID               D    _      =     D
Total Cost Without Credit           49918       f5 88      46,73       91 10                 64,44 U                           -26,66
Sources: OPC and Ministry of Agriculture
Note:
1. USS equivalent cost at appralsal are OT costs converted at lDT u USS 1.95 and at completion are OT costs converted at I DT  USS 1.24
2. Contingencies were spread as in SAR (Table 3.3)
3. The amot of credit is estimated based on a suuple of roads.



Table G: Project Financing
(in millions)
PRoPOEo  (USS million )                                           FINAL COSTS CUSS mitlions)
NPIJ   MA    MTC    OMT    amV.   CULT.  COST    K      TOTAL   MPW     MA     HTC    ONT   GOVT.   CUL T.   COST    K      TOTAL
| _____________________    _ .                            PART.                                                               P ART.
Rurat Road Works             42-6        -                 -9    40x    71,5   2                                        -                   28115    492    s7.7
Retated feeder Roads        2?7  .___              -                     .t3      33x    4       0      __  _  -        -                     029    2S%    1,16
Ffnal Agricul. investments
- Construclion of CTV                1.7                                 0,7      292    2.4             1,21                                 0,46    272    1,67
- Equipment   in CTV                 0.1                                  0,2     672    0,3             0,0?                                 0,06    462    0,13
- Vehifces In CTv                    0o7                                 025    426    1,2               0.20                                 0,16    442    0,35
- Irrigation Works          _        6,6    -_-                                          6.6             0,34                                                034
Short-Term Credits                                2,9             0,6                    3,5
ong-lerm Credits                                  S9    2         2.3       -0,2 -                                                      _ -
Equfpt. (Vehicte                           0,3                            0,5     63K    0,8                    0,36                          0,89    m      1,25
Insetion)
Technical Assistance         0.7    0,2            -                      2-8      76X    3,7    0.30    0,03                                 0-86    m      1220 
Overseas missions                    -                                    0-t     100X   O,        -              -                           0.09    101K
Front-end fee on the
lank's Loan                   -             -      -       -       -       5      100X   0.5       -             -      -      -             ..t.!L  lOOKX0,
| Total                      46   _,3   _,3    8,8    2          2,9                     104,8 2 30,9   15        36       -                -                 A
Sources: DGSC and infstry of Agrieulture
vote:
1. USS equivalent cost at appraisal are DT costs converted at tOT a US$ 1.95 and at completion are WT costs converted at 1 DY a USS 1.24



-44-
'-I~ ~~~~~~~~I
61~~~~~~~~~~~~1



Page 2 of 2
Table HI: Status of Covenants
Loan Ag Dnet                                                                                             Status
R e e ec e                          ._                                       _  _  _  _  _ _  __   _ _  _  _  _  _  __._      _ _  _  _  _  _
LA 3.06 (c)           Borower shall, through its Projet Coordinating     Quarely Mports wer furnished for most quaers by the Diection G6rale des
Commttee, furnish quartely progress repots.       Ponts et Chausae, not the ProJect Coordinaing Coimie   d covraed ol
the administative and fiuancial acuite rlting to  ral road improvemet
._______________________                      _ -  . works and only for each governorste asa whole.
LA 3.06 (e)           Borower shall fumish to th Bank a compwtion report   Competion Repont was due on Apri 30, 1992 and was atuady recived in May
on the Poj  aaer comnleion of the Pirojec but in  1993.
any event by six mnths after the Closing Dato or a
Iaer date agreed by the Bank.
LA 3.07               Bor   shall acuire land as equied  r Prjct.        Prot not affected by land acquisilc problms.
LA 4.02 (a)           Borrower shatl cause the Midstry of Public Works, the   Account were directed at capial cost issubject to finance under the Po3jct,
and (0)               Ministy of Agricuture and the Minstry of Tuansport   not at recuwent budget requirements under the Projet (e.g. cxtension work).
and Communications to maintin Projet accouts to   Audit repors wer received for the yaus 1983 tI ough 1988. In aD casms but
refltct the Miisties'opemtions for the Prtoct and  one, they wete rcived more than 6 months after the Ced of the accounting year,
hve suh accounts audited each year ard furib      witb delays of up to 27 month.
copies of the audits to thw Da  six months after the
end of eaeb ficl year.
LA 4.04               Botower sha1l cause roads himved under th          No system  data avaiable on Borowmes overall effort for mainenanc of
Project, as waR as other hmproved rods offering an  roads, rural roads or Projct roads. However, ocasionl fearces in files to
apprpriae evel of sevic, to be manained.          maintnanc status of ras indicate tha    mainteae was provided.
Source: Ban Fiks



Table I: Project Expenditure by Year
(in D.T.'
I~~                           ~~ _. _        _   -                                                             -                                     . ___
Items              DEP   1983       1984        1985         1986         1987        1988        1989        1990       1991       1992       Total
Purchasing Materials           ME                  7,245     602,757   1,171,781    341,199   4,742,960        145,210     42.002          ,              7,053,154
Rural Road Works               ME   476,027  5 544,088  11,524,617  10,007,145  2,960,103  10,176,901  2,683,371  2,678,559    227,129    86,483  46,304,423
Spot Inprovements on Related
Feeder Roads                   HE               284,132      226.720      167,930    172,144        27,128      18,375     29,961      2,685                929075
Agricultural Investioents      MA
- Construction of CTV                                        486,900      138,100      94,900      143,600    206,400    155,900       8,000   107,200   1,341,000
- Equipment In CTV                    26,600     66,300                     4,300       3,200                                                               100,400
- Vehicles in CTV                     99,900                              137,400      23,500        2,900                 20,700              270,000      284,400
- Irrigation Works                     -                                                 .                                                                  270.000
Short-Term Credits
Long-Term Credits
Equipt. (Vehicle Inspection)   MT      =              .                            _____.._822,948   179,353 1_002,301
Technical Assistance           ME      2,800    197,541      145,231      240,140    169,252       173,190                 32,694                           960.848       1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ M A   I_ _ _ _   _ _I_ _   I__ _ _ _   I__ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _   _ _ _ __                        _ _ _  _
Overseas missions                      2,300      18,900      45,800        2,300                   __          -                   _              .         69,300      01
Total                           =   607,627  6,110,961   12,429,268  10,697,315  3,423,099  10,523,719  2,908,146  2,917,814  1,060,762   643,0361 51,321,747
Source: DGPC
Note: The ifne for credits is Left btank because only partial information is available.



- 47 -
Table J: Rural Roads improvement Contracts
Lot No. I Governorate  I Length/kb                                   Contract Detafls
Original     Revised
Contract    Contract
Amount       Amount
FIRST TRAICHE (1983-84)                Bids Opened   Contractor   ('000 OT)  (_000 DT)   Comp(etion Date 2V
2A        Siliana         31.8         11/09182            A           993.8      1,240       6/27/83
2B        SiLiana         22.1         11/09/82            B         1t644.7      1,900       6/24183
7A        Gafsa           38.8         11/09/82            C         1,059.5      1,060       8/09/83
8C        Gabes           22.1          11/09/82           D           376.7        230       9/14/83
9A        Sizerte         62            11/09/82           E         2,436.0      2,365       6/07/83
15A       Monastir        24.1         11/09/82            F           840.4        713       7/15/83
155       Monastir        35.8         11/09/82            G          781.3       1,027       8/14/83
16A       Mahdia          53.8         11/09/82            F        1,677.3       1,677       9/01/83
17A       Sfax            61.9         11/09/82            E        2,250.0       2,057       6/23/93
18A       Nedenine        55.5         11/09/82            C         1,500.0      1 475       8/11/83
TOTAL           407.9                                     13,559.7    13,744
SECOND TRAUCHE (1984-85)                                               _         _
IC        Kef             27.2         02/18/84            H         1,555.5     2,170        11/07/84
1D        Kef             36.5         02/18/84            1        1,607.4      2,058        10/22/84
3C        Nabeul          31.2         02/18/84             J        1,004.7      1,051        10/24/84
3D        mabeul          45.6         02/18/84            K         1,758.8      1,947        10/22/84
40        Kairouan        47           02/18/84            L         1,385.4      1,636       04/15/84
SC        Kasserlne       43.6         02/18/84            N         1,979.1      2,095        10/22/84
60        Sidi-Bouzid    34.5          02118/84            N           844.3        748        11/24/84
1OA       Tunis           42.2         02/18/84            J        1,557.3       1,573       10/10/84
14A       Sousse          39.8         02/18/84            0          966.5         965       10/24/84
14B       Sousse          46.8         02/18/84            P        1580.1        1,862       12/11/84
TOTAL           394.4                                      14,239.1     16,105      _
THIRD TRANCHE (1985-86)
9B        Bizerte         43.7         09/09/85            a         1,382.5      1,600       03/12/86
9C        Bizerte         44.7         09/09/85            F         1,615.9      1,800       03/12/86
1iC       Zaghouan        50.4         09/09/85            a"       2,096.8       2,500       04/15/86 & 9/1/87
I1D       Ariana          24.6         09/09/85            R          841.1         950       03/15/86
lIE       Ben Arous       12.6         09/09/85            S          631.6         752       04/15/86
12C       Beja            60.5         09/09/85            T         2,925.3      3,300       04/15/86
12D       Beja            46.2         09/09/85            C"        1,558.0      2,000       03/22186 & 17/10/88
12E       Beja            51.6         09/09/85            R         1,746.3      1,950       05/15/86
.3C       Jendouba        47.6         09/09/85            F        1,705.1      1,900        08/01/86
TOTAL           381.9                                     14,502.6    16,752
Source: DGPC
1/ Contract was rebid after failure of original contr&ctor.
2/ Final payment (usuatly 10% of contract price) was made from about one to three years Later, after expiration of guarantee
period.



- 48 -
Table M  Pssm iCotuctin of CrVs                     Page  1 of  2
rovwnt    C*V 1983  1984 1 985 1 1986 | 1987 | 1988 | 1989 | 1990  1991  19
Turis - BArous KhlIdla          -     -      -                   _ -
Zagho2         El Amiam
Oued Rmal
Nabeul         Oued el Khatf
Ara            Bordi Toull
Pont de Bizete
Saida
Bad El Amri
Lansarine
Oued Eilil
Momagula
Mnihla
Baa            El Gossa                       a
Ouchtata                                    e
Dougigaa
Toukiaber
LaKe           Ain larma
Ain Fdhil
Tii Ghozlane
onioane       Sld Bourouls
Bhlrine                 .
Borj Massoudi
Jendouba       El Awuaoudha
El Khadra                                          a
0L Mangouch
B ist          Bou M'Khtita
Gabtna ni                                          a
eawan
Touajnia
Bsbassia
Soussa         GrimRth 
Ktoussia                             .



- 49 -
TaboK: Progr.ss iucousbuctcof CTVs               Page 2 of 2
oveonorates  ICTV            1983 1 t984  1985 1 98   19871 1988 1989 1 990 1991  1992
Mahdia        soma
Chehimet Nord
Ababssa                     .
Stax          BouJaboua
Agenga
Sakiet Ezzit
El Amra
Kalrouan      Essea
Gabes         Zarat
SBdiouzid     Rabta
Oubed Hafous
Kesserlne     Barmeina              a
Ramada
Ain Lehmedna
Dachra
Thaa                                                                    .
Monastir      Benane s
Souk Sayadi
Sahflne
Medenine      Hassi Jerbi
Grabet
Total byYear                  2     7      8      t1     6     9     5      4     1     2
Cumulative Tota               2     9    17      28    34    43    48    52    53    55
Source: Ministy of Agriculture



- 50 -
Tabl L:C CmAmetion of CrVs              Page 1 of 2
No. of C.T.V.
CTV bult under the Wh ProJect
________                 Buili
Appraa                  Other   Rented
Govenorates       C.T.V.   Road No. No.    Costs   Final Costs    Projects
BEN AROUS    MiQldia          1163    1   15000.00    16 954.75
ZAGHOUAN      Oued RMal       1152    2   42 000.00    48463.38
EiAmaim        1164
_ _ _ _ _ __1  2
NABEUL        Oued   Khatf   315a    1  .17 O0.00    24 81395
____________________1
TUNIS ARIANA  BorJ Toull      1002    7  119 000.00   197 402.56
Pont Bizerte   1002
Salda          1003
M'Nihbla       1005
Bor El Amri    1104
Lansarine    1155,6,4
0. Eil         1005
____                      2
BEJA          El Gossa        1253    4   92000.00    97795.42
Ouchtata       1253
Ain Younes     1254
Dougga         1255
4
KEF           Ain Fdhil        151    3   64 000.00    82635.35
TeliGhoziane    152
Ain Krma        153
'________                 4
SIUANA        Le KriPb         204    4   68 000.00    68 302.73
Bhidne          205
aS Bou Rouls    255b_
JENDOUBA      El Aouaoudha   1357a    3   59000.00    76550.37
El Mangouch    1359
Ei -Khadra     1351
BizERTE       Bou M'Khila      901    6  150 00.00   159 717.94
Gana It         951
Bcheya          952
Benals          907
Besbassia       961
7        2



- 51 -
TabL: Ctrv.ctiaOf crVs                   Page  2 of 2
No. of C.T.V.
cTv bui under the th Proect
AppraW              _     ther   Rented
Govenorates       C.T.V.   Road No. NO    Costs   flnd Costs    ProJects
SOUSSE        Kroussba         1404    3   80000.00    74 91318
Grimit          1401
Essed           1456
MAHDIA         Ababsa          1602    3   55 000.00    59721.31
Samm            1651
Chimet Nord     1651
~~_ ___  ___                                                         4 
SFAX          Agenga           1701    4   66 000.00    83 273.80
Amira           1702
Bou Jarboua     1703
SakdetEzzit     1704
_ _ _ _ __                _          _ _      _    _         3        2
KAROUAN        Essara           454    1   15000.00    15 362.00     1         1
GASES         Zarat             808    1   15000.00    16345.83      1 _
SIDI BOLiMD    Ouled Haffouz    609    2   60000.00    74517.13
Rabta            662                  _
KASSERINE      Barmeina         508    5  109000.00   143 916.03
Rmada            508
Thala            508
Dachra           508
Ain Lahmadna     508
MONASTIR       Benane          1502    3   75 000.00    65 44367
Souk Sayadi     1505
Sahline        1506b
MEDENINE      Hassi Jerbi      1803    2   32 000.00    35 098.41
Grabt           1805
TOTAL                  55  133 000.00 1 341 227.79    41       13
Source: Ministry of Agricufture



'I t
-    
3i g 
_' _
- .45 
0          X
1U-8  
zs            ~II



- 53 -
Table N: EqWpmt for v chicle Inspection Statios       Page 1 of 2
Avorage Exchage Rafe: US$1 = 0,983 D.T.
Cost H.T
Names             EquipmentType                           D.T.          U.S. $
Braking Testing I W 712                  34625,80      35 208,61
Plaque aJeux LMS 20/2                     7734,99       7 85.18
Lifting Jack P.L                          7470.62       7596.36
Braking Testing iW 2-E                   12102.04      12,305.74
Suspension Testing SA 20                 11193,76       11 582.17
NABEUL           Skid Plate MINC 10                        4537,35        4 613,72
Gaz Analyzer AG3M                         7081.35        7 200,54
Uifting Jack V L                          4622,50       4 700.31
2 Beams LET GLA 10                        9 999.21      10,167,51
Hardware and Software Equipment          19315.59       19 640.69
Brakdng Testing I W 712                  34,625,80     35,208,61
Plaque a Jeux LMS 20/2                    7 734,99      7865.18
Ufting Jack P.L                           7470,62       7.596,36
Braking Testing VW 2-E                   12,102,04      12 305,74
Suspension Testing SA 20                 11193,76      11 382,17
BIZERTE          Skid Plate MINC 10                        4537,35        4613,72
Plaque a Jeux PMS 3/2                     6 698,58      6811.32
Gaz Analyzer AG3M                         7081,35       7 200,54
Uftinj Jack V L                           4622,50       4700,31
2 Beams LErGLA 10                         9999,21       10167,51
Hardware and Software Equipment          19315,58       19 640.69
Braking Testing I W 7/2                  34 625,80     35,208,61
Plaque a Jeux LMS 20/2                    7734,99       7865.18
Ufting Jack P.L                           7470,62       7596,36
Brabing Testing iW 2-E                   12102.04      12 305,74
Suspension Testng SA 20                  11193,76       11382,17
SOIUSSE          Skid Plate MINC 10                        4537,35        4613,72
Plaque a Jeux PMS 312                     6 698,58      6811,32
Gaz Analyzer AG3M                         7 081,35       7200.54
Lifting Jack V L                          4 622,50      4700,31
2 Beams LET GLA 1O                        9 999,21     10167,51
Hardware and Software Equipment          19315.58      19,640,69
.
Braking Testing I W 712                  34 625,80     35208,61
Plaque a Jeux iLMS 20/2                   7 734,99      7865,18
Ufting Jack P.L                           7470,62       7596,36
Braidng Testing iW 2-E                   12102,04       12 305,74
Suspension Testing SA 20                 11193,76      11 38217
IROUAN          Skid Plate MINC 10                        4537,35       4613,72
Plaque a Jeux PMS 3/2                     6 698,58      6811.32
Gaz Analyzer AG3M                         7081.35       7200,54
Lifting Jack V L                          4622.50       4700,31
2 Beams LET GLA 10                        9999,21       10167,51
Hardware and Software Equipment          19315.58       19640,69



- 54 -
lob1c N: Ep          f Vebicbl Iosectio Satdons      Page 2 of 2
Aveae Emchang Rate: USS1   0,983 D.T.
Cost H.T
Names            EquipmentType                            D.T.          U.S. $
Braking Testing I W 7/2                  34625,80      35 208,61
Plaque a Jeux LMS 2012                    7734,99       7865,18
Ufting Jack P.L                           7470,62       7596,36
Braking Testing W 2-E                    12102,04      12,305,74
SuspensionTestingSA20                    11193,76      11 382,17
GAES            Skdd Plate MINC 10                         4537,35       4613,72
Gaz Analyr AG3M                           7081,35       7200,54
Lifting Jack V L                          4 622,50      4700,31
2 Beam IET GLA 10                         9999,21      10,167,51
Hardware and Software Equipment          19315,59      19640,69
Braking Testing I W 712                  34,625,80     35,208,61
Plaque a Jeux LMS 22                      7734,99       7865,18
Ufting Jack P.L                           7470,62       7,596,36
Braldng Testing iW2-E                    12,102,04      12305,74
Suspension Testing SA 20                 11193,76       11382,17
LE KEF          SW Plate MINC 10                          4537,35        4613,72
Plaque a Jew PMS 312                      6698,58       6811,32
GazAnalyzerAB3M                           7 081,35      7200,54
Ufting Jack V L                           4622,50       4700,31
2 eamns LErGLA 10                         9999,21       10167,51
Harware and Software Equipment           19315,58      19 640,69
._______________       ____________               125  381,78
Uftng Jack P.I                           7 470,62      7 596,36
MAINTENANCE    Lifting Jack V L                            4622,50       4700,31
SECnON          3 Beam LETGLA 10                         14998,81       15251,26
BEN AROUS       Spare Parts and Tools                    54556,74       55475,02
81 648,67
D.T.
EQUIPMENT                               833 939,32    847 975,87
FEES                                     45 414,08     46178,47
______________
879 353,40    894154,34
D.T.          FF.
11 st                                   700 000,00    711782,13
PAYMENTS        12nd                                    179353,42      182372,23
Total        879 354,42     894154,36



Table 0: Expenditue. Under Loan to Technicd Assistanc
(Including Traming and Overseas Missions)
1982      Is83        1984       1985       1986        1987       1988      1t89        lo90       1S91      TOTAL
Study and PrspR rotion               2nd Tr.              187 741      9066                                                                          196 607
of                                  3rd Tr.                         118866      82481                                                             201346
Bidding Documents
._________________________                       187741     127931      82 481                                                             398153
Study of Impact of Rural Road                                                                29887      62498                                        82385
Teohnico-Economino Study of the
possibIIties using iocai materials In                                                        78 907      4630                                        83 36
construction of rural roads
ALL STUDIES                                                t87 741    127931      82 481     108 794    57128                                       664074
Training of Extension Agents
- Training                                     2800        9800       17300       3400       3200       2300                                        38 800
- Study                                                                                      6500                                                   55 000
92S0       9 800       17300      3400       S8200       2300                      _            .      s03o800
Overseas Missions                               2300       18900       4&,jo       2300                                                        .      9 . __  300   #n
ALL STUDIES, TRAINING ANO MISSION               6 100      28700       63 100     5700       58 200      2 300                    _                  163100
TOTAL                                  5100       216441      191031    242440    189252    173 190            .         .     _ ,     .   727174



Table P: Maizatemce E .enditure for Rural Ras under th Project                         Page I of 2
(other Improved rural roads and an roads)
TYPE OF EXPENDUI_E                     183| 1984  | 1985         1966  | 1987  | 196   1989       1990  | 1991  | 1992
1st Part                             __ __         __-_.
V HIGHWAY PROJECT                       1,271    20,9    31,321  29,32 _I665,41 1*,04 |   55,6 1 1035,12    198     1120,09
Maintenance of all rural roads        486.271   802,4| 715.12 1 7001  1544,71 1100,251 |6624S |  1777,3    2186,1  2693.55
Maintenance of all roads             696427   2545,91 3278,121 6003.57   3935,7  4762.    8276,65   8513A    7535,  12923.
2ridPart
V HIGHWAY PROJECT                                 345 1   1025 I    3911  413,3 i   167,51 9312 11317,787    74826   491,84
Maintenance of al rural roads          274,3    482,8 1  1385,1 I    4S71    4771    77.S1 3103,781 5839132  1917,381  2011,9        1
Maintenance of all roads              6066,2 12352,567  3496,153 11627,125 1 1342,357 1  1128,3 1|4187,693 19528.0281 11369,64 | 13928.8
.ird Part                                                                                                                    I
V HIGHAY PROJECT                 j                                    4      1161  6,016 I 158,016 | 306.066 11193,406  673.366
Malintofailruralrd s                     11 |      521      63 1    1681    1881 306.9161 6 82,116 11249.066 1 2421.1061
lMaintenance of all roads         I    1060 1    682 1   5153      1135   4473,5 1169,416 2602,916 4444,066 5236.106 4170.806



Table P: Maintenanro Expeitres by DPC for Rural Roads and Other Roads                    Page 2 of 2
(other Improved rural roads and all roads)
TYPE OF  aPENDffURE1983                        1984 |   1985  1 1988  1 1987  | 1988  1 1989  1 1990  1 1991  1  1992
GROSS TOTAL
T1+T2+T3                            _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _
V HIGHWAY PROJECT                       1,27 |  365.9  1056.32 1  424.321  1184. 1 345.556  1144,896 1 2658973 1 21380661 |2825286
Miaintenarce of all rurail road       771.71  1337.21 2163,221  1325,97 1 2209,7 1 1484.66614348,34U 886A,498 1 6642S86 |61402-
iMaintenance of mads -              14110.47 5s8o 12527,2718765.695975.557                 m       7059,916  15067,26 2248349 124141,44 31033.16
N.B. - Data are lacking about maintenance in the govemorates of SousSQ
For the rest of the country, the overall expenditures by DPC for maintenance
- Over the period 1983-1992 Is 11 605 000 for rural                                                                                  s
- Roads under the Fifth Highway Project 36171 000 for all rural roads; and
- 150521 000 million for all roads



Table Q-1: List of Roads in Impact Surveys                           Page 1 of 2
(1987-1993 Stdies)
Roads surveyed during the Vth Hwy Project                   Other Roads
In the 1987 & 1993           In the 1993 Study              In the 1987 & 1993    In the 1993 Study
Studies                    only                           Studies                  only
North
Medjerdah Valley                       901                           903                      1304-1202A                 1358
North West                                                        151-206                   103-105-203                  1201
North East                                                          1054                      1102-1105                  1101
Cape Bon                  ._._.___355                                                           301-305
Middle West             .__________401-406                                                                                658
501-507
Middle East                      1505-1602                          1457                           1107            ._._ ._._.n_
0,
Sfax                                  1703                          1702                           651                .       ,  . _
South                         808-1803-709                                                      706-801                   659



Table Q-2: Selected Data on Sample of Project Roads Before Project                               Page  2  o f  2
(1978, 1979, or 1980) and After Project (1985 or 198"6
Ratio of
Yr of   Pop.    Pop.   Motorized                                           value of
Impso   before   after   traffic except                                    produc-    lfrigatd
Govemnorate and Number of Road     Length  ventn  1984    1984   farm tractors        Farm Tractors    icycles         tion        Hese.
before       -        -
Before   After  Before   Afr   Bef       Aftr   and afr    Bfore   After
Gafsa 709                            7.0      1984    310      357    63      78       18      20      124     111          1.43   661    661
Gabes 808                            8.7      1984    5401   4,064   90    189         39      42      72      176           '.58   165    237
Bizerte901                          13,0      1985   1,160     929    17      59       16       5       7       24          1.06     0       0
Monastir 1505                       21.2      1984   4,930    4,937   86    127        39      13      66       62           1.18    0      10
Mabdia 1602                         18.3      1985   2,080    2,525    77     54       43       9      33       91           1.50    0       8
Sfax 1703                           12.2      1985   1,7sP   3,044   36       94       18       4       11      26           1.68    0       0
Medenine 1803                        9.5      1985   1,200   4,527   135               70      14      61      204          2.78     0      58
Average road from Hwys III and V     NA               NA    NA        68    195        22      25      SO       97           1.78  5242     8810
Source: Staff Appraisal Report and Rural Roads Impac Study
1/ Inpact Study indicates 1975 population of 4,112
2 Impact St$y indicates 1975 population of 2,559
3/ Inpact Study inicates 1975 population of 3,460
Note: 1984 population esdimat derived from population for census enumeation district as a whole.



Table R. Evolution of Disbursements by Category
(n Miliions US$)
Categories           _Proected                                        Effective Pay mens at
Not Alloc.    Not Ailoc.   - 11184  - 9185  - 6f86   -1I8    -12188       End
Not Distrib.    Not lstrib                                             Prolect
Rural Roads
Works                           21.00        28.90      1.1      6       10.7      20.1     24.1     28.1
CTV Construction
and Rehabilitation              0.5          0.7         0     0.03      0.03      0.03     0.3      0.5
Extension Material              0.1          0.2         0     0.05      0.05      0.05     0.1      0.1
Vehicles                        0.4          0.5         0      0.05     0.05      0.1      0.1      0.1
Ad Hoc Improvements              1            1.3        0      0.1       0.1      0.3      0.3      0.3
Technical Visits Material                                                                                                  0
Inspection                      0.4          0.5         0        0        0         0       0       0.9                   0
Consultants                     2.1          2.8         0      0.1      0.2       0.5      0.9      0.9
Overseas Missions               0.1          0.1         0      0.03     0.1       0.1      0.1      0.1
Fees/Bank Loans                 0.5          0.5         0      0.5      0.5       0.5      0.5      0.5
Unallocated                     9.4           0         0         0        0        0         0        0
Total Amount of Payments        35.5         35.5       1.6     6.9      11.7      22       26.4     31.5
Total Amount
Foreseen for this                _      -               5.8    19.2      27.3     35.5      35.5     35.5
Due Date
Source: World Bank



- 61 -
Tabl S Rod Road  1rwements and Related                                                 Page I of 3
Paraetr for Economic Evaluation
Cost per      Tra0b           Agd Co       Total Cost   Populaton    Cultivated Aru
--d -o iwd ud KM a)t                                                            1 per (DT)    per Kl      Swd              ("a
_A  NI A AN    A    N    A   N   A  fN    A   N    A    N
1a1Grup
91lang
204 MC47-oob dA                  2A  N4   N4  260I3              1S    100 1t800  2S00   3040   t?S42
205 MC 11.-GP2M                 2A  N3   N3  17668   40312   77         200              17  22820 4266 380  4100   1050    3390
2S6 ol8 oum Roua-OPS             2B  N4   N4  22867              72     260                               1870  6600   2840   9000
20S RVE 23 - G&an                2A  N4   N4  2490   415 23   9S       400                               4680  80o0    9080    7000
707 Nouanr                       7A  N3   NS  1780S   35M79   112    220                                  200   450      SS3     78S
08 hAone WPS                    ?A  NM    43  1S848   23sa4  60         120                               480  1230    830       760
700 ClrWit alea                  7A  NS   NS  14 280   2000   88        1SO             97.0 17288 3220 310   840        S8      SW0
710 CoultTwoas                  ?A  NS   NS  18824   2ss85  S33         620                               640            6DO
711 SanneddHaum                 7A  NO   N3  18 738   37 9   t108    200                                 S6O   518    3 150    4S00
Gabsa
807 Uaed - Segu                  8C  U2   N2  14250   10470   83        300                                     8000    1.10     8.00
808 Maret4adria-ZaRt             80  N2   N4  21862   13176   108        70              17S 17439 1288  640  s800      1,81     3.00
809 Ket_ana-Z ,Bria              SC  N3   N2  1507    86770   110    *SO                                   840  2000    1.25     3.00
0o01 Bou M'Kha                  #A  N3   NO  18023               31     200                               1160  2600   2002    4500
902 SldlAbdob  et               OA  NO   NS  22576               30     250                                 00  32o   1800
903 Eokb                         A  NS   NS  22187   39417   39         240             4425 620 438   700  200   1 035
OSA Kof Gab                      9A  M4   N4  35876              45     400                                940  4200   2467
07 KefMezm                       OA  N4   N4  87313              80     350                               *6S0 3600   3017
1505 a  Otsrnn.-Mdragom         iSA N44   N4  34340   40095  135    200                                  4030 6470   4021    4 28
1602 B8mh-Tou      2dNalJ        189 NO   NO  14917              73     200                               2658  3500   2015    2015
1SOS Moknn - BOW HUMn           1S9 NO   NO  18476   24729  174    220                  2 1832S  2682 1600 2215   1431    1431
IWO6b Bou Oth"Ma-Monzal         UB NO   N3  18000                69     105                               3080 4880   2678    2676
1802 Soumdes-    sm              16A N4   N4  42022  SS37n  9S          80O                               208O 2811   8093    8SOO
1s6  soua8sl-8omr                16SA NS   N4  1600    18401  1013   1000                                 1011t 1280  17741   208O0
l652 SGuasf-Sou Haa              ISA NO   N4  17100   24737   84                                          20S0 2823   3833    4600
1701 Jbena-Agenea                1VA N4   NS  13092             113    1260                              400           7 520
1702 ElAma-wnlana4ti             17A N4   N4  30000             16S    085                                1500          3150
03 Tanour-BouJboup-(R           17A N4   N4  27787   3407  79          1736            1   21082 3584 1750            7010
1704 81dlAbdlkan        1t        A NO   NO1080                6S    844                                  81O |        2600
1751 Oued Ahm-Ghogme             17A NS   NS3  17273            77      8E                                1S1O         4 740
Medenin:
1801 OugKribl                    IBA NO   NS  143S8   26500  170    380                                   SW0           g00
1802 Mosnaa-SdlCtmme             I1A NO   N4  12522   31258  106    400                                   1010          1670
1803 GsI        .bslJsrbl        18A NO   NS  22867   32751  162    280                 014, 16213 2600 1030            1800
1s84 Mounes-E3Kantaa             18A N3   M3  18 365  24070  78         688                              1200          8180
180S Kbeoui-  Oubbigla           ISA NO   NO  14140   2 028  180    250                                   880          3200
TOTAL                             _             21 004  31678    _21S04S338U                                   
A. at Appras
N-Now
Sourco: OPOC and Minisy ot Agrcuture



- 62 -
Table S: RPal Road Improriemets and Related                                                . Page 2 of 3
Pat tmt  for Econaoic Evaluation
Coa  pet      Tfom      AOd   Coat       Tow a   Cott      Popula|or         O aso'd Weft
Standwd      K    am       1S I  pe (on               pr  IM  sfted 
flow     Nn                                        A              A   .N      A      N        A        N         A        N         A        N
2nd GfoUP
161 El Kacur-8e                   IC  NI  Ns IS13   81134   25   220                                           1668    4000    7738    1080
1s2 Do Eaaalam-T0 El GhE2a        10  NS   N4  17708             20    so          4728   17677    e9743       2s5      2000 e     0 ass   80s
163AlnEIKarrma                    ID  N3   N3  12321  63736   20    35                                         1444                2"
Nabstri
a09 Sldl Ka%oUW                   30  N3   NI  14857            2So  400                                       3100
312 BoN Youf                      3C  N3   NI  1918 634087  160  30                                             1300
313 oBtg Chlba                    30  N4   NI  25062            200   400                                      3060
363 Hadh                          30  N14  N4  20ss2            300   410                                      2100
316.1W     e04manaoTmni.)         30  N4   NI  87430  39748            6oo                                     7420
a16b a    S04                     30  N4   M4  32063 40370            4tO                                      1160
sis5 Dar C2,Ihbh-O Abouche        3D  1N4   N4  32000 45351            700         16087   22 00    48 87      6600
318 T Rot                         30  NI  NI  17460  38380            10                                       1400
318 Ow Chbchou ME 003 Ntd)        30  N3   NI  11 0to   2504s          6o                                      3060
366 Ladin                         30  NI  NItJ 1368  2423?             300                                     2400
410CP2oIbatnSAIMSIkha            4A  N3   N4  126ts   39050  120  S60                                                            65t7
454 AW-e*0aOuwd Kau               4A  N3   NI  10S03  8t167  100   400               45?   1SM41    362s 6     am       3 60      684S     4 1O0
OS Rouhla-ThaIa                   60  N4    NI  34083 48394            86            80   34083    51076    o88 s 400    18403    17467
609 0PO Ag. Omb. um Hana          80  NS   N3  19088   23 763          1oo         2401   20057    26 I4        1687    2 0oo              1262D
882 Wt E HWl-4HIbh h                   N3   N3  21 33                  300                                     7443     0700
Tunis (On4
1o02 S To-Pont d4mt                    N3                3ss7                                                           1o 200
1003 8* Lakhdln. S Ikamlap             NI        30.00  49.06
IOs Owud ElaD&                    1   NI         17.60  26.50                      6434   19076   41478
lo04 Jebbes t O  SeW Youno        IC  N3         11.17  32.8?                                                   260                636
1056 WBatra Ojebol A _m            tA N3         17.22  2944                                                    647     4500       124
1401 SIdl Samn.eO, W GP 2         1 N N    N2                    soo                                           230      B000              t1 000
1402 MoknlN NI  12                                               1SD                                           1u1
146C E ha                         14J  NI3  N2                   200                                           177
146SABoul                              NI   12                   1oo                                           1266     2100               1340
1460 E3 dk                        I   N3   N2                  1000 - soo                            4369      1228
1404 Hemehil Chfhir               I   N3   N2                    250                                           2650     4500               12100
1403 Sbbaght                      I   NI3  N2                   300- I0
1457EIChoubra                     11   13  N2                    260                                           2113
TOTAL                                             16503 3a597                       6 029   18 983    38 e28    86 US    t 300   37 622    7843
A * at Appraind
NI-Now
Soun: OP90  and Utnisy od Agrculture



- 63 -
Table S: Rural Road Improvements and Related                                                    Page 3 of 3
Parameters for Economic Evaluation
Coa  per      'rafto   'Agd   Coot  IToW    Co"t    |Ppulon                   OjICU=  Z
Stwidwd  1  KUf MD)  Ipd)                par aDm)      per Ki  (D1)    |swd
PWad Nl&NVaG                       I    A    N     | A     _UN   IA   1N 4    A        14       A                  A         N        A
3rd Ofoup
Zaghouan
1St Jouft RVE w36                tI  N3   N3  24094  60 53         8  429                   20 094              2080               3 s5o
1162 0. Sidi Mrih                  1   N3   Na  18932 41 786   132  480             S8tt   18632    49982         co8                4430
t 16a MC KhadhrA-Nadh              11  N3   NS  20 000  41741    42  130                     20000 1o30                             3200
1164 RIOIe23GqaroTbThf&            IC        N3          25081   128  331
Naboul
1104 RVE 84                       11D  13   143  14635  23614           250                  1468                1660s              2820
1164 RVE t26                       10 N3   N3  13204  43470            160- ;       9378   13204    44842    2080                   1820
ttssGalay"uan                      1D  N3   N3  24 694 32130            100                  24 894               S80               1005
t16e R/5so0                        1 4 N2   N2  18667  a1331            100                  16867                800               2565
BSn Aroun
182JebbeTuIt                      1IE N3   N3  25 532 115601            800         82 302   26532    42 013   s8o         600       490
1163PFite Uornao                  1 EN3   N3            29916          700                                      600       700      1325
Jandouba
136t SouaIaHanwd                      4N3   N4  17948  209 S       60  300                   17 94               4870               4000
13820. UobIz                          4N3   N3   8706  37647    40  260                      8706                1880               16S"
t153 Stdilbt La                        NO   13  1648S  226 9       40  250                  1t458                1936               17S
11S7aA*acudha                     It  N2   144  16926  52S84    so  200             10 104    6S92    42467    2290                 14t0
ttSs Badrouna                     1a   N3   N3  20 000  60SW3   100  400                     20000               2120               2840
96S Oum Ezzid                      98s  N4   N4  34293             60  2E0                   34293               1416      2500     14t4
952 Dne BuAftld                   9S  N3   N3  19471  31 724    60  380                      19471   31724        s6e      W000      607
961 Bordl Baabala                  98  N3   N3  15091              110  460                  16091                689      3800      713
964 Oum1Hnl                        98  N4   NO  39 60              40  180                   30 600              S54       700       718
904 S. Uanout                      90  N3   NO  23 S6O 80  400                               23500               133       4000     1799
905 Bezina Jbel Bougamino          sc  NO   NO   17100  32266    70  350                     17100    32265      1690     4000      1O03
90Sb Kd Grab                       9C  N3   N3  26500 s0  600                                2S 600              1126      2600     2466
9s3 Jefta El Garbs                  C  NO   NS  166e7               60   00                   s 8867             689       2500     1116
Seja
I2n2bKmar K iazouar               1   N2   N4  100 o    31 S 8 01                            10 000             7nO                 1100
12St1Baldt mat                     a   N14   N4  29429  3i 247 > 100                       2a429                 3070               4380
1262 Kew H4addad& La Fare              NO   844  12138  47577 60-10C                         12120               2330               3470
1253 Ayayda Mergaga                    N3   N3  19373  41901 > 100                           19373               2910              s5O6
1264 T"tour-Ain Yount              2D  N3   NO  14671  21 69g  > 100                         14671               760                2030
1256 Ootgga4an&a MC                Z   N3   N4   9 60e   7817  > 100                5 978    96 s0     6613      2220               6000
1256 RVE 704 -705                 1   12   N2  14124  20 915 50-10                           14124               620                1800
267 Grtch iEl Oued                 a   N3   NO  13621  34 3s  > 100                          13621               1230               40t0
12J61HallSardoul                  12E N3   N2  13661  25878 > 100                            13ss1               1140               1470
1269 Medjez El Bab                 Z   N4   N4  3a272  610 7 60-1                           38 272               2640               2260
1280t M  29                       12i  13   N3  10 So  288 20 50-1                          10 s5o              810                 766
12e UC 131 E                      12  NO   N3  15 S13  34227 50-10(                         16513                U2                 1416
TOTAL                               _                 o19OS 360 3                            19 141   284 07S
A - at Apprai"ai
N - Now
Source: OPGC and Min"lq otfAgzkulturo



- 64 -
Table T: Miions
Page 1 of 2
_-                  -__ _                                       =       
Month)   No.of       Days in
Year     StaH        Fied        Specialization Represented      Pgs         Nature of Problems
Trogh             lin78     2          21          Highway Engineer
Appraisal                                          Economist
6/79     2           17          Highway Engineer
Ecoomis
4180     2           22          Highway Engineer
Economist
6/80      3          1I          Highway Engineer
Economit
AgricultUralist
21.S      3          23          Highway Engineer
Economist
Agronomist
5/S1     2           10          Highway Engir
Ecnomist
Apprs  _thg    6/81         4          18          Highway Engineer
Boaid Aroal                                        Economist
Soiologist
F;aCis Anayst
10/81    4          21          Highway Enginor
Economist
Agricut. Ext Specislist
Resarh Asistan
12/S1    1          6           Sociologist
1182     1          5           Highway Engineer
9/82     4           12          Highway Enginter                I
Economist (2)
Agronomist
2/83      1          1           Highwa BEgier                   2           Mnagemet
5lS3      3          2Z           iphway Eaginer                 I
Economist (2)
6S3       1          NA          Agroist                         NA          NA
3/84     4           10           ghway Engineer (2)             2           Disbu     t
Economist                                   Finances
Taffic Ssfety Expe                          Maagemen
8184      3          10          Highwa Engieer                  2           Disbusemean
Ecoomist                                    Finac
Traffic Safty Expert                        Manag_n|
10/84    2          4           Agronomist ()                   NA           NA
2/85     3           is          Hgway Engineer                  2           Disbrsemet
Economist                                   Finances
Agronomist                                  Managemen
9/s      3           20          Deuty Distict Chief             2           Didsbumut
Higbway Egieer                              Fin an
Economist                                   Mnagmna
12/85    2          10          Highway Enginr                  NA           NA
Ecoomist
7/86     2           13          Highway Engineer                2           Funances
Econmist                                    Managemt
2187      3          i3          Depqy Division Chif             2           Fnance
Highway  nin                                Mnagemet
Economist
5/7       1          7            Fnanci Anslyst                 NA          NA
7/87     2           5           Economit                        NA          NA
_ _Agronomist                  I           .
Note:  Days in field ame based on acl   days in field for thit participant in minsion who stayed the longest, not on days in field
spen on the project.



- 65 -
Table T: Missons
Page 2 of 2
MonibI   No.of      Day in
Yar      Saff       Filod       Spetio    R       _praad      R8tins       NaUe of Pwblem
Apprsal thmugh   10/87     1          S           Highway Engucr                  NA          NA
Bowsd Approval    2/88     2           10         Agroomist                       NA          NA
3/88     1          9           Highway Engier                 2            Filn , Man _a
s1/a8    3          14          Highwa Eqiar                   2            Finances, Maageeut
Economist (2)
2/89     3          9           Highwy Engiaer (2)              NA          NA
Ecomit
3189     3          7           Hiway Engineer                  NA          NA
Economist (2)
11/89    2          1 1         Highwy Eagine                  2            Fiaes Manageme
aEosomist
2n90     1          5           Hlghway Enginee                 NA          NA
5/90     2          5           Hghuwy Enginee                 2            Finanes, Mangement
Economist
9/90     1          6           Highway Engineer                NA          NA
11/90    1          12          Higw  Enginbeer                NA           NA
3191     1          6           Higway Egineer                  NA          NA
6/91     1          13          HIghiy Engir                    NA          NA
2/92     2          11          Highwy EBgie                    2           Fr .Mansgemcm
Economist
Soure: Bank filas
Note:  Days in field arc based on actual days in field for that participant in mission who styed the longesl not on days in fidd
spent on the projecL



- 66 -
Table U: Staff Inputs
(in person weeks)
Loan
Preparation   Appraisal    Negotiations   Processing   Supervision   PCR                Total
To FY83             48.6          41.2             4.6           7.6           10.8                       112.8
FY 84                                                                           5.3                        5.3
85                                                             .3           11.8                        12.1
86                                                             .2            6.0                        6.2
87                                                            1.2           10.1                        11.3
88                                                                           7.6                        7.6
89                                                                           6.9                        6.9
90                                                                           8.2                        8.2
91                                                                           3.7                        3.7
92                                                                           1.7                        1.1
93                                                                                       8              8.0
Totat                8.           41.2             4.6           9.3           72.1         a             183.8
Source: Bank Files



I  I    j    ,:   11  11  j X~~~~~~~~~~~I a 
l EL       1g1   I I I   ~~~~~~~ ~~I  i  ,
0  I  w I rl  {9HI   j  I   I 11 !l -"$
l l    1 | telS   I    I j   - _~~~~~~~WIS*W
!~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ i W MR 4 1:
j               1        i  I-Im"
aInp;mpS~~~~~~~~~~~s--:
-119                        .: 1. 1 _'l
I a I I I II             Iii            ___ -
.~~* K; __ .
npaq3S uops"mald!~~~5,     u .w.3 '
_~~~~~~~~          U*Ss _



-- - - - - -- --I- - - - - -                                                              --- - - -  -  -
B;    i           gE         i      1'    i  i          |i 1|                           E; sZ i, 
-I                                 - I   - - -'- --
-   i --------------                                                               -----------
ik~~~~~~~~~~*I
-----         -------------                  ---      ---     ----    - --1------------,--
- *  --           ----                              - - --    -  - 
--t-------~~~~~~~~~~~ - ------_______                             ------------__   ---_____.__1 ________  --------
_T~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _  _____ ____.__- __ ___________d_______._aX
-------------                   -i ------l'-- ------ -  ----t----- - -----------------j---   --- -- ---------- - 
1- ---.--- -t-                                             -                              L -                                             x
_______________________  a- a  -------_____.                                         -  -------------                         _        X
.,.t,.          
-!!!---!t--    - ------ - ----- -- ------- --------------- ---- ------ ----- ------ 
~~~~~St   ---                        ---  - __          ~,i--     - ---- -------- --- -------- ------ - --_----_-__________ ____ _   
_ 1j!',~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  - ------- ----- --- _ a
- ----  -o a--- ----                                                                                      -
- - - - - -  - -e     1 .5-     - -  -   -   - -  -   -   - -  -   -                          - --- - - - - - - - - - --     -
" !.i.... ee       e.e              e..e....- _



tOS          ~~~~~353           f-O'                V30C                                 30'30               I-I'W
TUNISIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(RURAL ROADS)
-37'                                                                                                                               370OW 
36s 30'                                                                                                                           36  30 -
3500'
34' 037~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3-0-
dosm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ oo-19
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OMA CON/X<'  AND
.s t /''s---Z 1ZR \~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a                                       ,{ n   IN   )  ;X 
..   ./7  g    \  /S  A      -      4    w-..  ab  \   'SX~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OAS CWSXX
> - -              y    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CMiSALTWAYIRLIMIS
\  'K> .                        -_                          W.
ALGIlI                                                            ,. /, f                                        5- - -
;<               %RY   .               g$- LIB_A   N,,,3-
900'                9-30                 0 93'X WI DA X
LUNISIA           o              10  20 J0  40  So lEE f
ALGERIA                              ,,,t,>_~                 ,                      2 
|         )                        sw"~ -                         TS<                                     / LIBYA
OD



