Document of                   FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FQk OFtICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3219-TUN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
February 26, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their oflicial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVAtENTS.
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (DT)
The exchange rate of the Tunisian Dinar is floating. The rate which
is used in the Staff Appraisal Report approximates the current rate. It
is;
US $ 1 = DT 0.513
DT 1 = US $ 1.95
DT 1 million = US $ 1.95 million
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNT - National Bank of Tunisia (Banque Nationale de Tunisie)
CRDA - Regional Agricultural Development Commission
(Commissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole)
CTV - Extension Work Center (Centre Territorial de Vulgarisation
Agricole)
DPC - Highway Department (Direction des Ponts et Chaussees)
GR   - Rural Engineering Department (G6nie Rural)
MA   - Ministry of Agriculture
MPF - Ministry of Planning and Finance
MPW - Ministry of Public Works
MTC - Ministry of Transport and Communications
ODA  - Official (bilateral) Development Assistance
PPAR - Project Performance Audit Report
SCM - Mutual Credit Guarantee Society (Societe de Caution
Mutuelle)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Tunisia Fifth Highway (Rural Roads)Project
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Tunisia
Beneficiaries:          Ministries of Public Works, Agriculture,
and Transport and Communications
Amount;                 US$35.5 million equivalent, including a
capitalized front-end fee.
Terms:                  17 years, including four years of grace at
interest rate of 11.6 percent per annum.
Project Description:   The project, which is a follow up to the Third
Highway (Rural Roads) Project, Loan 1601-TUN of
July 24, 1978, is designed to improve the level of
access and increase agricultural production in
rural areas in Tunisia. It consists of the
following components; (i) a three-year (1983-85)
program of rural road improvements; (ii) a program
of complementary investments and improvements in
agricultural extension and credit services;
(iii) a program of improved rural road
maintenance; (iv) a program of spot improvements
to feeder roads; (v) a road safety component
comprising equipping five vehicle inspection
stations; and (vi) technical assistance for
project preparation, implementation and
monitoring; agricultural extension training;
research on materials, construction techniques and
maintenance for unpaved roads; and a study of the
socio-economic, agricultural and transport impact
of rural roads. The main benefits of the project
would be in the form of assured and less expensive
transport of essential agricultural inputs and
crops, and increases in farm income and
employment. The main risk of the project lies in
the timely implementation of a variety of
investments and activities by a number of agencies
and on the pace of farmer response to improved
transport infrastructure, extension services and
access to credit. The institutional arrangements
and the comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
system, which will be introduced under the
project, minimize the risk.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii. -
Project Costs:                          Local             Foreign            Total
-------------US$ Million---------…--…--
Road works                               31.3              20.8               52.1
Buildings for extension services          1.2               0.5                1.7
Equipment for extension services          0.1               0.1                0.2
Irrigation works                          2.7                1.8               4.5
Spot improvements                         2.1               1.0                3.1
Short-term credit                         1.2                1.2               2.4
Medium and long-term credit               3.6                3.0               6.6
Vehicles for extension                    0.5                0.4               0.9
Vehicle inspection equipment              0.2               0.4                0.6
Overseas missions                          --               0.1                0.1
Technical assistance                      0.7                2.1               2.8
Subtotal                         43.6               31.4              75.0
Contingencies
Physical                                4.4               3.1                7.5
Price escalation                       12.6               9.2               21.8
Total project cost               60.6 /1            43.7             104.3 /1
Front-end fee                              -                0.5                0.5
Total financing required                 60.6              44.2              104.8
Financing Plan:                         Local             Foreign             Total
-------------…US$ Million--------------
Proposed Bank loan                        -                35.5               35.5
Government contribution                 55.3                 2.3              57.6
BNT                                      2.4                6.4                8.8
Farmers' contribution                    2.9                __                 2.9
Total                           60.6               W42               104.8
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY  1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988
-----------------US$ Million----------------
Annual                               0.6     5.2      10.5    11.0      6.8      1.4
Cumulative                          0.6      5.8      16,3    27.3    34.1    35.5
Rate of Return: 21 percent for first-year investments
Staff Appraisal Report: Report No. 3722-TUN, dated February 18, 1982.
Map Nos.:  IBRD  15916 (North)
IBRD  16145 (Center)
IBRD  16144 (South)
A Including $22.7 million in taxes and duties.



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE IBRD
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
1.       I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed Bank
loan to the Republic of Tunisia for US$35.5 million equivalent to help finance
a Fifth Highway (Rural Roads) Project. The loan, which includes a capitalized
front-end fee of 1.5 percent on the Bank loan, would be repaid over 17 years,
including 4 years of grace, with interest at 11.6 percent per annum.
.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       The last economic report entitled "Tunisia - Country Economic
Memorandum" (No.3399-TUN) was issued on September 15, 1981. An economic
mission visited Tunisia in October 1981 to review a draft of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86); this part reflects its preliminary findings.
Country Data sheets are attached in Annex I.
3.       Much of Tunisia is arid or semi-arid.  Only three percent of arable
land is irrigated, and areas where rainfed agriculture is possible are subject
to severe year-to-year fluctuation in rainfall. Tunisia's most important raw
materials are phosphates, petroleum, and natural gas; although the known
exploitable reserves of oil and gas are approaching depletion, and those of
phosphate deposits are of relatively low quality, there are recent promising
indications of new reserves, but it is too early to assess their exact poten-
tial. There is also considerable tourism potential, and efforts have been
made during the last decade to develop it rapidly.
4.       Since independence in 1956, Tunisia has undertaken a massive effort
towards development of its human resources, paying special attention to family
welfare, education, and technical and vocational training. As a result, the
infant mortality rate declined from 150 per thousand in the early 1960s to 90
per thousand at the end of the 1970s, the adult literacy rate increased from
under 15 percent to about 62 percent, and average caloric supply per capita
increased from about 80 to 112 percent of minimum standard requirements. The
sharp decrease in mortality rates was not fully compensated by the
simultaneous decrease in fertility and birth rates, despite an active family
planning policy pursued by the Government.  Therefore, the annual demographic
growth rate decreased only slightly from 2.6 percent in the 1960s to 2.4
percent in the 1970s. Moreover, after 1976, the net emigration of Tunisians
abroad was sharply reduced by restrictive measures taken in the EEC countries
and Libya. As a consequence, the residential population of 6.57 million by
the middle of 1981 exceeds the level projected five years earlier by 130,000.
5.       Agriculture still occupies nearly one out of every three Tunisians in
the labor force. To accelerate job creation, more than half of total invest-
ments of the Fifth Plan (1976-81) was allocated to directly productive
sectors, but the direct employment effects of the leading sectors (petroleum,
phosphate mining and processing, and tourism) are small. These sectors,
however, make a vital contribution to GDP, public savings, and exports. They



provided 65 percent of the country's foreign exchange earnings in 1980 while
manufacturing activities, except phosphate-based chemicals, provided 17
percent.
6.       Recent Economic Developments.  During the Fifth Plan the growth
performance differed from the impressive growth achieved from 1971 to 1976,
not so much in terms of overall growth (6.3 percent p.a. vs. 8.6 percent p.a.)
as in terms of the underlying growth factors; output in agriculture and in
food industries has grown on average below the demographic rate since 1976,
partially as a result of bad weather conditions; textile production declined
in 1978, and tourism development slowed down in 1977, both because of the
slump in European markets. By contrast, industry other than textiles,
particularly energy, phosphate processing, construction, and construction
materials, expanded at a fast pace.
7.       In spite of the considerable increase in domestic demand, partic-
ularly in investments, the balance of payments situation remained favorable
from 1976 to 1981. Imports in current prices grew at a slower pace than
exports, and the terms of trade improved significantly due to sharply higher
post-1974 export prices for crude oil. As a result, the resource gap remained
relatively small, and domestic savings financed on average over 76 percent of
investment, which increased from an average of 23 percent of GDP for 1972-76
to 30 percent of GDP for 1977-81. The current account deficit averaged $450
million per year (1977-81), and was easily financed; grant aid and private
investments (mainly for oil exploration) provided about 30 percent, while the
remainder was mainly covered by long-term foreign borrowing. Thus, during the
1970s total foreign debt increased little relative to GDP, and the debt
service ratio dropped.
8.       The public sector has played a major role in mobilizing and redistri-
buting domestic resources. Central Government revenues were equivalent to
about one-third of GDP on average for the Fifth Plan period, one of the
highest shares among middle-income countries. Over 30 percent of these
revenues was saved, and public savings financed close to two-thirds of total
Government capital expenditures. This comfortable public finance situation
permitted a rapid increase in subsidy payments to private consumers and public
enterprises. Such tranfers accounted for 16 percent of total current budget
outlays and over 4 percent of GDP in 1980.
9.        Open and hidden unemployment is the most serious problem for the
Tunisian economy at present. During 1977-81, although job creation objectives
were achieved in all non-agricultural sectors except construction, these
sectors could only absorb 70 percent of new job seekers at a time when migra-
tion to Libya and Europe decreased rapidly. The overall unemployment rate,
estimated at about 13 percent of the labor force in 1980, has therefore not
declined.
10.      Medium-term Prospects.  The main objectives of the Fifth Development
Plan will probably be achieved, except for the employment target. It is
estimated that the actual GDP growth will fall short by about 1 percent of the
planned rate of 7.3 percent p.a., while the investment objective of $9.8
billion in current prices, or 30 percent of GDP, will be fully met.
Completion of some large projects in the public sector (steel, expansion of
the oil refinery) has, however, been delayed. Private sector investments,
both foreign and national, will exceed Plan targets.



11.      The draft Sixth Development Plan (1982-86) has been prepared and
should be discussed by the newly elected Parliament in June 1982. The main
objectives are employment generation, export promotion, and more rapid growth
in the three least developed regions of the country (North-West, Center-West,
and South). Sectoral priority is to be given to agriculture, tourism, and
electrical and mechanical industries.
12.      The outlook for investment and growth during this period and beyond
will partly depend upon future developments in the oil and natural gas
sector. Based on known reserves, and with the possible exploitation of
smaller fields that recently became profitable, it is generally expected that
domestic oil and gas production would at best be stabilized after 1981 at
about its present annual level of 5-6 million tons of oil equivalent. Oil
and gas exploration programs under way have been encouraging but do not yet
justify a reassessment of proven reserves. Thus, barring large new oil or gas
discoveries, and given the rapid rise in domestic demand for energy, Tunisia
will have to face the consequences of a decline in energy revenues over the
next five years. The Government considers that the situation requires imme-
diate policy changes and is analyzing the most urgent ones to be included in
the Sixth Plan. By introducing these changes on time, Tunisia expects to
reduce the associated economic and social strains, and avoid major balance-
of-payments problems.
13.      The draft Sixth Plan recommends a GDP growth objective in the range
of 6.3 - 6.7 percent depending on agricultural performance. This growth rate
is in line with recent trends. Projected growth of traditional exports
(tourism, textiles, and phosphates-based chemicals) is insufficient to compen-
sate for the projected decline in oil export revenues; these exports would be
supplemented by new ones, in particular electrical and mechanical products.
Production diversification and export promotion will, however, take time to
bear fruit, given in particular, the depressed world market prospects. The
Plan strategy therefore rightly aims at containing domestic demand in order to
control import growth. The macroeconomic scenario assumes no improvement in
terms of trade, as was brought about by oil price rises in 1973-74 and in
1979-80. This would not only affect the external account but also result in
slower growth of domestic savings, particularly public savings.
14.      Consequently, the draft Sixth Plan projects a drop in the fixed
*          investment rate from 30 percent of GDP in 1977-81 to about 26 percent for the
Plan period. This would still imply an increase of 24 percent in constant
prices relative to the Fifth Plan investment. A major objective is to correct
recent capital intensive biases in projects by appropriate sectoral allocation
of investments. More resources would be allocated to small and medium manu-
facturing enterprises in the underdeveloped regions, in order to ease the
unemployment problem, and reduce income disparities between rural and urban
areas. Since June 1981, a new set of policy measures has targeted the incen-
tive system toward this objective. The Investment Code was modified to offer
free industrial zones and direct subsidies to job creation for new projects
in underdeveloped zones, and a Promotion Fund for Handicrafts and Household
Workshops was created. In order to promote a more efficient technical and
financial management of the public and private modern sector, the draft Plan
assigns a major role in project promotion and supervision to an expanded net-
work of new Development Banks (two opened in 1981 and three are planned for



1982); they are to be joint ventures with foreign investors, and should
alleviate the pressure on the budget to finance too large a share of public
investments.
15.      Increasing budgetary constraints will require a reassessment of the
present policies of subsidies for energy, basic foodstuffs, transportation,
and public sector enterprises. In addition, interest rate policy and a
better-adjusted fiscal system should be used to restrain final consumption,
and stimulate savings. As a first encouraging step in 1981, sizeable price
increases in energy and animal feed products were Lmplemented, and the whole
interest rate structure was revised upward, rates on saving accounts and term
deposits being increased by 1.5 to 2 points. Wage and salary policies will
have to keep labor cost increases (including social costs chargeable to
enterprises) in line with productivity increases, particularly since Tunisia
wants to stimulate tourism, and improve its international competitiveness.
16.      Social Issues.  Tunisia's social performance has been impressive
since independence, and the country has come a long way towards meeting the
basic needs of its population and reducing absolute poverty. About 16 percent
of GDP is now devoted to social programs. However, unemployment among the
young, and regional pockets of poverty still present serious social problems.
17.      Recently published data show that the continued attention of the
Government to poverty oriented social programs resulted in a reduction of the
ratio of people under a minimum standard income from 17 percent of the total
population in 1975 to 13 percent in 1980. During this period, the overall
number of this group declined in urban areas but increased in some rural zones
in the center of the country, as a consequence of poor agricultural perform-
ance. Income differentials between the coast (East) and the interior (West)
widened, in part because the system of price controls and subsidies as well as
the budgetary expenditures had a weak redistributive impact. The Government
is using the forthcoming Plan to focus on the most deprived zones, with a view
to eradicating poverty before the end of this century. Reducing the demo-
graphic growth rate is considered an important factor in this endeavor.
18.      Education expenditures rank first among budgetary outlays.  The
comprehensive education system provides free access to all students, and the
gross enrollment rate has reached 100 percent for primary education, and 22
percent for secondary education. The performance of the system could, how-
ever, be improved by expanding vocational training programs, improving their
relevance and responsiveness to labor demand, and to the special needs of the
poor and rural groups.
19.      Public health services are second among social expenditures, and
their overall beneficial effect is reflected in the improvement of the vital
statistics (para. 4). There remain, however, regional disparities in the
availability of hospital beds, doctors and nursing personnel; health services
have concentrated largely on curative medicine, and the medical referral
system is not functioning properly. As a result, the rural poor are often
excluded. Closely linked to nutritional deficiencies, infant mortality
remains high relative to middle-income countries.



20.      In the draft Sixth Plan, investment in education, health, housing
and water supply is focussed more on deprived areas, provided at lower costs
(health, shelter), and made more relevant to the needs of the economy (train-
ing). In education, two reforms are under discussion: the first one would
provide a nine-year schooling period for all children, and the second would
create polytechnical high schools combining basic and technical education.
In health, the draft Sixth Plan allocates more resources to preventive
medicine and nutrition education. Finally, as regards housing, public sub-
sidized programs will be directed to the neediest population groups. The
housing demand from households above the minimum standard income limit could
be satisfied by the private sector; to this end, adequate incentives need to
be provided.
21.      External Assistance and Foreign Debt.  As mentioned above, the growth
of foreign borrowing was modest during the second half of the 1970s, and a
growing share of foreign funds was provided by public sources at relatively
soft terms. During the 1977-80 period, foreign loan commitments averaged
about $700 million per annum, 62 percent of which in the form of official
development assistance (ODA). About 65 percent of ODA commitments came from
bilateral sources, chiefly France, the Federal Republic of Germany, Canada,
and some oil-surplus countries.   About 24 percent of total ODA was committed
by the Bank Group, and some 11 percent by other multilateral sources.
Borrowing terms were favorable, averaging 5.8 percent interest and 18.5 years
maturity, including a grace period of 5 years. At the end of 1980, debt
outstanding and disbursed was estimated at about $3.4 billion, or 40 percent
of GDP; debt service was 12 percent of exports of goods and services, as
compared with 17.7 percent in 1970.
22.      The current account deficit may exceed $450 million in 1981, and is
projected to grow to about $1 billion in 1986. New loan commitments from
abroad, projected at one billion dollars per year on average (at present
dollar exchange rates), should not be difficult to obtain, with ODA providing
half of the total. Leaving aside the possibility of major oil and gas dis-
coveries, and assuming oil prices continue to increase modestly in real terms,
external debt service could reach 13 percent of total export revenues in 1986.
23.      These relatively favorable prospects would depend on a timely imple-
mentation of the already mentioned policy changes to curb domestic demand,
promote exports, and improve public sector savings. It should be noted,
however, that the draft Sixth Plan recommends a low growth scenario in order
to preserve the country's relatively high financial stability and credit-
worthiness.  This objective is even more crucial if the country is to succeed
in mobilizing the large inflows of direct foreign capital assumed in the
Plan. Foreign investments were small during most of the 1970s but have gained
momentum during the last three years in line with increased activities in the
oil sector, and new incentives offered to foreign investors in manufacturing.
Such investments have increased from $50 million in 1976 to about $200 million
in 1981, and have been equivalent to 10 percent of total investments for
1977-81. The draft Plan's growth scenario estimates that about 15 percent of
total investment could be financed by foreign capital, equivalent to an annual
inflow of $400 million. The newly created Development Banks (para. 14) are
expected to play a significant role in this context.



- 6 -
24.      In conclusion, the balance-of-payments outlook can be considered
favorable in the medium term. In the longer term, much will depend on the
policy changes to be initiated during the next few years, and on developments
in the hydrocarbon sector. Considering its long record of prudent and skill-
ful balance-of-payments and external debt management, there are good grounds
to assume that Tunisia will formulate and implement the necessary policy
changes, and will continue to be creditworthy for future Bank lending. The
Bank's close dialogue with the Government on several policy aspects at the
macro and micro levels will be pursued in connection with the preparation of
the Sixth Development Plan.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN TIJNISIA
25.      Since 1962,  the Bank has committed to Tunisia forty-eight loans and
eleven IDA credits amounting respectively to $933.7 million and $70.1 million
(net of cancellations) of which twenty-one loans and nine credits have been
fully disbursed. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA
credits and IFC investments as of September 30, 1981, and notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. Project implementation is generally satis-
factory. As of June 30, 1981, overall disbursements amounted to 66.1 percent
of appraisal estimates, which is slightly above the regional average. In a
number of sectors, important institutional improvements have been achieved,
and autonomous agencies have been created or strengthened to ensure the effi-
cient management of the related sectors or subsectors.
26.      The Bank's lending strategy in Tunisia aims at supporting Government
efforts to:  (a) increase employment; (b) encourage more balanced growth
and distribution of income among regions and income groups with particular
emphasis on rural areas; (c) promote export-oriented policies and investments;
and (d) provide selective support for the development of basic infrastructure
and for institution building in key public services. An important feature of
this strategy is to support the Tunisian authorities in the timely and well-
coordinated preparation of projects through missions and advice by Bank staff,
the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, and the use of the Bank's
Project Preparation Facility. The Bank is also supporting the Government in
its efforts to increase the mobilization of domestic resources, and to secure
cofinancing for the projects it assists. The latter is particularly important
in view of the extent of Tunisia's external resource needs.
27.      Within this broad framework, past lending emphasized support for
long-term investments in infrastructure and social development. Lending for
urban and social development, including water supply, sewerage, education,
health, urban development, and the Tunis planning and public transport project
has accounted for 25 percent of Bank/IDA commitments in Tunisia since 1971.
Lending for transport, power and tourism infrastructure has accounted for 33
percent. Agriculture and fisheries have received 25 percent, and industrial
and hotel financing, mostly through the Banque de Developpement Economique de
Tunisie (BDET), 17 percent of total commitments.
28.      In line with its lending strategy, the Bank will pursue its efforts
in key sectors of the economy that offer prospects for economic and social
development. It will also assist projects which enhance regional integration,



- 7 -1
and help reduce the gap between income groups, and between urban and rural
areas. Particular attention will be paid to employment creation, institution
building, and agricultural development. In addition to the proposed highway
project focusing on rural roads and a line of credit to BDET with special
emphasis on the development of electrical and mechanical industries, which
will be distributed to the Executive Directors shortly, the Bank is actively
considering a project in support of the 1984-86 investment programs for rural
areas and house connections of the national water supply agency (SONEDE), a
project aimed at improving irrigation and marketing facilities in the Medjerda
and Nebhana irrigation perimeters, and a project to provide technical
assistance for project preparation. Other projects under consideration would
focus on energy, urban development and education.
29.      The Bank's economic and sector work will continue to focus on
strengthening the macroeconomic and sector base for our lending program; it
will be more centered in the future on the analysis of economic issues and
policies related to the necessary adaptation process from a petroleum export-
ing to a petroleum importing country. A 1980 Bank report on the mechanical
and electrical industries (Report No. 2666-TUN of June 4, 1980) assessed the
country's industrial development policies and prospects in these subsectors.
Also in 1980, the Bank report on the social aspects of development (Report No.
2950-TUN of June 18, 1980) provided a better understanding of income
disparities by evaluating the Government's social policies aimed at poverty
alleviation. Future economic and sector work will include a review of pricing
and subsidy policies in the rural sector, of the Sixth Plan, and of the
agricultural, education and training, urban and energy sectors.
30.      The Bank and IDA accounted for about 12 percent of total public com-
mitments to Tunisia during 1970-1979. Their share in total debt outstanding
and disbursed at the end of 1979 (including loans from private sources) was
10, percent and their share in debt service during 1979 was 11 percent. The
shares of the Bank and IDA in Tunisia's disbursed external debt is expected to
decrease to about 7 percent by 1986, and their share in the debt service would
increase to about 16 percent.
31.      IFC has invested in NPK Engrais (a fertilizer plant), in BDET, in
Compagnie Financi4re et Touristique (COFIT, a company to promote and invest
in tourism projects), in Societe Touristique et Hoteliare RYM (a large hotel
development), in Industries Chimiques du Fluor, which produces aluminium
fluoride from local fluorspar for export, and in the Sousse-Nord integrated
tourism development project. IFC's net commitments in Tunisia total $12
million, as of September 30, 1981.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT AND AGRICULTURAL SECTORS
32.      Road transport is the dominant mode for both freight and passengers
and its share of total transport demand has been increasing steadily over the
years. Efficient road transport is critical to rural and agricultural
development, especially for the timely provision of inputs, marketing,
communications and improving rural mobility. Although generally adequate in
coverage, much of the primary road network requires rehabilitation and
modernization, and in rural areas the road network is in poor condition.
Rural roads are defined as roads outside urban areas carrying predominantly
agricultural traffic, irrespective of their administrative classification.
Although many road improvements would be justified on transport cost savings
alone, by themselves and without the provision of the complementary
agricultural investments and services they would have limited impact on
agricultural production. Support services and credit are needed particularly
by lower income farmers, to increase agricultural production.



-8-
Transport
33.      The Transport Sector.  A detailed description of the transport sector
is contained in Bank Reports No. 2641b-TUN of December 1979 and No. 2810-TUN
of April 1980. Since modes of transport other than road transport have little
direct impact on rural development, no reference is made to them in the
following sector analysis.
34.      Public road transport in Tunisia is provided by two national
companies, one providing passenger transport, the other freight transport, and
by twelve regional companies providing both passenger and freight services.
In addition, many firms and industrial enterprises operate own-account fleets
for specific commercial activities. A large number of private
owner-operators, utilizing small trucks--up to 3.5 ton capacity for general
cargo and up to 5 tons for agricultural produce--fall outside restrictive
regulatory policies. These small private truckers provide most of the
transport services in rural areas and, where competition is keen, benefits
accruing to them through improved roads are passed on in part to users.
35.      The transport system comprises some 17,000 km of classified roads, of
which about one-half are paved, and about 14,000 km of unclassified tracks.
Most of the unpaved network was never properly engineered or constructed and
therefore many roads cannot be adequately maintained without improvement to
minimum standards. Many tracks are muddy and impassable during winter. These
conditions provide a major constraint to rural and agricultural development in
Tunisia. Where poor access conditions exist, extension, credit and marketing
activities are not carried out effectively, and the timely delivery of
critical inputs to farmers is often hindered. Social welfare is affected by
inadequate access to schools, health, and administrative facilities.
36.      Transport Administration.  The Ministry of Transport and
Communications (MTC) is responsible for overall organization of the transport
sector, including the coordination and regulation of land transport and the
establishment of transport rates. Subsectoral planning; is the responsibility
of the individual modal agencies including the Highway Department (DPC) of the
Ministry of Public Works (MPW) which is also in charge of the construction and
maintenance of the road network. It operates through 19 road subdivisions,
one for each province. The subdivisions carry out routine maintenance on
force account, while surface dressing of paved roads is carried out by
national brigades controlled from headquarters. DPC uses the services of
competent Tunisian consultants on an intermittant basis.
37.      Construction works and major periodic maintenance are normally
carried out under unit price contracts which are awarded after competitive
bidding. Many contractors, both foreign and local, operate in Tunisia and
provide effective competition. Small contracts (up to $5 million) are usually
won by Tunisian contractors, while larger contracts are frequently won by
joint ventures of foreign and local contractors. Construction supervision is
carried out by DPC engineers with the assistance of its laboratory. However,
in the case of large, special projects, consultants' services are used.
Although supervision is generally satisfactory, experience gained under the
Bank-assisted Third Highway (Rural Roads) project has shown that supervision



-9-
undertaken by the subdivisions needs reinforcement to provide the flexibility
required with rural road construction activities. This issue is being
addressed under the proposed project with the provision of consultants'
services to supplement DPC's own supervision capabilities (para. 60).
38.      Inadequate subsectoral capabilities and insufficient overall
coordination have resulted in some distortions in the implementation of
transport investments in recent years. High priority has been placed on
several major construction projects as well as on the development of air
transport and maritime shipping, with corresponding high foreign exchange
expenditures and limited short-term benefits. The overall result has been a
delay in urgent programs for rehabilitation and maintenance of road and
railway infrastructure, with implementation of only part of the initial
rehabilitation plan at a higher cost than envisaged for the entire program.
Although most of the line agencies are aware of these problems, the Ministry
of Planning and Finance (MPF) has been unable to allocate the investment
budget on a rational basis as there is no prior arbitration of investment
proposals by MTC. For this reason, the Government has recently established a
planning unit in MTC with technical assistance financed under the Bank's
Fourth Highway Project. This unit is providing a close investment analysis
and continuous monitoring of develoments in the transport sector.
39.      In order to assure maintenance of roads improved under the Rural
Roads project, in 1980 DPC obtained from MPF a new item in the 1981 recurrent
budget specifically for the maintenance of roads improved under the program.
Together with the Fourth Highway project, which is addressing improved
maintenance of the entire road network, DPC's capability is being developed to
maintain both the paved and improved unpaved roads to satisfactory levels of
service. To support these levels, real increases of ten percent annually in
the recurrent maintenance budget have been established. Total road user
revenues from vehicle registration fees, various excise taxes and customs
duties amount to about $160 million annually, which is more than twice the
current level of investment and maintenance expenditures on road
infrastructure. The recurrent maintenance budget, together with allocations
for the maintenance of roads improved under the rural roads program is
commensurate with the maintenance tasks required for the increasing volume of
improved roads each year.
Agriculture
40.      The Agricultural Sector.  During the 1970s, agriculture grew at about
3 percent per year, compared to 1 percent per year in the 1960s. Nevertheless,
the sector's relative share in the economy is declining (from 24 percent of
GDP in 1972 to 15 percent in 1980) mainly due to a more rapid expansion of
mining, petroleum, and industrial production. Agriculture now provides about
one third of total employment, against about one half in 1972. Agriculture's
share in total investment (public and private) has remained constant at about
14 percent during the 1970s. About one-third of Tunisia's total land area, or
about 5.2 million ha., is cultivable; the remainder is range land suitable for
grazing, or low-yielding forest and desert. About 165,000 ha. are irrigated.
41.      A primary objective of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81), which
will continue under the Sixth Plan (1982-86), is the achievement of
self-sufficiency in major foodstuffs. Aside from agro-ecological factors and
the poor condition of rural roads, the main constraints on agricultural
development are; (i) input and output prices and subsidies have little



- 10 -
incentive effects; (ii) the organization and management of the sector and its
Services are deficient, particularly in relation to research, extension and
credit; (iii) soil conservation needs strengthening; (iv) the strategy for
i.vestock development is too narrow; and (v) land tenure issues restrict
effective utilization.
42.      Agricultural Services.  Overall responsibiity for agricultural
planning and development lies with the Ministry of Agriculture (MA).
Agricultural services are organized at the provincial level in Regional
Agricultural Development Commissions (CRDAs), which provide agricultural
extension to farmers, undertake forest management and planting, assist the
National Bank of Tunisia (BNT) in appraising loan applications, collect
statistics, and coordinate the work of various public organizations involved
in agriculture at the provincial level. In practice, the CRDAs have been
limited by cumbersome administrative procedures and by a lack of autonomy in
dealing with investments and project implementation. Recent legislation,
which has given greater autonomy to the CRDAs, is expected to increase their
capacity to handle investments and to implement projects. In addition to the
CRDAs, special development authorities (Offices) have been created to handle
specific agricultural activities and projects, mainly those concerned with
irrigation or with particular development strategies designed for well-defined
areas. This approach offers particular advantages for projects where cost
recovery is an important element and where integrated project activities may
extend over parts of several provinces.
43.      Agricultural extension is provided by three departments in the
Ministry of Agriculture: The Department of Training, Research and Extension,
which is responsible for training, research and mass media communications, the
Crop Production Department and the Livestock Production Department. The
latter two departments supervise extension operations. At the provincial
level, agricultural extension agents are attached to the CRDAs. In addition,
extension is provided by the semi-autonomous Cereal Board and by certain
project development authorities, particularly on irrigation projects.
Weaknesses in extension services have been partly responsible for the slow
growth in agricultural production and for low rates of use of recommended
inputs. The Government is aware of the shortcomings and has begun to
reinforce extension activities under the Plan by consolidating them into a new
system based on work centers (CTVs) from which a single agent has direct
contact with a small group of farmers. The Rural Roads project is assisting
the Government in this program by financing equipment and buildings in those
areas served by project roads and by initiating a communications training
program for extension agents. This assistance has been integrated within a
broad national scheme for improving agricultural extension, which is expected
to be given high priority under the new Sixth Plan.
44.      The Government-owned National Bank of Tunisia (BNT) is the main
supplier of agricultural credit. BNT provides short-term loans for annual
inputs on which guarantees are usually provided by local mutual credit
guarantee societies (SCMs) in the case of small farmers, as well as medium-and
long-term loans. The short-term credit program operates effectively and
provides critical seasonal inputs to a wide range of farmers. BNT's medium-
and long-term credit program suffers from a number of weaknesses, such as
inadequate coverage particularly of small farmers, and low loan recovery. The



- 11 -
Bank-assisted Third Agricultural Credit project addresses some of these
weaknesses by strengthening of regional staff and decentralization of credit
procedures. In addition, legislative action simplifying procedures for
obtaining land titles for long-term credit have resulted in improvements in
the provision of agricultural credit. The Government is continuing to seek
other ways to improve the credit system, including the establishment of a
specialized agricultural lending institution.
Previous Bank Involvement in the Transport and Agricultural Sectors
45.      The Third Highway (Rural Roads) project (Loan 1601 of $32 million of
July 1978) started an integrated program, with direct benefits for the
agricultural sector, by improving about 1,000 km of rural roads. Implemen-
tation of complementary agricultural investments and extension services lagged
initially but is now proceeding satisfactorily. Progress on the road construc-
tion component of the project has been excellent with about 800 km of the
program committed. All of the highway maintenance equipment financed under
the project has been procured and a special recurrent maintenance budget
established. During 1980/81 construction began on 23 extension centers and
agents have been assigned to the respective areas, 50 vehicles and
miscellaneous equipment were procured, and a training program was established
on techniques of rural communications. The balance of the extension program
will be implemented through 1983 completing the construction and equipment of
50 additional centers. Extension agents have contacted all farmers for the
purposes of the agricultural credit program. In 1980, some 1,560 short-term
loans were made in the areas of Kef, Siliana, Nabeul and Kairouan,
representing a three-fold increase over previous levels. Up to September 30,
1981, some 660 medium- and long-term loans were approved in these areas,
representing at least a two-fold increase in credit disbursed.
46.      The First and Second Highway projects (Loans 746 of $24 million and
1188 of $28 million of June 1971 and January 1976, respectively), and the
First Railway project (Loan 606/Credit 150 of $17 million of June 1969)
focused on modernization and rehabilitation of primary and secondary roads,
and renewal of track and railway equipment. Although execution of the First
Highway project was satisfactory, only about half of the roads were
rehabilitated due to cost increases (PPAR No. 2772, December 26, 1979). The
First Railway project was completed successfully (PPAR No. 2109, June 23,
1978). Implementation of the Second Highway project is behind schedule due to
problems of property acquisition and local financing, but the Government has
now developed a satisfactory financing and execution plan for the balance of
the project. A Fourth Highway project (Loan 1841 of $36.5 million of May
1980) is helping the Government in improving highway planning, maintenance,
rehabilitation and safety. Two loans in the port sub-sector (Loans 380 of $7
million, and 573 of $8.5 million of June 1964 and November 1968, respectively)
provided support facilities for port operations, mainly dredging, maintenance
operations and cargo handling equipment. The Second Port project included the
construction of the 30,000-ton bulk port silo at La Goulette. Both these
projects were implemented successfully and had an important institution-
building effect (PPAR No. 1049, February 26, 1979). A Third Port project
(Loan 1797 of $42.5 million of February 1980) assists the Government in
modernizing berth facilities at the ports of La Goulette and Sfax and in
providing support facilities for improved port operations.



- 12 -
47.      Bank Group lending for agriculture in Tunisia started in 1967 and to
date, eleven projects have been approved for a total of $243.7 million of
Bank/IDA funds. They include three irrigation projects (Irrigation
Rehabilitation in the Lower Medjerda and Nebhana Valleys - Loan 1068 of $12.2
million of December 1974; the Sidi Salem Multipurpose project - Loan 1431 of
$42 million of July 1977; and the Southern Irrigation project - Loan 1796 of
$25 million of February 1980), two fisheries projects (Credit 270 of $2
million of September 1971, and Loan 1746 of $28.5 million of July 1979), a
Cooperative Farm project (Loan 484/Credit 99 of $18 million of February 1967),
three agricultural credit projects (Loan 779/Credit 263 of $8 million of July
1971, and Loans 1340 of $12 million of December 1976, and 1885 of $30 million
of August 1980), one rainfed project (Northwest Rural Development Project -
Loan 1997 of $24 million of July 1981), and a Grain Distribution and Storage
Project (Loan 2052 of $42 million of October 1981).
48.      Performance of these projects has been mixed.,  Implementation of the
irrigation projects has been the most satisfactory. The First Fisheries
project was completed at the end of 1979 with considerable delay and the local
institution lending for boats (BNT) experienced low loan recoveries. The
problems were addressed under the Second Fisheries project after agreement was
reached on a strategy for improving recoveries. The Cooperative Farm project,
which was designed to develop production cooperatives as part of a 10-year
national program of agrarian reform, was delayed by technical, managerial,
financial and institutional problems. It was revised in 1970, and an amount
of $8.8 million cancelled. At completion in 1973, most of the project
objectives, namely those relating to productivity, production, worker incomes,
and institutional viability, were attained (Project Performance Audit Report -
PPAR - No. 968, January 8, 1976). The First Agricultural Credit project
financed BNT-lending for farm machinery, dairy development, date palm
plantations, and dairy processing, but was not fully disbursed until 34 months
after the original Closing Date, because BNT lent Bank group funds at a higher
interest rate than Government funds. Although the project achieved a good
rate of return, livestock development did not yield th,e benefits expected, and
dairy processing suffered major cost overruns (PPAR No. 2497, May 11, 1979).
Under the Second Agricultural Credit project, emphasis has been on the
standardization of credit procedures and conditions and on reinforcing BNT's
regional staff. The need to continue decentralization of credit procedures
and to speed up loan processing is being pursued under the Third Agricultural
Credit project.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
49.      The proposed project is a follow-up to the Third Highway (Rural
Roads) Project, Loan 1601-TUN, of July 24, 1978. It continues the same
general approach developed for that project, combining road improvements and
complementary agricultural investments in integrated programs for specific
rural roads and the agricultural areas they serve. Mcdifications have been
made based on lessons learned during implementation of the ongoing project.
The proposed project was identified in July 1977 and has been prepared by the
Highway Department (DPC) and the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) with the



- 13 -
assistance of consultants and of Bank preparation missions. Appraisal took
place in June 1981. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C. in February,
1982. The Tunisian delegation was led by Mr. M'hamed Soula, Director General
in the Ministry of Public Works, and included Mr. Benhassine of the Ministry
of Planning and Finance. The Staff Appraisal Report (No. 3722-TUN of February
18, 1982) is being distributed separately. The main features of the project
are summarized in the Loan and Project Summary and in Annex III. Maps showing
the location of the roads to be improved under the project are also attached.
Project Objectives
50.      The project would improve the level of access and increase
agricultural production in rural areas in Tunisia. Specifically, the project
is designed to; (i) raise the level of service provided by project roads to a
minimum "all weather" standard, commensurate with forecast traffic; (ii)
increase agricultural production within the zones of influence of the project
roads; (iii) help improve standards of living in rural areas by providing
better access to social and administrative services; (iv) improve the
capability of the road maintenance organization so that project roads continue
to provide the desired level of service; (v) enhance the benefits of the
project roads by improving connecting feeder roads in the zones of influence;
and (vi) strengthen the institutional framework by continuing to assist
project preparation, implementation and monitoring, together with some applied
research.
Project Description
51.      The project would consist of:
(i)   a three-year program (1983-85) of rural road improvements;
(ii)  a program of complementary investments, extending over the same
period for agricultural extension and over five years for credit
services (1983-87);
(iii) a program of improved rural road maintenance;
(iv)  spot improvements to feeder roads;
(v)   equipment for four vehicle inspection stations in provincial
centers and one in Tunis; and
(vi)  technical assistance for project preparation, supervision and
monitoring; agricultural extension training; research on
materials, construction techniques and maintenance techniques
for unpaved roads; and a study of the socio-economic,
agricultural and transport impact of rural roads.
Rural Road Improvement Program
52.      Road improvements would consist of upgrading, particularly drainage
and surfacing, generally along existing alignments, to standards which have
been developed in the light of experience with the ongoing Rural Roads
project. The overall program would cover about 100 road sections totalling



- 14 -
some 1,200 km. A firm plan of operations has been established for the first
year as well as provisional plans for the second and third years. In defining
the overall road program, due attention was given to regional balance as well
as to economic priorities. Annual plans are subject to modification according
to needs and priorities during project implementation., Revised annual plans
for rural road improvement will be presented to the Bank for prior review
(para. 69). In submitting sub-projects for inclusion under the second and
following years of the program, the Government would provide: (i) a
feasibility report for each road including preliminary engineering and
construction costs, estimates of present and future traffic and an assessment
of agricultural development as well as the complementary investments necessary
to achieve the forecast production increases; and (ii) extension guidelines,
farm budget analyses and implementation data for the agricultural component.
Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the agreed procedures and
criteria will be followed in preparing and submitting sub-projects for Bank
approval (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (c)). Assurances were also obtained
that all rural roads improved under the project and all other improved rural
roads would be maintained at appropriate service levels (Loan Agreement,
Section 4.04).
Complementary Agricultural Investments
53.      These investments would follow the same general lines as those now
being implemented under the ongoing project. Two closely related elements are
required to achieve the goal of increased production in the zones of influence
of the project roads, first to improve the extension services to farmers, and
second to improve farmers' access to credit.
54.      Extension.  Detailed extension programs for the zones of influence of
each road in the project area have been developed for those roads scheduled
for construction in the first year and will be developed for each road to be
improved in the subsequent years. In line with the national program for
improving extension services, extension centers serving the project areas
would receive priority in the assignment of extension agents. The Bank will
assist by financing the foreign exchange costs of constructing about 55
extension centers and providing the equipment and vehicles required for the
new centers. The program of training in communications, initiated under the
ongoing project, will be continued to maintain the impetus developed.
Together with improved accessibility, these activities will improve the timely
and proper use of inputs necessary to support increased agricultural
production.
55.      Credit.   Adequate provision of agricultural credit to farmers is
essential to the success of the project.  For the ongoing Rural Roads project,
credit was included as an integral part of the project. Short-term credit was
wholly financed by the National Bank of Tunisia (BNT), while medium- and
long-term credit was financed under the Bank's Second and Third Agricultural
Credit Loans to BNT. For the proposed project, agricultural credit needs have
been similarly identified in detail and their satisfaction is an important
element of the project. Agricultural credit would continue to be administered
by BNT, but credit financing would not be restricted to any particular credit
program or source. While no credit financing would be included under the
loan, assurances were obtained from the Government and BNT that adequate
credit would be made available for the project (Loan Agreement, Section 3.02).



- 15 -
56.      Infrastructure.  In addition to on-farm investments which would be
suitable for credit financing, project preparation has identified modest rural
infrastructure works which could be part of investment packages on certain
project roads. These investments include the construction and rehabilitation
of small irrigation schemes as well as small dams for irrigation purposes.
The Ministry of Agriculture's Rural Engineering Department (GR) would be
responsible for their preparation and implementation and each scheme would be
subject to detailed design and economic assessment. These works would be
included as part of the annual operations plans to be submitted for Bank
review (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(b)).
Improved Maintenance Program
57.      The proposed project addresses continued development of the
capability to maintain unpaved roads. Improved maintenance operations will be
specified as part of the annual operations plans to be reviewed and commented
upon by the Bank (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03(b)).
Spot Improvement Program
58.      The project includes a program of spot improvements on feeder roads
located within the zones of influence of the roads improved under the rural
roads program. The proposed improvements, primarily for drainage structures
at low points along the roads, would be constructed by small local contractors
experienced in masonry and concrete work. The proposed program for each year
would be included in the operations plan to be submitted to the Bank for
review and comment. By implementing a systematic, planned program at DPC
subdivision level, an important institution-building effect would be achieved.
Road Safety
59.      The Fourth Highway (Maintenance) project included a small component
for improving road safety in Tunisia through a program of improved traffic
signs and pavement markings. The proposed project would continue to
contribute to improved safety on highways by equipping four vehicle inspection
stations in provincial centers and one heavy commercial vehicle inspection
station in Tunis.
Technical Assistance
60.      About 325 man-months of consulting services would be provided under
the project to assist;
(i) the Highway Department (DPC) with the preparation of feasibility
studies, detailed designs and contract documents and supervision
of improvements to roads under the project, and with preparation
of guidelines for regional engineers for implementing the spot
improvement program;
(ii) the Ministry of Agriculture (MA) in the preparation of detailed
extension programs and credit needs projections for the zones of
influence of roads;



- 16 -
(iii) DPC and MA in project preparation for the next phase of rural
road improvements;
(iv) DPC and MA with project auditing and monitoring, and
evaluation of the socio-economic, agricultural and transport
impacts of the project;
(v)   MA with training for extension agents, including short training
missions overseas;
(vi) DPC in carrying out a study of materials, construction and
maintenance techniques for unpaved roads in Tunisia; and
(vii) DPC in the preparation of a program of road rehabilitation.
In addition, fellowships would be provided to MA and DPC staff for short
training missions overseas. Employment of qualified specialists included
under the technical assistance program on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Bank was agreed during negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.04).
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
61.      Total project costs are estimated at $104.3 million, of which $43.7
million is in foreign exchange. The local cost component of $60.6 million
includes $22.7 million in taxes and duties. Physical contingencies of ten
percent of base cost have been allowed on all project component items.
Contingency allowances for price escalation were calculated for each year of
the planned implementation schedule and overall represent 26 percent of base
line costs plus physical contingencies. Price escalation, both for local and
foreign costs, is estimated at 8.5 percent in 1982, 7.5 percent in each year
from 1983 to 1985, and 6 percent in 1986 and 1987. Estimates for civil works
are based on unit prices for recent contracts in Tunisia and experience under
the ongoing project, adjusted to January 1982 levels. Estimates for equipment
and agricultural inputs are based on recent Tunisian prices updated to January
1982 levels. The estimates for spot improvements are based on sample studies
on roads included in the ongoing project and updated to January 1982 levels.
The technical assistance cost estimates are based on recent rates for
consulting services in Tunisia, considering the likely mix of local and
expatriate consultants and experts. The average man-month costs are expected
to be about $8,500, plus local travel, office space, secretarial assistance,
etc. A limited amount of short-term high-level expertise is planned to assist
with preparation, monitoring, training and research. This assistance is
estimated to cost about $11,000 per man-month including salary, fees,
international travel and subsistence. The project also provides for about 24
visits overseas by Tunisian officials in connection with the organization of
agricultural training courses as well as with visits related to research into
unpaved road construction and maintenance; for these missions the cost of
international travel and overseas subsistence is included for a total of
$94,000. For the purpose of calculating the foreign component for this
project and based on the experience with the ongoing Rural Roads project, it
has been assumed that all civil works contracts would be won by Tunisian
contractors. The cost estimates were discussed and confirmed with the
Government during negotiations.
62.      The Government will finance 100 percent of the annual recurrent
budget costs of the project. Recurrent budget requirements for fuel and
supplies for rural road maintenance are estimated at $390,000 in 1982,
increasing to about $2.9 million in 1987. Incremental operating expenditures
for agricultural extension services under the project are estimated at



- 17 -
$234,000 in 1983, increasing to about $1.03 million in 1987. During
negotiations assurances were obtained that the Government will provide funds,
facilities, services and other resources to operate and maintain the roads and
extension services (Loan Agreement, Section 3.01(a)).
63.      The Bank loan of $35.5 million would finance the foreign exchange
costs of capital items, except short-, medium- and long-term credit and the
minor rural infrastructure works to be constructed by GR as collective
investments, and the "front-end" fee estimated at $550,000. The agricultural
credit needs in the zones of influence of the project would be met by BNT.
The Government would finance the cost of the rural infrastructure works and
all local costs of the project except those included in the credit component,
which would be met by BNT and farmers' contributions supplementing the credit.
Implementation
64.      Overall project implementation would be the responsibility of a
Coordination Committee, whose establishment would be a condition of
effectiveness of the loan (Loan Agreement, Sections 3.01(b) and 5.01). It
would be chaired by the Minister of Public Works, with representatives of the
Ministries of Public Works, Agriculture, Planning and Finance, Transport and
Communications and Interior, and BNT as members. A similar Committee is
coordinating effectively the implementation of the ongoing Rural Roads
project. The various agencies in charge of execution report to the
Committee. DPC would be responsible for implementing; (i) rural road
improvement works; (ii) rural roads maintenance; (iii) the program of spot
improvements on feeder roads; and (iv) technical assistance for road aspects
and coordination of project preparation, implementation and monitoring,
research on design and maintenance and coordinating the socio-economic impact
study. MA will be responsible for (i) the improvement of extension services,
including the training of agents and the procurement of extension buildings,
equipment and vehicles; (ii) the minor rural infrastructure works; and (iii)
technical assistance for agricultural aspects of project preparation,
implementation and monitoring. BNT will be responsible for administering
agricultural credit with the assistance of MA staff in the field. The
Ministry of Transport and Communications would be responsible for equipping
the vehicle inspection centers.
65.      At the regional level DPC responsibilities, including construction
supervision, will be carried out through the regional engineers, and MA
responsibilities through the regional commissions (CRDAs). In order to
improve communications and coordination, regional start-up seminars will be
organized by DPC and MA to discuss and explain project objectives, scope,
authority and responsibilities.
Auditing
66.      The internal accounting systems in the Ministries of Public Works and
Agriculture have been reviewed and found adequate for the purpose of
certification of accuracy and compilation and control of project-related



- 18 -
financial transactions, including those connected with the road maintenance
activities and extension service requirements listed in the action program.
However, government control procedures, as presently applied, do not produce
audit reports. During negotiations audit verification of separate project
accounts by independent auditors satisfactory to the Bank was discussed and
agreed with the Government (Loan Agreement, Section 4.02). An understanding
was reached that the Controller General of Finance, wh,o has independent status
and is acceptable to the Bank, will fulfill this role.
Procurement.
67.      Under Tunisian contract law (Decret No. 74-754 of July 27, 1974 on
the reglementation of public tenders) bid opening of tenders is conducted by a
Government commission, not open to the public. However, to conform with the
Bank's Guidelines for Procurement which stipulate that bids should normally be
opened in public an exclusion from the provisions of the contract law for all
tender calls under the project was discussed and agreed during negotations.
Road construction contracts based on unit prices would be awarded after
international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for
Procurement. Roads would be grouped in lots for bidding. Contractors would
be prequalified to undertake either single or several lots. Except where it
is geographically impracticable to group widely scattered roads, lots would be
of at least $1 million, and several lots would be grouped for tender calls to
a minimum value of $6 million, so as to make bidding attractive to both
smaller and larger contractors who would be allowed to bid for one or more
lots, or for a group as a whole. During negotiations the arrangements
concerning lot sizes, grouping for tender calls and bidding for a group as a
whole were discussed and confirmed with the Government (Loan Agreement,
Schedule 4, Section A para. 3 (ii)). Civil works contracts for the
construction of agricultural extension centers and for spot improvements to
roads would be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
satisfactory to the Bank (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, Section C (2)).
Equipment to be procured under the project with Bank financing consists of
vehicles for agricultural extension services; agricultural equipment for
extension demonstrations; audio visual equipment for training; and equipment
for vehicle inspection stations. For bid evaluation purposes, a 15 percent
margin of preference or an amount equal to customs duties, whichever is lower,
would be applied in the case of equipment manufactured in Tunisia. To the
extent practical, equipment would be grouped into packages for tendering.
Packages estimated to cost more than $100,000 would be procured under ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Bid packages estimated to cost less than
$100,000 each, but not exceeding $500,000 in total, could be procured on the
basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with
satisfactory local procedures. Specialized vehicle inspection equipment would
be purchased locally under negotiated contracts with a view to ensuring good
quality, timely delivery and availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts (Loan Agreement, Schedule 4, C).
Disbursements
68.      The proposed Bank loan of $35.5 million would be disbursed as follows:
(i) 40 percent of total expenditures for rural road works;
(ii) 30 percent of total expenditures for construction and
rehabilitation of buildings;



- 19 -
(iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 63 percent of local
expenditures, for extension and motor vehicle inspection
equipment;
(iv)  33 percent of total expenditures for spot improvements;
(v)   100 percent of foreign expenditures or 40 percent of local
expenditures, for vehicles;
(vi)  75 percent of total expenditures for consultant services; and
(vii) 100 percent of total expenditures for overseas missions,and for
the "front-end" fee.
Monitoring and Evaluation
69.      An implementation schedule, which is consistent with the overall
program proposed for the project, has been developed. Annual plans of project
operations will be submitted to the Bank in preliminary form for review and
comment by April 30 and in final form by September 30 each year. Assurances
from the Government that these procedures will be applied were obtained at
negotiations (Loan Agreement, Section 3.03 (a) and (b)). An understanding on
the overall program, the elements of the first-year plan and the procedures
and criteria for sub-project review (para. 73) was also obtained from the
Government during negotiations.
70.      Project monitoring would follow the physical and financial progress
of the project and evaluate project impact. Quarterly progress reports would
be prepared by the Ministries of Public Works and Agriculture and submitted to
the Bank through the Coordination Committee (Loan Agreement, Section
3.06(c)). A central project monitoring and coordination unit has been set up
under the supervision of MA's Planning and Statistical Department to handle
the flow of data from the ongoing project roads and to assist in preparing
detailed action plans for the roads to be improved under the proposed
project. In addition, agricultural extension agents assigned to the ongoing
project's zones of influence have undertaken a comprehensive census of
agricultural farms within their respective areas of responsibility, which will
provide direct feedback for the design and implementation of agricultural
action programs, as well as improve MA's capacity to manage program planning.
The system will be expanded to include operational data which will show
whether the project is meeting its objectives in the long term. Basic data on
the agricultural impact of the project would be drawn from a socio-economic
impact study, which will be carried out on a sample of roads constructed under
the Third Highway (Rural Roads) project as well as on selected roads to be
improved under the proposed project. The study will address a full range of
rural development effects resulting from the introduction of road improvements
and the improvement of agricultural support services, including changes in
income levels, consumption patterns, personal mobility, levels of service
provision and utilization, and migration patterns. The Government would also
prepare a project completion report within six months of the Loan Closing Date
(Loan Agreement, Section 3.06).
Environmental Impact
71.      The project would enhance the quality of the rural environment by
improving the standard of the existing roads, most of which are earth tracks,
thus giving better access to markets and social services. Most of the
improvements would be along existing alignments, and there would be very
little need, if any, to displace dwellings for road rights-of-way.



- 20 -
Benefits and Risks
72.      The economic benefits quantified under the proposed project come from
two sources; transport cost savings and incremental value added on
agricultural production. Cost savings on passenger transport and on freight
traffic will initially accrue to vehicle-owners although savings will be
passed on to other users through increased competition following road
improvement. The value added in agriculture will accrue to the population of
the impact zone either in the form of a direct consumption increase or in the
form of additional income from marketing surplus production. Most of the
anticipated increases will come from the introduction of new or improved
technologies to increase yields on presently productive land or from the more
timely and appropriate use of agricultural inputs. For the small farmer, the
real benefit is not that the monetary costs of travel and transport decrease,
but that services are provided. Significant time savings and improvements in
safety, comfort and convenience enable the farmer to obtain more inputs,
market additional products, and have access to services that would otherwise
be unavailable. These gains are particularly significant when all-weather
access is provided to communities which would otherwise be isolated for months
at a time.
73.      The provisional program of improvements to 1,200 km of rural roads
was selected on the basis of an economic evaluation of over 2,000 km of
individual roads. A minimum acceptable economic return (ER) of 10 percen.t has
been applied for each individual road, the range of ERs being from 10 to 50
percent for roads included in the program. The overall ER for 33 first-year
roads is estimated at 21 percent. Even under the most conservative assumption
of a 25 percent reduction in overall benefits combined with a 25 percent
increase in project costs, the overall ER of the first-year program would
still be 15 percent. In serving over 200,000 rural inhabitants, or about 6
percent of the rural population of Tunisia, social benefits would represent a
significant addition to the quantified economic benefits. Through the
socio-economic impact study (para. 70) it is hoped to improve the selection
and evaluation of roads by including social criteria on a systematic basis.
74.      The main area of risk associated with the proposed project is the
timely implementation of complementary agricultural investments. This risk is
minimized through the institutional arrangements notably in the form of an
interministerial Coordination Committee and the comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation system to be introduced under the project. Moreover, implemen-
tation of the ongoing Rural Roads project has done much to familiarize both
Government services and the rural population with the objectives and overall
concepts of the rural roads program. Assistance provided for agricultural
extension services is now better integrated within national plans and the
proposed project would continue within the same institutional framework. At
the same time, the Government is reassessing the institutional arrangements
for agricultural credit and the project would benefit from improvements in the
system.
Part V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
75.      The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Republic of
Tunisia, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4 (iii), of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.  Special features of the project are listed in Section



- 21 -
III of Annex III. A special condition of effectiveness would be the
establishment of a Project Coordination Committee (draft Loan Agreement,
Sections 3.01 (b) and 5.01).
76.      I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
Part VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
by Moeen A. Qureshi
Attachments
February 26, 1982
Washington, D.C.






- 22-                                            ANNEX I
TABLE3Pa                                                    of
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET                Page  1  of  6
TUNISIA                           REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED *VERAES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND IQ. RM.)                                                           - HDST RECENT ESTTE).
_~~ ~~~" OKM                                                        MIDDLE INCOME 
TOTAL            164.MILENCR
AGRICULTURAL      76.7                                MST RECENT           NORTH AFRICA           M MIDDLE INCOHE
1960  Lb   1970 /b ESTIHATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AIERICA 6 CARIIIEA
GNP PER CAPITA (US5)                 220.0       370.0    1120.0*               865.5                  1616.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)    173.4       304.2    618.1                 758.3                  1324.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 4221.0      5127.0   6194.0*
URBAN PUPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 36.0       43.5       50.9                 45.2                    64.2
PUPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      9.4
STATIONARY POPULATION (NILLIONS)                        16.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATIUN IS REACHED                 2070
PUPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       25.7        31.3      37.8                 36.3                    34.3
PER SQ. EM. AGRICULTURAL LAND    55.0         67.0      78.7               442.7                    94.5
POPULATIUN AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
U-14 YRS.                        43.4        46.2      41.9                 44.2                    40.7
15-64 YRS.                        52.5        50.0      54.5                 52.4                    55.3
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                  4.1         3.8       3.6                  3.4                     4.0
POPULATIUN GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8 /        .9/c     2.1*                 2.7                     2.4
URBAN                              3.2         3.8       3.8                  4.6                     3.7
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    46.6        38.4       31.0                 41.5                    31.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     18.9        13.8      10.7                12.8                     8.4
GROSS REPRUDUCTION RATE              3.5         3.2       2.2                  2.9                     2.3
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..         29.2    180.9
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..         10.0      21.3
FO0D AND NUTRITIUO
INDEX UF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         97.0        96.0      112.0                96.3                   108.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY UF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REUUIREHENTS)                   80.0        88.0    112.0                 110.4                   107.6
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          50.0        57.0      73.0                 73.4                   65.8
UF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       12.0        14.0      22.0                 17.1                    34.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE    28.0         18.4     12.5                 14.9                     7.6
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   47.6         54.0      58.4                 55.9                   64.1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE
(PER THUUSAND)                    148.0jL     135.0      90.0                   *-                    70.9
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         49.0      70.0                59.4                    65.7
URBAN                               ..         ..        ..                 83.9                    79.7
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..                 40.8                    43.9
ACCESS TU EXCRETA DISPUSAL (PERCENT
OF PUPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         62.0       ..                   ..                    59.9
URBAN                               ..       100.0       ..                   ..                    75.7
RURAL                              ..         34.0      60.0                  ..                    30.4
PUPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         10026.1     5934.0   3576.2                4174.5                  1728.2
PUPULATIUN PER NURSING PERSON         ..      727.5    1167.8               1780.5                  1288.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           373.0/e    409.1    427.2                  647.4                   471.2
URBAN                              ..       290.2    341.4                 547.2                   558.0
RURAL                              ..       1269.3   1273.1                3361.1
AUMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED          ..         24.1       ..                  25.3
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TUTAL                               .         5.1 L    6.0
URBAN                              ..         5.1 /f    5.8
RURAL                               .         5.1 L    6.1
AVERAGE NUMBER UF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              ..         3.2 f
URBAN                              ..         2.7         .
RURAL                              ..         3.6 /
ACCESS TU ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                              ..        24.0 /f      ..
URBAN                               ..         ..
RURAL                              ..          ..



- 23 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3A               DT  HE                     ae2o 
TUNISIA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DTA SHEET                Page  2  of  6
TUNISIA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE9AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
MIDDLE INCOME
MOST RECENT          NDRTH AFRICA &          MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b         MIDDLE EAST       LATIN AMERICA & CARIBBEAN
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 66.0        100.0     100.0                 85.1                    101.7
MALE                 88.0       121.0      116.0                101.5                   103.0
FEMALE               43.0        80.0      83.0                  67.5                   101.5
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 12.0        23.0       30.0                 38.0                    35.3
MALE                 19.0        33.0      38.0                  48.1                    34.9
FEMALE                5.0        13.0      22.0                  28.3                    35.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (1 OF SECONDARY) 24.0          11.0      35.0                 11.3                     30.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                           61.0        47.0       39.0                 34.9                    29.6
SECONDARY                         16.0        28.0       30.0                 23.8                     15.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       15.5         24.0/f    62.0                 43.0                     80.0
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        11.0         13.0      18.3                 18.3                    42.6
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        40.3        75.7      147.3                121.0                   215.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         0.1         9.9      36.2                  37.4                    89.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 19.0         16.0     40.4                  35.9                    62.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  2.0           ..       1.5                  3.0                      3.2
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     1137.9      1214.8    1581.7
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   6.0         7.7        8.2                 10.5                    22.6
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)             56.0        49.8       35.0                 43.5                    35.0
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                18.0        21.0       32.0                 27.3                    23.2
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               27.0        23.7       25.5                 26.4                    31.8
MALE                                50.2         44.2      46.1                 47.0                     49.0
FEMALE                               3.3         3.6        4.3                  5.7                     14.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.8         2.1        1.8                  1.8                      1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..       17.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..          ..       42.0
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..        6.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..          ..       15.0
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      204.0                271.4
RURAL                               ..          ..       97.0                144.6                   187.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                               ..          ..      193.0                400.8                   513.9
RURAL                               ..          ..      193.0                290.9                   362.2
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                               ..          ..      20.0                  22.1
RURAL                               ..          ..       15.0                 29.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a  The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means. Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   Due to exigration population growth rate is lower than rate of natural increase; /d 1960-65 average;
/e 1962. /f 1966.
*
The updated 1980 GNP per capita and population estimates to be shown
in the 1981 World Bank Atlas are $1310.0 (at 1978-80 prices) and
6354 thousand, with a population growth rate of 2.4.



- 24 -
ANNEX I
DFNT OPSO  SOCIAL INtICATORS                                                       Page    3   of    6
Notes:  Although the data ore dtaon ftoo  .or*             ge .ea.l   ogd the some auhorlitaIve sod r1iuble, it should also be noed that they  ty  tt be i-tr-
esttooalytosposbie hcoume  f the  och of  taodsrteed dftototoos sod Ito..ePt. used by dAlftfello .ountrile to toisttogi  the data.  The date Are, tote-
thlesm. .. usful to d-srtbo odrdet  of   oStittude,  odtiste treed., lod                   -tatete   cttt  maJor ditfer_ace   be_tse  cottee..
Th  tfret  ....p. ore .I  the same.t. otury group of the subJ eot --oty asd (2)A atou..try  &roop with soththigher  e.tsg. iooms that the toootr  grup
of the  ubjeot  .o.otry)eet fo  "attl  uplac 011 topooters  gtopmheo  "Otddle teto=     North Afota td Mitddl,E-ls"i!te hoeee heas  o.f sro
sou-utrlffttitise).  to tho Ilifeo.ot. group dat  the .voeear  po..          puttot¶eihe  arthntto  m.m  foe math iedtot                  =odshv  toy lbes
maoityof the toora=ogophsdt   o   httdrtr                                 to   h   oeaeo   ooresog the iodl,tator  dpeods It rths svt1iahllty of data
led Le out  -tft,  stot- -  boe heeerled It roLati!gaeaooSt  todioa-r to soother.    eseeogste tyueful tocmaro h  vlso
ooe. tdi-at- ata  tine snog the  --nory sod refereore groope.
LAND ARIA  (ohouso...d sq.km.)                                                                       Pouattpr  oprlnd - totAl. orhat, sod rural - Ppulatioo  (total.
Totl - Totl surface apes  -prtstog lsd areaao   oo   sotore.                                         oh,sad"ruralI) dtolded hy tbise reepe-tte eumbeo of hosPital heds
haritltora  - ttinut  of  grttuturm   are  usd-nostyorpristyaaluble to phllo sod pttioate geoerat-sd spsrtalteed h ta                                                      a
for ropa,pastues,  ste  sod htttrho gadeos or toIte !Ifmloe; 1978 dav.                       hbhtlttatoueorers    fospittals r.          eslsiet   emsn                tfe
tPEppCIIO  GoS)              per capIta estitsae   't ourret ", ket poleeir                          dial rae ars  Ito  ttoldsd.  hotel hospitals. bosve,iteclda hsalth
ouloed b  sam  tooereio mehod ae World Ieoh Atlas (1977-79 haaeel; 190,                       sod sdt        _teoor   00PotAtetpsafdb      hmca   htb
1970, .     99dots.                                                                                  modtcalu...t_tut,  iue,adotfe, et,.) sbiob offe                          A -p--st   tte
a                 sod 1979                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dattior aed provide   litted range of medloel faotlhf ha.'  Fer a.tatf,-
ENER-u  CONSUMPfTION PER CAPITA - Ao .u.l  -oteuptlot of tomastcta.e.ecgp  (coa                         ttosl purposes urha  hoepitlle toolde 900. pri-ropsI)geoes1 hospItals,
tod ltgitlr, petroleum, osturo1 gum aod hydro-, .. ulel  sod g the-later-                           I'd ruesl hospital"  local ortus  hopte.sd  adita1 sad  -aeemtr
trlotty) to kilogrmee  of coet qei-loate  per c.pit.;  ShO, 19'7D, sd 1979                              Srrs      pLetIfteed' hopit.Alsaetoludd ooly osder toesi
data.                                                                                              Adntetoepei        osttl e   - Total oumbe  o f admledtot  to or dtsuhargee
from  hospitlel  dtudsd hp the  -ubs   fbeds.
MPVPIATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
0                               T-l P.p.l.ti..,  ~~~~~~StI-Tear (tho.oeaods) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, nod 1979                HOUSING
data.Avrgiteo  Oumhold 7reaoo ,.mI househo~ldSl   total. -rba    ot    ea
Irhbt Poulst-o (rer-t of  Itotal  - hooto od orbao to totl popohalot.;Ahosolotissfagruofsdvolehoere ttgqaee
dlffereot doforloos..  of  uha     _oa      yto ffcta  -ops...hility of duos                       so.ht.aoose       hadro   ogrsyormysth   ntddt
-Smg ro-trbog; 1960, 190Io 99dta                                                                    h    oehl  for sooala  prtet
Porularton Prolerotooe                                                Average~~~~~~~~~~~th  h.h. dfreeneprrom   toh,ohe.sd  ool-horgeen
mees  o  frIlIy- at  as  hvethe  levelits osuthg detoe- hr                                ofttl, urha:t, aod rural             I9 deltgrseoadirslp.-.tt tr.
terttlify  accooIou. tc bitho i-leve   o   atfatypaoog isrvomote
tach  uouty beoheossIgud  ou  of  hesealoetoehtoatior   ofit merEf....toy                                     ..... tIdIIIN.
sod , fetit ftreodef    P-   .YI    i~   II1. dotprjeoto  puh.es                               udosed  orlletoholos,ibi!                    y      il
tots rt ro tulsityt   It  -sonor h-      opulaiot therel. o.rlgrothlor.Prssf   echoo   -d toalIslea1   feae      rins-l o saese   eml
fthelirthratedia eqolt  the- danob rote  aud a-lsoo re-ige structueet-srlmo oli   gea  taPeaylre   spretge   fr                                                                 tv
It  ithepa  200,  tod 7 t:thhertofdlom f fettlh -ty rot  to              b rep ca-              todgy  sohoolf- tota~ l, saeadftase,  -I. Co-lore  as abve  mf_oda
elohsbetcohd                                                                             ueodullyyoft 12 to 17  or   foe   oreodmt   nre    r   eeal
Pet eo.  a. - Oldyear poplstton tr sqoocrhtlonete  (hOt hrtaes  o                     Pocathaoa  erholme oplfr trhen  of~ t  1-r1do   -. Vo_etoso,l iutouf
Per eq  Am.  artcuturslstd     CospThd.a  abiove   p foreg ,chtBrs  ..ao. eillura dpadrfrsentsff.m_toar l_ sthtutef sa.
ool; 160,197  so  190 dot                                                                yuel-msherIto    rimrv  sod meto11et-l. Tots  stoens d 6nel11 h
2alt   9 00 90, sod 1979.t  Ifdutu.pp..,.                                                  Ldul li e"srrt  forrot-tieasdf                           he to rsnd.d     sod  othe
Porulstro Oroub Osr  (percet - ttal -    osof f_othlI tereto totalj. mtd                  aspere--5   ofi-  1 totl1esl  ro oto  aged. 15               .. permeo  ss.
pear poplotloostoo 19S0h.,..96-70, atd1970-79
Crue Ort   hooe(rt                  -hous d - Ota   iebrh   perthusndof.i-prtos   eayo  las  thtsgt pfeas   nooe   mulnAa b... eeet
popLtio;  90  t7,  o   97   ot.eluay ehulee.1- t ..,
kooltlt  196,d97y    sd  97  dstg.                                                             boadras f to genera  pyblir pe.r Ooo  of                     ...s...oa   eloem  . no- "
her uoms  reroucIv  Per1-iod          P: If ehe kspe rtoe   presea  agespc,. Ifi fe-si   ssI-fet  dt   o   eeo    et   ap00h   opaal   ta
tIltp tte;g 7ll   fv-per1    eoa   oigi   9V    91   o   99                                otootigetihdlooig
Psil Pootn    boetrs  Otul touooe)-Anua  uebrofatepoe                     V erier  (etthnso  rpuate)    T  rotvrsto   rod-mat
P00,1     .  AS, F7050                                                                                to he "dty    ti   pea   olaetu   ie       ek
produrlloc  ofdl  fo let      eod      ChIa d- Pr Ddr 14o yocludes eted ,.g oudfee   sadPiloheeslhdro   th  par  tatlnd do                         _ Idusost   rv-nt
Is or  aleodr       (6s . b .e ... C .Indt... ro erlprtma - gofd (e.g. eugo1ote              sod sbiis udits
1toste 1d6of gugar) oh Ic  sonIYdiblelod cioialobuyrlbnrt  of..tno.fen no
1970nl  veag  prdu19e 9 picetIghs   916,17.sd17   aa                                      oa  Ao   ot.(husd)-Ioolal    oiapoos   nld
qunoP tittsneo      ofo    roooo,adlse III                 etIhf tito 1 tis d-                  Aututr.r1           ati    ihrfrei  ema.  osty    ata   o
houeeald bot; 11-h5  197,    _      d sod19 7 d -o 9                                     190  td179daa
Percapna uhoy o  prtrt ....  so1g per  ay)          Proeriocoeto e  capha                    orlol Cfor  oo CHer     ceh ol -dtoasl.   ae.sd  esl-sriitooo
vaIupldodoo   e  d   Iy Oos-pl   offo   .df ed as               i-,. abve..-aoo traeersemueigh ee                            .. tel, ae,clod. e fesale  - iehe  fe teas
puleDet pctetrp, ooh.c  10          Aoose shot thd be   thim l pott.e Teego-rfeooaeeegrdusu   h    oust.                                                 s odlon   Om_    red
Woldfod 7u0sy  09165   97   od 1977d daOid. to .. the                                                . tool bo   ore
Pats is  mta    A,pl  from       Ifme sdl  htle                                                   i- Pr toteio        orsnpply of foodo do-l   Lo
Child (ae    -h)Ooalt   oe  ctthuud   -Analdsl  p                          9ouai in             Prcersa  of Prlvor1 Income F(hoth-ilcshsd ofiad)  t- hcio  b   uhe
tries dats derivdfo   ueth            Ie90   90tod 1979 data,                                       of households
0105.10                                                                        PVvooo't~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PIE nIonoyGitoo1
LIfe fithsctataol ticth  todsom   -  vaaep      o      o-po oof life.r.aiIing                     Th  foltowig esoteoem  or  very appootenate mau4srem  of. pdet TeVe-e-
at btctb;-190,-1970 sodI979 datud                                                       an  ehoutlid bed totoypret   nabl   gftuaetdeo     ofuTto.t.           t fft
ofe ogfpe  thiodaad lIve Ebir15e.                                                                  Ahsobiuth _  Ioveroy..iotose lue'ihha..om         .lsl  o  throbo  isima
peortuIfoged oftabs r ri esttePniato persCpibtosistfP"                    ohPi"                     peoolitoeo.otor                       radlvll  deIve  f. tenth rofa
foutrtor  r anadpId loatdinti. mot  tat20  metee fs      b fleedayb Ievol vrh~l sd:jueeth for- higher dtet of  iutg  o   rs   ss
consderedo of haSo f.bi  restalstes  fthat hos.Irrlrn                                             etmtdPrito    ehsAett   oet  CA  s                         ILve deri eni. i-ura
ta ofah _ec yogoool   uml  that the -ootewit  oIrimembers. offthe haesodsorus-Pecnofp uett(rbnado (ohoe'hele
doto  hr  told.) pAdedteproporlod-ti ort of -,ho day io ftblre th                          pAOR  ORC.
fer -o - of  peple  (tore,iurso: ad  total)- gf_ ved by soorsi C        ,disoa  am.rl    l;                         d.   l d... lj
paroeneges  f obrroeptrivepopolsthteill.tooroItI dIposal say- ..io.o;utudDe
Pti,inPtnltprlotel                                                                                                                                      ss19199
Ponolatio ret Pyicist- "PoPula Iur            d divde -b ome -ofprciolp- pI.s.
Puouotio ro  onslo  Pteo-Fc. PiPlolp divided by odbe  of prarPrt.loibng                                                                    ~ eo..  f  ..1Lbe   ..
mal  ee  fnst  gsduneood  e           d Irctolnuss  sdit aseitato  e1turses.Lblf-.1.f-i9                                                               ty,hti



- 25 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
TUNISIA - ECONOMIC INDICATORS
Population: 6.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  $1,310 (1980)
Amount                                                Annual Growth Rates
(million uS$                   Actual (at 1972 prtces)         Actual/'        Projected (at 1979 prices)
Indicator                           at current prices)
1980                    1976    1977    1978    1979        1980      1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Gross domestic product /2                   8,493.8                    7.4     4.3      8.3     7.6        7.3      6.4      6.4     6.6      6.5     6.3
Agriculture                               1,211.4                   5.2    -7.5      8.9      0.5        8.6      5.0      5.0     4.5      4.0     4.0
Industry                                  2,579.8                   7.8      7.0     9.2    11.9         7.6      6.8      7.0     8.0      8.0     7.5
Services                                  3,512.6                   5.4      5.8     7.7      8.2       6.7       6.5      6.5     6.5      6.5     6.4
Consumption                                 6,400.0                    8.8     9.5      9.3     7.1        6.9      6.7      8.8     6.9      5.0     6.6
Gross investment                            2,345.7                  16.9      5.8     6.6      8.7        0.5      8.4      3.8     6.1      5.7     5.4
Exports of goods and NFS                    3,444.4                    9.6     5.6      9.1    18.8        S.4      4.2      3.1     3.7      9.7     8.9
Imports of goods and NFS                    3,696.3                  19.3    16.5      9.6    14.4        3.9       6.4     6.0      4.3      5.6     8.5
Gross national product                      8,437.0                    6.0     4.8      9.2     8.0        6.3      6.5      6.5     6.5      6.4     6.2
Gross national savings                      2,037.0                  -6.3    -1.7    21.2    35.8          6.3      4.9    -2.0      5.0    12.9      5.9
PRICES
GDP deflator                                                        137.7   151.4   158.6   174.2        190.3       -        -       -        -       -
Exchange rate                                                         2.33    2.33    2.40    2.46        2.47       -        -       -        -       -
Share of GDP at market prices (X)                               Average Annual Tncrease (2)
(at current prices)                                      (at constant prices)
1970      1975       1980      1986       1991            1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1981-86        1986-91
Gross domestic product                100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0     100.0               8.5         7.0         6.5        6.5          5.8
Agriculture                       16.7       18.2       14.3      12.7       11.1               8.8         1.0        4.5         4.2          3.0
Industry                          20.5       27.1       29.5      31.2       32.8               9.0         7.5        7.5         7.7          6.8
Services                          49.3       42.7      42.2       42.2       42.2               8.7        6.0         6.5         6.5          5.8
Consumption                           84.8       75.5       70.0      70.8       71.8               8.6         8.3        6.8         6.6          6.2
Gross investnent                       19.7      29.3       28.3      27.2       25.4              11.8         6.8         5.7        5.4          4.3
Exports of goods and NFS               21.9      31.3       38.5      35.9       33.3              12.5         9.7         5.7        6.5          5.1
Imports of goods and NFS              26.4       36.1       41.4      40.3       38.7              11.3        12.1        5.9         5.9          5.1
Gross national product                 97.9      99.9       99.5      99.3       97.9               8.7         7.0         6.4        6.4          5.5
Net factor income                       2.1       0.1        0.5       0.7        1.9                -           -          -           -            -
Gross national savings                 13.2      24.3       23.6      21.8       18.9               7.5         5.9                    2.2
As % GDP
(at current prices)
1970      1975       1980
PUBLIC FINANCE
Current revenue                                            23.5      25.7       27.2
Current expenditure                                        20.4      19.9       18.5
Surplus (e) or deficit (-)                                  3.1       5.9        8.6
Ctpital expenditure                                         9.5      10.8       14.8
Foreign financing                                           5.0       1.8        1.3
1970-75        1975-80         1'980-85        1981-86         1986-91
OTHE'R INDICATORS
GNP growth rate (1)                                          8.7             7.0             6.4             6.3             5.5
GNP per capita growth rate (2)                               6.3             4.4            4.0             4.0              3.1
ICOR                                                         2.6             3.6             4.4            4.4             4.6
Marginal savings rate                                       30.5            17.6            20.1            22.8             8.2
Import elasticity                                            1.24            1.81            0.91           0.91            0.89
/1  1980 data at 1979 prices.
72 GDP at market prices and components, at factor cost.
EMENA ('P 2C
December 1981



- 26-                                                               ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
TUNISIA - EXTERNAL TRADE
Population: 6.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita:  $1,310 (1980)
Amount                                                  Annual Growth Rates
(million USt                    Actual (at 1972 prices)         Actual/l          Projected (at 1979 prices)
Indicator                             at current prices)
1980                     1976    1977    1978    1979    1980          1981    1982    1983    1984        1985
EXTERNAL TRADE
MerchandLse exports                           2,282.9                     5.8    -5.0    16.0    10.1        3.9       1.5      0.2      0.9    10.8        9.5
Crude oil                                   1,168.5                  -15.0      1.9    14.0    91.3    11.0        -4.5    -7.8    -6.6    -1.6           -
Other primary                                 207.9                   21.8   -17.9    34.7    10.0          .4       5.8      2.7      2.6     2.5       2.5
Manufactures                                  906.5                   37.2    -1.5    21.9    14.8         1.6       7.3      6.9      6.4    20.9 /2  15.a /2
Merchandise imports                           3,340.7                    13.6    30.4       5.5    11.7      1.9       6.4      6.0      4.1      5.6       8.7
Food                                          422.4                  -13.5    25.5    11.1    22.2         2.7       6.0      2.9      5.0     3.3       4.8
Petroleum                                     662.0                  -24.8    -8.5    -3.9    25.7         3.0       9.9    14.2    -3.5    36.9 /2  23.3 /2
Machinery and equipment                       765.7                   19.1      2.4      5.2   -11.0    -1.3         3.8      6.5     6.1      5.7       5.4
Others                                      1,490.6                   31.2    36.0       2.9    14.1       3.2       6.6      3.4     6.1      6.1       5.9
Price Index                                 Price Index /3 
PRICES
Export price index                               -                   181.2   197.9   215.0   267.9   128.0    135.7   148.1   161.0   177.3    193.9
Import price index                               -                   163.7   171.4   180.6   205.6   115.3    128.2   141.4   153.7   166.8    181.3
Terms of trade index (1972=100)                  -                   110.7   115.5   119.0   130.3   139.0    138.0   136.4   136.6   138.5    139.3
(1979=100)                                       -        -        -        -    106.7    105.9   104.7   104.8   106.3    106.9
Composition of Merchandise Trade (%)                                Average Annual Increase (X)
(at current prices)                                        (at constant prices)
1970    1975    1980    1981    1986    1991                1970-75    1975-80    1980-85    1981-86         186-91
Exports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   11.6          9.4         4.2         5.5          2.9
Crude oil                           24.5    41.8    51.1    49.3    35.0    29.0                   23.2         3.0        -4.1        -3.8         -3.5
Otber primary                       21.2    18.0       9.1      9.2     7.0      6.0                6.7         2.0         3.2          3.0          3.0
Manufactures                        54.3    40.2    39.8    41.5    58.0    65.0                    6.2        14.3        11.2        12.0           5.5
Imports                                100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0                   13.4        12.4          5.8         5.9          5.1
Food                                20.6    15.8    12.6    13.6    13.6    12.9                    8.9         7.5         4.2         4.2           4.4
Petroleum                            4.0      9.8    19.7    20.5    24.4    25.2                  36.5        23.2         8.0         7.6           4.1
Machinery and Equipment             23.0    30.2    22.8    21.8    20.7    19.5                   15.7         8.3         5.7          5.7          4.4
Others                              52.4    44.2    44.8    44.1    41.3    42.4                   10.6        13.2         5.5         5.7           6.1
Share of Trade with                  Share of Trade with                       Share of Trade with
Industrial Countries (X)             Developing Countries (X)              Capital Surplus Oil Exporters (%)
1970     1975      1980              1970      1975      1980                   1970    1975    1980
DIRECTION OF TRADE
Exports                                    62.6     48.6       74.1             23.4      41.4       n.a.                  14.0    10.0       n.a.
Imports                                   62.9       67.1     73.5              33.7      25.7       n.a.                   3.4      7.2      n.a.
/1  1980 data at 1979 prices.
/2  Increase in refining capacity.
/3  For 1981-85, export and import price index is based on 1979=100.
EMENA CP 2C
December 1981



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
BALANCE OF PAY=ENTS, EXrERNAL CAPITAI AND DEBT
(million US  at current prices)
Population: 6.4 million (mid-1980)
GNP per Capita. $1,120 (1979)
Actual                                                  Projected
1970      1975      1978       1979      1980           1981       1982      1983      1986       1991
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Net exports of goods & services               -104.5    -208.8    -599.7   -478.5   -296.5             -463.6   -718.9       874.7  -1,040.9  -2,728.0
Exports of goods 6 services                  355.6   1,529.2   2,090.6   2,913.9   3,825.1          4,363.4   4,877.5   5,458.9   8,440.5  14,106.6
Imports of goods & services                  460.1   1,738.0   2,690.3   3,392.4   4,121.6          4,827.0   5,596.4   6,333.6   9,481.4  16,838.6
Net transfers /1                                53.0      47.4       33.6      31.0      25.6            26.0      26.1       26.1      26.2      11.3
Current account balance                        -51.5   -161.4   -566.1   -447.5   -270.9               -437.6   -692.8   -848.6  -1,014.7  -2,716.7
Direct private investment                       25.5      50.2       91.1     164.8      95.0           200.0     250.0      300.0     450.0     724.7
MLT loans (net)                                 43.4     124.5      468.6     438.0      399.1          325.8     539.0    640.7       688.5   2,200.2
Official                                      41.7     102.9       84.8     318.8     436.0           379.2     433.3      375.3     345.3     379.5
Private                                        1.7      21.6       83.8     162.2    -36.9            -53.4     105.7      265.4     343.2   1,820.5
Other capital                                    2.0    -10.4        41.4    -22.6    -83.7                -          -         -         -         -
Change in reserves                             -19.4      -2.9      -35.0   -132.7   -139.9             -90.6      96.2    -92.1    -123.8   -208.1
International reserves                          15.4     362.2     269.9      402.3     542.2           632.8     728.9     821.1   1,214.6   2,134.3
Reserves as months of imports                    0.4       2.4        1.3       1.4       1.6             1.6       1.6        1.6       1.5       1.5
Actual                                                  Projected
1970      1975      1978       1979      1980           1981       1982      1983      1986       1991
GROSS DISBURSEMENTS
Official graats                                 43.0       50.2      32.7      50.7       74.6           25.0      25.0       25.0      25.0      10.0
Gross disbursements of MLT loans                86.8     193.3      556.7     746.1     652.6           635.1     865.7   1,032.5   1,459.0   3,358.0
Concessional                                    45.2     100.1      184.5     193.2     407.2           349.8     341.3     288.4      220.6     246.2
Bilateral                                     41.3      82.0      175.1     179.0     308.9           265.5     271.B     239.3      169.6     186.6
IDA                                            2.9      12.6        1.8       0.2       1.5             1.1        .5        .2         -         -
Other multilateral                             1.0       5.5        7.6      14.0     106.8            83.2      69.0      48.9       50.9      59.6
Non-concessional                                41.6      93.7      372.2     552.9     235.4           285.3     524.4    744.1   1,238.4   3,739.8
Private                                       31.1      51.3      321.3     431.9     122.2           112.8     308.2    499.5       856.0   3,111.8
Official export credirs                        1.3      15.0        6.1       5.0      15.8            52.3      59.1      67.7      107.4     150.0
IBRD                                           9.2      26.9       33.0      55.4      62.3            98.1     134.1     149.6      145.8     186.6
Other multilateral                              -         -        11.7      60.6      35.1            22.1      23.0       27.3     129.2     291.4
EXTERNAL DEBT
Debt Outstanding and Disbursed                 540.9   1,034.4   2,409.2   3,053.2   3,452.4          3,778.2   4,317.2   4,957.0   6,763.6  14,896.4
Official                                     367.0     858.6   1,583.4   1,864.2   2,300.2          2,679.4   3,112.7   3,488.0   4,473.9   6,490.2
IBRD                                        26.3     109.8      189.4     232.0     281.3           361.4     473.0     S95.3     862.1   1,192.3
IDA                                         16.2      55.3      67.4       67.3      68.4            69.0      68.7      68.1       65.3      58.2
Other                                      224.5     693.5   1,326.6   1,564.9   1,950.5          2,249.0   2,571.0   2,824.6   3,546.5   5,239.7
Private                                      173.9     175.8     825.8   1,189.0   1,152.2          1,098.8   1,204.5   1,470.0   2,289.6   8,406.2
Undisbursed debt                               307.0     741.3   1,794.4   1,773.8   1,532.2          1,451.1   1,372.8   1,445.3   2,820.5   2,925.3
DEBT SERVICE
Total debt service payments                     63.1     101.3      214.5     311.6     460.4           522.2     545.3     635.4   1,129.2   2,657.2
Interest                                      17.8      35.0      96.1      159.5     206.9           212.9     218.6     243.6      358.7     871.3
Payments as X experts                           17.7       6.6       10.2       9.9      12.0            12.0      11.2       11.6      13.4      18.8
Payments as X GNP                                4.4       2.4        3.6       4.3       4.4             4.3       4.2       4.4        4.5       4.1
Average interest rate of new Loans (X)           3.4       3.9        7.1       7.3       5.6             6.8       7.3        7.7       7.9       7.7
Official                                       2.7       3.3        4.4       5.6        -               -         -          -         -         -
Private                                        6.3       6.7        8.9      11.1        -               -         -         -          -         -
Average maturity of new Loans (years)           26.6      24.2       14.5      17.0      26.1            19.6      15.6      13.7       13.1       9.8
Official                                      31.2      27.1       21.0      20.1        -               -         -          -         -         -
Private                                        9.2       9.1       10.0      10.1        -
As % of Debt Outstanding
at End of Most Recent
Year (1980)
DEBT STRUCTURE
Maturity structure of debt outstanding (%)
Amortization due within 5 years                                        54.8
Amortization due within 10 years                                       98.9
Interest structure of debt outstanding (%)
Interest due .sthin first -ear                                          6.8
/1 Including grants.
EMFNA CP 2C
December 1981



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 9
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (As of September 30,1981)
US$ Million
Loan or                                                                                                 Amount (less
Credit                                                                                                   Cancellation)
Number      Year             Borrower                         Purpose                           Bank       IDA c/      Undisburaed
Twenty-seven Loans and Credits Fully Disbursed                                                 187.50      60.47
238        1971      Republic of Tunisia                Population                                         4.80          0.65
858 d/      1972     Republic of Tunisia                Tourism Infrastructure                 14.00                     0.10
937         1973     Republic of Tunisia                Urban Planning and Public
Transportation                         11.00                     0.37
1042 d/      L974     Compagnie des Phosphates et
Chemin de Fer de GAFSA            Phosphate Development                  23.30                     0.87
1068         1974     Republic of Tunisia                Irrigation Rehabilitation              12.20                     3.30
1088         1975     Republic of Tunisia                Urban Sewerage                         28.00                     4.97
1155        1975      Republic of Tunisia               Third Education                          8.60                     6.67
1188         1975     Republic of Tunisia                Second Highways                        28.00                    18.39
238-1        1976     Republic of Tunisia                Population                                         4.80          0.76
1340        1976      Banque Nationale de Tunisie        Second Agricultural Credit             12.00                     7.42
1355 d/     1976      Societe Tunisienne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz           Second Power                           14.50                     0.10
1431        1977      Republic of Tunisia                Irrigation Development                 42.00                    15.37
1445         1977     SONEDE                             Fourth Water Supply                    21.00                    13.53
1504        1977      BDET                               Development Finance Company            30.00                     3.99
1505        1977      Republic of Tunisia                Small-Scale Industrial Project          5.00                     2.62
1601        1978      Republic of Tunisia                Rural Roads (Third Highways)           32.00                    28.16
1675         1979     Republic of Tunisia                Second Urban Sewerage                  26.50                    25.80
1702        1979      Societe Nationale
d'Exploitation d'Eau              Fifth Water Supply                     25.00                    14.66
1705        1979      Republic of Tunisia                Second Urban Development               19.00                    18.54
1746        1979      Republic of Tunisia                Second Fisheries                       28.50                    26.83
1796        1980      Republic of Tunisia                Southern Irrigation                    25.00                    24.84
1797        1980      Office des Ports Nationaux         Third Port                             42.50                    25.24
1841        1980      Republic of Tunisia                Fourth Highways                        36.50                    36.50
1864         1980     Societe Tunis3enne de
l'Electricite et du Gaz           Second Natural Gas Pipeline            37.00                    37.00
1885        1980      Banque Nationale de Tunisie        Third Agricultural Credit              30.00                    29.25
1961         1981     Republic of Tunisia                Fourth Education                       26.00                    26.00
1969 b/     1981      Republic of Tunisia                Small-Scale Industry Development    30.00                       30.00
1997 b/      1981     Republic of Tunisia                Northwest Rural Development            24.00                    24.00
2003 b/     1981      Republic of Tunisia                Third Power                            41.50                    41.50
2005 b/      1981     Republic of Tunisia                Health and Population                  12.50                    12.50
2012 b/      1981     Republic of Tunisia                Textile Rebabilitation                 18.60                    18.60
TOTAL                                                                   891.70      70.07        493.53
Of which has been repaid                                                 88.26       5.75
Total now outstanding                                                   803.44      64.32
Amount Sold                               14.33
of which has been repaid                 12.40                           1.93
Total now held by Bank and IDA b/                                       801.51      64.32
Total Undisbursed                                                       492.12       1.41        493.53
a/ This list does not include a loan of $42 million for a Grain Storage project
approved by the Board on October 6, 1981.
b/ Not yet effective
c/ Prior to exchange adjustment
d/ Fully disbursed since September 30, 1981.



- 29 -
ANNEX TI
Page 2 of  9
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS IN TUNISTA (as of September 30, 1981)
Amount in lTO. Million
Year        Obligator                             Type of Business            Loan   Fquity   Total
1962   NPK Engrais                                Fertilizers                  2.0     1.5       3.9
1966   Societe Nationale d' Investissement        Development Finance Co.              0.*       n.6
1969   COFIT (Tourism)                            Development F-inance Co.   8.n       2.2      10.2
1970   Soci6t4 Nationale d'Investissement
(SNI) now (BDET)                         Development F-inance ro.              0.6      0.6
1973   Soci6td Touristigue & Hoteliere
RYM SA                                    Tourism                     1.6      0.3       1.9
1975   Societe d'Etudes & de Developpement
de Sousse-Nord                            Tourism                     ?.s      0.7      3.?
1974   Industries Chimiques du Fluor              Chemicals                            0.6       0.6
1978   BDET                                       Development Finance Co.              1.?       1.2
Total Gross Commitments                                               14.1      7.7     21.8
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                                  7.9      1.9       Q.8
Total commitments now held by IFC                                      6.2      5.8     19.0
Total undisbursed                                                               0.0      0.0



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 9
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Cr. 238;        Population Project: US$4.8 million credit of April 5, 1971;
Date of Effectiveness: December 29, 1971; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Cr. 238-1:      Population Project:  US$4.8 million Supplemental Credit
(NORAD grant) of October 13, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
March 21, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The present closing date will not be extended. The undisbursed
loan balance on February 24, 1982 was $110,453. Payments are being made on
amounts committed prior to the closing date.
Ln. 858.        Tourism Infrastructure Project; US$14 million loan of
September 28, 1972; Date of Effectiveness: June 29, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The project is completed and the undisbursed loan balance ($96,940)
was cancelled on November 24, 1981.
Ln. 937;        Tunis District Urban Planning and Public Transport Project;
Cr. 432:        US$11 million loan and US$7 million credit, both of October
5, 1973; Date of Effectiveness: September 24, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The present closing date will not be extended. The
undisbursed loan balance on February 24, 1982 was $365,575. Payments are
being made on amounts committed prior to the closing date.
Ln. 1042:       Gafsa Phosphate Project; US$23.3 million loan of October 1,
1974; Date of Effectiveness: March 14, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
The project is completed and the undisbursed loan balance
($105,930) was cancelled on February 26, 1982.
Ln. 1068:       Irrigation Rehabilitation Project;  US$12.2 million loan of
December 31, 1974; Date of Effectiveness: September 18,
1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Progress in construction and rehabilitation of irrigation, drainage
and road networks in the Medjerda area continues to be satisfactory. However,
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 9
farmers have not fully used the available facilities due to limited
distribution hours, lack of on-farm development and poor extension. Land
reform is progressing and is expected to be completed by the end of 1983.
In the Nebhana area, rehabilitation investments have been satisfactorily
completed. Credit demand for basins and storage facilities was less than
originally expected, and a grading and packing station was not built because
of lack of capacity on the part of the cooperative which was to construct
and manage it, and because drought in the area red[uced production. Land
consolidation in Nebhana is expected to be completed by mid-1982, and
production of off-season vegetables under greeenhouses is encouraging.
Ln. 1088:       First Urban Sewerage Project:  US$28 million loan of February
18, 1975; Date of Effectiveness: August 15, 1975; Closing
Date: December 15, 1982.
The project suffered considerable delay as a result of a number of
factors, some beyond the control of the project entity (ONAS). As a result,
considerable cost escalation occurred, chiefly in local cost components.
However, all components of the project are now under construction and
project completion is expected by mid-1982. One of its major benefits will
be release of land for development around the Lake of Tunis, which until now
has been impossible because of the pollution of the lake waters by untreated
sewerage.  Consultants financed under the project lhave produced a land-use
plan for the area, and acquisition of the land by Government is in progress.
Ln. 1155,       Third Education Project; US$8.9 million loan of August 13,
1975; Date of Effectiveness: March 1, 1976; Closing Date;
March 31, 1983
Implementation of this project was delayed following a change in
education priorities in Tunisia. The project was subsequently amended tco
reduce the number of ITM centers to be equipped undler the project, increase
the facilities to train teachers for ITM, and increase technical assis-
tance. The total cost of the amended project is estimated at $11.3 million
and the Bank loan has been decreased by $0.3 million to $8.6 million, rep-
resenting the full foreign exchange cost of the amended project. Imple-
mentation of the project is proceeding satisfactorily and as planned in the
revised schedule. There was a slight delay of about three months in
construction, but the procurement of furniture and equipment is running
ahead of schedule. The final bid documents for the extension of the five
teacher training colleges have been received and are now under awarding
procedures. All major covenants have been met.
Ln. 1188:       Second Highways Project; US$28 million loan of January 26,
1976; Date of Effectiveness: June 16, 1976; Closing Date-
December 31, 1982.
Civil works on the Tunis-Bizerte highway have been completed.
Construction is almost complete on the Hammamet-Korba road in Nabeul Mhe



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 9
remaining construction works on other roads are well-advanced. The Sfax
by-pass under Lot 8 on which there is a difficult problem of expropriation
has been deleted from the project. All studies under the project have been
completed and their results are being implemented.
Ln. 1340:       Second Agricultural Credit Project;  US$12 million loan of
December 17, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: July 19, 1977;
Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
About 81 percent of the loan amount is disbursed and more than 100
percent is committed; amounts in excess will have to be financed by the
Government or by the Third Agricultural Credit project. Categories 2 and 4
(subloans to commercial farmers and agro-industrial investors) are fully
disbursed. Category 1 (subloans to small and medium farmers) are expected
to be fully disbursed by the end of 1982. Disbursements for Category 3
(subloans to farmers' associations for the establishment of date palm
plantations) have begun. Construction of irrigation infrastructure is in
progress and plantation is also progressing satisfactorily. However,
drilling of artesian wells is suffering some delays.
Ln. 1355:       Second Power Project; US$14.5 million loan of January 12,
1977; Date ot Ettectiveness: May 4, 1977; Closing Date: June
30, 19,11.
The project is completed and the undisbursed loan balance
($93,349.98) was cancelled on October 20, 1981.
Ln. 1431;       Sidi Salem Multipurpose Project; US$42 million loan of July
5, 1977; Date of Effectiveness: July 31, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1984.
For the project as a whole, progress in implementation con-
tinues to be satisfactory. The land reform and consolidation program is
underway. The Sidi Salem dam is expected to be completed on schedule to
catch the 1981/82 flood season. The new railroad is now completed and in
commercial service. After some initial delays, construction of the
Medjerda-Cap Bon interconnection canal is proceeding more rapidly, and
completion by end 1983 seems possible. A 6 kms section was commissioned in
June 1981, permitting the supply of additional water to Tunis during the
peak consumption period. First irrigation of the 1,400 ha Testour perimeter
is expected in April 1982.
Ln. 1445:       Fourth Water Supply Project; US$21 million loan of July 5,
1977; Date of Effectiveness: January 30, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
The procurement process under the fourth project is now completed.
Project execution has accelerated during the last six months and the project
is now expected to be completed by end 1982, about six months behind the
appraisal schedule.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 9
Ln. 1504/1505: Industrial Finance Project consisting of a Seventh Loan to
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET) and a
Pilot Project for assistance to SSI; Loans of $30.0 million
to BDET and of $5.0 million to the Government of January 25,
1978; Date of Effectiveness: October 13, 1978; Closing
Date: December 31, 1982.
Both loans are fully committed. Under the project, BDET is giving
priority in its financing to projects which are located in the least
developed regions, sponsored by new entrepreneurs, characterized by high
labor intensity or export-orientation. Under the SSI pilot project, the
commercial banks' initial reluctance to utilize Bank funds for SSI financing
has been overcome. Considerable progress has been madle by the Tunisian
authorities toward setting up a comprehensive program of Tunisian and
foreign technical assistance experts, specifically catering to the needs of
SSI, as agreed under the project. A new project approved by the Bank in May
1981 supports this program (see below Ln. 1969).
Ln. 1601:       Rural Roads Project; US$32.0 million loan of July 24, 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1979; Closing Date: June
30, 1984.
Road construction is now underway in all the eight provinces.
Progress on the complementary agricultural component, after an initial
delay, is now proceeding satisfactorily. The Government wishes to expand
the project to cover three additional provinces. This is under
consideration.
Ln. 1675:       Second Urban Sewerage Project; US$26.5 million loan of
April 13, 1979; Date of Effectiveness: August 31, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
Consultants have been contracted and detailed design is procee-
ding. Tenders have been called for the first civil works, and construction
has started.
Ln. 1702:       Fifth Water Supply Project; US$25.0 million loan of May 31,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: October 1'9, 1979; Closing
Date:  December 31, 1982.
The physical execution of the project is progressing well and
according to schedule.  SONEDE has already approved eight urban and
seventeen rural sub-projects for a total investment cost of $28.5 million.
Procurement for the project is now completed and works under all project
contracts are proceeding rapidly.  Laying of the piping system of the
production facilities included in the project has been completed.
Ln. 1705:       Second Urban Development Project; US$19.0 million loan of
May 31, 1979; Date of Effectiveness:  December 1, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The physical works of the project both in Tunis and Sfax are progressing
satisfactorily, with about 35% of works completed. Technical studies for



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 9
the solid waste collection and disposal component is progressing well. The
housing component is progressing slowly and experiencing cost overruns due
to technical difficulties associated with the sites in Jebel Lahmar and to
slow acquisition of sites in Saida Manoubia and in Cimer Nord.
Ln. 1746:       Second Fisheries Project; US$28.5 million loan of July 20,
1979; Date of Effectiveness: May 14, 1980; Closing Date.
*                         June 30, 1985.
All contracts for port infrastructure have been awarded and
construction is well underway at most sites and general progress is
satisfactory.  Detailed design for the boat hulls has been completed and
procurement is underway. Bid awards for boat engines have been made.
Ln. 1796:       Southern Irrigation Project; US$25.0 million loan of
February 8, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: September 30, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
The implementation of the project is proceeding according to
schedule. A contract has been awarded for the sinking of the first 13 deep
wells of the project and borings are underway at several sites. A contract
has been awarded for supply of asbestos-cement pipes to be used in
rehabilitation of irrigation infrastructure in existing oases.
Ln. 1797:       Third Port Project; US$42.5 million loan of February 8, 1980;
Date ot Ettectiveness: June 25, 1980; Closing Date: June
3U, 19..
The physical execution of the project at La Goulette is now
progressing well. Dredging of the channel and of the new basin area has
been completed. The reclamation at the new port area behind the project
quay line is under way. The casting yard for concrete quay caissons has
become operational. As a result of initial delays in starting the dredging
operations, the civil works are about 5 months behind schedule. At Sfax,
the contracts for civil works were awarded in July 1980. Dredging started
in October 1980 but works were delayed on the landward side until the
shipyards and the fishing port were removed to their new locations in late
February 1981. Further problems have developed in connection with the
innovative casting technique: heated concrete blocks showed cracks through
testings and the causes are being investigated by the contractor which has
deferred further casting. This will add to the 9 months delay from which
civil works in Sfax have already suffered. Supervision is working
satisfactorily in both ports. Training programs for port workers have been
prepared.
Ln. 1841;       Fourth Highway Project; US$36.5 million loan of May 22, 1980;
Date ot Ettectiveness: November 21, 1980; Closing Date:
September 30, 1984.
Project implementation is progressing well; the 1981 construction
program is underway.   Elements of the 1982 program for rehabilitation and
maintenance have been discussed and agreed with the Government, and the 1982
action plan is being implemented.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 9
Ln. 1864:       Second Natural Gas Pipeline Project; US$37 million loan of
October 22, 1980 - amended on July 15, 1981;  Date of
Effectiveness: December 9, 1981; Closing Date: December 31,
1985.
The original project scope has been modified because of
uncertainties related to the purchase of gas from Algeria; the project has
been redesigned to utilize royalty gas as a substitute for premium liquid
fuel products.
Ln. 1885:       Third Agricultural Credit Project; US$30.0 million loan of
August 6, 1980; Date of Effectiveness: June 24, 1981;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The project will finance part of BNT's agricultural three-year
lending program for medium and long-term credit to small and medium farmers,
production and service cooperatives, commercial farmers and
agro-industries. The loan became effective after one extension of the
original date of April 30, 1981. Disbursements are expected to start
immediately for those purposes where Agricultural Credit II is already
overcommitted (commercial farmers, producer cooperatives and
agro-industries).
Ln. 1961:       Fourth Education Project; US$26 million loan of May 18, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: November 18, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986.
The implementation of this project, which is entirely devoted to
skilled worker training and apprenticeship, is proceeding satisfactorily,
with assistance from the ILO. The first phase of construction has already
been tendered. All the final lists of furniture and equipment have been
completed and the programs reviewed. Technical assistance to aid in
reinforcement of the management, logistics and programs of the network of
vocational centers is under negotiation.
Ln. 1969:       Small Scale Industry Development Project; US$30.0 million
loan of May 15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April
30, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project supports the Government's comprehensive assistance
program for small-scale industries through financial and technical
assistance. $29.35 million is to be administered by the Central Bank of
Tunisia and made available to small entrepreneurs through participating
banks. The remainder of the loan ($0.65 million) would strengthen the
appraisal capacity of the Investment Promotion Agency.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 9 of 9
Ln. 1997:       Northwest Rural Development Project; US$24.0 million loan of
July 15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1982;
Closing Date: September 30, 1987.
The project is designed to help finance a five-year time slice of
the (,overnment's 15 year development program for the Northwest Region by
concentrating on the establishment of institutions which could implement the
program, and the extension, research, credit, and livestock development
services. The project would also start up specific agricultural, soil
conservation and forestry activities, together with productive
infrastructure works.
Ln. 2003:       Third Power Project; US$41.5 million loan of July 15, 1981;
Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1982; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985.
The project will assist Tunisia in implementing the first three
years of a five-year program for the development of rural electrification
and in rehabilitating the urban distribution systems by connecting about 990
villages in 15 Governorates to the national network and improving the supply
of electricity in about 60 towns.
Ln. 2005:       Health and Population Project; US$12.5 million loan of July
15, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to support Government efforts to extend
basic health care to the whole population by 1990, through the provision of
better and more cost-effective health, family planning and nutrition
services to lower income groups in eight selected Governorates. It would
strengthen the Ministry of Public Health's management capacity, improve and
expand the basic health care delivery system and health education programs,
upgrade the training system, and train project personnel.
Ln. 2012:       Textile Rehabilitation Project; US$18.6 million loan of
October 27, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: February 25,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will assist the Government in implementing the first
phase of a rehabilitation and modernization program for the public sector
textile industry. It would expand and improve production so as to enhance
competitiveness in export markets.
Ln. 2052:       Grain Distribution and Storage Project; US$42.0 million loan
of October 27, 1981; Planned Date of Effectiveness: April 30,
1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
The project is designed to strengthen grain storage capacity;
reduce congestion, handling costs, demurrage charges and grain losses at the
main Tunisian seaports and the cost of transport and handling of grain;
strengthen the technical capacity and financial management of the Office of
Cereals; and lay the groundwork for further modernization of the system of
collection, storage and transport of domestic grain.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
Republic of Tunisia
Fifth Highway (Rural Roads) Project
Section I; Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country
to prepare the project:                    28 months (June 1979 through
October 1981)
(b) Agency which prepared
the project:                               Highway Department (DPC) and
Ministry of Agriculture (MA),
with the assistance of
consultants
(c) Project first identified
by Bank:                                   July 1977
(d) Date of appraisal mission;                 June 1'981
(e) Date of completion of
negotiations:                              February 1982
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:             July 1982
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
1.  A special condition of effectiveness would be
the establishment of a Project Coordination Committee (para. 64).
2. During negotiations, assurances were obtained:
(i) that the Government and BNT would make available adequate
short-, medium- and long-term credit for agriculture (para. 55);
(ii) that independent auditors acceptable to the Bank would prepare
annual audits of project accounts (para. 66);
(iii) that the Government would provide for pubLic bid openings for
tender calls (para. 67); and
(iv) that annual plans of operations, including recurrent budget
needs, will be submitted to the Bank in preliminary form by April 30,
and in final form by September 30 each year (para. 69).



IBRD 15916
7QJ0'                                                            8001  8:10                      492%                             030 0t                                                                                                                                  JA' 1OL3O  IThOlY  ' vNUARV 982
TUNISIA
FIFTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                  '7 Nhr rre.>
Rural Roads
NORTH
37TD02
'3    ~~~~.                    onrsei ~~~~  FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
-36¢30~~~~          1                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '   = 6,   S . d , i p.i  '" 5' t= 'Che t5d s 
(Skolb   1  ___THIRD HIGH WAY PROJECT
(1?                                                 Fernemv or anv                                                                                                                          dmse         m      c      nt -Gt>2S7--{l  d  ,  ,-%<y In  g 8E  ,   / >   )'  R < \ VWobEud Lj Provdnclo  CopiedlS
Try Pr.. beyv,yvy,ydb,~~~~~~~~~~~~~j .. ...
ired ,y.rbyy 5N ITALY'7rd                                                .                                                                                                  N'   fTvi3i                      osar/a           ->VA<dbC PaS v 100 Meder RoanuP d R..ds
1    l D <  <<L. ^m>..)t /  0    {I 8t    rer                                                                                                                                                                                                                                >
-36-30'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Nt                                                                                           1            Oeg                                                                                    Other Roads                    33
dC t                                                                                                                                                                                          LokesI
xrvvvviivv *~Gtixrd .~'                                                                                                                                                            -n.e                Nybeol ..                    Provincial Capitols
eiry rir. rpv rOe,,..                                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Provincial B-udar-e
El A--                                          B~~~~~~~~~~~~~heir  reeae                               Iternati-nl Boundaries
7~30                                                                                                                                                                      4
Med rx.ry,.Oiii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Sp,                                                                                                                                               100 Meter Cantons Intervalo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10 Mte Cnt.'I.erf
;a                                                                                                                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500 Meter l,e IdxContours
toner Sd  ovet      El                                                                                       -,Oyl"             8.1            ~      /~Spat EleaI-ons
a                                                      Oa   Ryber           3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0     2       3      0      s
AL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  ~~~~~~~~~~~KLWTR
ji,  Nj                                           2~~~"                    0N           'v                                 reel      OrrolaEll
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~00Rb                                                                                                                              0
1-/                                                                           W30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o






'20  u'00                               On,nv,a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'30                                                                                   BED 6144~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IBD164
9'JANUARY ?902
"3Meako va- <\\-   <__  g   -5   .Malouro    . ¢,   <A7>   7   )   0] vy30    g /   11fit10'  TUNISIA
-34'30'                                                                                                                                                                                                              A        R JC
Rural Roads
:4, 'h =    .                                                                                                                                                                       SOUTH
<sQ  (~~~~~~~~~~7  ,~~~~~~~    Dotto                                                         A,ho6aa ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FIFTH- HIGH WAY PROJECT
/       \            4o_ t    -fi / < t=  -  5    X ;                                                                                    -               /                           AJsLh.;r Roads Stadied
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
Roa--- Rads Constructed
2,,                                                                                                                          ..jG.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. Roads Studied
j)                                                                                                                           -  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Paved Roads
OlIver Roads
11 iIi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ el ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                       -f I (hosts (Solteoser vkes)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -----Chtt  oks
-7  ~ ~~~~~~~~PoInv-iol Cap,tols
--                                                                                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500 Mater eden Conmour
no3  ;                                                                     itr   -  ff  ;0 -.. >n<l  ------  Ges
-\---------                      -         =                 A n/                                                                                                               Spot Elevations
------- --- -- -fb ; e / - --                     \,     
- --- -------_---- -                                  (.-*24                  -   -  -              / / \          X33h
2'30  9'00              ' 9' 3  0' \  .= . | Hine \- -2 - -0 
-33'30' ~~J~ -                                            ~2 '~a              Dv'
02~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0              5
0    10   20   00   40   50~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~30'
L3~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~'                                                                                                                                                              >






IRED 16145
ITALY  800         9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05   vo  -                                                          Sd ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                        I1~~~~~~~0Q   JANUARY1952~~~~~~~~~ ~3    JNAR 18
08~O0          -'                                                                                                              -            \~od~          AIA                                                    TUNISIA
0                                     \  o~~~~~~FITHHIGHWAYPRJC
'K0  Juv-0,         UPS                             o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O~~~5                                                       -                              o                          Rural         Roads~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5..  u al Ro d
-~~~             (                :;'         miss0 ~~~~~~~~~~~                   -            Ens8    ~          ~         ~        ~       ~       ~       ~ ~            /~~~ ~K                ousse                          CENTER
ALGERIkh4%                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   oos,
-   -                       I              -~~~~~~  ~~                      Rd~~~ss             ]RSiOnr     -                                                                                      -             Ulsus~~~~~~~5bb.     Mobdi.
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
R.ods Stvd,ed/
THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9-
---Roads Constructed                                                                      ~-,-~
Roads Studied                                            I-
-   Posed Roods
Gihe, Roads
v~7'Cho ttt( ISotuster  ok
ii    Pr-u,oc,I OCop, tols
Pr-un,IRudrs
100 Mter Contour Intervals
235-00              500 Meter edlna Contours                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           35f 3500
Spot Elevations
/  \     ,  On~~~es Be' Abb S-dAhA.
rn~~~~~~~~  0.  sn ,,s3 s,vo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                                PLOMETOES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~iOMTR
vossvs,ns ,On, s, 58.5 Mv~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3.
55505 vs ,5,vsAM                                                                              9                                                                                                                                                                                                       p



