Document of                     -4    .      J
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3722-TUN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
February 18, 1982
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may b.e used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit        =          Tunisian Dinar (DT)
DT 1                 =          US$1.95 I'
DT 1,000             - -        US$1,950
DT 1,000,000         =          US$1,950,000
US$1                 =          DT 0.51
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
International System (S.I.)       British/U.S. System
1 meter (m)                   -   3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)              =   0.62 miles (mi)
1 millimeter (mm)             =   0.039 inches (ins)
1 hectare (ha)                =   2.47 acres (ac)
1 metric tonne (t)            =   2,205 pounds (lb)
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
BNT   -  Banque Nationale de Tunisie (National Bank of Tunisia)
CCDA  -  Commissariat Central du Developpement Agricole
(Central Agricultural Development Commission)
CNEA  -  Centre National d'Etudes Agricoles
(National Agricultural Studies Center)
CRDA  -  Commissariat Regional de Developpement Agricole
(Regional Agricultural Development Commission)
CTV   -  Cellule Territoriale de Vulgarisation Agricole (Extension Centers)
DERV  -  Direction de l'Enseignment, Recherche, et Vulgarisation
(Department of Training, Research and Extension)
DPA   -  Direction de la Production Animale (Livestock Production Department)
DPC   -  Direction des Ponts et Chaussees (Highway Department)
DPSAE - Direction de la Planification et des Statistiques Agricoles et
Economiques (Planning and Statistical Department)
DPV   -  Direction de la Production Vegetale
(Crop Production Department)
FOSDA    Fond Special pour le Developpement Agricole
,.(Special Fund for Agricultural Development)
FOSEP - Fond Special pour l'Encouragement de la Peche
(Special Fund for the Promotion of Fishery Investments).
GR    -  Genie Rural (Rural Engineering Department)
MA    -  Ministere de l'Agriculture (Ministry of Agriculture)
MPF   -  Ministere du Plan et des Finances
(Ministry of Planning and Finance)
MPW   -  Ministere de l'Equipement (Ministry of Public Works)
MTC   -  Ministere des Transports et des Communications
(Ministry of Transport and Communications)
OC    -  Office des Cereales (Cereal Board)
PDR   -  Programme de Developpement Rural (Rural Development Program)
SCM   -  Societe de Caution Mutuelle (Mutual Guarantee Association)
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
1/ The Tunisian dinar is floating. As of September 30, 1981, the rate was
DT l=US$1.95. This has been taken as a reasonable average rate for the
conversion of project costs. -



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPCORT OF
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADIS) PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. TRANSPORT IN THE ECONOMY
A. Geographic and Economic Setting  . . . . . . . . . . .   1
B. The Transport System  ......  ... I. ..  ..  ..            .   2
C. Transport and Rural Development  . . .    . . . . . . .   3
D. Previous Transport and Agricultural Projects . . . . .   4
II. ROADS AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
A. Road Network . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . .   7
B. Road Administration  . . . . . . . . , . . . . . . . .   9
C. Organization of Agricultural Services  . . . . . . . .  10
D. Rural Road Program . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
B. Objectives . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
C. Description  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
D. Cost Estimates . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
E. Financing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
F. Implementation ...................   .  27
G. Procurement  .....................  27
H. Internal Accounting and Auditing Proceadures  . . . . .  29
I. Implementation Schedule and Monitorin,. . . . . . . . .  29
J. Disbursements  ...................  .  31
K. Environmental Impact . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  34
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General Framework  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  36
B. Sub-Project Review ............  ....  .  .  36
C. Benefits and Beneficiaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  37
D. Economic Analysis ................. .  39
E. Results  .....................                             40
F. Project Risk . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS  . . . . . . . . 42
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in June 1981
composed of Roy Knighton (Economist), Peter Long (Engineer), Cynthia Cook
(Sociologist), and Jean de Gryse (Financial Analyst, Consultant) and a
post-appraisal mission in October 1981 composed of Peter Long,
John Doolette (Agriculturalist), and Suzanne Morris (Systems Analyst).
This document has a restricted distribution and rnay be used by recipients only in the performance of]
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclcsed without World Bank authorization.



Page No.
ANNEXES
1.  Previous Bank Projects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
2.  Agricultural Extension Programs .  . . . . . . . . .   47
3.  Agricultural Credit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    59
4.  Road Design Standards .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    67
5. Details of Economic Evaluation
Methodology: Sub-Project Review . . . . . . . . . .   68
6. Guidelines for Ongoing Preparation,
Implementation, and Monitoring .  . . . . . . . . .   79
7. Framework for Rural Road Impact Study .  . . . . . .   83
8.  Indicative Action Plan . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   89
9.  Project File Documents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    94
CHARTS
1.  Organization of the Ministry of Public Works  . . .    97
2. Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture   . . .    98
3.  Project Implementation Organization .  . . . . . . .    99
4. Project Implementation Schedule:
General  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .   100
5. Project Implementation Schedule:
Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . . . . .   101
MAPS
Tunisia : Fifth Highway Project (Rural Roads)
IBRD 15916 North
IBRD 16145 Center
IBRD 16144 South



I. TRANSPORT IN THE E(CONOMY
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01     Tunisia's overall development strategy is reflected in the objec-
tives of the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81) which are concerned with
strengthening and diversifying the economy, particularly through employment
creation and emphasis on rural and regional development. However, since
1977, the growth of domestic production has slowed and employment creation
has failed to meet planned targets. Although a rise in crude oil prices
has helped keep the financial situation manageable, recent policy orienta-
tion has shifted away from industry towards much greater emphasis on agri-
culture and the rural sector as well as on achieving a more balanced system
of regional development. The Government is currently preparing the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86) which is expected to include a new orientation
in its policy for rural and regional development by strengthening and co-
ordinating support facilities such as transport and agricultural services
and by providing better incentives for increased economic activity.
1.02     The population of Tunisia is about 6.6 million (1980) and is grow-
ing at the rate of about 2.5% per annum; about half of the population lives
in rural areas. There is significant migraticin into the cities and into
the densely populated coastal strip extending from Bizerte in the north to
Sfax in the south, an area which accounts for over half the total popula-
tion. In terms of natural regions, Tunisia cE.n be divided into three parts
(Maps IBRD 15916, 16145, 16144). Northern Tunisia, an area of mountains
and broad intermontane valleys with average rcinfall ranging from 400 mm to
over 1,000 mm and a population density of about 100 inhabitants per kmi2,
has favorable conditions for winter rainfed cereal crops. Central Tunisia
with average rainfall between 200 mm and 400 nm and a population density of
about 50 inhabitants per kn2, provides a poorer agricultural base com-
prising cereal production for home consumption at lower yield levels than
in the north, tree crops, mainly olives and almonds, and extensive live-
stock production. In the sparsely populated areas of southern Tunisia,
agriculture is only possible with irrigation and is limited primarily to
oases producing dates, vegetables and some fodlder. On the whole, rainfall
varies greatly from year to year and yields o" rainfed crops are particu-
larly sensitive to these fluctuations. However, in these marginal condi-
tions the application of appropriate agricultural techniques can both
increase and stabilize yields. The rural areas are best served by the road
network in the relatively densely populated valleys of the northern
region. The density of the road network decreases progressively through
the central and southern part of the country.
1.03     Gross Domestic Product (GDP) has been increasing at the rate of
6.5% per annum in constant prices since 1976, resulting in a 1980 per
capita GDP of about US$1,330. This growth ra:e was somewhat less than the
8.6% average annual increase achieved over the 1969-76 period. This dif-
ference is explained by a shift in the underlying growth factors during



- 2-
the second half of the 1970s. In particular, agricultural output has fluc-
tuated since 1976 partly as a result of adverse weather conditions, and
partly because of weaknesses in agricultural support services, particularly
extension activities and credit. However, favorable weather in most areas
in 1980 has helped to re-establish production levels for most crops.
Although agriculture currently accounts for a declining share of GDP--15%
in 1980 compared with 24% in 1976--about half of Tunisia's population
continues to live in rural areas.
B. The Transport System
1.04     The transport system comprises some 17,000 km of classified roads
of which half are paved, and 14,000 km of unclassified tracks, serving
about 100,000 vehicles; 1,600 km of standard and narrow gauge railways;
five major commercial ports and one national shipping company; four air-
ports handling international traffic, and two airlines, including Tunis
Air, the national carrier. Road transport is the dominant mode for both
domestic freight and passenger transport and its share of total demand has
been increasing steadily over the years. Roads now carry about 90% of
passenger traffic and 85% of freight traffic, excluding minerals. However,
the role of the railway in the Tunis-Sousse coastal corridor is greater
than these figures would suggest and rail passenger traffic in the corridor
has been increasing steadily over the past decade.
1.05     The Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) is responsible
for overall organization of the transport sector, including the planning of
rail, sea, and air transport and the coordination and regulation of land
transport and establishment of transport rates. Subsectoral planning is
tr,e responsibility of the various modal agencies including the Highway
Department (Direction des Ponts et Chaussees, DPC) of the Ministry of
Public Works (MPW). Inadequate subsectoral planning capabilities and
insufficient overall coordination have resulted in some distortions in the
implementation of transport investments in recent years. High priority has
been placed on several major construction projects, as well as on the
development of air transport and maritime shipping with corresponding high
foreign exchange expenditures and limited short-term benefits. The overall
result has been a delay in urgent programs for rehabilitation and main-
tenance of road and railway infrastructure with implementation of only part
of the initial transport sector plan at a higher cost than envisaged for
the entire program. Although most of the line agencies are aware of these
problems, the Ministry of Planning and Finance (MPF) has been unable to
allocate the investment budget on a rational basis as there is no prior
arbitration of investment proposals by MTC. For this reason, the Govern-
ment has recently established a planning unit in MTC with technical
assistance financed under the Bank's Fourth Highway Project. This unit is
providing a closer investment analysis and continuous monitoring of
developments in the transport sector.



- 3 -
1.06     During the 1960s, traffic levels were moderate and transport
investments focussed on minor improvements to existing infrastructure.
However, increasing diversification of the economy during the 1970s,
particularly the emphasis on agricultural production and regional develop-
ment, has since stimulated traffic demand. The balanced development of the
transport network, particularly through improvements to regional and local
roads, has now evolved as an important consideration in support of the
Government's development policy. As such, trarsport continues to play a
key role in economic development, and investments in the sector are now
shifting to provide the necessary impetus to rural development and to
market-oriented activity in general.
C. Transport and Rural Development
1.07     As a key sector in the Tunisian economly, agriculture receives high
priority in the country's development strategy,, Investments in agriculture
increased 40% in real terms during the 1970s compared to the 1960s and the
sector currently accounts for about 14% of total private and public invest-
ment expenditure. Although output has stagnated somewhat recently and
there have been considerable fluctuations from year to year, agricultural
value added grew on average at 3.6% per year in real terms during the
1970s. This growth has been due in part to the development of farmer
credit facilities and to favorable agriculturaL prices and in part to an
increasing use of improved technology. While ex-farm gate prices for many
staple crops are controlled by the Government, there is also a private
market for most commodities where the price is subject to market condi-
tions. In addition, for many crops such as fruit and vegetables, there is
only a floor price outside of which there are no additional price restric-
tions. The total land area is 16.4 million ha, of which about 5.2 million
ha are arable, 34% in cereals, 33% in tree cro's, 21% fallow, the remaining
12% under vegetables, industrial and forage crops. With some 350,000
farms, there is an average of about 15 has of arable land per farm.
1.08     Efficient road transport is critical to rural and agricultural
development as it provides a key input for expansion of agricultural
production, communication patterns and improviag rural mobility. Public
road transport in Tunisia is provided by two national companies, one
providing passenger transport, the other freight transport, as well as by
12 regional transport companies providing both passenger and freight ser-
vices. In addition, many firms and industrial enterprises also operate
own-account fleets which are integrated with specific commercial activi-
ties. Small trucks--up to 3.5 tons capacity for general cargo and up to
5 tons for agricultural produce--fall outside restrictive regulatory
policies and, as a result, there is a large number of private owner-
operators. For several years, the Bank has been working with MTC to
simplify regulatory policies, but progress has been slow. The small
private truckers provide most of the transport services in rural areas and,
where competition is keen, benefits accruing to them are often passed on in
part to users.



- 4 -
1.09     Road transport services cannot be provided efficiently unless the
quality of road access is improved. Where access conditions are poor,
extension, credit and marketing activities are unable to operate effec-
tively and the timely delivery of critical inputs to the farmer is often
hindered. Social welfare is affected by inadequate access to schools,
health, and administrative facilities. In effect, the condition of the
road network provides a major constraint to rural and agricultural
development in Tunisia. Although adequate in coverage, much of the primary
network requires rehabilitation and modernization. Recurrent maintenance
funds have been used mostly to maintain the paved primary road network.
Most of the unpaved network was never properly engineered or constructed,
and routine grading cannot maintain a satisfactory level of service on such
roads. In addition, the DPC is not administratively responsible for
maintaining unclassified roads, even though some may be relatively
important for serving agricultural areas. With the limited resources at
its disposal, the DPC has therefore developed the practice of grading
important unpaved roads, both classified and unclassified, after the end of
the wet season just before the heavy traffic flows of the harvest season.
Although this practice ensures evacuation of the harvest, the unpaved
network is steadily deteriorating because of the lack of periodic mainte-
nance and improvements. Many tracks are muddy and impassable during
winter. Average transport costs in rural areas are therefore high, and the
level of service so low that it has a significant effect on the provision
of services such as agricultural extension, access to schools, and so on.
The Government is sensitive to the effect of this situation on the quality
of rural life, and the consequent exodus to the cities particularly along
the coast. It is now giving high priority to the improvement and main-
tenance of the rural road network. Bank assistance in an initial program
covering t..e -LTpruv=L-eLL.. and mainteiiatgce of 1,100 km of rurai roads is
being provided through a Rural Roads Project (Loan 1601-TUN, 1978) which is
being implemented through 1983. The proposed project would constitute a
follow-up to the First Rural Roads Project extending the rural road program
to all agricultural areas of the country.
D. Previous Transport and Agricultural Projects
1.10     To assist the Government in achieving its objectives in the
transport sector, the Bank has participated in nine transport projects
since 1964. The First and Second Highway Projects (Loan.746-TUN, 1971,
US$24 million and Loan 1188-TUN, 1976, US$28 million), and the First
Railway Project (Loan 606/Credit 150-TUN, 1964, US$17 million) focussed on
modernization and rehabilitation of primary and secondary roads, and
renewal of track and purchase of railway equipment. The First Highway
Project was a broad success. However, the rehabilitation component was cut
back substantially because of high inflation and dollar devaluation over
the implementation period. Difficulties were encountered with right-of-way
acquisition and with road transport regulation and road user taxation
improvements (PPAR No. 2772, December 26, 1979). Implementation of the
Second Highway Project was delayed because of problems of property acquisi-
tion and particularly because of a persistent lack of local financing. The



- 5 -
project is now making satisfactory progress following an agreement with the
Bank on a revised financing and execution plan. Both highway projects
included technical assistance which encouraged the development of several
competent local consulting firms which now work closely with DPC. The
First Railway Project was completed successfully (PPAR No. 2109,
June 23, 1978). Two small loans in the port sub-sector (Loan 380-TUN,
1964, US$7 million, and Loan 573-TUN, 1969, US$8.5 million) provided
support facilities for port operation, mainly dredging, maintenance
operations and cargo handling equipment. Both these projects were
implemented successfully and had an important institution building impact
(PPAR No. 1049, February 26, 1979). Another snLall loan provided financing
for a gas pipeline project (Loan 724-TUN, 1971, US$7.5 million) which was
satisfactorily completed within one year. A Thiird Port Project
(Loan 1797-TUN, 1980, US$42.5 million) is assisting the Government in
modernizing berth facilities at the main ports of La Goulette and Sfax and
is providing support facilities for improved port opetations. The Third
Highway (Rural Roads) Project (Loan 1601-TUN, 1978, US$32 million)
initiated the Government's program for improving rural roads by providing
financial assistance for an initial slice of about 1,100 km of roads
together with some coordinated agricultural inirestments in a cross-section
of the country's agricultural areas. Progress with the road component has
been good throughout. The agricultural components suffered an initial
start-up delay, but the Government is now acce.Lerating implementation and
completion is expected on schedule at the end of 1983. At the same time,
continuity in the Government's highway program and balanced development of
the highway network are being provided through the Fourth Highway Project
(Loan 1841-TUN, 1980, US$36.5 million) which emnphasizes rehabilitation of
primary and secondary roads and improved maintenance over the whole
network, as well as through the Kuwait Fund, wliich has assisted with the
construction of several high-standard high-volume roads. Progress with the
Fourth Project is very good. In addition, the close collaboration between
the Bank and the Government in preparing the project has enabled DPC to
establish its own unit for routine preparation of rehabilitation programs.
Details of Bank transport projects are in AnneK 1.
1.11     The Bank has supported Tunisia's agricultural sector through
credit, irrigation and fisheries projects. Recently greater emphasis has
been placed on rural development with the recently approved Northwest Rural
Development Project. Bank group lending for agriculture in Tunisia began
in 1967 and to date eleven projects have been financed or approved total-
ling US$243.7 million of Bank/IDA funds. The eleven projects include three
irrigation projects (FY75, FY79 and FY80), two fisheries projects (FY72 and
FY79), a cooperative farm project (FY68), three agricultural credit pro-
jects (FY71, FY77 and FY80), the Northwest Rural Development Project
(FY81), and the Grain Distribution and Storage Project (FY82).
1.12     Performance of Bank-financed agricultural projects has been mixed,
reflecting institutional constraints in the sector. The physical compo-
nents in the First Irrigation Project concerned the rehabilitation of two
separate irrigation areas and implementation w'as satisfactory. The Second



-6-
Irrigation Project (Sidi Salem Multi-purpose Project), which involves new
installations to expand the areas of irrigation, is moving satisfactorily
although there has been a delay in the construction of a major canal. The
third (Southern Irrigation Project) has started up satisfactorily. The
Tunisia Cooperative Farm Project signed in 1967 provided financing for the
development of agricultural production cooperatives as part of a ten-year
national plan to implement agrarian reform. A major land reform policy
change in 1969, when the attempt to convert all agricultural land into
cooperatives was abandoned, caused a revision of the Project. The Bank's
Project Performance Audit Report No. 968 confirms that a number of objec-
tives were attained, but those concerned with the elimination of subsis-
tence farming and the incorporation of private land owners into production
cooperatives had to be abandoned. The First Fisheries Project was com-
pleted after considerable delays and with a history of low loan recovery by
the National Bank of Tunisia (Banque Nationale de Tunisie, BNT). The pro-
blems were addressed under the Second Fisheries Project after agreement was
reached on a strategy for improving recoveries. The First Agricultural
Credit Project provided US$8 million to finance lending by BNT for farm
investments in machinery, dairy development, date palm plantations and an
agro-industrial component for dairy products. The loan/credit was fully
disbursed 34 months after the original closing date. The major issue was
that Bank Group funds lent by BNT had a higher interest rate than Govern-
ment funds lent by BNT, thus affecting farmers preference and making dis-
bursement slower. Uniformity of lending terms, regardless of source of
funds, was pursued under the Second Agricultural Credit Project
(US$12 million). The Third Agricultural Credit Project (US$30 million)
which became effective in June 1981 will continue to emphasize the
decentralization and acceleration of loan processing procedures, particu-
larly through strengthening BNT's regional staff. Credit for farmers in
the zones of influence of roads being improved in the Third Highway Project
(Rural Roads Project) is being provided by the Second and Third Agricul-
tural Credit Projects. Details of Bank agricultural projects are in
Annex 1.           -



- 7 -
II. ROADS AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT'!
A. Road Network
2.01     Tunisia's road network is shown in the table:
Km
Surface          Classified             Unclassified         Total
Paved roads            9,100                        -           9,100
Unpaved roads          8,600                    9,000          17,600
Forestry tracks             -                   5,000           5,000
TOTAL              17,700                   14,000          31,700
Of the unpaved rural network, about 2,000 km or less than 10% are
improved with some drainage, earthworks and gravel. Traffic volumes on
the paved classified network average about 1,100 vpd and have been
increasing in recent years at about 10% annually. Traffic on the unpaved
rural road network ranges from only a few vehicles per day to over
300 vpd with an average between 50 and 100 vpd. Traffic consists mainly
of pick-ups for most commodity and passenger mcvements, as well as light
trucks and agricultural equipment.
2.02     At independence in 1956, Tunisia inherited a diversified and
relatively well-developed road network which was adequate to support the
moderate traffic through most of the 1960s. Tbme road system was assessed
in 1969 under the Transport Survey financed by UNDP with the Bank as
Executing Agency, followed in 1971 by the Highway Maintenance Study
financed under Engineering Loan S2-TUN. These studies, together with the
modernization and bridge rehabilitation studies also financed under the
Engineering Loan, formed the basis of the First Highway Project
(Loan 746-TUN) which focussed on modernization works and an extensive
program (1,900 km) of rehabilitation and road widening designed to meet
the demands of rapidly increasing traffic volumes.  Although planned as a
continuing program item under DPC's capital bucLget, the rehabilitation
scheme was cut back to 1,000 km of roads because of rapid inflation and
dollar devaluation. More seriously, funds were not made available to
continue the program under the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81). By this
time, the Bank's Second Highway Project (Loan ].188-TUN) was assisting DPC
in improvments to about 200 km of key primary routes, but this program
also suffered delay because funds were diverted to other major
construction projects such as the Bizerte Bridge.
/1 This chapter is oriented towards the rural road network. A more
detailed description of the whole road netwiork is contained in Staff
Appraisal Report No. 2810-TUN of April 1980, and in a Draft Transport
Sector Memorandum.



- 8 -
2.03     Faced with the complete lack of capital budget funds for rehabi-
litation work on the primary network in the second half of the 1970s, the
DPC built up its force-account surface-dressing capability in an effort to
retard deterioration of the network. The rehabilitation program was rein-
stated in 1981 with financial assistance provided through the Bank's
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1841-TUN).
Road Maintenance
2.04     Significant improvements in the overall road maintenance system,
particularly on the paved network, have been made since the mid-1970s.
These began with a reorganization of the maintenance services in 1975
based on the recommendations of an organization and maintenance study
carried out in 1971, financed under the Engineering Loan (S2-TUN, 1969).
The Third Highway Project (Loan 1601-TUN, 1978) only covers rural roads
(see para. 2.08), but the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1841-TUN, 1980)
continues the institutional development of the road maintenance system
with emphasis on the improvement of management organization and methods,
and by supporting a training program. A detailed review of maintenance
tasks, crews and methods is being carried out under the project.
2.05     With the developing capability of the maintenance organization
during the second half of the 1970s, attention was naturally first con-
centrated on the paved network with its higher traffic volumes. As noted
in para. 1.09, the unpaved network had never been the subject of a well-
organized improvement and maintenance program. The unclassified network
had been nominally the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture (MA),
althouga that M.LL6LE-y had been neither iunded nor equipped to discharge
this responsibility. The classified network, including unpaved classified
roads, was the responsibility of DPC. However, DPC had neither the main-
tenance budget, nor the staff and equipment necessary to maintain the
unpaved roads.
2.06     In 1974, the responsibility for the construction of all unpaved
rural roads (pistes agricoles), without distinction whether they were
classified or not, was assigned to DPC. The DPC, with Bank assistance,
immediately began preparation of a rural roads project, resulting in the
Third Highway (Rural Roads) Project, which became effective in early 1979.
2.07     Although responsibility for rural road construction was thus
clearly assigned to DPC, together with the corresponding capital budget,
the question of maintenance of unpaved roads was not resolved. DPC con-
tinued to be responsible for maintenance of classified roads but without a
commensurate budget, while no specific agency appeared to be responsible
for unclassified roads. As an interim measure, the DPC requested and
received a capital budget allocation of DT 2 million (US$5 million) to
purchase road maintenance equipment, specifically to maintain unpaved
roads. This equipment was operated with an ad hoc mixture of financing,
the operators and skilled labor salaries being met from the DPC recurrent
budget, and operating costs for fuel, supplies, and some unskilled labor



-9-
by the governors from Rural Development Program. (Programme de Developpe-
ment Rural, PDR) funds. As noted in para. l.OS, DPC diverts much of its
maintenance effort to the unpaved network for a concentrated period just
before the annual harvest, and lightly grades the most important
classified and unclassified roads. Little maintenance is carried out on
the roads during the rest of the year. Since the roads are mostly of
natural soil without earthworks or drainage, tLe surface becomes loose
sand in summer or mud in winter, depending on the soil type. Successive
blading of these surfaces and wear from traffic has lowered the roads
below the level of the surrounding terrain, aggravating the situation. In
this condition, normal maintenance cannot provide a satisfactory level of
service.
2.08     Although the maintenance organization has been concentrating on
the paved network, the Third Highway (Rural RoaLds) Project focussed atten-
tion on maintenance of the unpaved network. Under that project the Bank
is financing the improvement, to sound engineering standards, of about
1,100 km of rural roads. Once the roads are iriproved, normal maintenance
can then assure a satisfactory level of service. It is also essential to
avoid losing the capital invested in the road i.mprovement. The Government
gave a formal assurance to the Bank that roads improved under the project
would be subsequently maintained. To assist wi.th this maintenance, the
Bank, under the project, financed the procurement of equipment for rural
road maintenance brigades.
2.09     In order to assure maintenance of the improved roads and to
fulfill the maintenance covenant, the DPC, withi support from the Coordi-
nating Committee, requested and obtained from the MPF a new item in the
1981 recurrent budget. This item is entitled Article 60 bis, and is
specifically for the maintenance of roads improved under the rural roads
program. Together with the Fourth Highway Project which is addressing
improved maintenance of the whole network, the capability is now being
developed to maintain both the paved and improved unpaved roads to a
satisfactory level of service. In order to su])port these levels, real
increases of 10% annually in the recurrent maiatenance budget (Article 60)
have been established, together with allocatioas to Article 60 bis com-
mensurate with the maintenance tasks required for the increasing kilome-
trage of improved rural roads each year. Current road user revenues from
vehicle registration fees, taxes on fuel, lubricants and tires, and import
duties on vehicles and spare parts are estimated at over DT 80 million
annually, which is more than twice the investment and maintenance expendi-
tures on road infrastructure. An assurance was obtained from the Govern-
ment during negotiations that adequate recurrent budget levels will be
made available for rural road maintenance activities and that these levels
will be reviewed as part of each annual plan of operations (para. 3.25).
B. Road Administration
2.10     DPC has about 3,500 employees including 55 engineers and 360
technicians and comprises six headquarters divisions (programming and
organization, maintenance and operations, major road works, studies,



- 10 -
applied research and laboratory, and equipment maintenance and operation)
and a central administrative and accounting service (Chart No. 1). DPC
operates in the regions through 19 road subdivisions, one for each pro-
vince. The subdivisions carry out routine maintenance operations with
force account brigades, while light periodic maintenance is carried out by
national brigades controlled from headquarters.
2.11     Planning, design, preparation of contract documents, and tender
calls are the responsiblity of the studies division of DPC. The division
has design groups capable of handling small projects and routine items
while the preparation of large projects is carried out by consultants. DPC
is currently attempting to institutionalize the major function of analysis
and planning, particularly for routine rehabilitation programs. Competent
domestic consultants are available who prepare medium-sized projects with
their own staff, and joint venture with foreign associates for large or
specialized projects.
2.12     Construction and major periodic maintenance works are normally
carried out under unit price contracts awarded after competitive bidding.
Many contractors, both foreign and local, operate in Tunisia and provide
efficient competition. Small contracts (of the order of US$1 million) are
usually won by Tunisian contractors, while larger contracts (over
US$5 million) are frequently won by joint ventures of foreign and local
contractors. Construction supervision is carried out by DPC engineers with
the assistance of the laboratory, except for large special projects where
consultants are used. Although supervision is generally satisfactory,
experience gained under the First Rural Roads Project has shown that
supervision undertaken by the sub-divisions needs to be reinforced to
provide the flexibility required with rural road construction. The
Government has recognized and is addressing this problem under the ongoing
project, and intends to provide increased use of engineering consultants on
an intermittent basis to supplement its own services for the proposed
project (para. 3.17).
C. Organization of Agricultural Services
General
2.13     Agricultural Services are organized at the provincial (Gouver-
norate) level in Regional Agricultural Development Commissions (Commis-
sariats Regionaux de Developpement Agricole - CRDAs). A Central Commission
in Tunis (Commissariat Central du Developpement Agricole, CCDA) provides
overall coordination (Chart No. 2). CRDAs provide agricultural extension
for farmers, undertake forest management and planting, assist the BNT to
appraise credit applications and coordinate public organizations involved
in agriculture at the provincial level. In practice, the CRDAs have been
limited by cumbersome administrative procedures and a lack of autonomy in
dealing with investments and project implementation, but recent legislation
has given them greater autonomy with the aim of increasing their capacity
to handle investments and to speed up project implementation. These



- 11 -
changes are in line with the Government's efforts to decentralize economic
activity and to step up public investments in agriculture during the Sixth
Development Plan (1982--86).
2.14     In addition to the CRDAs, special development authorities
(offices) have also been created to handle specific agricultural projects,
mainly those concerned with irrigation or with particular development
strategies designated for well-defined areas. The latter include the
Northwest Rural Development Area, where the Bank and other donors are
firLancing projects, and the Central Tunisia Area, where a project is being
financed by USAID and other important investments are planned for the
future. As project development authorities are financially accountable,
they offer several advantages for projects whe.e cost recovery is an
important element. This approach is also effective in areas where there is
a clearly identifiable development strategy and where integrated project
activities may extend over parts of several diEferent provinces. This is
the case with the Northwest Rural Development Project, which is concerned
with improving agriculture in marginal, watersaed areas and which extends
into seven provinces and CRDAs.
Agricultural Extension
2.15     Agricultural extension is provided by MA through three depart-
ments, namely: the Department of Training, Research and Extension
(Direction de l'Enseignement, Recherche, et Vulgarisation, DERV) which is
responsible for training and rural communicatiDns; and the Crop Production
Department (Direction de la Production Vdgetale, DPV) and the Livestock
Production Department (Direction de la Production Animale, DPA) both of
which supervise farm-level extension operations. At the provincial level,
agricultural extension agents are attached to the CRDA offices. Extension
is also provided by the semi-autonomous Cereal Board (Office des Cereales,
OC), by certain project development authorities, particularly in irrigated
perimeters, and some special interest groups. With effective technical
agricultural personnel, at the present time, of about 1,100 engineers and
technical specialists and about 5,000 technicians, and assuming some 60%
are engaged in so-called extension, there seems to be an oversupply of
extension personnel. When account is taken of staff required for adminis-
trative and other duties, this staffing represents an effective average
density of one agent for 100 to 150 farmers. An acceptable density would
be one agent for 250 to 400 rainfed farmers and one agent for 50 to 100
farmers in irrigated areas. In reality, there is duplication of effort as
agents from different institutions contact farmers about the same subjects
and there is considerable involvement of agents in non-extension activi-
ties. An overall review of the extension organization is provided in a
draft Agricultural Sector Memorandum and a suumary is in Annex 2.
2.16     Weaknesses in agricultural extension services, particularly a lack
of facilities and equipment, the rigid financial framework imposed by a
highly centralized system, and lack of specific training and management of
agents, have been partly responsible for the slow growth in agricultural



- 12 -
production and to low rates of use of recommended inputs.  For example,
fertilizer use, particularly for smaller farms, has stagnated on the whole
since 1974/75 at about 4-5 kg of nitrogen and 5-6 kg of phosphate per ha of
crop land per year. On average, this is about one-fifth the level required
for optimum net value of crop production in Tunisia.  The Government was
aware of these problems and under the Fifth Development Plan (1977-81)
started to reinforce agricultural extension activities by focussing
extension activities through new extension centers (Cellules Territoriales
de Vulgarisation Agricole, CTV) and developing new extension messages to
introduce improved cropping practices (Annex 2, para. 8). The First Rural
Roads Project has assisted the Government in this program by financing
equipment and buildings in those areas served by project roads and by
initiating a training program for extension agents. This assistance fits
fully within a broad national scheme for improving agricultural extension
as defined by the MA, and which is expected to be given high priority under
the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86).
2.17     In its continuing efforts to improve agricultural extension
services, the Government is currently seeking to increase the efficiency of
extension activities. This is a priority area under an on-going Agri-
cultural Sector Survey which is being prepared with Bank assistance.
Problems which are being addressed include: (i) the poor coordination of
extension activities of the CRDAs, OC, and various project development
authorities, (ii) the large amount of time spent by extension agents on
administrative and credit matters, (iii) the absence of links between
research and extension, (iv) inadequate methods and communications skills
practised by extension agents, and (v) poor management and follow up of
extension programs. Steps have already been taken to strengthen the CRDA
system and to improve coordination in agricultural development in the
provinces. Under the system now evolving, extension departments are being
set up in the CRDAs to direct all extension work, except in irrigated
perimeters and areas served by development authorities, where the CRDAs
would only be responsible for coordination. The extension departments
would receive direct technical inputs from the central Department of
Training, Research and Extension (DERV), the Crop Production Department
(DPV) and the Livestock Production Department (DPA). DERV is currently
upgrading its agricultural extension training program which could con-
stitute a component of possible Bank assistance under the proposed Fifth
Education Project. Discussions are also continuing on possible expansion
of the Bank's current involvement in agricultural extension with a view to
its participation in a national agricultural research and extension pro-
gram. In this way, this proposed highway project would provide continuity
of Bank involvement in agricultural extension in Tunisia and an effective
bridge until such time as extension projects can be developed.
Agricultural Credit
2.18     Agricultural credit is provided primarily by the Government-owned
BNT. BNT also provides loans to other sectors. Financing for agricul-
tural credit is provided from BNT's own resources, rediscount facilities of



- 13 -
the Central Bank, World Bank loans, Government grants, and bilateral
sources. BNT provides medium- and long-term loans, as well as short-term
loans for annual inputs on which guarantees are usually provided by local
mutual guarantee associations (Socidtes de Caul:ion Mutuelle, SCM).
2.1.9    In addition to BNT's normal agricultural credit funds, the most
important source for medium- and long-term credit is the Government-
financed Special Fund for Agricultural Developmnent (Fond Spdcial pour le
Developpement Agricole, FOSDA). In spite of Baink efforts over a long
period, credit procedures and loan terms and c)nditions still vary with the
type of fund. For medium- and long-term loans made by BNT under FOSDA,
loan appraisals are decentralized and are made by MA agents, not by BNT
which carries no risk but serves as the Government's agent in disbursement
and recovery of loans. The faster appraisal process for FOSDA credit and
lesser requirements for their distribution and recovery have resulted in
farmer preference for these funds and a relative lack of interest in credit
finianced by BNT from its own funds. However, as there is an overall
shortage of agricultural credit, BNT is able to be selective in cnanneling
its funds to credit-worthy farmers. This tends to concentrate medium- and
long-term agricultural credit in the hands of the larger farmers. On the
other hand, the short-term credit program operates effectively and provides
for critical seasonal inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides, seeds and
hired equipment services to a wide range of farmers.
2.20     The standardization of credit procedures and conditions has been
one of the main objectives of the current Second Agricultural Credit
Project. BNT has already taken steps to speed up loan processing proce-
dures by streamlining its own organization. The Agriculture Credit
Department has been split into two, one handling administrative matters and
the other handling technical matters including training of staff in BNT's
52 branches. The need to continue decentralization of credit procedures
and to strengthen BNT regional staff will be pursued under the Third
Agricultural Credit Project. In the meantime, improvements in the pro-
vision of agricultural credit have followed from legislative action
simplifying procedures for obtaining land titles necessary for long-term
credit and a reclassification of certain long-term credit items to medium-
term credit. However, the Government is continuing to seek ways to further
improve the credit system and is considering such options as opening up
agricultural credit to other banks and the creation of a specialized credit
institution. Such reforms are likely to be introduced as part of the Sixth
Development Plan (1982-86) and the proposed project would benefit from
these institutional changes. A review of agricultural credit in Tunisia is
provided in Annex 3.
D. Rural Road Program
Objectives
2.21     Until 1975, rural road improvements consisted of a modest program
financed by the MPF under PDR and small scale feeder road improvement
schemes included as integral parts of some agricultural projects. In 1975,



- 14 -
the Government asked the Bank to assist in financing a nationwide program
of improvements to rural roads, including complementary investments
necessary to achieve forecast development potentials in the areas served.
The First Rural Roads Project was presented to the Board in June 1978. The
project provided for a five-year program covering the improvement of about
1,100 km of roads in 8 out of Tunisia's then 18 provinces. The Government
has recently requested extension of the project to three additional
provinces. The program responds to a basic need to improve accessibility
in rural areas and is in line with the country's emphasis on regional and
rural development.
2.22     Given the relatively advanced level of agricultural development
throughout most of the country, the improvement of rural communications
plays a key role in supporting the agricultural sector and in the develop-
ment of market-oriented activity in general. Moreover, in serving mainly
small rainfed farms with an average of about 10 to 15 ha, the rural road
program is addressing an important section of the rural population which
has hitherto been somewhat neglected by the Government's development
programs and projects. The First Rural Roads Project alone serves an
estimated 250,000 persons representing 7% of the rural population. The
areas tributary to project roads cover 500,000 ha of cultivated land or
about 10% of the total cultivated area in Tunisia.
2.23     The main objective of the rural roads program is to implement
integrated investment packages combining road improvement with a
strengthening of agricultural extension services and provision of
agricultural credit. The investment packages were developed for roads
where road user savings alone justified improvement as well as for those
which could only be justifie, v.lLi. comxpiementary agricultural invest-
ments. Incremental needs identified under the project take into account
existing facilities and services and are fully integrated with overall
national programs. Coordinated action for the investment packages is the
responsibility of a Project Coordinating Committee which acts regionally
through MPW sub-divisions and the CRDAs. The First Rural Roads Project
includes financing for road construction and maintenance operations, and
for strengthening extension services, and draws on funds provided under the
Second and Third Agricultural Credit Loans to BNT for the credit component.
Rural Road Project Progress
2.24     Progress on the road construction component of the project has
been excellent and 800 km of the road improvement program have now been
committed. All of the highway maintenance equipment planned for
procurement under the project has been delivered, run in, and is being sent
to MPW subdivisions responsible for maintenance operations. A special
recurrent maintenance budget for rural roads (Article 60 bis) has been
introduced and has been set at a satisfactory level for 1982 (para. 2.09).



- 15 
2.25     Although initial progress on the agricultural extension component
was slow, considerable progress has now been made in procuring equipment,
constructing extension centers and in training extension agents. In
1980/81, construction started on 23 extension centers, and about 50 vehi-
cles and miscellaneous extension equipment were procured. MA proposes to
complete the balance of the program in 1982/E3, comprising the construc-
tion and equipment of about 50 extension centers designed to serve the
remaining areas under the project.
2.26     Extension agents have contacted all farmers in the project areas
for agricultural credit and project monitoring purposes. Information from
these surveys is now being used to update extension guidelines for each
road. The implementation of short-term credi.t in the areas served by the
project has been successful and amounts disbursed are exceeding the incre-
mental needs identified under the project. Eey inputs financed by short-
term credit include fertilizer, seeds, pesticides and custom services. In
many areas the project has been the vehicle :Eor introducing the use of
short-term credit for the first time. OveraLl it had been estimated that
less than 5% of the farmers in the zones were borrowing for seasonal pro-
duction needs. For 1980, the first year that project actions could have
influenced short-term credit distribution, 1,560 loans totalling about
550,000 Dinars were made in the zones of influence of roads in Kef,
Siliana, Nabeul and Kairouan. This is estimated to be a three-fold
increase. On the other hand, the provision of medium- and long-term credit
for on-farm investments has been slow, partly because of slow processing by
BNT but also because of the risk in lending to the smaller farmers served
by the project. The first medium- and long-term loans attributed to the
project activities were made in the same four provinces in 1981 when BNT
approved 560 loans, estimated to be a two-fold increase over previous
levels. Some improvements were made in early 1981 by simplifying
procedures for obtaining land titles which are necessary for long-term
credit and reclassifying certain long-term items, particularly forage
crops, as medium-term items. The Government is also continuing to seek
ways to improve disbursement of agricultural credit including speeding up
loan processing procedures through decentralization (para. 2.20).
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.27     Considerable progress has also beeii made with the monitoring and
evaluation system for the project. The CRDAIs and BNT are now reporting
project implementation information on a regular basis and this is being
coordinated by the Central Agricultural Development Commission (CCDA) in
Tunis assisted by the Planning and Statistical Division (Direction de la
Planification et des Statistiques Agricoles et Economiques, DPSAE) of MA.
With the assistance of the National Agricull:ural Studies Center (Centre
National d'Etudes Agricoles, CNEA), MA has also made progress in setting up
a monitoring system to measure agricultural impact. Similarly, DPC will
undertake traffic surveys to monitor variou.3 aspects of rural mobility and
use of services. Consultants will coordinate traffic and household surveys
for twelve sample roads improved under the ?roject, and will develop a
framework for a socio-economic impact study (paras. 3.45-3.46).



- 16 -
Future Role of the Rural Road Program
2.28     Following its experience with the First Rural Roads Project, the
Government is now committed to the integrated approach of reinforcing
agricultural extension in the zones of influence of the roads that are
constructed. The Government considers this approach to be the only way to
ensure that planned agricultural development takes place on time to get the
full benefit of the road development. The first project has also high-
lighted some of the weaknesses in agricultural extension and credit
services.
2.29     Under the Sixth Development Plan (1982-86), the Government plans
to increase its emphasis on rural development, irrigation schemes, agri-
cultural extension and agricultural credit. While rural development and
irrigation projects would be concerned with specific project areas, the
rural roads program would continue to address development in the main-
stream of Tunisia agriculture throughout the country, namely the small- and
medium-sized rainfed farms where there is a large potential for future
increases in agricultural production. Both approaches--national and
regional--are complementary and require close integration with overall
programs for the improvement of agricultural extension and credit.



- 17 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Background
3.01     The proposed project is a follow up to the Third Highway Project
(First Rural Roads), Loan 1601-TUN. It continues the same general approach
developed for the first project, that is, combining road improvements and
complementary agricultural investments in integrated programs for specific
rural roads and the agricultural areas they serve. Some modifications have
been made based on lessons learned from implementation of the first
project. The project was identified in July 1977 and has been prepared by
the DPC and MA with the assistance of consultants and Bank preparation
missions.
B. Objectives
3.02     The project would improve the level of access and increase agri-
cultural production in rural areas in Tunisia. Moreover, it would serve to
consolidate the general approach and program for rural road improvements
initiated under the first project.  Specifically, the project is designed
to;
(i) raise the level of service p:rovided by project roads to a
minimum "all weather" standard, commensurate with forecast
traffic;
(ii) increase agricultural production within the zones of
influence of the project roads;
(iii) improve standards of living in rural areas including better
access for the provision of social and administrative
services;
(iv) improve the capability of the road maintenance organi-
zation so that project roads continue to provide the
desired level of service;
(v) enhance the benefits of the project roads by improving
selected connecting feeder roads in the zones of
influence;l/
(vi) strengthen the institutional framework by continuing to
assist project preparation, implementation and monitoring,
together with some applied research; and
1/ The term feeder road in this context is used to designate rural roads
of a lower class than those being improved under the project. They
are generally access or spur roads which feed into the project roads.



- 18 -
(vii) continue Bank involvement in a comprehensive road safety
program begun under the Fourth Highway Project.
C. Description
3.03     The project would consist of:
(i)  a three-year program (1983-85) of rural road improvements
tentatively covering about 100 roads totalling some
1,200 km;
(ii)  a program of complementary investments extending over the
same period for agricultural extension and over five years
for credit services (1983-87);
(iii)  a program of improved rural road maintenance;
(iv)  spot improvements to feeder roads;
(v)  equipment for four vehicle inspection stations in
provincial centers and one in Tunis; and
(vi)  technical assistance for project preparation, implemen-
tation and monitoring; agricultural extension training;
research on unpaved road materials, construction techniques
and maintenance; and a study of the socio-economic,
agricultural and transport impact of rural roads.
Rural Road Improvement Program
3.04     Improvements would consist of upgrading, particularly of drainage
and surfacing, generally following existing alignments and conforming to
the standards of Annex 4. These standards have been developed in the light
of experience with the first project in Tunisian conditions using local
materials. The standards were reviewed during appraisal and were discussed
and confirmed with the Government during negotiations. Generally, roads
will be improved and maintained to one of two specified standards taking
into account forecast traffic volumes and existing road conditions. The
lower standard would provide a six-meter road platform gravelled to a depth
of 200-250 mm (or more over very weak soils) and would be adequate for
traffic volumes up to about 100 vpd. The higher standard would provide a
nine-meter platform gravelled over a six-meter width to a depth of about
300 mm and would generally apply to traffic volumes in excess of 100 vpd.
However, in cases where the existing road platform is of adequate width or
where the road provides a through link in the network, the higher standard
may be proposed even though volumes are somewhat less than 100 vpd, always
providing that the higher standard is economically feasible. In addition,
for a few roads with very low traffic volumes and limited future potential,
improvements would be made using a thinner pavement structure over a
five-meter width.



- 19 -
3.05     Tentatively itncluded in the three-year program are about 100 roads
totalling some 1,200 km. A firm work program hlas been established for the
first year as well as provisional programs for the second and third years.
Programs are subject to modification according to needs and priorities
during project implementation (para. 4.02). Iin defining an indicative
overall program, due attention was given to regional balance in selecting
roads as well as to economic priorities (para. 4.17).
Complementary Agricultural Investments
3.06     These investments would follow the same general lines as those now
being implemented under the first project. Twa main elements are required
to achieve the goal of increased production in the zones of influence of
the project roads, first to improve the extension services to farmers, and
second to improve their access to credit.
3.07     The Bank would assist by financing the foreign exchange costs of
comstructing the equivalent of about 55 CTVs, and equipping them with
demonstration and extension equipment. This would ensure more rapid
implementation of the national extension plan in the areas served by the
project. Government would assign agents from within the existing cadre who
have special aptitude for extension both to these and to some existing
centers which serve the project areas. The number of extension agents
required for the project areas is estimated to be about 100. The method by
which these agents would operate and be managed is discussed in Annex 2,
para. 8. Detailed extension programs built on the priority production
objectives for each zone have been prepared for roads scheduled for con-
struction in the first year, and preparation will continue for roads in the
second- and third-year programs.
3.08     Provision of adequate agricultural credit to farmers is essential
for the success of the project. For the first project, credit was included
as an integral part of the project, although it was separately financed.
Short-term credit was wholly financed by BNT, while the foreign exchange
component of medium- and long-term credit was financed under the Bank's
Second and Third Agricultural Credit Loans to BNT. For the proposed pro-
ject, agricultural credit needs have been identified in detail (Project
File Documents B3-B18), and their provision is an important element of the
project. However, as with the first project, credit financing would not be
included under the loan. Agricultural credit would be administered by BNT
but credit financing would not be restricted to any particular credit
program or source. During negotiations, the Government gave assurances
that BNT would make adequate credit available for the project in accordance
with the needs shown in Annex 3.
3.09     While the program of investments for extension services would be
implemented generally concurrently with road improvements, the needs for
additional credit for farms served by the improved roads would continue for
a long time into the future. However, the major increase in investments
can be expected to follow during the first few years after roads are



- 20 -
improved. To allow for major credit needs generated by the improvement of
roads in the last year of the program (to be completed in late 1986),
credit needs have therefore been estimated to the end of 1987. Overall
credit requirements for individual roads would be refined within the
preparation of detailed annual programs including systematic farmer surveys
and an analysis of representative farm models (para. 3.43).
3.10     In addition to on-farm investments which would be eligible for
credit financing, project preparation has identified modest rural infra-
structure works as part of investment packages on certain project roads.
These investments include the construction or rehabilitation of small
irrigation schemes and small dams for irrigation purposes. Although such
infrastructure works could qualify for credit financing through farmer
associations, experience under the first project has shown that associa-
tions have not materialized in all cases. However, the MA considers these
investments to be important for development, and they have been included as
part of the project but with the Government providing full financing. MA's
Rural Engineering Department (Genie Rural, GR) would be responsible for
preparation and implementation, and each scheme would be subject to
detailed design and a minimum economic justification. These works would be
included as part of the annual action plan to be submitted for Bank review
(para. 3.43).
Improved Maintenance Program
3.11     The significant improvements in the overall road maintenance
system made since the mid-1970s have been described in Chapter 2
(paras. 2.04-2.09). A comprehensive review of maintenance is being carried
out under the Fourth Highway Project, and the methods, procedures and
capability to maintain unpaved roads will be further developed under the
proposed project. Improved maintenance operations will be specified as
part of annual action plans, to be reviewed and commented upon by the Bank,
and for which funding will be obtained under the special recurrent budget
Article 60 bis (para. 3.25).
Spot Improvement Program
3.12     The roads being improved under the project (para 3.04) are
generally the more important links in the local road network. Feeder roads
connecting with these roads carry less traffic and require a lower level of
service. However, feeder roads are frequently impassable for extended
periods because of mud and water at a few low points along these roads.
Small drainage structures such as paved fords or culverts could render the
whole road passable and enhance the overall level of accessibility in the
areas served.
3.13     For several years most DPC subdivisions have had programs for spot
improvements of this type, financed by provincial funds under the PDR.
However, these funds have tended to be allocated on an irregular basis and
the program is not well coordinated or supervised. Funds were also
frequently used instead for prestige-type improvements, including lengths



- 21 -
of bituminous surfacings, without sufficient a':tention to economic
priorities and technical needs, such as drainag,e, to preserve the
investment. Diversion of crews from routine maintenance tasks compounds
the problem.
3.14     The project therefore includes a program of spot improvements on
feeder roads, essentially for drainage structures at low points. These,
improvements would be on roads located within the zones of influence of the
roads improved under the rural roads program. To avoid dissipating the
funds on a few expensive projects outside the scope and spirit of this
item, a criterion has been agreed that expenditures should not exceed
DT 500 per km of feeder road (US$1,000/km).  This limit would be adjust-
ab:Le for inflation and in the light of experience gained with such works
during implementation of annual plans. An overall budget amount for this
item has been estimated on the basis of 1.5 km of feeder roads per km of
road improved under the rural road program. The global budget for each
province will then be allocated to feeder roads ranked by the population
served by each road. The proposed program for each year would be included
in the action plan to be submitted to the Bank for review and comment
(para. 3.43). The improvements would be constructed by small local con-
tractors, experienced in masonry and concrete work. The program should
also have an important institution building effect at the local level by
implementing a systematic program of spot improvements, linked to local
development plans and priorities, using explicit socio-economic and techn-
ical criteria for project selection and programming.  The procedures and
criteria to be used in implementing the spot improvement program will be
developed by consultants during project implemLentation (para. 3.17).
Road Safety Component
3.15     In common with most developing countlies, road accident rates in
Tunisia are much higher than in industrialized countries at comparable
levels of motorization, and do not appear to be declining towards such
rates. Accident rates are, of course, related to road and vehicle
conditions, driver characteristics, and enforcement orientation and
intensity. In the context of highway projects, initial involvement
specifically oriented towards traffic safety was begun under the Fourth
Highway Project} with the supply of road marking equipment and traffic
signs, and the implementation of an annual program of installation.
3..16    While not particularly oriented towards rural roads, it is
desirable to maintain Bank involvement in traffic safety and to continue
the dialogue with the Tunisia Road Safety Association (L'association
tunisienne de la prdvention routi&re) as well as with Ministries con-
cerned. An element has therefore been included in the project to assist
the Ministry of Transport and Communications to complete its national
coverage of vehicle inspection stations. Passenger cars are tested once a
year and commerical vehicles twice a year. The project includes equipment
for four vehicle inspection stations located in Kebili, Sfax, Tataouine and
Tozeur, and one heavy commercial inspection station in Tunis.



- 22 -
Technical Assistance
3.17     The project would provide for about 324 man-months of consulting
services. These services would:
(i) assist the DPC as needed with the preparation of feasi-
bility studies, detailed designs and contract documents,
and with supervision of improvements to roads under the
project;
(ii) assist the MA in the preparation of detailed extension
programs and credit needs for the zones of influence of
roads in the second- and third-year programs;
(iii)  assist the DPC and MA in the preparation of a project
covering the next phase of rural road improvements;
(iv) assist the DPC to prepare guidelines for regional engineers
to develop a program of spot improvements;
(v) assist the DPC and MA with project auditing and with
monitoring, implementation and evaluation of the socio-
economic, agricultural and transport impacts of the project;
(vi) assist the MA with training, including instructors for
extension agents, and short training missions overseas;
(vii)  assist the DPC to carry out a study of materials,
construction and maintenance techniques for unpaved roads
in Tunisia; and
(viii) assist the DPC with the preparation of a program of road
rehabilitation.
3.18     Terms of reference for technical assistance described in sub-
paragraphs (i) and (ii) will be similar to those for studies already
prepared for first-year implementation items. Those for subparagraph (iii)
will be similar to those for the current project, and for sub-para-
graph (vi) will be similar to the training financed under the Third Highway
Project. Copies of all of these are available in the project files.
Outline terms of reference for subparagraph (iv) are available in the Third
Highway Project file, and for subparagraph (v) are in the project file
(Working Paper C2). A preliminary draft of terms of reference for
subparagraph (vii) is available but cannot be completed until the mainte-
nance study being carried out under the Fourth Highway Project is further
advanced. Item (viii) is similar to studies carried out for the prepara-
tion of the Fourth Highway Project. Terms of reference for all of the
above were discussed and confirmed with the Government during negotiations.



- 23 -
D. Cost Estimates
3.19     Table 3.1 shows a summary of investment costs which are estimated
at DT 53.5 million, equivalent to US$104.3 million. Of this the foreign
exchange component is estimated to be DT 22.4 million (US$43.7 million) and
the local cost component DT 31.1 million (US$60.6 million), including
DT 11.6 million (US$22.7 million) in taxes and duties. The front end fee
on the Bank loan would be in addition to the above costs. It is US$525,000
and would bring the total foreign component to DT 22.7 million (US$44.2
million). In addition to these investment costs, the Government will
provide annual recurrent costs for road maintenance activities, agri-
cultural extension services and a project control unit as shown in
Table 3.2. The cost estimates have been discussed and confirmed with the
Government during negotiations.



-24-
PROJECT (DST SUMMARY TABLES
Table 3.1: inyestment Costs I/
% of
I       (DDNAR '000)            I         (US$ '000)         |   Foreign   % of Total
Local    Foreign      Total     Local    Foreign      Total      Ewchange  Base Cbsts
RCOD WDR                  16,021.8 10,681.2   26,703.0   31,243.8   20,829.2   52,073.0    40.0          69.5
BUIIDINES                   626.2    268.4       894.6    1,221.2      523.4   1,744.5    30.0           2.3
F4JIPMENT                    41.4      70.5      111.9       80.7      137.5      218.2    63.0          0.3
IGATION WDRKS             1,379.5    919.7   2,299.2    2,690.2    1,793.4   4,483.6    40.0             6.0
SIDRT-TEREDIT               587.6    587.6   1,175.2    1,145.9    1,145.9    2,291.7    50.0            3.1
MEDIUM- AND IfOe-THEM
CREDIT                 1,863.3  1,552.0    3,415.3   3,633.7    3,026.5   6,660.2    45.4             8.9
SPOT IMPROVEMENIS         1,079.0    531.5    1,610.5   2,104.2    1,036.4   3,140.6    33.0             4.2
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE        354.4  1,063.1    1,417.5       691.1    2,073.2   2,764.2    75.0           3.7
VERiaC TESrINU STATION
3QUIPMENT                 120.2    204.8      325.0      234.5      399.3      633.8    63.0          0.8
VEHICLES                    268.3    178.9       447.2      523.2      348.8      872.0    40.0          1.2
OVERSEAS MISSIONS             -        48.0       48.0          -       93.6       93.6   100.0          0.1
Total BASELINE CDSIS        22,341.9  16,105.6  38,447.5  43,568.4  31,407.2  74,975.5    41.9            100.0
Piysical Cbntingencies    2,234.2  1,610.6   3,844.7   4,356.8   3,140.7    7,497.6    41.9             10.0
Price Contirgencies 2/     6,502.7 4,704.6  11,207.3  12,680.9   9,174.3  21,855.2    42.0              29.1
Total PROJECT CDSIS         31,078.8  22,420.8  53,499.6  60,606.1   43,722.2 104,328.3    41.9           139.1
Fmort End Fee on Bank Loan    -          269.2      269.2    -           525.0       525.0
TUrAiL CDST        31,072.0 22,678.5  53,750.6  60,593.0 44,225.0  104,818.0
Table 3.2: Recurrent Costs!-
% of
I       (Dr '000) -        l           (US$ '000)          |    Foreign   % of Total
Local   Foreign   Total      Local   Foreign    Total          Exchange  Base ODsts
Road Maintenance             3,750.0      -      3,750.0   7,312.8      -       7,312.8          -           71.2
Extension Services           1,406.5      -      1,406.5   2,742.7      -       2,742.7          -           26.7
Project Control Unit           108.0      -        108.0      210.6     -         210.6          -            2.1
Total Baseline Costs            5,264.5      -      5,264.5  10,266.1      -      10,266.1          -          100.0
Price CoatiugemciesY!        1,709.5      -      1,709.5   3,333.7      -       3,333.7          -           32.5
Total Project Costs           6,974.0      -      6,974.0  13,599.9      -      13,599.9          -          132.5
1/ Base cost estimates are at January 1982 prices.
2/ Price increases for foreign and local costs are as follows:  8.5% in 1982, 7.5% in each year 1983 to 1985,
and 6% in 1986 and 1987.



-25-
3.20     Estimates for civil works for road im.provements and extension
buildings are based on unit prices for contracts in Tunisia, particularly
recent tenders under the first project, adjusted to January 1982 levels.
Quantities are based on substantially completed engineering studies for the
first-year program of works and preliminary estimates of the quantity of
each cost item required for works in the secor,d and third years of the
program.
3.21     The cost estimates for equipment for extension services are based
on recent purchase prices in Tunisia updated to January 1982 levels.
3.22     Credit needs, both short-term and invrestment credit are based on
feasibility study estimates of agricultural inputs for the zones of influ-
ence of roads in the provisional three-year program. Unit prices are
current costs in Tunisia for inputs and equipmLent updated to January 1982
levels.
3.23     Estimates for spot improvements are based on sample studies on
roads included in the Third Highway Project. They are roughly equivalent
to either one paved ford for each 4 km of feedler road, or one culvert every
1.5 km. These quantities are multiplied by unit prices updated to January
1982 levels.
3.24     The technical assistance cost estimat:es are based on recent rates
for consulting services in Tunisia, considerinig the likely mix of local and
expatriate consultants and experts. The average man-month costs are
expected to be about US$8,500 plus travel, office space, secretarial help,
etc. A limited amount of short-term, high-levrel expertise is planned to
assist with preparation, monitoring, training and research. This assist-
ance is estimated to cost about US$11,000 per man-month including salaries,
fees, international travel and subsistence.  rhe project also provides for
about 24 visits overseas by Tunisian officiaL3 in connection with the
organization of and attendance at agriculturaL training courses as well as
with visits related to research into unpaved road construction and main-
tenance; for these missions 100% of the costs of international travel and
overseas subsistence is included for a total of DT 48,000 (US$94,000).
3.25     Recurrent costs are provided from the annual budget allocations to
DPC and MA, for administration and operations. The costs are based on
current allocations plus increased supplies, operating costs and personnel
necessary to support the expanded operations ander the project. The global
recurrent budget needs were discussed and confirmed at negotiations, and an
assurance was obtained that funds, facilities and services and other
resources to operate and maintain the roads and extension services financed
under the project will be provided promptly as needed. The estimated
annual needs for the project will be included in the action plans to be
suabmitted to the Bank for review and comment in preliminary form by April
30 and in final by September 30 each year (para 3.43). Recurrent budget
requirements for fuel and supplies (Article 60 bis) for rural road
maintenance are estimated in current prices at DT 200,000 in 1982
increasing to DT 1.5 million in 1987. Incremental operating expenditures



- 26 -
for agricultural extension services under the project are estimated in
current prices at DT 120,000 in 1983 increasing to DT 530,000 in 1987. The
operating costs of a project control unit are estimated at DT 19,000 in
1982 and DT 26,000 in 1987 (Annex 8).
3.26     Physical contingencies of 10% of base cost have been allowed on
all project component items. Contingency allowances for price escalation
were calculated for each year of the planned implementation schedule (Chart
Nos. 4 and 5) and overall represent 26% of base line costs plus physical
contingencies.  Price escalation for the capital items is estimated at 8.5%
in 1982, 7.5% in each year from 1983 to 1985, and 6% in 1986 and 1987.
3.27     Foreign exchange components have been calculated for each project
item. For road construction civil works, the breakdown between foreign and
local (including tax components) was calculated for each major item in the
bill of quantities. Under the first project, civil works have been and are
being procured under ICB. Lots were sized to be attractive to local
contractors, and tender calls grouped to be of interest to international
contractors. While many foreign contractors prequalified, only a few
submitted bids, and Tunisian contractors won all contracts under that
project. This is probably connected with the dispersed nature of the works
and is likely to be repeated under the proposed project. For the
calculation of the foreign exchange component, it has therefore been
assumed that all contracts would be won by Tunisian contractors.
E. Financing
3.28     The proposed financing is shown in Table 3.3.  The Bank would
finance under the project all foreign exchange costs of the capital items,
except those of short-term and medium- and long-term agricultural credit
and the minor-rural infrastructure works to be constructed by GR as col-
lective investments (para. 3.10). The Government will finance the local
Table 3.3: Prject Finarrnin'/
US$ Million
MPW  MA  M5C  BN  Grant 2/   Farmers  Bank % Bank  Total
Road Works         42.6   -                               28.9   40    71.5
Extension Buildings    -   1.7      --    -         -      0.7   30      2.4
Extension Equipment    -   0.1      -     -         -      0.2   63      0.3
Extension Vehicles   -   0.7        -     -         -      0.5   40      1.2
Irrigation Works    -   6.6        -      -         -       -     -      6.6
Short-term Ondit     -    -        2.9    -        0.6      -     -      3.5
Med.,long-term Credit  -    -      5.9   2.0       2.3      -     -      10.2
Spot Inrovents      2.7   -         -     -         -      1.3   33      4.0
Vehicle Inspection
Station Equipment   -    -  0.3   -      -         -      0.5    -      0.8
Tecchnical assistance  0.7  0.2     -     -         -      2.8   75    3.7
Oierseas Missions    -    -         -     -         -      0.1   100     0.1
Fmnt End Fee on Bank
Lan                -    -         -     -         -       0.5  100      0.5
Total           46.0  9.3 0.3  8.8   2.0         2.9   35.5    -    104.8
1/ Including distributed contingencies.
2/ Governmett subsidy.



-27-
component of all capital items (except credit financed from BNT's own
resources), as well as foreign and local costs of the annual recurrent
budgets in line with the proposed annual programs of DPC and MA
(para. 3.25). During negotiations, the Government requested that the
1.5 percent front end fee on the Bank loan (US$525,000) be financed out of
the loan.
F. Implementation
3.29     Implementation will be the responsibility of a Coordinating
Committee. A committee was established to implement the First Rural Roads
Project and is now functioning successfully. Project implementation
organization is shown on Chart No. 3. Membership of the committee will
include the Ministries of Public Works, Agriculture, Plan, Transport and
Communications, and Interior and the BNT. The: Chairman will be the
Minister of Public Works and the Vice-ChairmanL the Director of the Highway
Department.
3.30     The Coordinating Committee will be established by Presidential
Decree and will meet quarterly. The various agencies in charge of
execution will report to the committee. DPC will be responsible for
implementing: (i) rural road improvement works; (ii) rural roads mainte-
nance; (iii) the program of spot improvements on feeder roads; and
(iv) technical assistance for road aspects and coordination of project
preparation, implementation and monitoring, research on unpaved road design
and maintenance, and coordinating the socio-economic impact study. MA will
be responsible for: (i) the improvement of exttension services including
the training of agents and the procurement of extension buildings, equip-
ment and vehicles; (ii) the minor rural infrastructure works; and
(iii) technical assistance for agricultural aspects of project preparation,
implementation and monitoring. BNT will be responsible for administering
agricultural credit with the assistance of MA extension staff for the
preparation of loan applications in the field,
3.31     At the regional level, DPC responsib-lities including construc-
tion supervision will be carried out through the regional engineers (chefs
d'arrondissement), and MA responsibilities th:rough the regional commis-
sions (CRDAs). In order to improve communical:ions and coordination,
regional start-up seminars will be organized izy DPC and MA to discuss and
explain project objectives, scope, authority .and responsibilities. Holding
such seminars was discussed and confirmed with the Government during
negotiations (Annex 6).
G. Procurement
3.32     Under Tunisian law (D;cret No. 74-75i du 27 juillet 1974 portant
sur la-rdglementation des marches publics) the opening of bids submitted in
response to a tender call (appel d'offres) is conducted by a commission.
The law specifies that the meeting shall not be open to the public. Assur-
ances were obtained from the Government durin; negotiations that, to
conform with the Bank's interpretation of the Guidelines that bids should
be opened in public, representatives of bidders would be admitted to the
Opening.



-28-
3.33     Road construction contracts totalling about US$72 million are
based on unit prices and would be awarded after international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. Roads
would be grouped in lots for bidding. Contractors would be prequalified to
undertake either single or several lots. Except where it is geographi-
cally impracticable to group widely scattered roads, lots would be sized at
a minimum of DT 500,000 (US$1 million), suitable to be undertaken by
regional contractors. Several lots would be grouped for tender calls to a
value of about 3.0 million dinars (US$6 million) so as to make them more
attractive to larger contractors, both Tunisian and international, who
would be permitted to bid for a group as a whole. Adding more lots to a
group to provide a larger package value would not be practical because of
the dispersed nature of the contract works. During negotiations, the
arrangements concerning lot sizes, grouping for tender calls and bidding
for a group as a whole were discussed and confirmed with the Government.
3.34     other works include spot improvements to feeder roads and
buildings for extension centers. These are small scattered contracts and
would be most efficiently procured by local competitive bidding (LCB) pro-
cedures which are satisfactory to the Bank. The contracts would be of the
order of US$20,000-40,000 with a total value of US$4 million for spot
improvements and US$1.6 million for buildings, and would provide useful
development opportunities for small local contractors who are experienced
in masonry and concrete slab work.
3.35     Equipment to be procured under the project with Bank financing
consists of vehicles for agricultural extension services (estimated cost
US$ 1.7 million); agricultural equipment for extension demonstrations
(estimated cost US$ 200,000), and audio visual equipment for training
(estimated cost US$ 5,000). To the extent practical, equipment would be
grouped into packages for tendering. Packages estimated to cost more than
US$100,000 would be procured under ICB following the Bank guidelines.
Packages estimated to cost less than US$100,000 (but with a total value not
exceeding US$500,000) would be procured on the basis of Government LCB
procedures, which are satisfactory.
3.36     Technical assistance for the various project items would be pro-
vided by qualified consultants firms or individuals as appropriate, engaged
in accordance with the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
(August 1981).
3.37     The size and nature of the contracts for the various items
determine contract review procedures. For rural road improvements, all
bidding packages would be subject to prior review of the procurement
documentation; for the spot improvements to feeder roads and buildings for
extension centers, an initial review will be made of standard tender docu-
ments and of the procurement program. Thereafter, a random post review
will be made of bid evaluation, award decisions and signed contracts.
Prior review of road improvement contracts will cover 92% of the total
value of works financed under the project.



-29-
3.38     Most of the equipment eligible for Bank financing will be pur-
chased in large packages during the three years of project implementa-
tion. Two tender calls by MA are expected, orLe for vehicles, and one for
agricultural demonstration equipment. The documentation for these major
tenders will be subject to prior review by the Bank.
3.39     As the project is a sector approach and the program for the second
and third years is not yet firmly fixed, some minor additional procurement
of equipment may be expected later in the project.  The procurement
documentation for this equipment would be similar to that which would have
been previously approved for the large packages. The additional list of
equipment would be agreed by the Bank, but packages valued at less than
US$100,000 would be given a post review of bid analysis, award and signed
contracts. Audio visual equipment with a total value less than US$5,000
would also be subject to post review. Based on the expected size of the
bid packages, these procedures will result in prior review of about 90% of
the total value of goods financed under the project.
H. Internal Accounting and Auditing Procedures
3.40     The internal accounting systems in the Ministries of Public Works
and Agriculture have been reviewed and found l:o be adequate for the pur-
pose of certification of accuracy and compila:ion and control of project-
related financial transactions, including those connected with the road
maintenance activities and extension services requirements. Separate
accounts will be maintained to record expendi:ures made under the project,
the main items of these accounts corresponding to the loan categories. The
systems are described in a Working Paper in tie Project File
(Document No. Cl).
3.41     Government control procedures, as presently applied, do not
produce the necessary audit reports. Althouga data are available and easy
to trace, there is at present no procedure for the compilation and produc-
tion of timely reports. The Government has proposed that the Contrdle
G'ndral des Finances fulfill this role, and tne independent status of the
Contr8le Gdndral des Finances is acceptable to the Bank. These arrange-
ments were discussed and confirmed at negotiations.
I. Implementation Schedule and Monitoring
3.42     Project implementation schedules are shown in Charts No. 4,
General, and No. 5, Technical Assistance. The General chart shows that the
implementation basically covers three annual programs beginning in each of
the years 1983, 1984 and 1985. The charts have been prepared in some
detail, based on experience with the pilot project. The annual work
program of 400 km is about the same as the maximum rate attained under the
first project and is within the capacity of the local contracting
industry. The scheduled beginning of each activity can be reasonably
achieved under Tunisian conditions, barring unforeseen delays. In the case
of the road improvements, preparation of tender documents for the first
group is well advanced, and contracts could be let somewhat ahead of



-30-
the schedule shown, but a start in January 1983 is considered reasonable
for planning purposes. A total construction time of 24 months has been
allowed for each group. This is much more than the contractual time
allowed, but experience has shown that Tunisian contractors working on
rural roads almost invariably exceed the maximum. The finishing dates of
each group are therefore realistic rather than target dates. The project
is expected to be effective in mid-1982 and execution of the Bank-financed
components would be completed by the end of 1986, a total of about 4-1/2
years. These schedules were discussed and confirmed with the Government
during negotiations.
3.43     Elements of the first-year program and annual budgetary require-
ments for the project as a whole are summarized in Annex 8. Annual plans
of operations will be submitted to the Bank in preliminary form by April
30, and in final form by September 30 each year. The Bank's comments can
then be taken into account by the Government in determining both capital
and recurrent budgets to be allocated to various items for the subsequent
year. The overall program, the elements of the first-year action plan and
the preparation and submission of action plans for subsequent years were
discussed and confirmed with the Government during negotiations. Guide-
lines for ongoing preparation, implementation and monitoring of project
activities are in Annex 6. An example of an integrated action plan with
extension guidelines and implementation data for a road in the first-year
program is in the Project File (Document No. B22).
3.44     There are two aspects to project monitoring, firstly to follow the
physical and financial progress of the project, secondly to evaluate
project outputs. A system for monitoring the delivery of agricultural
extension and credit services in the road influence zones has been
developed by DPSAE under the first project. Quarterly progress reports are
prepared and submitted to the Bank through the Coordinating Committee. A
central project monitoring and coordination unit has been set up under the
supervision of DPSAE to handle the flow of data from the first project
roads and to assist in preparing detailed action plans for the roads to be
improved under the proposed project. In addition, agricultural extension
agents assigned to the first project influence zones have undertaken a
comprehensive census of farms within their area of responsibility. The
processing and analysis of these data by the project monitoring and
coordination unit will provide direct feedback to the design and imple-
mentation of agricultural action programs in connection with future road
improvements, as well as generally improve the Ministry's capacity to
manage agricultural and rural development program planning.
3.45     The system will be expanded to include operational data which will
show whether the project is meeting its objectives in the longer term.
Basic data on agricultural impact would be drawn from a socio-economic
impact study (para 3.46). In addition, DPC intends to establish a separate
monitoring system including traffic counts and measures of surface condi-
tion to assist in the planning of road maintenance activities and to assess
their effectiveness. During negotiations the project monitoring system was
discussed and confirmed with the Government.



-31-
3.46     The socio-economic impact study will be carried out on a sample of
roads improved under the First Rural Roads Project and is also planned for
a sample of roads to be improved under the proposed project (Annex 7).
This impact study will make use of traffic and agricultural data collected
for project monitoring purposes, but will go beyond this to address the
full range of rural development impacts resulting from the introduction of
road improvements together with agricultural support services, including
changes in household income levels and consumption patterns, in personal
mobility and communications, in levels of service provision and utiliza-
tion, and in migration patterns. The study will also monitor changes in
traffic mix following road improvement as well as the use of animals in
rural transport. The impact study will include measures of baseline data
and measures of change one year after completion of project roads in the
sample.
3.47     In addition to the quarterly reports and the impact study, the
Government will also prepare a project completion report (PCR) within six
months of the Loan Closing Date. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained from the Government that it will prepare and submit quarterly
progress reports and a PCR.
J. Disbursements
3.48     The proposed loan of US$35.5 million would be disbursed as follows:



-32-
Category            uS$ M           Percentage of Expenditures
1.  Road works               21.0                      40%
2.  Extension buildings       0.5                       30%
3.  Extension equipment       0.15       100% of foreign expenditures or
63% of local expenditures (represent-
ing the foreign component).
4.  Spot improvements         1.0                       33%
5.  Extension Vehicles        0.35        100% of foreign expenditures or
40% of local expenditures (represent-
ing the foreign component).
6.  Equipment for vehicle   0.4          100% of foreign expenditures or
inspection stations                 63% of local expenditures
(representing the foreign component).
7.  Technical Assistance    2.1                        75%
8.  Overseas missions         0.1                      100%
9.  Unallocated               9.35
10. Front End Fee on
Bank Loan               0.55                      Amount due
Total                 35.5
3.49     The annual work program covering the improvement of 400 km of rural
roads is about the same rate as the maximum attained under the first project
and is within the capacity of the local contracting industry. The most
frequent constraint on expeditious execution of highway projects in the past
has been the delay with which the MPF has made funds available. In addition
to the formal commitments under the loan, the high priority accorded by the
Government to the rural road improvement program should ensure that suffi-
cient funds will be made available in time to execute the program according
to the agreed schedule. The disbursement schedule has been developed from
the General Implementation Schedule (Chart No. 4). In the case of the
Technical Assistance Schedule (Chart No. 5), the various studies have been
shown to be carried out at reasonably early target dates. Experience has
shown that studies, particularly those not directly linked to construction,
often slip behind forecasts dates. The schedule has therefore been main-
tained for implementation monitoring of studies, but the corresponding
disbursements have been assumed to be spread over the project implementa-
tion period to the end of 1986. The amounts involved in studies are a minor
part of the whole project cost, the major costs in the project being for



-33-
road improvements. The time slice nature of the project, including
monitoring by means of the submission and execution of annual programs, and
the realistic estimates of construction time should help ensure that project
disbursements follow the forecast schedule. Based on experience in Tunisia,
an average time of nine months has been allowed from execution to
disbursement. The forecast schedule has been compared with historic
experience. Unfortunately, the statistical base for the available historic
profiles is limited. Although average profiles for all EMENA transport
projects and all Tunisian projects are close together, with the transport
projects showing 100% disbursed about 7-1/2 years after Board presentation
and the Tunisia projects after about 8 years, the range encompassed by these
averages is large; for example from about 3-1/2 to over 11 years for
transport projects. More recent projects show somewhat shorter profiles.
The forecast schedule for this project shows initial disbursements slower
than the historic averages, only 6% being disbursed after two years compared
with an historic 17%. The forecast catches up with the historic at 50% of
total disbursement after about 3-1/2 years, and is expected to be completed
somewhat more quickly in 6 years. The more rapid disbursement in later
stages is expected to result from the time slice nature of the project. The
First Highway Project, the only completed Highway Project in Tunisia,
although of a different nature, disbursed 50% after about 4 years, and 100%
after 6-1/2 years. The disbursement schedule is therefore considered to be
a realistic forecast. During negotiations, the disbursement schedule was
discussed and confirmed with the Government.



-34-
Table 3.4: Disbursement Schedule
IBRD Fiscal Year                                        Cumulative Disbursements
and End of Quarter                                           at end of Quarter
(US$000 Equivalent)
FY83
September 30, 1982                                             500
December 31, 1982                                              500
March 31, 1983                                                 500
June 30, 1983                                                  600
FY84
September 30, 1983                                             800
December 31, 1983                                            2,400
March 31, 1984                                               4,100
June 30, 1984                                               5,800
FY85
September 30, 1984                                          7,500
December 31, 1984                                          10,300
March 31, 1985                                              13,300
June 30, 1985                                              16,300
FY86
September 30, 1985                                         19,200
December 31, 1985                                          21,900
March 31, 1986                                              24,600
June 30, 1986                                              27,300
FY87
September 30, 1986                                         30,000
December 31, 1986                                          31,400
March 31, 1987                                             32,800
June 30, 1987                                              34,100
FY88
September 30, 1987                                         35,400
December 31, 1987                                          35,500
K. Environmental Impact
3.50     The project would enhance the quality of the rural environment by
improving the standard of the existing roads, most of which are earth
tracks, thus giving better access to markets and social services. Most of
the improvements would be along existing alignments, and there would be very



-35-
little need, if any, to displace dwellings or to consume additional agri-
cultural land for road rights-of-way. The pl.anned improvements will have
relatively little impact, either positive or negative, on present low levels
of air and noise pollution. The location an<l design of drainage structures
will be planned so as not to aggravate problems with storm run-off and to
reduce the risk of flooding. Care will be taken during construction to
mitigate, insofar as possible, potential short-term negative impact on
adjacent farm lands and families.



-36-
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General Framework
4.01     The improvement and maintenance of rural roads in Tunisia responds
to a basic need to improve accessibility in rural areas and is in line with
the country's current emphasis on rural and regional development. As part
of its program to correct regional and urban/rural imbalances, the Govern-
ment attaches high priority to the rural road program. Through the program
the Government is: (i) providing and maintaining the necessary road system
to support agricultural development and hence increase living standards in
rural areas; and (ii) ensuring adequate access in rural areas for the
provision of social and administrative services. By combining rural road
projects with a spot-improvement scheme for connecting lower-class feeder
roads, the proposed project will help to integrate local road networks,
thereby providing savings to existing traffic as well as improved access
for the rural population. Furthermore, improved accessibility will
increase the efficiency and effective range of administrative and commer-
cial services including agricultural extension and credit, medical and
veterinary coverage, marketing services and input and equipment suppliers.
B. Sub-Project Review
4.02     Under studies financed as part of the First Rural Roads Project,
some 2,500 km of roads were subject to a detailed economic evaluation.
These roads were selected by the Project Coordinating Committee from an
initial long list of roads prepared for each province by a regional
committee. Some of the roads studied have been included under the First
Rural Road Project in accordance with the sector or program approach
adopted for that project. A similar approach has been retained for the
proposed project with appraisal being on the basis of a firm first-year
program of about 400 km of roads as well as tentative programs of similar
magnitude for the second and third years. The latter may be subject to
modification depending on changes in needs and priorities as the program is
implemented. Revised annual programs for rural road improvement will be
presented to the Bank for prior review, with each sub-project prepared
according to the requirements and procedures outlined below.
4.03     In submitting sub-projects for inclusion under the second and
third years of the program, the Government would be required to provide:
(i) a feasibility report for each road including preliminary
engineering and construction costs, estimates of present
and future traffic and an assessment of agricultural
development as well as the complementary investments
necessary to achieve the forecast production increases; and
(ii)  extension guidelines, farm budget analyses and
implementation data for the agricultural component.



-37-
4.04     The criteria for Bank approval of sub-projects are that:
(i)  the quality of preparation is acceptable and in line with
the agreed general approach;
(ii)  the ER of the investment package is at least 10%; and
(iii)  the financial rates of return of representative farm models
are sufficiently high for faLrmers to undertake the proposed
on-farm investments and to be able to take advantage of
credit facilities.
4.05     Details of the socio-economic evaluation methodology are provided
in Annex 5 and guidelines for the preparation and implementation of
integrated programs combining road and agricultural investments are in
Annex 6. During loan negotiations, an assurance was obtained from the
Government that it will follow the agreed procedures and criteria in
preparing and submitting sub-projects for Bank approval.
C. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.06     The economic benefits quantified under the proposed project flow
from two sources: transport cost savings and incremental value added on
agricultural production. The project roads fall into two categories:
those which would be economically justified on transport cost savings
alone, and those which would be justified only by including increases in
agricultural production and incomes in their influence zones. However, the
project has been planned in such a way that both types of benefits are
expected to be realized in every case. The underlying assumption is that
all-weather access is a necessary precondition for the successful delivery
of services to stimulate agricultural production and ensure timely
marketing.
4.07     Transport cost savings accrue to people who own, operate, and/or
travel in motorized vehicles on rural roads.  Theoretically, paid pas-
senger transport is provided by the public transport enterprises organized
at the national and regional level, but in practice, their services rarely
reach rural roads.  Collective taxi services operate out of the major towns
and provide service on improved rural roads.  Informal passenger transport
service is provided by other vehicle operators, and conventional charges
are levied. Most road vehicles are owner-operated. Thus, user cost
savings on passenger transport will accrue initially to the vehicle owners,
although savings will be passed on to other users through increased
competition following road improvement.
4.08     Approximately 70% of all freight transport on rural roads is
carried out using vehicles owned by farmers: tractors, light trucks,
carts, and pack animals. Less than 30% is carried in heavy trucks, which
would be more likely to be owned by middlemen, cooperative societies, or
government agencies. Farmers who do not own trucks generally can arrange,



-38-
individually or in groups, to rent one from a more affluent neighbor when
there is a significant quantity of goods to be moved. Again, the benefits
of transport savings on freight traffic accrue initially to the public
sector or to the vehicle owners.
4.09     The real benefit of rural road improvements to the small farmer is
not that the monetary costs of travel and transport decrease, but that
services are provided at all. Significant improvement in access, time
savings and improvements in safety, comfort and convenience enable the
farmer to obtain more inputs, market additional products, and have access
to services that would be otherwise unavailable. These gains are parti-
cularly significant when all-weather or nearly all-weather access is
provided to communities which would otherwise be isolated for months at a
time. In other words, small as well as large farmers benefit from the
provision of regular motorized transport at a reasonable cost.
4.10     Value added in agriculture is generally calculated as a direct
function of production increases. It may derive from the introduction of
new crops, the cultivation of new land, or the intensification of farming
on existing land. The value added is assumed to accrue to the population
of the impact zone either in the form of a direct consumption increase or
in the form of additional income from marketing surplus production. In
most of Tunisia, the potential for introducing new crops is critically
dependent on irrigation, and the potential for bringing new lands under
cultivation is extremely limited. Most of the anticipated increases will
therefore come from the introduction of new or improved technologies to
increase yields on presently productive land or simply from the more timely
and appropriate use of agricultural inputs. While certain technologies are
more likely to be made available to, and to be adopted by, larger farmers
first, and by households with a non-farm income source permitting them to
accept a certain minimal level of risk, improved techniques will also
benefit the small farmers. It is on the small and medium farms that there
is a major potential for increases in productivity, but these will be
achieved only to the extent that the new technologies are independent of
scale constraints or appropriately modified to be available to farmers with
small areas and modest means. Some of these constraints can be overcome
through farmer associations or equipment hire facilities.
4.11     An unknown but probably small proportion of the rural population
is lancdless. Many more own parcels of insufficient size to support a
family. An analysis of detailed data from the First Project shows that in
one province 5% of households in the road impact zones are landless and
another 35% have farms of 5 ha or less. These farmers are dependent on the
rural labor market to provide them with cash income to meet their household
needs. Rural road improvements increase the scope and range of opportuni-
ties to find work and thereby will help to raise wages in the rural labor
market. In other words, rural road improvements increase the probability
that landless laborers will be able to capture a share of any increase in
agricultural value added.



-39-
4.L2     In relation to social services, planners responsible for the
provision of health and education services in rural areas of Tunisia
indicate that their actions are closely coordiiiated with the development of
the rural road network. Recommendations for road improvements are
discussed by line agency representatives at the provincial level before
they are forwarded to Tunis for technical and economic evaluation
(para. 4.02). Progress in implementing road imnprovements is monitored by
the agencies and used as a basis for planning future service delivery
programs. The rural roads program thus complements and Enhances the
chances of success of other Bank-financed projects to meet the needs of
rural residents in Tunisia including, specifically, the Health and
Population Project which is directed toward decentralization of health
services to rural areas.
4.13     In summary, the combination of road inprovements with the imple-
mentation of a detailed action plan to promote increased agricultural
production in each impact zone will result in increased farm incomes,
including the incomes of farmers below the rural poverty level, as well as
provide support for the goal of self-sufficiency in major food products.
Although insufficient time has elapsed since the implementation of the
First Rural Roads Project to provide detailed statistics on road impact,
observations and interviews in the project areas indicate substantial
initial responses such as in the demand for credit and the use of
fertilizers, as well as a major improvement in the perceived quality of
life in these areas. It is expected that the project will have a broad
economic impact on the rural population through the demonstration effect of
new technologies introduced in the road impact zones. Residents will also
benefit from improved access to services, either through their increased
mobility or through that of service providers. Finally, the amenities
associated with road improvements will increase-the quality of life in
rural areas and slow the rate of rural-urban migration. Both the economic
and social effects will be carefully measured through the impact study,
which will cover roads from the First Rural Roads Project and the proposed
project (para. 3.46).
D. Economic Analysis
4.14     In the economic evaluation, net-of-tsx costs have been used for
road construction and maintenance as well as for buildings, equipment and
operating expenditures for agricultural extension services. As several
agricultural inputs are subsidized at about half their economic costs, the
latter have been derived from world market prices adjusted for transport
and handling in Tunisia.  Similarly, ex-farm prices for agricultural
produce reflect current world market prices with the exception of non-
tradeable commodities where local market prices are used.
4.15     The approach used in the economic evaluation is based on an
in-depth analysis of the rural sector and focusses on:



-40-
(i) the characteristics of agricultural production in terms of
farm size distribution, crop areas and yields as well as
on-farm consumption of food crops;
(ii) existing average annual traffic volumes;
(iii)  the probable distribution of benefits among transporters,
traders and farmers in the light of agricultural pricing,
marketing and transport conditions;
(iv) the probable response of farmers to an increase in ex-farm
prices or the relative change in accessibility following
road improvement; and
(v) estimates of the complementary inputs necessary, such as
extension services and agricultural credit, for the fore-
cast increases in agricultural production.
4.16     The economic evaluation of each road covers a 20-year period,
allowance being made for major periodic maintenance or rehabilitation
during the project life. In estimating the benefit streams over time,
account has been taken of the absorptive capacity of the various farm types
for improved technology. Generally, increased agricultural production is
assumed to be achieved over a period of five to ten years, with growth
thereafter being in line with long-term projected agricultural growth
rates. Transport cost savings are estimated by applying unit vehicle
operating cost reductions to forecast passenger and non-agricultural
traffic while increased revenues for transporters carrying agricultural
products are estimated based on the relative changes in costs and rates
following road improvement. Benefits to generated passenger and non-
agricultural commodity traffic have not been included and the quantified
benefits are therefore underestimated.
E. Results
4.17     A provisional three-year program of improvements to 1,200 km of
rural roads was selected based on the economic evaluation of over 2,500 km
of individual roads. A minimum acceptable ER of 10% has been applied for
each individual road. In defining priorities under the program, prefer-
ence was first given to those provinces not covered under the first
project, mainly the coastal provinces of central and southern Tunisia. In
defining the balance of the program under the second and third years,
emphasis was given to projects in the relatively poor areas of central and
west-central Tunisia and to the northern provinces where there is consi-
derable scope for increasing agricultural production (Maps IBRD 15916,
16145, 16144). In all cases, due attention was given to establishing
appropriate groups of roads suitable for contract lots.
4.18     The ERs of the 100 individual roads included in the three-year
program range from 10% to about 50%. The overall ER for 33 first-year
roads is estimated at 21%. For first-year roads, benefits from transport



-41-
cost savings represent about 40% of total project benefits and about half
of the project roads could be justified on the basis of transport cost
savings alone. Even under the most conservative assumption of a 25%
reduction in overall benefits combined with a 25% increase in project
costs, the overall ER of the first-year progra.m is not expected be less
than 15%. Table 2 in Annex 5 provides key parameters of the economic
evaluation for each individual road.
4.19     Social benefits would represent a significant addition to the
quantified economic benefits. In serving over 200,000 rural inhabitants or
about 6% of the rural population, the benefits would include improved
access to social, administrative and commercial services, thus increasing
the general well-being and mobility in rural areas. Through the socio-
economic impact study, it is hoped to improve the selection and evaluation
of roads by including social criteria on a syatematic basis. In the
meantime, the Government is examining the use of a social rate of return
method which would involve the application of income distribution weights
to the benefit streams in order to establish relative priorities among
justified sub-projects (Project File Document No. C14).
F., Project Risk
4.20     The main area of risk associated witli the proposed project is the
timely implementation of complementary agricuLtural investments. A delay
in such investments would of course delay projected increases in produc-
tion and agricultural benefits would be lower than forecast. However, a
delay of one or two years would not have a significant effect on the ER of
individual roads, particularly as transport cost savings are often an
important share of total benefits. Moreover, the economic justification is
based on relatively modest increases in agricultural production, part of
which should be realized from the increased eEficiency of existing
agricultural extension and credit services foLlowing road improvement.
4.21     Implementation of the First Rural Roads Project has done much to
familiarize both Government services and the rural population with the
oojectives and overall concepts of the rural roads program. Assistance
provided for agricultural extension services is now better integrated
w:ithin national plans and the Government is nDw strengthening the insti-
tutional framework.  At the same time, the Government is currently
reassessing the organization of agricultural zredit and the project would
benefit from improvements in the system. Although there is a need to make
medium- and long-term agricultural credit more readily available to the
small and medium farmers served by the project roads, most of these farms
will, through the project, have access to short-term credit for critical
seasonal inputs such as fertilizer, pesticides, and equipment hire. To the
extent that these inputs are available and. that better road access and
imnproved extension services will ensure their timely delivery and use, it
should be possible to attain the modest production increases assumed under
the proposed project.



-42-
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01     During loan negotiations,agreement was reached on various issues
referred to in the report, including the following matters of particular
significance:
(i)    The Government will cause BNT to make available adequate
short-term, and medium- and long-term agricultural credit
(para. 3.08);
(i)    The Government will formally establish a project Coordi-
nating Committee (para. 3.30);
(iii)  The Government will admit representatives of tenderers for
ICB procurement to the bid opening (para. 3.32).
(iv)   The Government will implement the project in accordance
with a three-year action plan, and will submit annual
action plans to the Bank for review and comment
(para. 3.43);
(v)    For individual road sections for the second-  and third-
year programs, the Government will submit technical and
economic studies, and agricultural extension guidelines, in
accordance with agreed procedures and criteria
(para. 4.05); and
5.02     Agreement having been reached on the issues in the report, the
project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$35.5 million equivalent to the
Government of Tunisia for the standard term of 17 years, including a 4-year
grace period.



-43-
Annex 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROAD',) PROJECT
Previous Bank Proje,ts
A. Transport Sector
l.       Loan 380-TUN (1964, US$7.0 million, Republic of Tunisia, First
Port Project) was for a project, the major com?onents of which were
dredging and refilling, the construction of berths, transit sheds and
other infrastructure at La Goulette and consull:ing services. The pro-
ject was satisfactorily completed.
2.       Loan 573-TUN (1969, US$8.5 million, OEfices des Ports Nationaux
Tunisiens, Second Port Project) also included a major component for
dredging, as well as the provision of dredges and cargo handling equip-
ment, provision of a grain berth, training and consulting services. The
project was satisfactorily completed (PPAR No. 1049, February 26, 1979).
3.       Loan 606/Credit 150-TUN (1969, US$17.) million, SNCFT, Railway
Project) was for a project, the major componen:s of which were the
renewal of 352 Iam of track, purchase of rolling stock, improvement of
workshops and consulting services. The project was delayed by about two
years due to the disastrous floods of 1969 and 1971 and shortages of
funds resulting from slow payments by the railwiay's principal customer
(Sfax/Gafsa Phosphate Co.) prior to 1973, when the Government assumed
the debts of the phosphate company. The project was satisfactorily com-
pleted (PPAR No. 2109, June 23, 1978).
4.       Loan S2-TUN (1969, US$0.8 million) wa3 for engineering studies
for hignways included in the First Highway Project. It was satisfacto-
rily completed.
5.       Loan 724-TUN (1971, US$7.5 million, SDcidt4 Tunisienne de
1'dl4ctricite et du Gaz, Gas Pipeline Project) was for a project which
included procurement and installation of pipelines, compressors, and
ancillary services. The project was satisfactDrily completed in 1972.
6.       Loan 746-TUN (1971, US$24.0 million, First Highway Project) was
for.partial financing of construction and improvement of 274 km of high-
ways, resurfacing and rehabilitation of 1,920 km of roads, reconstruc-
tion of 51 bridges and consulting services. The project encountered
difficulties with the rise in costs at the time of the oil crisis.



-44-
Annex 1
In addition, further studies showed that the Tunis-Turki section should
be constructed as a four-lane freeway rather than as the three-lane road
included in the project. The Board, therefore, approved exclusion of
the Tunis-Turki road from the project; this road was later financed by
the Kuwait Fund. The disbursement rate was reduced on the remaining
items. All other construction items and consulting services were satis-
factorily completed (PPAR No. 2772,' December 26, 1979).
7.       Loan 1188-TUN (1976, US$28.0 million, Second Highway Project)
was for the improvement of about 225 km of primary and secondary roads,
and consulting services to assist in a transport coordination study and
to assist with the preparation of a Rural Roads Program. Construction
has been completed on two lots of GP8 Tunis-Bizerte and is nearing
completion on MC 28/27 in Nabeul. It is in progress on GP6, Beja-
Jendouba, GP5 Mornaghia-Medjez el Bab and the GPl Sousse bypass. Both
studies under the project are complete. The project has encountered
persistent problems with delays caused by insufficient provision of
local funds by the Ministry of Planning and Finance, but is now expected
to be satisfactorily completed by the end of 1982.
8.       Loan 1601-TUN (1978, US$32.0 million, Rural Roads Project) was
for the improvement of about 1,100 km of rural roads; the procurement of
road maintenance equipment, and agricultural facilities and equipment;
the provision of investment and short-term credit; the improvement of
extension services; and technical assistance to the Ministries of Public
Works and Agriculture.  Construction is nearing completion on four lots
in the north and complete or underway on roads in all eight of the
provinces originally included in the project. Implementation of the
complementary agricultural investments and extension services suffered
an initial lag, but is now proceeding satisfactorily. The road main-
tenance equipment has been procured. Technical assistance for the
preparation of a second tranche has been completed. General project
progress is satisfactory.
9.       Loan 1797-TUN (1980, US$42.5 million, Third Port Project)
provides for the modernization of port facilities at La Goulette and
Sfax. The major components of the project include specialized faci-
lities for roll-on/roll-off vessels, storage areas, transit sheds and
warehouses, as well as additional cargo handling equipment and repair
and maintenance facilities. Project progress is satisfactory.
10.      Loan 1841-TUN (1980, US$36.5 million, Fourth Highway Project)
is aimed at improving the management of the Tunisian highway network
through maintenance, rehabilitation and strengthening the institutional
framework. The first year of a three-year action plan is being imple-
mented, including routine maintenance and rehabilitation, road mainte-
nance equipment is being procured and a training program is being
established. Project execution is satisfactory.



-45-
Annex 1
B. Agricultural Sector
11,.     Loan 484/Credit 99-TUN (1969, US$18.0 million, Cooperative Farm
Project) for a total amount of US$18.0 million was subsequently reduced
to US$9.8 million. Following major changes in Tunisia's agricultural
policy in 1969, the original project was substantially revised in 1970
and completed at the end of 1973 with US$8.8 million being canceled.
The Project Performance Audit Report which was circulated to the Board
on January 8, 1976, discussed the difficulties of Tunisian agriculture
under the collective system in effect until late 1969 but confirmed that
productivity, production, working incomes and institutional viability
objectives were attained. Two other objectives, elimination of sub-
sistence farming and incorporation of private land owners into produc-
tion cooperatives, were abandoned.
12.      Loan 779/Credit 263-TUN (1971, US$8.2 million, First Agricul-
tural Credit Project) was to finance part of the National Bank of
Tunisia's (BNT) lending to commercial farmers for investment in grain
farm mechanization, dairy farming, and date palm plantation. Imple-
mentation was slow initially but the loan was fully disbursed by July
1968, 34 months after the original closing date. The PPAR indicated
that mechanization had not yielded the benefits expected and that more
attention should have been devoted to the agro-industrial component
which suffered major cost overruns.
13.      Credit 270-TUN (1971, US$2.0 million, First Fisheries Project)
was for a project aimed at development of Tunisia's inshore fisheries
and was completed at the end of 1979. Implementation encountered con-
siderable delay, and the lending institution (BNT) experienced low loan
recoveries.
14.      Loan 1068-TUN (1974, US$12.2 million, Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project) is for a project to rehabilitate and improve the use of exist-
ing water resources as set out in the primary stages of the Water Master
Plan. This project covers the Lower Medjerda Valley and Nebhana. The
Lower Medjerda Valley component includes about 20,000 ha of which 75% is
already equipped with irrigation and drainage facilities; the remainder
lacks secondary and tertiary distribution networks. The Nebhana compo-
nent includes the rehabilitation of existing irrigation, drainage and
road networks over about 5,000 ha in the Nebhana area. The loan became
effective in September 1975 and the physical implementation is
satisfactory.
15.      Loan 1340-TUN (1976, US$12.0 million, Second Agricultural'
Credit Project) became effective July 19, 1977, and aims at supporting a
two-year lending program for on-farm development of small and commercial
fanns and for agro-industries and a four-year lending program for small



-46-
Annex 1
holder date/palm plantation development. The loan, which also serves
credit needs under the Rural Roads Project (Loan 1601-TUN), is nearly
fully disbursed.
16.      Loan 1431-TUN (1977, US$42.0 million, Sidi Salem Multipurpose
Project) is the first phase of execution of the Northern Tunisia Water
Master Plan. It includes the irrigation of 10,600 ha in Testour/Medjez
el Bab and Nabeul areas, prevention of the decline of 6,000 ha of citrus
in Nabeul, improvement of agricultural production on 32,800 ha in the
Lower Medjerda Valley, helping meet potable and industrial water
requirements, reduction of periodic flood damage, generation of elect-
ricity and the improvement of rural roads. Implementation is
satisfactory.
17.      Loan 1746-TUN (1979, US$28.4 million, Second Fisheries
Project). This project became effective on May 14, 1980. Agreement was
reached on a strategy to improve recoveries of subloans. Project pro-
gress is satisfactory.
18.      Loan 1796-TUN (1980, US$25 million, Southern Irrigation
Project) covered irrigation systems in oases in the desert provinces of
the south. The project has started up satisfactorily.
19.      Loan 1885-TUN (1980, US$30 million, Third Agricultural Credit
Project) was designed to continue the institution building begun under
the First and Second Credit Projects. It became effective on
June 24, 1981.
20.      Loan 1997-TUN (1981, US$24 million, Northwest Rural Development
Project) is financing a 5-year time slice of a 15-year development pro-
gram in the northwest region of Tunisia. It will improve the income,
nutrition, health and education of the population in the project area
while reducing soil erosion and the consequent decline in agricultural
productivity. The loan will become effective in January 1982.
21.      Loan 2052-TUN (1981, US$42 million, Grain Storage Project) is
designed to create a modern bulk distribution system in the import
circuit from port to mill. The major components are: rehabilitation,
expansion and construction of grain silos, construction of rail sidings
and purchase of hopper cars, and technical assistance. The project is
due to become effective in January 1982.



-47-
Annex 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Agricultural Extension IPrograms
A. Principles
1.       What is needed to induce improved agricultural production is
described in many ways. Simply said, farmers regardless of the size of
their land holding generally increase their productivity when four
prerequisites are met. These are as follows:
(i)    an improved farming system: whereby a combination of
materials and practices that is clearly more productive and
profitable, with an acceptably lower level of risk, than
the one currently used, become.s available to the farmer;
(ii)   instruction of farmers: whereby the farmer is shown on his
own farm or nearby how to put the practices into use and
made to understand why they are better;
(iii)  availability of inputs: whereby the required inputs, and if
necessary, the credit to finance-their purchase are avail-
able to the farmer when and where he needs them and at a
reasonable cost; and
(iv)   availability of markets: whereby the farmer has access to a
nearby market that can absorb the increasing supply of
produce without excessive price drops.
None of these is more or less important than t:he other and they inter-
relate. Trying to attribute more importance to one than the other is like
trying to evaluate the impact of one alone, not only difficult but probably
illogical. However, a strong dependence exists for the second, third and
fourth prerequisites on all weather access to the point that its absence
could prevent their impact.
2.       Extension is ineffective without appropriate profitable techno-
logy. Frequently in examining extension systems the major weakness is
found to be in the research area, and also the payoff from improving the
extension service is to put research closer to the farmer. Research
carried to the logical conclusion of demonstration in the farmers fields
goes a long way to minimizing extension problems. Research is a vital
link. Regional extension services suffer froci some or all of the following
deficiencies, namely:



-48-
Annex 2
(i)    subject to centralized and split authority;
(ii)   staffed by people whose technical training and skills
exceed their training, skill and aptitude in communications;
(iii)  burdened with statistical and regulatory demands, and
responsibility for input and service supplies;
(iv)   oriented to mass media methods frequently due to lack of
mobility, too high a ratio of farmers to agents and a
reluctance to visit;
(v)    short of appropriate messages;
(vi)   infrequent contacts with research; and
(vii)  takes no account of the subtle cultural characteristics of
the rural population being treated.
3.       The needs for extension depend on the nature of the agriculture
and the needs change as the agriculture changes. Hence, an extension
system must evolve with the country's agriculture. In determining the
approach that may now be appropriate, it is important to gauge the point of
evolution of the agriculture and it may be different from sector to
sector.  The amount that can be invested in extension (and research)
largely depends on the scope for yield development and this will vary with
agro-ecological zones within the country.
B.  Development of Extension in Tunisia
4.       Considering the way in which agricultural extension within Tunisia
has developed gives a useful background to consider the present issues and
the proposals being developed for the future. This is described in greater
depth and detail in the agricultural sector survey 1/. Furthermore, it
provides a basis for assessing the extent to which the principles described
above have or can be incorporated. Before independence, agriculture was
characterized by a marked contrast between the modern mechanized sector
managed by colonists in which production was directed towards export, and
the traditional sector of small and medium sized farmers which was a mass
of people living in a subsistence economy. The first used techniques
adapted from those in Europe which may not have always been in the best
long-term interest of the natural soil resources but which were at the time
productive. The traditional sector practiced an archaic subsistence
agriculture which neither the Government nor the colonists were interested
in modernizing.
1/ This survey is being carried out concurrently.



-49-
Annex 2
5.       In the first ten years from independence, a structure was put in
place by the Ministry of Agriculture in which efforts were mainly directed
to the creation of development offices, management of state lands and the
staffing of production cooperatives. It was attached within the Ministry
in a way in which it could not be assured satisfactory working arrangements
and it did not survive long. A major developnment commenced in 1967 when
the Ministry of Agriculture, realizing the importance and perhaps the vul-
nerability of the sector recreated an extension service with modest means.
The service was concerned with both studies and interventions. It had nine
trained agriculturists (four Tunisians) at the central level. It gave
priority to the provinces of Le Kef, Jendouba, Beja, Bizerte, and the
region of Cap Bon. The regional staff was concerned with many aspects
including extension. Mainly, the central staff visited the regional staff
to discuss rural problems with a view to finding solutions. The principle
was valid but the impact of the results was negligible and did not justify
the cost of operation.
6.       In 1968, the idea of campaign themes was introduced and at this
point real extension started. At that time the mass media information
activity started as a support to extension campaigns. With time, the
Ministry raised the status of the extension activity and the professiona-
lity of the occupation. A significant step in 1971 saw the development of
professional national organizations directed towards promoting production.
At a point in 1974, the Department of Training, Research and Extension
(DERV) had been created; individual and group extension at the farm level
was firmly established in the Department of Crop Production (DPV); offices
and special groups were deeply involved in indlividual and group extension
for their constituents in their particular sphkeres of influence; and pri-
vate enterprises were beginning to advise their clients who were mainly
large commercial farmers. So extension services in Tunisia are recent and
have evolved rapidly.
7.       The objectives assigned to Tunisian agriculture for the Fourth and
Fifth Development Plans (1972-1976, 1977-1981:1 were to correct the food
balance in which the deficit was growing dangerously and to improve the
employment situation and the living conditions; of the rural population. An
overview of the situation in the period of the Fourth Plan reveals three
major trends, namely:
(i)    a multiplicity of structures and organizations concerned
with instructing farmers;
(ii)   a multiplicity of methods and approaches used for extension;
(iii) a substantial development of rieans (300 graduates,
1,100-1,200 agriculturalist, of average ability and some
vehicles).



-50-
Annex 2
In total, the effect on sensitizing and instructing the farmer was posi-
tive, but it posed a significant problem of coordinating actions and syn-
chronizing the facilities and services available.
8.       In the Fifth Plan, steps were taken to resolve the above pro-
blems. Actions within the mass media services were directed to broad scale
sensitizing of farmers to problems, themes, important technologies and to
providing technical support in the form of publications and extension aids
for the individual direct contact extension. Farm level extension was to
be directed towards having a single interlocutor for a group of farmers and
an integrated approach by this direct contact agent to the whole farm. At
the same time, the offices and groups who were individually interested in
one product were expected to retract somewhat and provide specialized
support that would be directed to the farmer through the direct contact
agent. The strategy required that, from within the general mass of
agricultural technicians, a team of extension agents be selected exclu-
sively for direct contact, personalized extension. At the farm level, they
would operate from work centers (CTVs), which would be located in the
farmirng communities. Several CTVs would be managed by a more specialized
agriculturist at the delegation level. The structure would provide, at the
provincial level within the CRDA, specialized agricultural graduates to
program and supervise their activities and provide subject matter support.
An individual work center would provide accommodation and an office space
for the agent, a small meeting room and storage. Locating the work center
in the community allows the farmer easy access to the agent, but the
principle method envisaged was for the agent to visit as many of his
clients as frequently as possible to extend selected themes and identify
farmer's problems. So that within the period of the Fifth Plan a program
to develop the system of direct contact extension using work centers
located within the activity sphere of the individual agent was drawn up and
some aspects were started. Some work centers are being constructed
(para.. 11) and agents have been nominated for them. Mostly they are
located at nearby CRDA offices awaiting completion of buildings. The
program at the farm level is a logical one to deal with the Tunisian situa-
tion. The installation of management at the delegation and provincial
level is lagging behind and this is critical because multi-purpose agents
at the field level cannot operate effectively without being strongly sup-
ported and regularly programmed.
9.       Despite the principle of a single interlocutor, the fragmentation
still exists. As of now, there are several directorates within the direct
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture and a large number of organiza-
tions and offices under aegis of the Ministry of Agriculture involved in
extension. of those directly responsible, the DPV (which is engaged in
farmer contact) and the DERV (which is concerned with mass media extension)
are the two most important. The offices and organizations involved in
extension include commercial offices for livestock, cereals, wine, oil,
development offices such as those to cover the irrigated perimeters, the
northwest and central Tunisian development projects, and special interest
groups for vegetables, citrus and dates.



-51-
Annex 2
C. Problems Which Exist at the Present
10,      The Tunisian authorities are largely i;ware of existing problems
and expect to address them in the course of the Sixth Plan. They come in
four main categories, namely, organization, lilnkage with research, person-
nel and means. Fragmentation results in duplia:ation of effort and contra-
dictory advice. There is confusion between extension, regulatory and
administrative demands put on the agents and taeir supervisors, and the
agent frequently sees himself and is seen by tkie farmer to be an enforce-
ment agent. The movement of extension actions is one way with little or no
feedback. Contacts between research and exten3ion are infrequent, and
research tends to be rather pure and without sufficient consideration of
the limited financial resources of the farmers. Extension staff have
rarely been selected for their communication capabilities, frequently are
less competent technically than some of their -lients and mainly have been
assigned their roles without regard to personal preference. They are
little motivated because of lack of housing and transport, and feeble
support from supervisors who are overburdened with other responsibilities.
D. Bank Involvement Through First Rural Roads Project
11.      The Third Highway Project (Loan 1601-TUN), known as the First
Rural Roads Project, is making an important contribution to agricultural
extension in Tunisia through support for the development of the work center
system. It is financing the construction of work centers and equipping
these as well as equipping some centers which have been set up in existing
or rented buildings. The following program for developing CTVs is underway
as a subcomponent of the First Rural Roads Project.
Under
Construction      Planned       Total
New construction                             23              51           74
Refurbishing of existing buildings           29                           29
Total                                  52              51          103
This contribution to the planned total system of around 500 can be compared
with 81 being established through other sources to this time.  These work
centers developed with funds under the First Rural Roads Project are appro-
priate for the zones of influence of the roads improved in the project.
The Government of Tunisia agreed to assign at least one extension agent to
each work center. All of the agents for the centers located under con-
struction have been assigned. They have been located temporarily at the
CRDA or delegation office to which they are responsible and moved to the
centers as they are complete. Agents have been working in their designated



-52-
Annex 2
zones whether the buildings are complete or not. They have surveyed all of
the farms in their zones to collect base data of farm resources. They have
strongly promoted the use of credit and are beginning to extend themes
outlined for them by the CRDA offices. The means of the agent, particu-
larly transport and equipment for demonstration, are being provided from
the loan.   A further and significant contribution to the agricultural
program is for training the extension agents in techniques of communi-
cation. This is being provided by a consultant who works closely with DPV.
12.      Progress in providing these two main items in the agricultural
subcomponent was slower to begin with than road construction because locat-
ing suitable agents, developing building plans, preparing construction
contracts and purchasing demonstration equipment took longer to arrange.
After the initial delays, progress has been satisfactory and is recorded in
quarterly reports. The major issue rests now not within the activities
financed from the first project but in the national approach to extension.
This is currently under review as part of a sector survey. There still
remains a multiplicity of agencies carrying out extension in Tunisia and
the work center system is not yet responsible for all extension work. The
manner in which the scope of activities of the other organizations would be
retracted to use them in support of the central system is expected to be
defined during the Sixth Plan. The work center concept at present lacks
flexibility to adapt to variable needs of sectors or areas, although this
could be improved. There are sufficient technicians with experience to
develop the management network, and Tunisian proposals indicate their
acceptance of the principles of methodical farm extension. They are in the
process of defining their target groups and refining their production cam-
paign priorities. This is expected to be implemented within the framework
of changes proposed in the Sixth Plan.
E. Agricultural Extension Component in the Project
13.      The component proposed is simply an expansion of that being car-
ried out in the first project, namely, construction, staffing and equipping
a number of additional work centers which fit the national plan. For each
road, a two-stage study has been done. The zones of influence of likely
roads were defined and a preliminary feasibility study carried out to
determine whether the road improvement could be justified. For each road
retained, an execution plan has been prepared (or is in the process of
being prepared). This plan describes development opportunities, crop and
livestock production improvement. Because the proposed roads spread
through 18 provinces, there are a variety of extension priorities according
to agro-ecological zones. Production increases are based on modest yield
improvements using existing knowledge, and do not depend on generation of
new technology even though this is likely to occur during the life of the
project. It makes a proposal for extension work centers which takes
account of existing services. An example is included as Project File
Document B22. In areas managed by a development authority it is proposed



-53-
Annex 2
that any strengthening of extension services would fit the work center
system (para. 8), but with the development authority retaining overall
management in its area. This organizational structure is likely to be
proposed in the concurrent sector study.
14.      Table 1 sets out for the roads proposed in the first-year program
the length, number of farms, and type of agriculture and calculates that 33
additional agents would be needed according to the following ratios, which
have been developed with Tunisian authorities having in mind similar
situations:
Rainfed farming in the North (cereals, livestock)           1:250
Rainfed mixed farming in the North (cereals,
treecrops, livestock)                                     1:200
Rainfed fanming in the South                                1:400
Treecrop farming in the South                               1:400
Rainfed mixed farming in the South                          1:350
Irrigated farming in the North                              1:100
Oasis farming                                               1:100
For the whole project, 100 additional agents would be needed. Table 2
reduces these numbers to estimate that the equivalent of 19 additional work
centers would be needed the first year, 57 for the whole project, taking
into account 1.25 agents per work center and that, on average, 30% of the
number required in the national plan have already been completed. Detailed
annual plans will specify exact locations of centers to be built and the
distribution of project funds between new construction and additions to
existing centers, taking account of existing services and the needs of
individual zones of influence. The cost estimate can be calculated using
the following costs for a work center unit:



-54-
Annex 2
Cost of a Work Center Unit in Dinars
Investment
Cost
Investment Cost
Office, store, meeting
room (85 m2)                        9,555
Lodging (55 m2)                       6,195
Office equipment           )
Audio visual equipment)               525
Demonstration equipment                 1,445
Transport - vehicle                     4,200
- motorcycle                   210
22,130
Recurrent Costs:                 Annual Cost
Personnel Cost
1 extension agent                       3,150
0.25 coordinator & subject
matter specialist                    1,050
0.15 office support                       210
Running Costs
Demonstration equipment                   155
Transport                                 893
Office and Management                     410
Demonstration parcels                     260
Cost tables in Annex 8 summarize the quantities and costs for the overall
program. The total cost for buildings, vehicles and equipment is about
DT 1.5 million (January 1982 prices) with an estimated 36% foreign exchange
component.
15.      It is proposed to continue for two years the training component
that started in the first project, and to provide for start-up seminars,
which proved to be extremely successful. Provision is included for study
trips overseas for extension supervisors. The individual costs of these
three items are as follows:
Man-months                uS$
Training                       27                   230,000
Start up Seminars               6                    50,000
Study trips                    10                   40,000
TOTAL                             320,000



-55-
Annex 2
F. Farmer Participation
16,      Table 1 shows the number of farms for the zone of influence of each
road in the project first-year program expected to be served by the exten-
sion service. The following is the expected rate of participation from the
beginning of the project for those farms estimated to be served by the
extension service.
------------ Years ---------- ---
1     2      3     4      5      6
Irrigation: North and    Annual %            0    3      14    22    22    14
Oases                    Cumulative %    0    3        22    44    66    80
Rainfed and mixed          Annual %          0    5      12    20    16    12
North                    Cumulative %    0    5        17    37    53    65
Rainfed, mixed             Annual %          0    2       6      9    19      9
Treecrop South           Cumulative %    0    2         8    17    36    45
17.      This participation schedule based on Eeasibility studies
(para. 13) presupposes that the extension is inistalled in the year that the
road works commence and begins to influence farmers in the next year. This
will lag if construction of work centers and nomination of agents is
delayed. Furthermore, it presupposes that the major development objectives
of the proposed agricultural program are attractive to farmers. It is
assumed that once a farmer begins to participate full development can be
expected in five years for field crops; ten years for livestock, four years
for existing tree crops, and 11 years for new plantations. Consultants'
feasibility studies (para. 13) on a road-by-road basis were based on an
assessment of the present production situation, scope for improvement by
major enterprises and on modest objectives. These assessments are entirely
feasible and reflect well the agricultural potentials. In the south where
potentials are low, modest gains and participation are expected, and mostly
road justification is based on non-agricultural gains. Potentials and
participation rises correlate with improving a,gricultural situations.
These projections are refined and farm budgets are developed in extension
documents being prepared for each road. Those already complete for the
first year generally confirm the findings of tie feasibility studies. A
review of these is set out in the Project File (Document C.13).
18.      Reference is made in para. 12 to some of the problems of the
extension approach that is presently regarded by the Tunisians as the
national approach, and the fact that it is currently under review. All of
the actions proposed in the agricultural compoaents would be valid whatever
changes might be made to the national plan. The ultimate extension action
will be made through work centers (CTV) locate,l in rural areas, even if the



-56-
Annex 2
management methods change. The density would increase if it changed at
all. The vehicles, equipment and training would still be required. The
annual program to be submitted would be described in the context of the
national plan and not independent of it.
G. Implementation
19.      The design of work centers is standard and a good deal of experi-
ence of having them built by local contract was gained in the first
project. Preparation of the first-year program of construction is substan-
tially complete. Tenders for the first group should be called coincident
with signature of the loan in order that construction can start at the same
time as road construction (Implementation Schedule). Second- and third-
year programs would be part of the annual plans to be prepared during
project implementation (Annex 6).
20.      Demonstration equipment comprising a mini-tractor and matched
implements is required to demonstrate appropriate technology. A set would
be provided for four to five work centers according to their location.
This requires two to three sets for the first-year program, four to five
for the second and two for the third. These should be similar to those
already purchased for reasons of interchange of matched implements, spare
parts, maintenance and operation training. Purchase of these units, along
with project vehicles, should be done annually according to agreed LCB
procedures and bid documents will be forwarded to the Bank for review.
21.      Mobility of extension agents is a critical issue in extension,
particularly in Tunisia. Funds to make the additional agents completely
mobile would be provided. Extension agents should drive their assigned
vehicle which should be continuously accessible without the intermediary of
a chauffeur. This not only meets the requirements of flexibility, but
creates a much better image in respect to the farmer. Funds to meet the
cost of driver training are included in the operating costs.



Annex 2
-57-                                            Table 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Estimates of Number of Extension Agents Required Under Project
First-Year E'rogram
Road       Length          Population        Total No.      Type of           Ratio           No. of
PROVINCE             No.         (kin)           Served           of Farms       Farming                       Agents Needed
SILIANA               204         12.0              1,800             270         rainfed N         250               1.1
205         8.6                380              50         rainfed N          250              0.2
206        25.3              4,580             47Cr        rainfed N          250              1.9
255B         7.0             1,870             15C         rainfed N          250              0.6    3.8
GAFSA                 707          8.2                350             13C         oasis             100               1.3
708         6.5                450             15C         oasis              100              1.5
709          7.0               310              5E         oasis              100              0.6
710         6.8                540             39E         oasis             100               4.0
711        10.3                660             142         rainfed S         400               1.4    8.8
GABES                 808          8.7                540              9C         mixed S           350               0.3
809          5.4               640              95         mixed S            350              0.3    0.6
BIZERTE               901         13.0              1,160             132         rainfed N         250               0.5
902         13.2               600              3C         rainfed N          250              0.1
903          6.0               790             142         rainfed N          250              0.6
906a         9.7               940              34         rainfed N          250              0.1
907         20.0             1,550              95         ranfed N           250              0.4    1.7
MONASTIR              1502        18.1              2,550             448         tree crop S       400               1.1
1503       12.6              1,600             275         tree crop S       400               0.7
1505       21.2              4,930             782         tree crop S       400               2.0
1506b       8.0              3,080             505         tree crop S       400               1.3    5.1
MAHDIA                1602        18.3              2,080             500         tree crop S       400               1.3
1651       25.5             10,110           1,900         tree crop S       400               4.8
1652       10.0              2,090             440         tree crop S       400               1.1    7.2
SFAX                  1701        15.2             4,960              822         tree crop S       400               2.1
1702       11.8              5,590             387         mixed S           350               1.1
1703       12.2              1,750             144         tree crop S       400               0.4
1704       11.7                890             111         tree crop S       400               0.3
1751       11.0              1,610             279         tree crop S       400               0.7    4.6
MEDENINE              1801         8.7                500              80         tree crop S       400               0.2
1802       11.5              1,010             150         tree crop S       400               0.4
1803        9.5              1,000             110         tree crop S       400               0.3
1804       11.8              1,200              35         tree crop S  j   400                0.1
1805       14.0                880             140         tree crop S  1   400                0.4    1.4
Source:  Consultants' and mission estimates
November 1981



-58-
Annex 2
Table 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Extension Centers Needed
First-Year Program
Additional             Additional
Agents Needed          CTV's Required
SILIANA                              3.8                  2.1
GAFSA                                8.8                  4.9
GABES                                0.6                  0.3
BIZERTE                              1.7                  1.0
MONASTIR                             5.1                  2.9
MAHDIA                               7.2                  4.0
SFAX                                4.6                   2.6
MEDENINE                             1.4   33.2           0.8   18.6
Source: Mission estimates
November 1981



-59-
Annex 3
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROA)S) PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
A. Description of the Agricultural Credit System
1.       Agricultural credit is provided primarily by the majority Govern-
ment-owned National Bank of Tunisia ("Banque Nationale de Tunisie," BNT).
BNT also provides loans to other sectors. Financing for agricultural
credit is provided from BNT's own resources, rediscount facilities of the
Central Bank (Banque Centrale de Tunisie), World Bank loans, Government
grants, and bilateral sources. Each source of funds is managed separately
by BNT. BNT provided about 27,000 short-ternL loans to farmers in 1980.
There are about 350,000 farms in Tunisia. Local mutual guarantee associ-
ations ("Societes de Caution Mutuelle," SCM) guaranteed about 17,800 short-
term loans in 1980 received by their members from BNT. This was an
increase over 9,060 loans guaranteed in 1979. Some short-term credit is
provided by private banks, the Regional Development Boards (Offices de mise
en valeur) and the Cereal Board (Office des (drdales). Medium- and long-
term credit is provided by BNT largely from special funds financed entirely
by the Government. These include the Special Fund for Agricultural
Development (FOSDA) and the Special Fund for the Encouragement of Fishery
Investments (FOSEP). BNT also lends for medium- and long-term credit from
its own funds and from funds borrowed from the World Bank. BNT provides
from 7,500 to 11,000 medium- and long-term lcans per annum from these
resources.
2.       BNT has 61 branch offices of which 53 are in rural areas, and
about 1,200 staff, of which 49% work in the branches. BNT provides banking
services to all sectors. BNT's agricultural lending procedures vary
according to the sources of BNT financing, and for different groups of
beneficiaries. For BNT's own funds and funds it borrows from the Bank
Group, BNT's creditworthiness study of the prospective borrower is the
deciding factor. Less creditworthy clients are financed by the Govern-
ment-financed fund (FOSDA). For the few medium and small farmers receiving
medium-term loans, appraisal of loan applications is undertaken by exten-
sion agents, not by BNT. Decision on subloan approval is taken for FOSDA
subloans by the Regional Credit Committees under the CRDA, each of which
has one BNT representative. In practice, on-farm appraisals are not made
for FOSDA subloans, no pre-conditions are attached (except solvency) and
there is virtually no supervision as to use of the funds. The faster



-60-
Annex 3
appraisal process for FOSDA credit is one factor which has caused farmer
preference for such credit, and a corresponding slowdown of disbursements
of credit financed from BNT and Bank funds.
3.       For short-term credit which is for seasonal inputs, the subloan
size is determined by recently increased lending norms as follows:
STANDARD LOAN
CROP                                    DT/ha
RAINFED            IRRIGATED
FIELD CROPS
Hard wheat
Soft wheat                           )-
H.R. hard wheat                         )-
Barley                                  ))53.5 to 80
Forage                                                        58
Legumes
Sugar beet                         )
TREE CROPS
Olives (N)                                 40                 __
Olives (C,S)                         0.95 DT each             __
Olives (Sfax)                        1.20 DT each             __
Almonds                                    58                 __
Apricots                                   __                162
Pistachios                                 54                101
Table grapes                              108                117
Grape trellis                              __                128
Rainfed wine grapes                       100                 __
Citrus                                     __                292
Date palms                                 __                283
Fruit trees                                69                182
VEGETABLES
Tomatoes                                  __                 317
Potatoes                                   __                322
Peppers                                    __                344
Artichokes (first year)                    __                315
Artichokes (second year)                   __                162
Melons                                    108                216
Miscellaneous vegetables                   __                202
LIVESTOCK FATTENING
Purchase                                 45 DT per head
Feed, natural                             36 DT per head
Feed, concentrate                         72 DT per head



-61-
Annex 3
Interest rates for loans from BNT are 6%. OC and OMV make some loans at
3%, as follows:
Type of             Farm             Type of          Interest      Lender
Production             Size             Loan              Rate
Field crops        Very small         Kind                 3          oC
(Cereals and       Small & Medium   Cash or kind           6          BNT/SCM
grain legumes)   Large               Cash                 6/3        BNT/OC
Forage             Small & Medium   Cash or Kind           6          BNT/SCM
Large             Cash                 6          BNT
Vegetables         Very small         Kind                 3          OMV
Small & Medium   Cash                  6          BNT/SCM
Large             Cash                 6          BNT
Fruit              Small & Medium   Cash                   6          BNT/SCM
Large             Cash                 6          BNT
BNT branch managers have the authority to grant short term credit to indivi-
duals up to 120% of the preceding years' amount if the client has no over-
dues. For subloans to SCM members, approval decisions are taken by the
Regional Credit Committee (para. 2). SCM eligibility requirements are
specified in terms of land areas, as follows:
Minimum       Maximum
Area          r_ea
Cereals          North                       10             100
Center/South               20             100
Citrus                                        1               4
Vines                                         2              10
Vegetables                                    1               5
Forage                                        1              10
olives                                      250 trees    1,000 trees
This virtually sets the lower limit on access to short-term credit except
occasionally in irrigated perimeters where irrigation authorities provide
credit, and under FIDA and USAID projects.



-62-
Annex 3
4.       BNT is a profitable bank, with a profit margin equal to .7% of
total average resources after tax. For agricultural lending, costs of
personnel, resources, operations, taxes and provisions equal 2.3% of finan-
cial resources available for agricultural lending. This compares to an
interest and commission income equal to 2 to 3% of total average resources
employed in agricultural lending. The effective interest rate is 6% on all
BNT short-term agricultural credit, and on medium- and long-term credit is
repayable over 3 to 25 years with up to 15 years of grace depending on the
type of investment. Small and medium farmers receive an average 20% subsidy
for all investments except farm mechanization. The loan agreement with the
Bank for the Tunisia Third Agricultural Credit Project requires that for
commercial farmers the interest rate on medium- and long-term loans be 7%
and no subsidies be provided. However, some farmers are obtaining FOSDA
loans (6% interest and 15% subsidies) for investments other than
mechanization.
5.       Several issues affect the Rural Roads Program.  BNT as a commercial
bank expects to grant medium- and long-term loans on the basis of its own
criteria of creditworthiness. Land titles or certificates of possession are
required for long-term credit since regulations require a land mortgage as a
guarantee. This in itself restricts greatly the number of farmers who can
apply for loans for such things as fruit plantations and stables, all of
which are recommended in production improvement programs. Farmers are gene-
rally more able to meet the loan guarantees for medium-term loans. The
creditworthiness study (para. 2) is supplemented by an appraisal of the
subloan application to look at the likely profitability and BNT rejects
around 30% on this basis; general lack of agricultural credit staff particu-
larly in the regions has restricted the capacity to process applications and
considerable delays have resulted. This situation is slowly being improved
and is a requirement in the Third Agricultural Credit Loan. For some
categories there are different conditions for loans from FOSDA and other
funds. This especially affected the first project because farmers in the
zones of influence were expected to take medium- and long-term loans from
the Second and Third Agricultural Credit Loans.
B. Credit Performance in the First Rural Roads Project
6.       The appraisal report for the Rural Roads Project (1601-TUN) recog-
nized that there were insufficient lending resources channelled to agricul-
ture and that there were a "multiplicity of credit terms and conditions, low
interest rates, ill-defined credit eligibility criteria and limited access
to credit because of a lack of valid land titles .......... and for short-
term credit, a multiplicity of credit institutions with their inertia and
overly prudent attitude towards low income farmers". It was estimated that
the reinforced extension program would result in additional investment
credit requirements of US$6.8 million. About 50% of the foreign cost was
expected to be used during 1979-80 and from the Second Agricultural Credit
Project. Incremental short-term credit needs were estimated at
US$5.5 million with a 28% foreign exchange component.



-63-
Annex 3
7.       Until December 1981, the following subloans were made in the first
four provinces,namely, Kef, Siliana, Nabeul and Kairouan:
- Medium- and long-term: 561 ijans effected for a value of
DT 730,847 all in 1981. Out of 903 requests, 561 were
accorded and 229 rejected. rhe balance have yet to be
effected. For the eligible farmers in the zones, this
represents at least a two-fold increase.
- Short-term loans have been reported for 1980 only at this
point. There were 1,181 loans totalling DT 422,000 for
field crops and 376 loans totalling DT 130,000 for vege-
tables. It had been estimated that less than 5% of farmers
were borrowing for seasonal inputs so that the 1980 partici-
pation amounts to a three-foLd increase.
The slow early start could be attributed in part to the delay in putting the
extension activities in place. Although time was necessary to organize the
programs in the zones of influence, to get farmers sensitized to the
development possibilities and make loan requests, this is not the complete
reason. Some of the difficulty lay in the inadequacy of the lending insti-
tution for smalland medium-farm development and the more favorable condi-
tions for FOSDA credit (para. 5). Further difficulty in attaining the
objectives lay in their lack of realism. The on-farm development package
often comprised a shopping list of all the development possibilities rather
than a more selective list of priority programs.
C. Credit Component in the Proposed Project
8.       The proposed agricultural development that will be stimulated by
the road improvement and agricultural extensILon programs will need short-
term credit for seasonal inputs and credit for medium and sometimes long-
term investment. Farmers are assumed to part:icipate in the project at the
rates shown in Annex 2, para. 16. Table 1 shows estimated incremental
seasonal input costs based on the following premises:
- the consultants' feasibility studies (Project File Document
Nos. Bl-B18) estimated total cropping area, input use and
hence production costs before the project and at full
production.  The difference is assumed to be the maximum
incremental need;
-  this maximum is reduced to the extent of the maximum area
likely to be touched by the project which has been calcu-
lated to exclude farms too stlall for the owners to be
eligible for credit; and



-64-
Annex 3
- it is assumed that once a farmer begins to participate, he
will increase input use on the average each year in the
following manner: 20, 60, 80, 90, 100%.
On this basis, an additional DT 1.18 million (January 1982 prices) will be
required for short-term credit over a total of five years which is in line
with the consultants' estimates (Project File Document No. B20). The
foreign exchange is estimated to be 50%.
9.       Medium- and long-term credit will be required to finance on-farm
investments under the project. The total possibilities were estimated for
each zone of influence by the consultants' feasibility studies. Account has
been taken of the percentage of eligible farmers and the estimated partici-
pation rate in arriving at the estimates set out in the cost tables. The
year by year estimates are as follows:
Incremental Medium- and Long-Term Investment Costs
(DT'000 January 1982 prices)
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3    Year 4    Year 5   Year 6   Total
-        67        233        638      1,099    1,378    3,415
Tablk 2 shows the breakdown by province and group of roads. These additional
demands, which are expected to be refined during the preparation of detailed
annual programs, are well within the scope of BNT.
10.      Credit financing will not be included under the loan.  It would be
administered by BNT, but financing would not be restricted to any particular
credit source or program. An assurance would be sought from the Government
and BNT that adequate credit would be made available for the project in
accordance with the estimated needs.



-65-
Annex 3
Table 1
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Estimated Incremental Seasonal Input Costs
(DT '000)
------------------Year-----------------------
Province                1        2       3        4       5        6      Total
First Group
Siliana                     -       4.2    18.3    40.6    52.3    59.6       175.0
Gafsa                       -       1.6     6.1    11.9    17.3    20.2        57.1
Gabes                       -        .7     3.0      5.8     8.4      9.2      27.1
Bizerte                     -       2.2     9.7    21.6    30.9    32.1        96.5
Monastir                    -        .6      3.0     6.7    12.9    17.8       41.0
Mahdia                      -       2.9    14.4    33.2    63.5    73.5       187.5
Sfax                        -       1.6     7.8    17.8    34.2    46.6       108.0
Medenine                    -        .5     2.5      5.6    10.7    14.5       33.8
Second Group
Tunis                       -       -         .7     2.9     6.5      9.5      19.6
Sousse                      -       -       1.3      6.4    14.8    28.2       50.7
Nabeul                      -       -       5.6    21.1    40.9    59.4       127.0
Kef                         -       -        .8      3.7     8.2    11.9       24.6
Kasserine                   -       -         .5     2.3     5.1      9.8      17.7
Kairouan                    -       -         .2     1.0     2.3      4.4        7.9
Sidi Bouzid                 -       -       1.1      5.6    12.8    24.5       44.0
Third Group
Bizerte                     -       -       -         .8     3.6      7.8      12.2
Beja                        -       -       -        4.5    19.9    44.1       68.5
Zaghouan                    -       -       -        1.7     7.5    16.6       25.8
Jendouba                    -       -       -        3.3    14.8    33.1       51.2
Total                       -      14.3    75.C   196.5   366.6   522.8   1,175.2
Source: Mission estimates
November 1981



-66-
Annex 3
Table 2
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Agricultural Credit
Estimated Incremental Medium- and Long-Term Investment Costs
(DT '000)
-----------------Year-----------------------
Province                1        2       3        4        5       6       Total
First Group
Siliana                     -       -      42.2    89.0    90.8   101.9        323.9
Gafsa                       -      13.0    16.8    52.8    36.5    63.3        182.4
Gabes                        -      -       13.3     1.3    14.9      4.0       33.5
Bizerte                     -      13.0    28.0    49.5    73.8    60.7        225.0
Monastir                     -      -       16.8    29.6    24.3    65.4       136.1
Mahdia                       -     13.0    52.2    36.2    65.1    81.9        248.4
Sfax                        -      14.6    37.7    70.5    66.7    89.6        279.1
Medenine                     -     13.0    13.5    15.2    16.3    20.0         78.0
Second Group
Tunis                       -       -        -      28.1    48.7    73.7       150.5
Sousse                      -       -       13.0    63.3    95.0   132.8       304.1
Nabeul                      -       -        -      46.8   108.7   108.8       264.3
Kef                          -      -        -      18.0    42.1    37.0        97.1
Kasserine                    -      -        -      37.7    45.2    19.6       102.5
Kairouan                     -      -        -      60.6    69.8    83.7       214.1
Sidi Bouzid                 -       -        -      39.8    93.6   114.8       248.2
Third Group
Bizerte                      -      -        -       -       58.9    97.4      156.3
Beja                         -      -        -       -       63.7   103.4      167.1
Zaghouan                     -      -        -       -       30.3    59.8       90.1
Jendouba                    -       -        -       -       54.4    60.6      115.0
Total 1/                    -      66.6   233.5   638.4 1,098.8 1,378.4   3,415.7
1/ Minor differences in totals shown in Table 3.1 Project Costs and Table 2a,
Annex 8 are due to rounding.
Source: Mission estimates
November 1981



-67-
Annex 4
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Road Design Standards
1.       Most of the rural roads will be improved following the existing
alignment. The longitudinal profile may be modified to raise the road above
flood level, but not generally just to achieve minimum design standards.
Standards for horizontal alignment and longitudinal profile will not therefore
be imposed in the loan agreement. In the rare cases where a higher standard
may be required on a new alignment satisfactory comprehensive standards have
been established by the DPC ('Manuel du Projeteur', EMENA Information Center,
Document No. 250.089).
2.       Cross section and pavement structure standards are shown below.
Level of Service!!
Item                N2                N3                  N4
Traffic Volume ADT         0-50               5C-100            > 100
Platform Width             5 m                6 m               9 m (with 6 m of
high quality
gravel)
Pavement Structure2/       150-200 mm         2C0-250 mm        300 mm
1/ See Directives Techniques en Matiere d'Aminagement des Routes
Rurales, Manuel du Projeteur, DPC, February 1980.
2/ Depends on subgrade soil.
Drainage would be provided by lateral ditches, pipe and box culverts, and
paved fords.



-68-
Annex 5
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Details of Economic Evaluation Methodology:
Sub-project Review
A. General
1.       This annex describes the general methodology used in evaluating
roads proposed under the rural roads program and for submitting sub-projects
for Bank review. It also describes the application of the methodology to a
sample road and summarizes key information for all roads in the first year
program.
2.       Under studies financed as part of the First Rural Roads Project,
some 2,500 km of roads were subject to a detailed economic evaluation. Some
of these roads have been included under the first project in accordance with
the sector or program approach adopted for that project. A similar approach
has been retained for the proposed follow-up project. In this way, the pro-
ject was appraised on the basis of a firm first-year program of about 400 km
of roads, as well as tentative programs of similar magnitude for the second
and third years. The latter may be subject to modification depending on
changes in needs and priorities as the program is implemented. Revised
annual programs for rural road improvement will be presented to the Bank for
prior review, with each sub-project prepared according to the procedures and
criteria outlined in this annex. The annual road programs will be fully
integrated within a detailed action plan for the timely and coordinated
implementation of road and agricultural investments (Annex 6).
B. Project Identification and Selection
3.       An initial long list of roads for possible inclusion under the
rural roads program is drawn up for each province by a regional committee
including the governor, the DPC district engineer and the CRDA. This
.initial long list is then subject to a screening procedure by the Project
Coordinating Committee which takes into account road condition and popula-
tion served, as well as existing and potential agricultural production in
the zone of influence of each road. The most promising roads are selected
for further analysis with due respect to regional balance in the distri-
bution of funds. Although allocations between provinces are not established
according to any rigid criteria, consideration is given to road and popula-
tion densities in establishing initial quotas for further analysis. One of



-69-
Annex 5
the main objectives of the socio-economic impact study being undertaken
under the first project and for which a seconc. phase is included under the
proposed project is to refine the identification and screening procedures
and to establish them on a more systematic ba;iis.
C. Economic Evaluation
4.       The economic evaluation of the rural road sub-projects is based on
an assessment of their likely developmental itipact on agricultural produc-
tion as well as on estimated benefits arising from a reduction in transport
costs for existing and projected traffic. Quantifiable benefits of road
improvement include (i) the forecast increase in the net value of crop
production including better ex-farm prices for crops; (ii) increased
revenues accruing to transporters and middlemen handling agricultural
produce; and (iii) the reduction in the cost of transport of passengers and
non-agricultural traffic.
5.       The difficulties associated with this3 type of evaluation are well
recognized, mainly because of the limited empirical information available on
the likely response of the target population. However, by grouping roads
according to existing access conditions and be considering the absorptive
capacity of various farm types for improved technology, a workable concep-
tual framework has been established for the economic evaluation and the
estimates made are believed to be realistic aad attainable. Moreover, with
the help of technical assistance under the first project for the socio-
economic impact study, a system of data colle,:tion is being established to
permit continuous monitoring and evaluation, thus leading to an improvement
in the evaluation procedures and basic assumptions used.  The following
constitutes a brief description of the parame:ers used in the economic
evaluation.  A detailed description of the methodology is to be found in the
consultants' report in the Project File (Document Nos. B4 and B19).
Estimates of Population, Agricultural Production and Market Surplus
6.       Estimates of population served as well as cultivated areas by crop
have been made for each road. Population data are derived from the village
lists published in the 1975 population census used in conjunction with
large-scale topographical maps. Estimates of crop areas for each road were
derived from an analysis of aerial photographs. Because of the different
sources of information, a check was made on the consistency of the popula-
tion and crop area data for each road. Existing and forecast agricultural
production was estimated for each road based on typical farm characteristics
in the zone of influence, the observed range of crop yields for the province
concerned, and existing road access condition. Incremental agricultural
production is assumed to be achieved over a period of from five to ten
years, after which growth follows a regular progression in line with overall
national objectives. The incremental marketable agricultural surplus was
estimated by deducting estimated rural consumption based on regional
consumption patterns.



-70-
Annex 5
7.       Prices used in the economic evaluation for agricultural outputs and
inputs reflect current world market prices adjusted for transport and handl-
ing costs within Tunisia. Local market prices have been used for commodi-
ties which are not tradeable overseas. Net value added estimates were
obtained by deducting the value of incremental inputs, including fertilizer,
pesticides, labor and equipment services, from the gross value of incre-
mental agricultural production. Assumptions are made about the distribution
of transport cost savings among transporters and producers in the light of
marketing and road transport conditions in the areas served. Transport cost
savings for producers are perceived in the form of better ex-farm prices and
the lower cost of delivered inputs. Net value added of incremental output,
including better ex-farm prices, constitutes induced agricultural production
benefits.
Transport Cost Savings
8.       Estimates of existing average daily traffic were based on a two-day
manual traffic count for each road. The results of these counts were then
used to estimate passenger and non-agricultural commodity flows using
vehicle load distribution data derived from comprehensive traffic surveys
made for the First Rural Roads Project. Agricultural commodity flows, both
outputs and inputs, are estimated directly based on agricultural production
data. The combined passenger and commodity flows are then converted into
vehicle traffic estimates using the load distribution data obtained during
the preparation of the first project. Following road improvement, it is
assumed there is a gradual shift in traffic composition towards more econo-
mical vehicle types, this benefit supplementing the normal unit vehicle
operating cost reductions. Traffic forecasts have been established based on
the forecast passenger and commodity flows with and without the project.
Passenger and non-agricultural commodity traffic is projected in line with
expected increases in population and income in the areas served. Generated
passenger and non-agricultural traffic has not been considered in the
analysis.
9.       Vehicle operating costs have been developed for five different
vehicle types for improved and existing categories of rural roads are shown
in Table 1. Using the vehicle operating cost figures and the traffic pro-
jections, estimates are made of: (i) the total transport cost savings for
passenger and non-agricultural traffic; and (ii) the increased revenue for
agricultural traffic.
Economic Costs
10.      Capital costs include the cost of road construction, right-of-way,
detailed engineering and supervision, and are expressed net-of-tax. No
maintenance costs are assumed in the without project scenario. Maintenance
costs for the with project scenario include both routine maintenance and an
annual provision for periodic maintenance. The cost of complementary agri-
cultural investments includes capital costs for agricultural extension



-71-
Annex 5
buildings and equipment with due allowance for taxes as well as incremental
operating costs. Other agricultural costs include all on-farm investments
with the exception of the incremental cost of equipment services, which is
included in incremental farm inputs.
Results
11.      The economic analysis has been conducted over a 20-year period.
The ERs for individual roads included in the provisional three-year program
range from 10% to about 50%. The overall ER on the first year program is
estimated at 21%. Even a 25% increase in total project costs combined with
a 25% decrease in overall benefits provides an ER of 15% for first-year
roads. Table 2 provides information relevant to the economic evaluation of
individual roads, including length, population served, traffic, construction
costs, and breakdown of benefits. Table 3 shows the basic inputs and
assumptions used in the economic evaluation of a selected project road.



-72-
Annex 5
Table I
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Vehicle Operating Costs
(millimes/veh. Km - net-of-tax)
Passenger Car        Pickup       Truck      Minibus    Tractor
Improved Gravel
Flat              68.3               65.7         131.9      185.7        99.2
Rolling           68.5               65.9         133.6      186.5      100.6
Mountainous       69.0               66.1         132.6      180.3       102.4
Partially Improved Gravel
Flat              87.3               94.1         213.0      263.9       154.8
Rolling           87.5               94.4         214.8      264.7       156.
Mountainous       87.7               94.8         216.4      265.6       158.0
Unimproved Earth
Flat              99.3               110.1        262.1      324.7       182.9
Rolling           99.5               110.4        263.8      325.6       184.2
Mountainous       99.7               110.8        265.5      326.4       186.1
Source: DPC
June 1981



flmSIA
grAFF APRASAL 88EPOT OF A
FiMd HIG6a 5 (MAUL i%3) PMi;T
8uy of Etmaic   aLsatis'
First-Year Progrm
POs kebr/Ne-                       igth  Eistatg   Po'pulati"   P98/kA  Cultivated   Cultivated Aeea/  Seprovent              C-tro.tion  Constructio    Agricultur6l 3/  Total Cost/          icourted DesOefirs 4/
(hn)   Traffic      Served                 Area       I,hsabitat (ha)      Level 2/          Costa        Cost/tl6    levet-nt Costs       Inhab               (1Va 3 dT)              ER
(Vpd)                             (he)                                            _(10861 or)      (o~_r)       (-T106) _TS)   ()               1ValsE A&dded        L.t
siliaael
204 MC47- coie d'Agric.           13.0       103       1,800        138      3,640          2.0                 1                350         26,900           204              308               509          133         13
205 tC 171-GP4                     8.6        77         380         44      1,050          2.8                 2                151         17,600            56              552               191          113         18
206 ROE 623-Siliana               25.3        %        4,580        181      9,080          2.0                 1                569         22,500           178              163               440          740         16
2551  SWdi Bo. Roi,-4GP5           7.0        72       1,870        271      2,840          1.5                 1                160         22,900            89              133               339           48         18
Oafso-
707 ler                            8.2       112         350         43        630          1.8                2                 146         17,80             42              537               667          160         46
708 Ancienmn G3                    6.5        69         480         75        630          1.3                2                 103         15,800D           30              277               436           72         38
709 Circuit GaSsa                  7.0        88         310         44        660          2.1                2                 100         14,32-            26              406               267          138         35
710 Circuit To.e,.r                6.8       330         540         79        690          1.3                2                128          18,800            43              317               550          106         36
711 Se6d-MsIjo.ur                 10.3       108         660         64      3,150          4.8                2                 193         13,900           137              424               128          200         13
W08 Maetbr-OSdria-Zarat            8.7       108         540         62      1, 760         3.3                 1                245         28,200           102              643               621          126         23
809  Mettane-Zri Bnarr6niA         5.4       110         640        119      1,070          1.7                 2                 71         13,100            94              147               484           96         41
Bserte:
901 BS uI lai                    13.0        31       1,160         89      2,002          1.7                 2                246         18,900           455              604             1,083          107         21
902  Sidi Ahedlb-sot              13.2        30         600         45      1,800          3.1                 2                298         22,600           190              813               784           77         21
Yo3 Eruob                          6.0        39         790        132      1,035          1.3                2                 133         22,200           117              316               289           52         17
9306  Kef Grab                     9.7        65         940         97      2,457          2.6                 1                348         35,900           285              673             1,469          210         29
937 Kef M     r                   20.1        50       1,550         77      3,017          2.0                 1                750         37,300           163              569             1,062          302          17
iaetir:
1502  Bebla-To.ea-Sidi 6sija      18.1        73       2.550        146      2,015          0.8                2                 270         14,9C0           120              153               159          265          13
15073 M66seni Ps6e                12.6       174       1,600        127      1,431          0.9                2                 195         15,5C0            80              172               100          291         13
1505 Bso Otinz.el1 Kamel          21.2       135       4,930        233      4,926          1.0                 1                728         34,300           270              202               425          673          12
1506B Bsu Ot-ZnaoZiet 4ostech   8.0           69       3,080        385      2,676          0.9                 2                128         16,030           164               95               200           80          10
Maleia;
1602 Boerdes-E1 Joe               18.3        96       2,060        114      5,093          2.5                 1                769         42,010           208              470               482          538          12
1001 cu-si--r                     25.5       123      10.110        397     17.741          1.8                2                408          16,000           744               74             2,163          682          37
1652 Soussi-Sidi Bouhlel          10.0        84       2,0930       209      3,833          1.8                 2                171         17,100            97              U,                o52
1701 Djebeoinia-Ages              15.2       113       4,960        326      7,520          1.5                2                 199         13,100           180               76              734           284          29
1702 El Asra-Bazeg                11.8       156       5,590        474      3,590          0.6                 1                354         30,000           233              105             1,021          278         25
1703 Te,ido,-B-ojarbo.a           12.2        79       1,750        143      7,010          4.0                 1                339         27,800            87              243               605          111          17
1704 Sidi Abdelkefi               11.7        66         810         69      2,690          3.3                 2                223         19,100           133              440               403          130          18
1751 Oled Ared-Chgraee            11.0        77       1,610        146      4,740          2.9                 2                190         17,300           237              265               529          118          17
Medmioe.
1801 Dughl6rGribia                 8.7       170         560         64        990          1.8                 2                125         14,400             5              232                49          259          27
1802 M_e8a-Sidi liaskh            11.5       166       1,010         88      1,570          1.6                 2                144         12,500            10              153                73           178         10
1803 Gribios-Baj Jeebi             9.5       162       1000         105      1,600          1.8                 2                133         14,000             7              140                83           151         12
104 ir.-El  etar                 11.8        76       1,200         33      3,160          2.5                 2                216         18,300             3              183               151          124          11
1805 Ila-El OGbbigla              14.0       i5f         830         63      33.7                               2                198         14,100            40              272                149          178         15
399.9      103      63  19        156    109,555          1,7                                8,781          21.960         4,427              210           717              272         21
1/ Costs asS be-efits are si 1978 prices.
V   See A.   4 for full deacriptio. of eed iprvfft leve: Lvel 1 - 84; Level 2 - 53
3/ A4riatsral i-uealeeats ovar first five years of project (ea-ludis swsinsee7c   asosal i,9ots)
4/ Breefita dieostd at 122
5/ lited aerage traffic volhe
So-.e: DPC
October 1981



-74-
Annex 5
Table 3
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Simplified Example of Evaluation Methodology
Sub--project No. 309 1!
Sidi Kalboussi    7.0 km
Condition
Unimproved earth road
Population Served
3,100
Number of Farms Served
440
Zone of Influence
1,330 ha
Cultivated Area
1,150 ha
Existing Traffic 2/
Passenger Car        Pickup       Truck      Minibus   Tractor   Total
52                75           13          4          36      180
1/ Road tentatively included in Second-Year Program (Nabeul province).
2/Velhicle operating costs shown in Table 1.
Source: Consultants' report No. B5
October 1981



-75-
Annex 5
Table 3
Agricultural Production Data
Existing Pattern (1980) 'I         Improved Long-Term Pattern (2002)
Crop Type             Area    Yield       Productl on     Area          Yield       Production
(ha)   (Ql/ha)         (tonT         (ha)       )(Ql/ha)         (ton)
Rainfed:
Cereals            140       12            168          60             18           108
Root Crops           30        8            24          15              8            12
Fodder               90       33           297          50             33           165
Tree Crops:
Olives              190       25           475          190            30           570
Vines                10       65            65           10            95            95
Irrigated:
Vegetables          230       208        4,784          380            270       10,260
Citrus             420       100        4,200           420            260       10,920
1/ Production increasing at about 3 percent per year in without project scenario.
Local Consumption                   Kg/inhab/year
Cereals                               204
Root crops                              13
Vegetables                              88
Grapes                                   3
Other fruit                             62
Agricultural Prices (net-of-tax)
Outputs                    DT/ton
Cereals                       69.0
Root crops                  100.0
Vegetables                    69.0
Olives                        78.0
Grapes                        76.0
Citrus                        70.0



-76-
Annex 5
Table 3
Input Unit Costs (net-of-tax)
Seeds (DT/Ql)                      Fertilizer (DT/Ql)
Cereals - ordinary                 6.8                      Ammonia 33                  11.7
- selected               9.3
Root crops                         9.0                      Superphosphate 45             4.3
Fodder                             9.7                      Potassium Sulphate          10.6
olives
Vines                               -                       Herbicides  (DT/liter)    2.5
Vegetables                         2.5 (DT/1000 plants)Machinery (DT/hour)
CitruLs                             -                       Tractors                      2.2
Combines                      5.5
Input Usage per ha                                           Fertilizer (Ql)
Seed (Q1)       Amrrnia 33         SuLerphosphate 45       Potassium Salphate
Exist.  Impnoved Exist.   mproved  Existing 2gMroved         Existing   Inproved
Cereals       0.9       1.0      1.0     2.5        0.5        1.0          -          1.0
RDot Crops    1.0       1.1      -        1.0       1.0        2.0          -          -
Fodder        1.0       1.0      0.5      2.0       0.5        1.0          -          -
Olives        -         -        1.0   2.0    -                1.0          -          -
Vines         -         -        1.5      2.0       1.0        1.5          1.5        2.0
Vegetables    12-1      151/    2.0       4.0       2.0        3.0          1.0        3.0
Citrus       -         -        3.0       7.0      2.0        4.0           2.0       4.0
Herbicides                            Machinery   (hours)
(liters)                     Tractors               nombines
Existing   bproved            Existing   Iqpoved   Existing   Improved
Cereals    3.0         6.0                7.0       10.0        1.0        1.5
Root Crps -             -                  4.0    6.0    -                 -
Fodder   -             -                   7.0    10.0    -                -
Olives   -              -                  8.0   10.0    -                 -
Vines    -              -                  9.0   11.0    -                 -
Vegetables  -           -                 4.0         7.0       -          -
Citrus    -            -                  5.0    15.0    -                -
tT Per 1000 plants



-77-
Annex 5
Table 3
Agricultural Investments
(a) Extension 1/
Strengthen existing extension center at Menzel Bou Zelfa at cost of
DT 7.6/farm/year of which 53% is for investment costs and 47% for
incremental operating costs.
(b) Irrigation Perimeters l/
Construction of 150 ha at DT 1,700/ha (DT 255,000). Rehabilitation
of 65 ha at a cost of DT 40/ha/year (Di 52,000 over 20 years).
(c) Regeneration of Olive Groves
40 ha at total cost of DT 4,000 over first seven years of project.
(d) Citrus Plantations
85 ha at total cost of DT 85,000 over first seven years of project.
Road Construction Costs
Improvement level 2: DT 104,000 inc. taxes
DT 83,000 net-of-tax.
Road Maintenance Costs
Routine maintenance; DT 347/km/year inc. taxes
DT 278/km/year net-of-tax
Periodic maintenance:
Regravelling every eight years: DT 3,384/km inc. taxes
DT 2,707/km net-of-tax'
1/ For details of distribution of investmenl:s and renewal costs over
project life, see Volume B3 of consultant's report.



-78-
Annex 5
Table 3
Road 309: Cost-Benefit Stream ('000 DT)
Year   Construction   Maintenance   Agric.   Transport   Value           Net
Costs           Costs       Invest.    Savings   Added   Benefits
1.      83               --           --          --        ---       -82
2                        4            69          12          1       -60
3                        4            61          13         45       - 7
4                        4            63          15         95        43
'i                       4            64          16        146        94
(i                       4            63          18        198       149
7                        4            16          19        207       206
8                        4             6          20        216       226
9                        4             4          21        224       237
10                        4             4          21        232       245
11                        4             4          23        241       256
12                        4            22          24        250       248
13                        4            13          25        258       266
14                        4            13          26        267       276
15                        4            13          28        276       287
16                        4            13          29        284       296
17                        4            12          31        292       307
18                        4             4          32        301       325
19                        4             4          34        310       336
20                        4             4          35        318       345
21                        4             4          37        326       355
ER = 45%



-79-
Annex 6
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Guidelines for On-going Preparation,
Implementation and Monitoring
A. General
1.       This annex provides a general framework for technical assistance in
on-going project preparation, implementation and monitoring. The main objec-
tive of such a framework is to reinforce the execution capabilities of the
Government, particularly for the agricultural components of the project. A
contract has already been let by the Government for additional preparation and
implementation of the first-year program for complementary investments, with
terms of reference based on the present guidelines. The Highway Department
(DPC) also intends to provide for intermittent construction supervision effort
by consultants preparing the detailed engineering for rural roads. Such a
provision would be included as part of the design contracts and would ensure
consistent application of the construction standards.
B. Preparation of Annual Programs
2.       Through the Project Coordinating Committee, the Government will be
responsible for the preparation and updatirLg of annual programs during project
implementation. This will include the preparation and updating of road feasi-
bility studies, according to the agreed methodology described in Annex 5, as
well as the preparation of integrated action plans, and design studies for
road construction and other infrastructure works. The assistance of consul-
tants in on-going preparation will be provided as needed within the framework
of this general approach.
C. Agricultural Surveys
3.       As part of the preparation of detailed annual programs, systematic
agricultural surveys will be made of all farmers served by the project roads.
These surveys will be undertaken by extensLon agents with a view to (i) iden-
tifying all farms affected by the project; and (ii) describing key farm para-
meters which affect absorptive capacity for new techniques and the ability to
qualify for agricultural credit. The resuLts of the surveys will provide
baseline data for the preparation of detaiLed action plans, extension guide-
lines and revised credit needs on a road-by-road basis as well as a framework
for project monitoring and evaluation purposes.



-80-
Annex 6
D. Agricultural Action Plans
Project Seminars
4.       Seminars will be held in each of the provinces covered by the rural
roads program.  These seminars are aimed at:
(i)    providing local officials and extension personnel with the
overall concepts and objectives of the project;
(ii)   presenting road-by-road action plans including extension
investment proposals, basic production objectives and exten-
sion guidelines;
(iii)  briefing extension personnel on the procedures and objectives
of the initial farmer surveys required for the preparation of
action plans and for implementing the credit component of the
project; and
(iv)   familiarizing extension personnel with project monitoring
procedures.
Extension Program and Guidelines
5.       In drawing up detailed plans for strengthening agricultural extension
services, due account will be taken of existing facilities as well as the need
to integrate the proposals within the broader national program for agricultu-
ral extension. Programs for the construction of extension centers and provi-
sion of supporting equipment will be established for groups of roads, usually
at the provincial level.
6.       The Government will analyze data from the field surveys with a view
to selecting farm models which are representative of the various land use
zones defined in the feasibility studies. A farm budget analysis will enable
both production objectives and agricultural credit requirements to be defined
more precisely for each road. This analysis will provide the basis for the
detailed road-by-road action plans necessary for project implementation. The
guidelines provided by these action plans will enable the extension agents to
improve implementation of the agricultural credit program by directing their
efforts to particular types of farms with specific credit needs. The exten-
sion agents would assist in preparing credit applications in accordance with
the overall guidelines and objectives provided by the action plans.
7.       Based on the results of the field surveys and the farm budget
analyses, a specific action plan will be prepared for each individual road.
These plans will be presented in a simplified form in order to facilitate
their use by extension agents in the field. Each plan will include:
(i)    a map showing the road and its zone of influence;



-81-
Annex 6
(ii)   baseline data on farm-size distribution, crop areas and pro-
duction forecasts;
(iii)  guidelines for agricultural Extension work, including cropping
techniques and use of equipment and inputs; and
(iv)   yield targets for each repre6ientative farm-type based on
absorptive capacity for new t:echniques and credit financing.
The action plans will be prepared by the Central Agricultural Commission
(CCDA) in collaboration with the respective O,RDAs and the Planning Directorate
of the Ministry of Agriculture (DPSAE) and thie Crop Production Department
(DPV). Overall coordination in the preparat:ion of annual programs will be the
responsibility of DISAE acting through the P:roject Coordinating Committee.
E. Road Design Studies
8.       Detailed engineering of the rural road projects will include:.
(i)    all necessary field work and preparation of final design to
estimate costs to within 10%;
(ii)   preparation of bidding documents and detailed design of
structures;
(iii)  bill of quantities and cost estimates divided into local and
foreign currency components;
(iv)   breakdown of costs into the basic components such as labor,
materials, equipment, overheads, profits, etc; and
(v)    staking out, as required.
Contracts with consultants for detailed engineering studies will provide for
the possibility of intermittent supervision effort by the consultants during
actual construction.
F. Rural Infrastructure Works
9.       The Rural Engineering Division (GerLie Rural, GR) of the Ministry of
Agriculture will be responsible for establishing detailed designs as well as a
minimum economic justification for small-scale infrastructure projects iden-
tified in the feasibility studies. These works would include the construction
or rehabilitation of small-scale irrigaton schemes, land drainage works, and
small irrigation dams. The Government will submit the details of each scheme
to the Bank for review prior to implementat:.on.



-82-
Annex 6
G. Monitoring and Evaluation
10.      The Government will continue the monitoring and evaluation system
established under the First Rural Roads Project. The CRDAs and BNT will be
responsible for reporting information on project inputs such as credit dis-
bursed, farm inputs distributed, extension buildings and equipment procured,
and agricultural staff made operational. This information will be coordinated
by the Central Agricultural Commission (CCDA) assisted by DPSAE. Similarly,
DPC will also continue its traffic surveys on roads improved under the pro-
ject. The Government will prepare quarterly progress reports to be submitted
to the Bank as well as a Completion Report assessing project achievements and
reasons for any shortfalls. All field survey efforts, particularly on project
outputs, will be coordinated and fully integrated with the socio-economic
impact study to be financed under the proposed project (Annex 7).



-83-
Annex 7
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPCRT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Framework for Rural Road Impact Study
A. Study Design
1.       The socio-economic impact study proposed for financing under the
Fifth Highway Project is designed to provide a more comprehensive under-
standing of the socio-economic impact of rural roads and associated
agricultural investments in the various ecolcigical regions of Tunisia.
Socio-economic impact is defined to include changes in agricultural pro-
duction patterns and other economic activities, in household income levels
and consumption patterns, in personal mobility and communications, and in
levels of service provision and utilization. The purpose of the study is
to develop improved criteria and procedures for the screening and selec-
tion of future rural road improvements in TurLisia. The study will also
fit within the framework of a Bank-supported international program of
research on rural mobility and communication.
2.       The study will consist of three sets. of surveys:  (i) post-
project surveys on a sample of roads improvec. under the Third Highway
Project; (ii) baseline; and (iii) follow-up surveys of a sample of roads
to be improved under the Fifth Highway Project. Each cycle will include
expanded traffic surveys as well as data gatt,ering from a selected sample
of households in each road's influence zone. Extensive baseline data are
already available for the roads improved under the Third Highway Project,
but not for the roads to be improved under the Fifth Highway Project.
3.       The impact study will include four miajor activities:
a. Detailed design. This phase would include review and modifica-
tion of the sample design, instrumentation, field methods, and
data processing procedures used in t:he baseline data collection
for roads improved under the Third Hlighway Project. With
improved sampling procedures and revrised instruments, it is
expected that baseline data collect.on for the second set of
roads can be both simplified and made more reliable. This phase
would be carried out by a local consultant under contract to the
Studies Sub-directorate of DPC, with assistance from Bank staff.



-84-
Annex 7
b. Traffic survey. These would be carried out by the contractor
personnel on a sample of roads selected for improvement under the
Third Highway Project, after construction is completed, and on
roads from the Fifth Highway Project, both before and after con-
struction. The results can be cross-checked with the traffic
levels and composition determined during the project preparation
phase. They will also provide additional information on present
road users, traffic mix and regional travel patterns.
c. Household/farm enterprise surveys. These would be carried out by
contractor personnel with selected households in the impact zones
of the selected sample roads. Much of the data required will be
routinely collected by agricultural extension agents in the
course of the project's regular monitoring activities. Extension
service records will be made available to the contractor's staff
and extension agents will be key informants regarding major
changes taking place within the road impact zones.
d. Data processing and report preparation. This activity will be
coordinated by the Studies Sub-directorate of the Highway Depart-
ment (DPC) through its consultant. Data processing services will
be obtained from the National Computer Center (Centre National de
l'Informatique). Study findings will be integrated and analyzed
by the consultant and a final report will be prepared by the
Studies Sub-directorate of DPC.
4.       Coordination of the study with on-going project activities would
be assured by the formation of a Working Group on which DPC, DPSAE, and
the two consultant groups would be represented. The Working Group will
meet quarterly to report on progress with each study component and to
identify and resolve any coordination problems. DPC will prepare brief
quarterly progress reports to the Bank on the basis of these meetings.
B. Sample Design
5.       The Third Highway Project covered 44 road links in 8 provinces of
Northeast and Central Tunisia. The micro-economy of each influence zone
was studied individually and so there are no broad categories within which
these roads can be grouped. Pre-project traffic levels ranged from less
than 50 vehicles per day (vpd) to over 1,000 vpd but were most often in
the range from 100 to 500 vpd. Excluding a few roads with exceptionally
high traffic levels which are being upgraded to standards which will
permit their eventual incorporation into the nation's primary road net-
work, most roads are being improved to one of two levels: one which
provides basic drainage but does not assure all-weather access, and one
which provides all-weather access except for occasional cuts. It is
proposed to select eight sampla roads from the eight provinces where
construction is currently underway, allocating the sample between the two
main anticipated levels of improvement.



-85-
Annex 7
6.       The Fifth Highway Project envisages the improvement of about 100
road links over three years (1983-85). In addition, improvement of 18
road links will be undertaken in 1982 using lunds remaining under the
Third Highway Project. For the purpose of this study, the source of fund-
ing is irrelevant. More important is the fact that these road links were
selected using the same types of data and evaluation procedures as those
used for the road links included in the Fifth Highway Project. Thus,
these 118 links will be treated together as i:he sample frame for the
research activity concerning the second set of roads.
7.       It is proposed to select 12 sample roads from these 118 links in
such a way as to provide a representative sample as well as variation on
key factors presumed to be associated with project impact. Project roads
will be constructed in all 18 provinces of Tinisia over the three years of
the program. In the first year, constructioia will begin in eight of the
ten provinces which were not included in the Third Highway Project.
During the second year, new links will be improved in the provinces bene-
fiting from the first project, and in the third year more work will be
undertaken in some of the areas programmed for the first year. In the
light of this schedule and the complementari:y between this study and the
impact study on the Third Highway Project roads, as well as efficiency
considerations, it is proposed to select the sample roads, insofar as pos-
sible, from among those to be improved during the first year of the
program.
8.       The proposed sample roads are essentially in the Northern and
Southern regions of the country. The feasibility study for the second set
of roads classified links within each gouvernorat into groups according to
local ecological, population and production patterns. This resulted in a
large number of impact zone types which can, however, be grouped in a few
broader categories as follows:
a. North
- Dryland farming
- Irrigated agriculture
- Mixed
b. South
- Dryland farming
- Irrigated agriculture
- Tree crops
- Oasis agriculture
- Mixed
No road has been selected for improvement in. the irrigated agriculture
zone of the South. Dryland fanming in the South will be adequately
covered by roads selected for study from the first project. Improvements



-86-
Annex 7
in the irrigated agriculture and mixed zones of the North (Nabeul and
Tunis) will not begin until the second year of the project. Due to the
preponderance of dryland farming in the north and tree crops in the south,
four road links will be selected to represent each of these agro-ecologi-
cal zone types. The four remaining zone types will be represented by one
road each, including two taken from the second-year program. This
approach also permits the selection of at least one sample road in each
province, either from the Third Highway Project or from the Fifth Highway
Projeact roads.
9.       A full week of traffic counts will be carried out on each sample
road, covering motorized, animal, and pedestrian transport. An expanded
origin-destination survey will be conducted on a sample basis among
drivers, passengers, and pedestrians. Since the Fifth Highway Project
roads are scheduled for construction beginning in 1982, only one baseline
trafEic survey can be conducted. Based on present data from two-day traf-
fic counts and load factors from studies for the first project, it is
estimated that between 500 and 1,000 short interviews can be completed on
each sample road.
10.      The number of sample households to be interviewed in each impact
zone will be determined on the basis of population parameters. A complete
inventory of all farm enterprises in each impact zone will form the sample
frame. The sample will also be stratified by farm size. It is estimated
that an average of 50 to 100 households per zone will be interviewed.
C. Instrument Design
11.      Traffic survey instruments were developed by DPC for use in the
planning of the first project. A shorter form was used in connection with
the traffic counts made for the Fifth Highway Project feasibility study.
These instruments can be used with only minor modifications for the pur-
poses of the present study. The capability to supervise the collection
and processing of traffic data, including origin-destination surveys, is
well established in DPC. At least five private sector firms in Tunisia
have the capability to carry out such surveys.
12.      The Central Agricultural Development Commission (CCDA) will be
collecting fairly extensive farm enterprise data at regular intervals from
households in the road impact zones, as part of their responsibility for
preparing the agricultural credit program and for project monitoring. The
monitoring instruments have been developed by the National Agricultural
Studies Center (CNEA) and training in their use is to be provided to
extension agents under an ongoing call order contract between CNEA and the
Ministry of Agriculture (para. 1, Annex 6). Baseline data for the Third
Highway Project roads have been collected through a census of all farm
enterprises in the impact zones. The Ministry of Agriculture has agreed
to make these records available to the consultant, who will design an



-87-
Annex 7
appropriate form for recording those items concerning sample households
which are of interest from the point of view of the socio-economic impact
study.
13.      The present instrument asks for detailed data on the agricultural
enterprise, including use of high yielding varieties, inputs, farm machi-
nery, and credit. It also provides a measure of household income (farm
and non-farm), including the value of subsis;tence production. These data
will be supplemented by a short survey instrument touching on family
composition, travel patterns including the tuse of animals for transport,
service utilization and communications. For the impact study under the
Third Highway Project, a few questions may be added concerning the
pre-project situation to cover data needs not adequately met by the
baseline data collection.
14.      Training seminars for traffic surveyors and interviewers respon-
sible for carrying out the household survey will be organized by the
consultant. In these seminars, the purpose and design of the impact study
will be explained, the proper methods of identifying respondents and
carrying out interviews will be described, :he survey forms and coding
procedures will be reviewed, and the field work schedule will be pre-
sented.  Participants will also have an opportunity to test the field
methods and instruments on a rural road not included in the study sample.
This activitiy will serve both to pretest aad revise the instruments and
to evaluate and improve interviewer capabilities.
D. Implementation
15.      Traffic surveys will be carried out over a period of one to three
months on all the sample roads. Detailed scheduling will depend on the
numbers and mobility of supervising staff familiar with the study. Survey
forms will be processed and results will be reported by the consultant.
16.      Household surveys will be carried out over a period of one to
three months in each impact zone. The provincial representative of the
Crop Production Department (DPV), who is in. charge of extension activi-
ties, will provide liaison between the study team and extension agents in
the selected impact zones. Completed questionnaires will be processed and
results will be reported by the consultant.
17.      Analysis and interpretation of both data sets will be undertaken
by the consultant in close coordination with DPC and DPSAE staff. The
consultant will be responsible for drafting an Inception Report on
detailed study design, a Final Report on the baseline survey of the Fifth
Highway Project roads, a Final Report on the impact of the Third Highway
Project roads, and a Final Report on the fc,llow-up survey of the Fifth
Highway Project roads. Copies of these reports will be provided to the
Bank. Detailed terms of reference are available in the Project File.



-88-
Annex 7
Technical support will be provided by Bank staff in order to help inte-
grate the study with the Bank's international research program on rural
mobility.
18.      Field work, data analysis and report preparation will be carried
out in three annual cycles. During the first year, baseline surveys of
the sample roads to be improved under the Fifth Highway Project will be
carried out prior to construction. During the second year, the post-
project impact study of the sample of Third Highway Project roads will be
implemented. In the third year, follow-up surveys will be conducted on
the sample roads from the Fifth Highway Project, approximately one year
after road works are completed.



-89-
Annex 8
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Indicative Action Plan
Table 1 : Elements of First-Year Program:
Example of Action Plan: Siliana Province
Table 2a: Annual Capital Budget Requirements Under Project
Table 2b: Annual Recurrent Budget Requirements Under Project



-90-
TUNISIA                                             Annex 8
Table  1
'STA 'APP'tLU    'P                'of A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Action Plan: Siliana Gouvernorate
Duantite                                Base  Costs  ('000  DT Jan  1982)   Phy.  For.
--------  -----------------------  -                            -- --------              -----  Cont. Exch. Tax  Susmar
Unit 1982 1983 1984 1985 196  1987 Total Unit Cost IM     1993   1994   195   1986   1997  Total   Rate  Cow. Rate Accoumt
I. CAPITAL COSTS
A. ROAD WORKS
ROAD No. 204                    L.S.    -  0.5  0.5           -            1       392    -  196.0  196.0        -      -       -   392.0   0.1   0.4  0.2        Al
ROAD No. 205                    L.S.    -  0.5  0.5    -       -    -      1    169,12    -   84.6   84.6        -      -       -   169.1   0.1   0.4  0.2        Al
ROAD No. 206                    L.S.    -  0.5  0.5    -       -    -      1    637.29    -  318.6  318.6        -      -       -   637.3   0.1   0.4  0.2        Al
ROAD No. 255B                   L.S.    -  0.5  0.5    -       -    -      1     179.2    -   89.6   89.6        -      -       -   179-2   0.1   0.4  0.2        Al
Sub-Total ROAD WORKS                                                                          -  689.8  688.8       -       -      - 1,377.6
B. A6RICULIURAL EXTENSION
BUILDINGS                       No.      -  1.1    1    -      -    -   2.1      15.75    -   17.3   15.8        -      -       -    33.1   0.1   0.3  0.3        31
VEHICLES                        No.      -  1.9  1.9    -      -    -   3.8       4.41    -    8.4    8.4        -      -       -    16.8   0.1   0.4  0.5        B2
EQUIPMENT                       No.      -  1.1    1    -      -    -   2.1       1.97    -    2.2    2.0        -      -       -     4.1   0.1  0.63 0.27        B3
---- ----~ - ----- ---r--            --~-~~ - - -----
Sub-Total AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION                                                              -  .27.9   26.1       -      -       -    54.0
C. IRRIGATION WORKS
NEW SCHEMES                      Ha      -   40   40   40    40   40   200         1.4    -   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0   56.0   280-0   0.1   0.4 0.25           Cl
REHABILITATION                   Ha      -   10   10   10    10   10    50            1    -   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0    50.0   0.1   0.4 0.25          C2
SMALL DAMS                      No.      -    -    -    -      -    -      -               -      -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1   0.4 0.25        C3
Sub-Total IRRIGATION WORKS                                                                    -   66.0   66.0   66.0   66.0   66.0   330.0
D. SHORT-TERM CREDIT               L.S.    -         -     -     -  -    -    -               -    4.2   18.3   40.6   52.3   59.6   175.0   0.1   0.5  0.2          Dt
E. MEDIUH- AD LONG-TERM CREDIT
TRACTORS AND EQUIPMENT          No.      -    -    2    2      2    2     8         13    -      -    26.0   26.0   26.0   26.0   104.0   0.1  0.63 0.21          El
COIBINE HARVESTERS              No.      -    -          1     -    1      2        24    -              -   24.0       -   24.0    48.0   0.1  0.63 0.21         E2
ANNUAL FORAGE CROPS              Ha      -    -   30   70   110   90   300       0.034    -       -    1.0    2.4    3.7    3.1    10.2   0.1  0.55 0.15          E3
PERENNIAL FORAGE CROPS           Ha      -    -    -    -      -    -      -              -       -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1  0.55 0.15        E4
PASTURE IMPROVEMENT              Ha      -    -   15   38    62   50   165       0.065    -       -    1.0    2.5    4.0    3.3    10.7   0.1  0.55 0.15          ES
TREE CROPS NEW                   Ha      -    -   30   72   120   96   318        0.45    -       -   13.5   32.4   54.0   43.2   143.1   0.1  0.12 0.15         E6
TREE CROPS REHABIL               Ha      -    -   30   72   120   96   318       0.025    -       -    0.8    1.8    3.0    2.4       8.0   0.1  0.12 0.15        E7
TREE CROPS VINE                  HB      -    -    -    -      -    -      -      0.95    -       -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1   0.2 0.15        EB
IMPROVED LOCAL COWS             No.      -    -    -    -      -    -     -       0.39    -       -      -       -      -      -        -   0.1   0.4 0.15       E9
FEMALE SHEEP                    No,      -    -    -    -      -    -      -     0.039    -       -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1   0.4 0.15      EIO
COUCH-GRASS ERADICATION          Ha      -    - 0.065    -                                     -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1  0.55 0.15      Eli
STABLES CATTLE                  No.     -    --        -     -     -     -         1.2    -       -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1  0.29 0.25      E12
STABLES SHEEP                   No.      -    -     -     -     -     -      -       I    -       -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1  0.29 0.25      E13
WELL CONSTRUCTION               No.      -    -    -    -      -    -      -      3.65    -       -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1  0.24  0.3       E14
WELL EQUIPMENT                  No.      -    -    -    -      -    -     -       1.04    -       -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1  0.58  0.3      E15
WELL REHABILITATION             No.      -    -    -    -      -    -      -       0.8    -       -      -       -      -       -       -   0.1  0.24  0.3      E16
Sub-Total MEDIUM- AND LONG-TERN CREDIT                                                        -      -   42.2   89.0   90.8  101.9   324.0
F. SPOT IMPROVEMENTS
FEEDER ROADS TO ROAD No. 201    Ka       -   21    -    -      -    -    21        0.5    -   10.5       -       -      -       -    10.5   0.1  0.33  0.2        Fl
FEEDER ROADS TO ROAD No. 202    Ka       -   57    -    -      -    -    57        0.5    -   28.5       -       -      -       -    28.5   0.1  0.33  0.2        Fl
FEEDER ROADS TO ROAD No. 203    Ka       -     -   -    -      -    -    22        0.5    -   11.0       -       -      -       -    11.0   0.1  0.33  0.2        Fl
FEEDER ROADS TO ROAD No. 204    Ke       -   20    -    -      -    -    20        0.5    -   10.0       -       -      -       -    10.0   0.1  0.33  0.2        Fl
FEEDER ROADS TO ROAD No. 205    Ka       -   13    -    -      -    -    13        0.5    -    6.5       -       -      -       -     6.5   0.1  0.33  0.2        Fl
FEEDER ROADS TD ROAD No. 206    Ka       -   38    -    -           -    38        0.5    -   19.0       -       -      -       -    19.0   0.1  0.33  0.2        Fl
FEEDER ROADS TO ROAD No. 2558   Ka       -   10    -    -      -    -    10        0.5    -    5.0       -       -      -       -     5.0   0.1  0.33  0.2        Ft
Sub-Total SPOT IMPROVEMENTS                                                                   -   90.5       -      -      -       -    90.5
T C C- --77.4  941.4  195.7  209.1- 227.5 2-351
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                                              -  877.4  841.4  195.7  209.1  227.5 2.351.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                                              -877.4  841.4  195.7  209.1  227.5 2,351.0
---------------------- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    =: I- -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- - -- -- -- -- -- -- -- -



-'1-
TUNISIA                                                    8
Table 2.
SA     AFPUISAL RPO? ' OF A                                     Pate 1
FIPTB RIGIWAY  (IURAL BOA]1S) PBOJERC
Annual Capital Bud            ouiremmn:a EUtbdr Prolect
gm Csts 4
Price Cot.
UN Costs                          on Int   Foeiin Eohmn
Vo. Of                                                          costs
Ihit    Ihit Cost    units   12   193    1798t    19M5   16   19t7 Toll                '00)    I    Amount
1. CWITAL COSTS
A. WA3 mS                           L.S.   39.2-1,664.32     97      - 49917.4  9,499.2  8.434.2 3,92.1     - 260703.0    65,039.7   40.0 10681.2
Plwsicel Conitinjuncies                                    -      -  4?1.7   W4.9   943.4  386.2         - 2,670.3            -   40.0  1,068.1
Pri"c Contijncius                                          -      -  679.9 2,193.2  20791.4 1,49.9       - 7,314.3            -   40.0 2,92.7
Sub-Total IllCLUDINS CONTIIiIES                                      - 6.089.0 12,t6.3 I12068.9 5,899.4     - 36697.6    65,039.7   40.0 14.675.0
Taxes                                                      -      - 1,217.8  2#516.3  2.413.8 1,179.7    - 79337.5            -    0.0      0.0
Foruimi Exchange                                           -      - 2F435.6 5902,5  4P,27.6 2.15.4       - 14,75.0            -    0.0      0.0
1. AIRICULTUW  EXIEISION
UWlll3S                          VA.            15.75     57      -  148.8   X,7.B   29.3  100.7         -   994.6      2,177.3   30.0   268.4
YEHICLES                         No.             4.41    101      -   73.6   Ai8.9   150.4   54.2        -   447.2    I1O09.6   40.0   178,9
EU11PlT                          No.             1.97     57      -   18.6    12.3    37.4   13.6        -   111.9        272.3   63.0    70.5
Sub-Total AGICILlTLM  EXTENSION                                      -  241.1   519.0   497.1  176.5        - 1,453.7      3,538.2   35.6   517.7
lwical Continemicies                                       -      -   24.1    14.9    48u7    17.7       -   145.4            -   35.6    51.1
Price Continiencies                                        -      -   33.3   116.9   161.2   75.4        -   396.8            -   35.6   141.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTITEIES                                       -  291.5   710-8   697.0  269.6        - 1,995.9      3,538.2   35.6   710.9
Tas                                                        -      -  107.1   21.5   250.5   96.8         -   717.0            -    0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchan*                                            -      -  106.3   260.3   248.3   76.0        -   710.9            -    0.0      0.0
C. IRRIGATION iMNKS
NEU SCEilES                       Ha              1.4  1233       -   84.0   310.8   443.8  443.8  443.8  1726.2        4,518.8   40.0   690-5
REW.ILITATION                     Ha                1    248      -   20.0    57.0    57.0   57.0   57.0   248.0          640.9  4Z.0    9.2
SMALL DAN                        No.                       -      -   U5.0    U5.0    65.0   65.0   65.0   325-0          923.5   40.0   130.0
Sub-Total IRRIGATION VRS                                             -  169.0   432.8    U5.9   65.8  565.8 2W9.2          5,993.2   40.0   919.7
Phwsical Contirengcis                                      -      -   16.9    43.3    56.6   56.6   56.6   229.9              -   40.0    92.0
Price Contingncies                                         -      -   23.4   100.0   187.3  241.7  2M3.5   845,9              -   40.0   338.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING C9NTDINGECIES                                    -  209.3  ',76.1   809.6  864.1  915.9 3,375.0        St983.2   40.0  1,50.0
Taxes                                                      -      -   52.3   .44.0   202.4  216.0  229.0   843-7              -    0.0      0-0
Foreign Exchange                                           -      -   83.7   :30.4   323.9  345.N  366.4  1,350.0             -    0.0      0.0
D. SHORT-TERN CREBIT                L.S.                      -      -   14.3    75.0   196.5  366.6  522.8  1,75.2        3,19.7   50.0   St7-6
Plsical Continencies                                       -      -    1.4      7.5    19.7   36.7   52.3   117.5             -   50.0    SS.9
Price Contingencies                                        -      -    2.0    17.3    65.0  156.6  271.2   512.2              -   50.0   256.1
Sub-Total INCLUDIN  CDOTIIAENCIES                                  -   17.7    99.8   281.2  559.9  B46.3 1,804.9         3,199.7   50.0   902.4
Taxes                                                      -      -    3.5    20.0    56.2  112.0  169.3   361.0              -    0.0     0.0
Formign Exchale                                            -      -    8.9    49.9   140.6  279.9  423.2   902.4              -    0.0     0.0
E. IEDIUI- ASD t1l6TERM CREDIT
TRACTORS AID EQUIPENIT           No.               13    0t1      -   65.0   156.0   260.0  377.0  455.0 1,313.0        3,496.    63.0   827.2
COIIINE WIAESTERS                No.               24     17      -      -    24.0    72.0  168.0  144.0   408.0        Ij1O7.4   63.0   257.0
ASL   FORAGE CROPS                Ha            0.834    600      -      -      1.0     3.7    7.2    8.4    20.4          55.6   55.0    11.2
PASTIME IWRO1ENT                  "a       0.065-.12   2,497      -      -      5.0    23.7   54.6   85.7   168-9         445.4   55.0    92.9
TREE CROPS i1E                    Ha             0.45   1.519     -      -    28.4   113.9  215.6  325.8   683.6        1,874.3   12.0    82.0
TREE CROPS REHA1IL                lb            0.025  1,720      -      -      1.3     7.1   13.2   21.3    43.0         119.2   12.0      5.2
TEE CRDPS VINES                  lb              0.95    155      -      -      4.8    24.7   50.4   67.5   147-3         403.8   20.0    29.5
llfRDVED LOCAL COMS              No.             0.39    639      -      -      3.5    49.1   80.3  116.2   249.2         684.0   48.0    9.7
FEIW.E SHEEP                     lo.            0.039  2,711      -      -      2.0    28.7   37.3   37.7   105.7         286.8   40.0    42.3
COOI-RASSS ERADICATION             b            0.065    565      -      -      0.3     4.8   12.0   19.6    36.7         101.7   55.0    20.2
STABLES CATTLE                   .o,              1.2     55      -      -      1.2    16.-   22.8   25.2    66.0         179.5   29.0    19.1
STOAES SHEEP                     No.                1     78      -      -        -     9.0   26.0   43.0    78.0         216.6   29.0    22.6
WELL CONSTRItTION                Ho.             3.65      6      -      -      3.7     7.3    7.3    3.7    21.9          57.4   24.0      5.3
WELL E0UPIIDIT                   No.             1.04     57      -      -        -    13.5   21.8   23.9    59.3         162.1   59.0    34.4
WELL REHABILITATION              No.              O.8    18       -    1.6      2.4     4.0    4.8    1.6    14.4          36.9   24.0     3.5
Sub-Total NEDIUF bRD 0MLO-TERM CREDIT                                -   66.6   233.5   638.3 1,098.4 1,378.5  3,415.3     9,246.3   45.4  1,552.0
Plwsical Continncies                                       -      -    6.7    23.4    63.8  109.8  137.8   341.5             -   45.4   155.2
Price Contingencies                                        -      -    9.2    54.0   211.3  469.2  715.1  1,450.8            -   44.7   652.2
Sub-Total INCLUDIIG CONTINGEINCIES                                   -   82.5   310.8   913.4 1,677.4 2,231.5 5,215.7      9,246.3   45.2  2,359.4
Taxes                                                      -      -   17.5    62.4   174.5  316.8  411.0   982.2              -    0.0     0.0
Foreign Exchange                                           -      -   51.2   166.9   422.8  761.0  957.5 29359.4              -    0.0     0.0
F. SP8T IMfROVEIENTS                 Ka              0.5  3,221      - 1X266.5   164.0   180.0      -       - 1,610.5      3,623.8   33.0   531.5
Phlsical Contingencies                                     -      -  126.7    16.4    18.0       -       -   161.0            -   33.0    53.1
Price Contingencies                                        -      -  175.1    37.9    59.6       -       -   272.6            -   33.0    90.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    -1.568.3   218.3   257.6       -       - 2,044.1      3,623.8   33.0   674.6
Taxes                                                      -      -  313.7    43.7    51.5        -      -   408.t            -    0.0      O.t
Foreign Exchange                                           -      -  517.5    72.0    85.0        -      -   674.6            -    0.0     0.t



-92-
TUNISIA                                        A          8
Table 2&
STAFF APPRAISAL  REPORT OF A                                 Page 2
FIFTH HIGHWAY  (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Annual Capital Budget Requirements Under Project
(DINAR '000)
Base Costs t
Price Cont.
Base Costs                            on Base    Foreinn Exchange
No. ot   --                  --------------------------------    Costs
Unit     Unit Cost    Units  1982   1983        1984      1995    1986    1987    Total    (USS '000)      z     Abount
6. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              =CCCZ=a3 =a: =      3=== ==Z33  3333  3  ::5a5:: 333333 3...   333  3323333 ==3z3=u                au.  a        x _     _
PROJ PREPi IMPLEMENT  MNONITORING    N.M.           4.375      180  109.4   175.0   175.0    175.0  153.1         -    717.5       19878.0   75.0   590.6
EXTENSION TRAINING                  M.N.            4.375       29   26.3   52.5      48.1        -       -        -    126.9        282.2   75.0    95.2
RESEARCH ON UNPAVED ROADS           N.l.            4.375      50       -    65.6    65.6    65.6    21.9         -    218.8         524.6    75.0   164.1
SOCIO-ECONOMIC IMPACT STUDY         M.N.            4.375      65   21.9    87.5      87.5     87.5       -       -   284.4          665.0   75.0    213.3
OVERSEAS MISSIONS                 Per Trip              2      24       -    12.0    12.0    12.0   12.0           -     48.0        117.6  100.0    48.0
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                        157.5  392.6   388.3   340.1   187.0           -  1,465.5       3.467.4    75.9  1,111.1
Phxsical Contingencies                                          -   15.9   39.3    38.8        34.0   18.7         -    146.6            -    75.8    111.1
Price Contingencies                                             -    7.4    54.3    89.7    112.6   79.9          -    343.8             -    76.0   261.3
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                      180.6  496.2   516.8   486.7  285.6           -  1955.9       3,467.4   75.9  1,483.5
Taxes                                                           -   27.1    72.9      77.5    73.0   42.9         -    293.4             -     0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                -  135.5  368.3   391.6   369.3  218.9            -  1,483.5             -     0.0      0.0
H. VEH. TESTING STATION EQUIP          L.S.                         -      -   325.0        -        -       -       -    325.0         713,4    63.0   204.8
Physical Contingencies                                          -       -    32.5        -        -       -       -      32.5            -    63.0    20.5
Price Contingencies                                             -       -    44.9        -        -       -       -      44.9            -    63.0    2983
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                          -   402.4        -        -       -       -    402.4         713.4    63.0   253.5
Taxes                                                           -      -   108.7         -        -       -       -    108.7             -     0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                -       -   253.5        -        -       -       -    253.5             -     0.0      0.0
Total CAPITAL COSTS                                                       157.5 7,392.5 11.331.9 10,842.0 6,256.6 2,467.1 38,447.5      94,811,8    41.9 16,105.6
Physical Contingencies                                             -   15.B  739.2  1,133.2  1,084.2  625.7  246.7  3,944.7                 -    41,9  1,610.6
Price Contingencies                                                -    7.4 1,022,1  2,619.1  3,588.3 2,672.6 1,279.9 11,189.2              -    41.9  4,693.2
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                             190.6 9,153.8 15,084.0 15,514.4 9.554.9 3,993.7 53,481.4      94.911.8    41.9 22,409.3
Taxes                                                              -   27.1 19893.5  3,136.3  3,222.0 1,964.1   809.3 11,052.3              -     0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                   -  135,5 3,925.0  6,223.7  6,417.5 4,060.7 1,747.0 22,409.3              -     0.0      0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                       157.5 7,392.5 11,331.B 10,842.0 6,256.6 2.467.1 38,447.5    94,911.8    41.9 16.105.6
Physical Contingencies                                              -   15.8  739.2  1,133.2  1,084.2  625.7  246.7  3.844.7                 -    41.9  19610.6
Price Contingencies                                                  -   7.4 1,022.1  2,619.1  3,588.3 2,672.6 1,279.9 11,199.2              -    41.9  4.693.2
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                        180.6 9.153.9 15,084.0 159514.4 9.554.9 3.993.7 53,481.4    94,811.8   41.9 22.409.3
Taxes                                                               -   27.1 1,993.5  3,136.3  3,222.0 1,964.1   809.3 11,052.3              -     0.0      0.0
Foreign Exchange                                                    -  135.5 3,825.0  6,223.7  6,417.5 4,060.7 1,747.0 22,409.3              -     0.0      0.0



-93-                                                       Annex 8
Table 2b
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOFT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROAI)S) PROJECT
Annual Recurrent Budget Requirements Under Project
Foreign
Base Costs                          Exchange
No. of -------------------------------------------------__- _-________
Unit      Unit Cost Units   PYI    P"2    PY3         PY4      PY5      PY6   Total    I  Aaount
_========:========= =====_ ===== ==::=== ====== ======= z=2=Z= =_Z_:== ===__ === ___==
A. ROAD MAINTENANCE                    Km            0.375 109000  187.5  41.2.5  562.5   712.5   862.5 1,012.5 30750.0 0.0    0.0
Price ContiNgencies                                           -    8.0   'il8  118.2   214.4   334.9   477.5 1,204.8 0.0    0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                   195.5  464.3  680+7   926.? 1,197.4 1,490.0 4,954.8 0.0    0.0
Ta.;es                                                        -   39.1   92.9  136.1   185.4   239.5   298.0   991.0 0.0    0.0
B. EXTENSION SERVICES
COORDINATORS                       No.              4,2     41       -   L6.8   29.4    42.0    42.0    42.0   172,2 0.0    0.0
EXTENSION AGENTS                   No.            3.15    267        -   63.0  126.0   217.4   217.4   217.4   841.1 0.0    0.0
VEHICLE OPERATION              '000 Veh. Km        0.04  6,675       -   20.0   40.0    69.0    69.0    69.0   267.0 0.0    0.0
SUPPLIES AND OVERHEAD              L.S.          0.825    153        -   10.7   21.5    31.4    31,4    31.4   126.2 0.0    0.0
Sub-Total EXTENSION SERVICES                                             -  110,5  216.9   359.7   359.7   359.7 1,406.5 0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                                           -      -   13.9   45.6   108.2   139.7   169.6   477,0 0.0    0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                        -  124,4  262.4   467,9   499,4   529.3 1,883.5 0.0    0.0
C. PROJECT CONTROL UNIT
SUPPLIES                           L.S.              10       6   10.0   10.0   10.0    10.0    10.0    10.0    60.0 0.0    0,0
VEHICLE OPERATION              '000 Veh. Ka       0.04    600    4.0    4.0    4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0    24,0 0.0    0,0
SUBSISTENCE, FIELD TRIPS         IianDavs         0.02  1,200    4.0    4.0    4.0          4.0     4.0      4.0    24.0 0.0    0.0
Sub-Total PROJECT CONTROL UNIT                                       18.0   18.0   18.0    18.0    18.0    18.0   108.0 0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                                           -    0.8    2.3    3.8       5,4      7.0      8.5    27.7 0.0    0.0
Sub-Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                    18.8   20.3   21.8    23.4    25.0    26.5   135.7 0.0    0.0
Total OPERATING COSTS                                                    205.5  541.0  797.4 1,090.2 1,240,2 1,390.2 5,264.5 0,0    0.0
Price Co,ntir,sercies                                             -    8.7   68.0  167.5   328.0   481.6   655.7 1,709.5 0.0    0,0
Total INCLUDING CONTINGENCIES                                            214.2  609.0  964.9 1,418.2 1,721.8 2,045.9 6,974.0 0.0    0.0
=== ==  9===== =====1   ======.= =====29   =====28   91,0 00    0
Ts>.es                                                            - 39.1   92.9  136.1   185.4  2139.5   298.0   991.0 0.0    0.0



-94-
Annex 9
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Project File Documents
A. G,eneral Reports
Al. Transport Survey, Italconsult, 1969
A2. Etude de la Coordination des Transports, Louis Berger
International,
March 1979
A3. Memorandum on transport sector, IBRD, 1981 (in preparation)
A4. Memorandum on agricultural sector, IBRD, 1981 (in preparation)
B.   Project Reports
Republique Tunisienne, Ministare de l'Equipement, Direction des Ponts et
Chaussees, Projet de Pistes Agricoles (Identifications et Factibilites)
Bl.  Rapport initial, BCEOM-SCET, Aodt 1980
B2.  Rapport dtudes compldmentaires, BCEOM-SCET, Octobre 1980
B3.  Rapport regional I, Volume 1, rapport de synthase, BCEOM-SCET,
Fevrier 1980
B4.  Rapport regional I, Volume 2, methodologie (edition definitive),
BCEOM-SCET, Octobre 1980
B5. Rapport regional I, Volume 3, Gouvernorat de Nabeul, rapport
technique, BCEOM-SCET, Fevrier 1980
B6. Rapport regional I, Volume 4, Gouvernorat de Zaghouan, rapport
technique, BCEOM-SCET, Fevrier 1980
B7. Rapport regional I, Volume 5, Gouvernorat de Beja, rapport
technique, BCEOM-SCET, Fevrier 1980
B8. Rapport regional I, Volume 6, Gouvernorat de Bizerte, rapport
technique, BCEOM-SCET, Fevrier 1980



-95-
Annex 9
B9. Rapport rdgional I, Volume 7, Gouvernorat du Kef et de Siliana,
rapport technique, BCEOM-SCET, Fevrier 1980
B10. Rapport regional I, Volume 8, Gouvernorat de Jendouba, rapport
technique, BCEOM-SCET, Fevrier 1980
Bll. Rapport regional I, Volume 9, Gouvernorat de Tunis, rapport
technique, BCEOM-SCET, Juin 1980
B12. Rapport regional II, Volume 10, Gouvernorat de Sfax, rapport
technique, BCEOM-SCET, Octobre 1980
B13. Rapport rdgional II, Volume 11, Gouvernorat de Monastir et de
Mahdia, rapport technique, BCEOM-S('ET, Octobre 1980
B14. Rapport rdgional II, Volume 12, Gouxvernorat de Sousse et de
Kairouan, rapport technique, BCEOM-SCET, Octobre 1980
B15. Rapport regional II, Volume 13, Gouvernorat de Gabes et de Mednine,
rapport technique, BCEOM-SCET, Oct'abre 1980
B16. Rapport regional II, Volume 14, Goivernorat de Gafsa et de Sidi
Bouzid, rapport technique, BCEOM-SCET, Octobre 1980
B17. Rapport regional II, Volume 15, rapport de synthese, BCEOM-SCET,
Octobre 1980
318. Rapport final, Volume 16, BCEOM-SCET, Decembre 1980
B19. Modele Agricole d'Optimisation des Niveaux d'amenagement (MAGON)
dossier de l'utilisateur, Octobre 1980
B20. Rapport Compldmentaire No. 2, Septembre 1981.
B21. Rapport d'Etablissement: Projet d'Execution: Premiere Annde
410 km, Sotuetec et al, AoOt 1981.
B22. Dossier d'Execution: Composante Agricole: Gouvernorat de Siliana,
CNEA, Septembre 1981. (Example of typical road action plan).
C.  Selected Working Papers
Cl.  Internal Accounting and Auditing Procedures, J. de Gryse (Con-
sultant), July 1981
C2. Rural Road Impact Study, Terms of Reference, July 1981
C3. Programme d'entretien des pistes agricoles, SDEER, June 1981



-96-
Annex 9
C4. Monitoring and Evaluation, July 1981
C5.  Rural Income Distribution in Tunisia, July 1981
C6.  Brief Analysis of Farm Household Census Data for Rural Road Impact
Zones in Le Kef, July 1981
C7.  Computer printouts of input and output data for feasibility studies,
BCEOM-SCET, July 1981
- Programme de Base: Lot 1 Routes du Nord; Lot 2 Routes du Centre
et Sud.
- Tranches Annuelles 1.200 km et Projet Compldmentaire (Third
Highway Project).
C8.  Detailed cost estimates for 1,200-km program:  Incremental needs
for farm equipment, MA, July 1981
C9.  Agro-ecologic Zones for Farm Model Analysis, September 1981
C10. Provisional Three-year Road Improvement Program (1,200 km),
November 1981.
Cll. Note on Cost Estimates for Road Improvement, November 1981.
C12. Maintenance Costs, November 1981.
C13. Estimated Needs for Agricultural Extension and Credit under the
Project, November 1981.
C14. Social Rate of Return Analysis, November 1981.
C15. Report on Field Visits to Selected Roads, January/February
Preappraisal Mission, Francisco Plouin (Consultant), December 1981.



-97-
Chart No. I
TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPOR' OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Public Works
and Highway Departrient
MINISTER
OTHER
DEPARTMENTS
DIRECTOR OF
HIGHWAY DEPARTM,fN
ADMINISTRATIVE AND
ACCOUNT ING SERVICE
HEADQUARTERS DIVIS:[ONS
PROGRAMMING          MAINTENANCE         MAJOR             _                LABORATORY            EQUIPMENT
AND                   AND             ROAD               STUDIES         AND APPLIED          MAINTENANCE
ORGANIZATION          OPERATION          WORKS             _                 RESEARCH           AND OPERATION
REGIONAL DIVISIONS
AND ROADS SUBDIVISIONS
BEJA           KEF            SIDI BOUZID
BIZERTE        MAHDIA         SILIANA
GABES          MEDENINE       SOUSSE
GAFSA          MONASTIR       TOZEUR
JENDOUBA       NABEUL         TUNIS
KAIROUAN        SFAX          ZAGHOUAN
KASSERINE



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Agriculture
|MINIS T E R|
DEVEIOPMENT
AUTHORITIES                                                       CENTRAL                             ENVIRONMNT
BNT                    AND SEMI-                                                      DEVELTURAL                           INTERNATIONAL
AUTONOMOUS                                                      COPMEN                                COOPERATION
ORGANIZATIONS
|REGIONAL BRANCHES          REGIONAL OFFICES
HEADQUARTERS DEPARTMENTS
_  I   I  _   l       I         I          I~~                             ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  I  II
LIVE-  TRAINING                                     MAJOR                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ASSIST-
STOCK  CROP  RESEARCH    PLANNING  INSPEC-                  IRRMAJO     WATER &      RURAL     ANICE TO
PRODUC-    PRODUC-     EXE-       AND STA-    LEGAL     TO         FIACTIONGA                 SOIL        ENGI-      SMALL &    FORESTRY    FISHERIES
TION       TION        SION      TISTICS                                         WONKS     RESOURCES    NEERING    MEDIUM
WORKS                    ~~~~~~FARMERS
REGIONAL AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT COMMISSIONS
COORDINATION UNITS (SUBDIVISIONS)|
F__                _ 
rt
EXESO   ETR



TUNISIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT OF A
FIFTH HIGHWAY (RURAL ROADS) PROJECT
Project Implementation Organization
PROJECT
COORD INAT ING                                           MINISTER OF
COMMITTEE                          CHAIRMAN               PUBLIC WORKS
DIRECTOR OF
VICE CHAIRMAN       HIGHWAY DEPR                   SECRETARIAT
t                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MEMBERS
MA                   MA              MPW                                                                       BNT       
COMISINERAL O            OF RURAL         STUDIES          PLANNING          OFNITHE           TRANSPORT               OF        
DEVELOPMENT            ENIERIG           DVIINNANCTEEO                                      COMMUNICATIONS          CREDIT       
I~~~~~~~~~~ - - - - - - - - -                                       - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -1- - - - - -D
EXECUTING         MINISTRY OF                                                     MINISTRY                                   BNT
AGENCIES          AGRICULTURE                                   .                     OF
INTERIOR
COORDINATOR                  COORDINATOR
_   MR. BEN AMAR           _    MR. CHAMMARI 
CENTRAL              C                           S                                                                      AGRICULTURE
ADMINISTRATION       DEVSERCREDIT
DPSAE |                     SDER  j                                                                          DEPARTMENT
SDEEM                           GOVERNORS
REGIONAL          PROVINCIAL                   PROVINCIAL                                                                  BRANCHS
ADMINISTRATION       CRDA                      DIVISIONS                         PROVINCIAL                                OFFICES
OFFICES
rt
0Y



a ne n^ iu      R    w    g       z=  on <2    S* ,.   ee _ r  ,w~K | O ow   ee e e e e n  ow  ee ee          ee ee              ee e ce e    w  we  De  'D  
~~~~~~Ca    0C -O   C    06  = 0 0 650   Ol:0,'K                      0K- OCO   OwO  CaK            O          Oc        K0 O.e.C0 gC*C                                   Oe
C0O   O.Ow te                                                            weeK~t-I -  OF-                     A                                      I
.0f --       0 *K'ef  e ff   OC o0w00.e1    KOf 1I                                                          CO   KKCe.C    00000  1-    1    10      -X 0       X    f f  a0000--X0 OK f-X 0   c  .O
|   I    ,         ,        I         I             || --|                                                                .   .   .   .  ......  C I.  .  . K    *                     * [R
-,----                  1----------------------------                  =---------------------------------                               ----------  -----                ----------  - I
--1------1----1--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------- -
----------------------------------------------------------                                                                                       ----------                       A
CI. 1  0--0-00  00        --0                                                                                   --0  0    --0 0-  ------ --- ---    |R
0                                              C    C ---------------------- ------------------------------------ - ----------------------------------------------------- -- - 
-   -   - -   -   - -   -   - -   -   - -   -   - -   -   - -   -   - - - - -I-- - - - - - - -
I       U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
-          -------        -------        --        ------          ------         -------       -------         -------      I-------         -------             
F   - - - - - - - - - - -  - - -        - - - - - - - - -  - - -  - -  -  - - -  -  - -  -   - -  - - -  - -  -  -  - - -  - -  - - -  -  - - -  -  - -  -  - - -  - -K-



_  r  a   ___                    s                           _ _                             _                       ~~~~~~        ~~                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I I I  I
4 ----------------------------------------------------------------l  'y-------------
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------                                                                                  -     -------
C   :-                                                  ---- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   -   -  -   -  -   -  -   ---            -      -----  ------ 4
--------- -------------- ----------------------------------------------------                                                                                       --------
_   c   .  -                                                                                                :'       ''1D~       ~    ~~~~~~~~~~~~ -- -----
----------------                  --------------------------------------------------- ---------"----                                                   'C
X";l   >---------------------------------------- -- --                                                                 ----                        -----  l         -------            -
A  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ -----II I
c---------------------                                                                                                               ----- -----------1--------____l__i1
_ 1 91   11 IF
- - - - - - - -    - - - - - - - - - - -  - - - - - - - - - - II  IF
------------                                       ---      -- --1 ---------                              ,    -- ----------------i-----,---r--------                                   -
I  S IO. . I . . .
II      II H'  3     E  Tn =
w  X 2    w  ^  X X    ^  il   gf    a   f  i Q    ^   g     z  iX            X      f  iX    *       H             "  es B a~~~~~~~~I  I I
Q -       b I                                                                                                                                                iii X                       i.u c      .0 ,
-  c w    O "    c e  -X c oZ Z ie  Z  c    ffi   X  cY  " wc 5 " S  i     _ 2    Z  ci U    aw          - |" " 3     e w  1               i 
__         _   _   _   __    _   _   _   _    ___               _   _   _     _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   _   ___                                     II_          _   _  _   _






.OrQl0.1TM E_X/\D>{  o-6~omaot  '4. p,                                                                                              =          ;                                                                                                                   ,  t  U,9E
-oo  9  rs  ov  o  oE  8  o  S/ \ /' < - (/t X \< ) <  / \ /: jy' ' '| Qo9- i r0;el t :;'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Hfi 
-..0 -!' 04 7,@X. Ps:                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    untA ov< r  < k>  X |      :
S1.1104.1~~~~~ / d RSD e4.J '0 ' -  ,1 rU r   *6= 
s                                                                                                                                                                          u skJ r   5l 3  od 5    \   l  X    ' s79 M _t< Af-\ W J g N > > --<< 4 / driA fj % < Er0l i =p ..................... $ i~- - t-
sl 1suAru)as0. 0 j-.Ia                                                                                          t      /             ft                                       t1                                               X                                           t2Ij
sar unop-      lr o D;"u -_  ;O   2 qjZ1
o < iP~~~Du J.; _- w    FgR d rg,>S&,~<,,
.940~~~~;f a                                                                                                                                                                                                            ;~,,,,d
I-2f8d),,A      .Hh Hl..;'\ IX   . 5-'i::;;     Q'    '                                                                                            ,~        ~:0   2                                  0   13Od:AWHIH                                                 HjG 2f;    0
.DD                                                                                                                :        : ,. ZFD  !i<                         !       n     ;                         "                                                  /tllLlfl 
[zVrilbvnnvf >1!t | or,ll ocov .a0W; ,At      ONf b 






________________________________                                                                                                                                                                                                           RED 16149~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRD164
t0    ITALY)-    ~2                                                           ~0OlC2S 8BsI                                                                                                                         Ha 1a 00o                                                              1-C   JANJARY I92
-                         I                         ~~~~~~~~~~~El~ Ki..FIFTH  HIGHWAY  PROJECT
(                                                                                                                              aoarsoosse                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Rurol Roads
ALGEIR, A                                                             Mosiub
rrH RD HGHWAY PROJECT
Roads Studied 
-Pou-d Reeds
Otner Roads
--2    Chosts (Soitkwoter Lakeb)
12 P- oic .I Cop'tols
rvIncit-. Boudors                s.                                                                                                                                                            I           1-ote/
100 Meter C-nrou  Intr-as
212500 Meter IndeeCetos(                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2O
Spot EIe-ti-c
5  Fenana      -                     -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
Ab 1, AIII ~ ~ ~   ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      sovj          ~        souo                                            So                                ttE9B                         42
~Mou a e      212                                 9'CG                                                                      IC 22






IBRD 16144
S~oed ~oo  ok~oto1                  .FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
3020  0Mo0IO,es  ,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .                                                     ~~~Rural  Roads
-Rodevf                             "                                                                                                                                                       FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
-  Merle00                                                                                                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Roads St.died
0 /                                                                                                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~THIRD HIGHWAY PROJECT
i5                   kh,,.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  od C-oto,oted
0                                                                                                                              *..... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R-od  Stodied
0                                                                                                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Povod Ro:do
--Other Roodo
100 Meter Contour I,,tervals
El H....                                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500 Meter I,,de C-ontors
00,                                                                                                 -   -                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Spot El-vtio-
~~~~~~00y ~ ~ ~       ~       ~      ~       -    -  --      
77                          .~~~~~~~~~~~l
2 A~~~~r0!  02  'e',oK~~~~~Z
20   <
(0~~~~~~~~...  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      M1
i        ITE                                                     -05b
~~~~V ax ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                                    10    2,~   20    40    00~
oAI,l~~~~ERIA  .00,0   -  ~    ~           ~         ~          KIOM20ETERS 
T0,eOeOOeOOOOlrO,e0007 08000 OOOOOoOkO  00000,00,0 t0,0000,OveOve  .7,                                                                                     !w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
rOtOo,eoSo,ovOOo,0e,,Ino,r.,O I,, o,oo,eoa On, OervO,OeOoOe ,,eeoo,o,eo                                                 of.,Soor   /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
x                                                                                                                                                                                               /~~~83  -0'93



