OFFICIAL4
DocMT          LOAN NUMBER 2108 TUN
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Highway (Rural Roads) Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated        Mo.      ,.1982


﻿LOAN NUMBER 2108 TUN
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated      b    1                , 1982, between
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNA-
TIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called
the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement by making the Loan as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis inter alia of
the foregoing, to make the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE 1
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated October 27, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Rural Road" means a road, under Part A of the Project,
carrying  predominantly  agriculture-related  traffic, generally
unpaved, irrespective of its classification, and located outside
urban areas in the Borrower's territory;
(b) "MPW" means the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works;
(c) "DPC" means the Direction des Ponts et Chauss6es,
a directorate established and operating within MPW;
(d) "MA" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;


﻿-2-
(e) "MTC"' means the Borrower's Ministry of Transport and
Communication;
(f) "BNT" means Banque Nationale de Tunisie, a Societe
Anonyme incorporated and operating under the Borrower's Code de
Commerce promulgated by Law No. 59/129 of October 5, 1959, and
pursuant to its Statutes as filed with the R6gistre du Commerce
of Tunis, as the same may be amended from time to time; and
(g) "Dinars" and the sign "DT" mean the currency of the
Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth
or referred to, an amount in various curre-cies equivalent to
thirty-five million five hundred thousand dollars ($35,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1987
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. Not later than the Effective Date, the Borrower
shall pay to the Bank a fee equivalent to five hundred twenty-four
thousand six hundred and thirty-one dollars ($524,631). The fee
shall be payable in such currency or currencies as the Bank shall
specify. In the event that the Bank shall not have received full
payment of the fee by the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to


﻿-3-
itself the amount required for the full payment of the fee in the
currency or currencies specified for the purpose.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourth of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn
from time to time.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate
of eleven and three-fifths per cent (11-3/5%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
Section 2.08. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.09. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set
forth in Schedul-, 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall:
(i) carry out Parts A, D, E and H (1) (iv) and (v) of
the Project through DPC;
(ii) carry out Parts B, F, and H (1) (iii) of the Project
through MA;
(iii) carry out Part H (1) (i) and (ii) and Part (H)
(2) of the Project through MPW's DPC in collabora-
tion with MA;
(iv) carry out Part G of the Project through MTC;
and
(v) cause BNT to carry out Part C of the Project in
collaboration with MA;
all under the overall supervision of MPW with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, admini-
strative, agricultural and engineering practices, and shall


﻿-4-
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(b) For the purpose of coordinating the activities of the
Borrower's departments and agencies and of BNT in the execution
of the Project or any part thereof, the Borrower shall establish
and maintain, until the completion of the Project, a Project
Coordination Committee, with such membership, powers and responsi-
bilities as shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.02. Without any limitation to the generality of the
provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
cause BNT to make the short-, medium- and long-term credit
included in Part C of the Project adequately available to farmers
and all other agricultural enterprises in the zones served by the
Rural Roads to be improved under Part A of the Project.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
in accordance with an overall action program to be agreed upon
between the Borrower and the Bank.
(b) Not later than April 30 of each year, starting in
1983, the Borrower shall through the Project Coordination Commit-
tee submit to the Bank for its review and comments a plan of
project operations, consistent with the overall action program, to
be carried out in the following calendar year. Upon receipt of the
Bank's comments, the Borrower shall promptly finalize such plan of
operations and furnish it to the Bank not later than September 30
of that same year.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, together with
the plans of operations referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, for approval, using selection criteria and a methodology
satisfactory to the Bank: (i) feasibility reports for the Rural
Roads proposed to be included in Part A (2) of the Project for
each year; and (ii) extension guidelines, farm budget analyses and
implementation data for the extension to be carried out in each
year in the zones served by the Rural Roads proposed to be
included.
Section 3.04. In order to assist the Borrower in: (i) the
preparation of feasibility studies, detailed designs and contract
documents for the Rural Roads included in Part A (2) of the
Project; (ii) the supervision of works to be carried out under
Part A of the Project; (iii) the preparation of detailed extension


﻿-5-
programs and of credit need projections to be carried out under
Part B of the Project for the zones served by the Rural Roads
included in the second or third year of the Rural Roads improve-
ment program; (iv) the carrying out of Part H of the Project; and
(v) the preparation of guidelines for use by regional engineers
in the carrying out of Part E of the Project; the Borrower shall
employ consultants whose selection, qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Bank in accordance with the principles and procedures described in
the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank
in August 1981.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to e-amine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and Lny rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.


﻿- 6-
(c) Without any limitation to the generality of the fore-
going and except as the Bank may otherwise agree the Borrower
shall, through its Project Coordination Commictee, furnish to the
Bank quarterly progress reports in form and substance satisfac-
tory to the Bank.
(d) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, the Bank may publish a description thereof, the name
and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded and
the contract price.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their
respective obligations under the Loan Agreement and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to acquire as and when
needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be
required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the
Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to
the Bank that such land and rights in respect of land are avail-
able for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority
over its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution
of foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit
of such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on
any public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for
any external debt, which will or might result in a priority for


﻿-7-
the benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the alloca-
tion, realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien
shall, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no
cost to the Bank, equally and ratabl- secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower,
in creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or simi tr functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall: (a) establish and maintain
within MPW, MA and MTC Project accounts and records adequate to
reflect, separately, in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices, their operations, resources and ex-
penditures in respect of the Project; and
(b) cause MPW, MA and MTC to: (i) have such Project accounts
and records for each fiscal year audited, in accoiiance with
appropriate accounting principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the
Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year the report of the audit
of such Project accounts and records by said independent auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information


﻿-8-
concerning the said Project accounts and records and the audit
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall ensure adequate supervision
of Rural Road improvement works and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, equipment, staff and other
resources required for the foregoing.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall cause all the Rural Roads as
well as other improved rural roads offering an appropriate level
of service to be adequately maintained; shall cause all necessary
repairs thereof promptly to be made, all in accordance with sound
engineering practices; and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, equipment, staff and other resources required
for the foregoing.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions,
namely, that the Project Coordination Committee referred to in
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement sha'1l have been established
pursuant to the provisions thereof.
Section 5.02. The date <eb. 13 19?2. , is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre du Plan et des Finances of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministere du Plan et des Finances
Place de la Monnaie
Tunis, Tunisia


﻿-9-
Cable address:                       Telex:
MIPLAN                              MIPLAN 12117
Tunis                               TN
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
By hiSj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By    ~   c(      C~
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿- 10 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
(at:gory                 Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Rural Road works             21,000,000         40%
(2) Construction and                500,000         30%
rehabilitation of
buildings for
Part B of the
Project
(3) Extension                       150,000         100% of for-
equipment                                      eign expendi-
tures and 63%
of local ex-
penditures
(4) Spot improvements             1,000,000         33%
(5) Motor vehicles                  350,000         100% of for-
for Part B of                                  eign expendi-
the Project                                    tures and
40% of local
expenditures
(6) Motor vehicle in-               400,000         100% of for-
spection equipment                             eign expendi-
for Part B of                                  tures and 63%
the Project                                    of local ex-
penditures


﻿- 11 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(7) Consultant                   2,100,000         75%
services
(8) Fellowships                    100,000         100%
(9) Fee                            524,631         Amount due
(10) Unallocated                 9,375,369
TOTAL        35,500,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the curr=ncy of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement ptrcentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement.


﻿- 12 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) reallocate
to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated to
another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are not
needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program under its
Sixth Development Plan to develop the Borrower's rural road
network and to improve the maintenance thereof, to further
strengthen the Borrower's agricultural extension services and to
provide short-, medium- and long-term agricultural credit in the
zones served by the Rural Roads.
The Project consists of the following:
Part A:   Rural Road Improvement
Rehabilitation, upgrading or construction of Rural Road
sections totalling about 1,200 km, in accordance with a Rural
Road improvement program and with the design standards specified
in Annex I to this Schedule:
(1) for the first year of the Rural Road improvement pro-
gram, 33 Rural Road sections totalling about 400 km, as
detailed in Annex II to this Schedule; and
(2) for the second and third years of the Rural Road im-
provement program, about 70 Rural Road sections total-
ling about 800 km, as agreed from time to time between
the Borrower and the Bank on the basis of feasibility
studies and detailed designs.
Part B:   Agricultural Extension
(1) Strengthening of agricultural extension services in the
zones served by the Rural Roads included in the Project, includ-
ing, inter alia, the assignment of extension agents to tech-
nical centers, the construction and equipping of about 55
technical centers and the purchase of vehicles for use by the
extension agents.
(2) Preparation of detailed extension programs and credit need
projections, and the implementation of such extension programs, in
the zones served by the Rural Roads included in the Project.


﻿- 14 -
Part C:   Agricultural Credit
Provision, through BNT, of: (i) short-term credit to farmers
for inputs; and (ii) medium- and long-term credit for investment
projects.
Part D:   Road Maintenance
Implementation of a road maintenance program for all improved
Rural Roads.
Part E:   Spot Improvement Program
Implementation of a feeder roads spot improvement program.
Part F:   Small Rural Infrastructure Works
Construction and rehabilitation of small infrastructure
works, including irrigation schemes, drainage works and mountain
dams.
Part G:   Road Safety
Provision of equipment for 5 vehicle inspection stations at
Kebili, Sfax, Tataouine, Tozeur and Tunis.
Part H:   Technical Assistance, Training and Fellowships
(1) Provision of consulting services to:
(i) assist DPC and MA in the preparation of a project
covering the next phase of rural road improvements;
(ii) assist DPC and MA in project auditing and with monitor-
ing and evaluation of the socio-economic, agricultural
and transport impacts of the Project;
(iii) assist MA with training, including instruction of
extension agents;
(iv) assist DPC in carrying out a study of materials, con-
struction and maintenance techniques for unpaved roads
in Tunisia; and


﻿- 15 -
(v) assist DPC in the preparation of a program of road
rehabilitation.
(2) Provision of fellowships to MA and DPC staff for short
training missions overseas.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1986.


﻿- 16 -
ANNEX I TO SCHEDULE 2
Design and Structural Standards
1.   Most of the Rural Roads will be improved following the
existing alignment. The longitudinal profile may be modified to
raise the road above flood level, but not generally just to
achieve the minimum design standards. Standards for horizontal
alignment and longitudinal profile will not therefore be imposed
in this Agreement. In the rare cases where a higher standard
may be required on a new alignment satisfactory comprehensive
standards have been established by the DPC.
2.   Except as the Bank and the Borrower otherwise agree, cross
section and pavement structure standards shall be as shown below.
Improvement Level 1/
Item                         N2          N3           N4
Traffic Volume ADT      0-50        50-100      more than 100
Platform Width          5 m         6 m         9 m (with 6 m of
high quality
gravel)
Pavement Structure2/    150-200 mm  200-250 mm  300 mm
1/   See Directives Techniques en Matiere d'Amenagement des
Routes Rurales, Manuel du Projeteur, DPC, February 1980.
2/   Depends on subgrade soil.
3/   Drainage would be provided by lateral ditches, pipe and
box culverts, and paved fords.


﻿- 17 -
ANNEX II TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Rural Road sections included in
Part A (1)
Except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the following Rural Road sections shall be included:
Approximate      Improvement
Road Number/Name                Length in km         Level*
Siliana:
204 MC47-Ecole d'Agric.             13.0              N4
205 MC 171-GP4                       8.6             N3
206  RVE 623-Siliana                25.3             N4
255B Sidi Bou Rouis-GP5              7.0             N4
Gafsa:
707  Nouamer                         8.2             N3
708  Ancienne GP3                    6.5             N3
709  Circuit Gafsa                   7.0             N3
710  Circuit Tozeur                  6.8             N3
711  Sened-Majoura                  10.3             N3
Gabes:
808 Mareth-Sadria-Zarat              8.7             N4
809  Kettana-Zrig Barrania           5.4             N3
Bizerte:
901 Bou M'Khila                     13.0             N3
902  Sidi Abdelbasset               13.2             N3
903  Errokb                          6.0             N3
906A Kef Grab                        9.7             N4
907 Kef Mezouar                     20.1             N4
*    As defined in Directives Techniques en Matiere d'Am&nagement
des Routes Rurales, Manuel du Projeteur, DPC, February 1980.


﻿- 18 -
Approximate      Improvement
Road Number/Name                   Length             Level*
Monastir:
1502 Bembla-Touza-Sidi Naija        18.1             N3
1503 Moknine-Beni Hassen            12.6             N3
1505 Bou Othman-Menzel Kamel        21.2             N4
1506B Bou Othman-Zaouiet Kontech     8.0             N3
Mahdia:
1602 Boumerdes-El Jem              18.3             N4
1651 Souassi-Somra                 25.5             N3
1652 Souassi-Sidi Bouhlel          10.0             N3
Sfax:
1701 Djebeniana-Agenga             15.2             N3
1702 El Amra-Hazeg                 11.8             N4
1703 Teniour-Boujarboua            12.2             N4
1704 Sidi Abdelkefi                11.7             N3
1751 Ouled Ahmed-Chograne          11.0             N3
Medenine:
1801 Oughla-Gribis                  8.7             N3
1802 Mouensa-Sidi Chamekh          11.5             N3
1803 Gribis-Hassi Jerbi             9.5             N3
1804 Mouensa-El Kantara            11.8             N3
1805 Khaoui-El Oubbigla            14.0             N3
399.9
*    As defined in Directives Techniques en Matière d'Aménagement
des Routes Rurales, Manuel du Projeteur, DPC, February 1980.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning September 15, 1986
through   September 15, 1998               1,365,000
On March 15, 1999                               1,375,000
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal; see
General Conditions, Section 3.04.


﻿- 20 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.04 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                                     2.05%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                            4.10%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                                     7.50%
More than eleven years but not
more than fifteen years
before maturity                                    10.25%
More than fifteen years
before maturity                                    11.60%


﻿- 21 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the current edition
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information
to update such notice annually so long as any goods or works
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
3.   (i) Bidders for the Rural Road improvement works included
in Part A of the Project will be prequalified as
described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines
for either single or multiple lots.
(ii) For bidding purposes, Rural Road improvement works
under Part A of the Project shall be divided into lots
estimated to cost the equivalent of at least DT500,000
each. Lots shall be packaged in groups estimated to cost
the equivalent of about DT3,000,000 each. Bidders may
bid for one or several lots or group of lots, and
contracts, each to be based on a unit price, shall be
awarded on the basis of the lowest bid for any lot or
group of lots.


﻿- 22 -
(iii) Contracts for equipment and vehicles included in Part B
of the Project shall be grouped to the extent possible.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids; and (iii) the cost of inland
freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of
the goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
B.   Prefereace for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Tunisia may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(i) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Tunisia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Tunisia equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(ii) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(iii) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 23 -
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest evalu-
ated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is thr
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
(1) Contracts for equipment or vehicles included
in Part B of the Project estimated to cost less
than $100,000 each may be awarded after competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Bank, provided that
the aggregate cost of all contracts so awarded
shall not exceed $500,000.
(2) Contracts for civil works under Parts B and E of
the Project may be awarded after competitive
bidding advertised locally in accordance with local
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
(3) Specialized vehicle inspection equipment included
in Part G of the Project shall be procured from
suppliers of equipment compatible with existing
equipment under negotiated contracts, account being
taken of the reasonableness of the price thereof


﻿- 24 -
and other factors such as time of delivery and
efficiency and reliability of the equipment and the
availability of maintenance facilities and spare
parts.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the
procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications
in said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
list of prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their
qualifications and of the reasons for the exclusion of any appli-
the Borrower's decision shall be furnished by the Borrower to the
Bank for its commentp before the applicants are notified of the
Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such addi-
tions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as
the Bank shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all: (i) contracts for civil works included
in Part A of the Project; and (ii) contracts for equipment or
vehicles estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in suffiLient time for
its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and comparison of
the bids received, together with uhe recommendations for award and
such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The
Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award would be
inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 25 -
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification was invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the sub-
mission to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal
of funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids or price
quotations as the case may be, recommendations for award and such
other information as the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank
shall, if it determines that the award of the contract was not
consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and state
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this  /4      day of       , 198L.
FOR SECRETARY


