Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Rpst No. P-4167-ZA
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 7.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPIJBLIC OF ZAMBIA
FOR A
SECOND TECHNTCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
March 3, 1986
Thi docuent hs a  sticded disbibud. xad my e used by recipients ony in the perfounnice of
dir offkid dutes lb outb may not oderwise be disdosed widho  Wodd Bank authorizriom.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                      Zambian Kwacha (K)
USS 1.00                            K   6.40
K   1.00                            USS 0.16
(The US Dollar/Zambian Kwacha exchange rate shuon above is the rate
that prevailed at the end of January 1986.)
ABBREVIATIONS
BOZ      -  Bank of Zambia
DPU      -  Data Processing Unit
EEC      -  European Economic Community
IP       -  Investment Policy, Programming and Project
Preparation Department
MOF      -  Ministry of Finance
MTFP     - Medium Term Financial Plan
NAMBOARD    National Agricultural Harketing Board
NCDP     -  National Commission for Development Planning
NIPA     -  National Institute for Public Administration
UNDP     -  United Nations Development Programme
ZICA     -  Zambian Institute of Certified Accountants
ZIMCO    -  Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation, Ltd.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
ZAMBIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:       Republic of Zambia
Amount:          SDR 7.3 million (US$ 8.0 million equivalent)
Terms:           Standard
Project         The project would finance assistance to
Description:  improve the capacity of the Government to carry out
macro-economic Analysis; implement improvements in the
planning and budgeting systems to make resource allocation
more responsive to Government policies and objectives. and
improve management and accounting skills and the
availability, speed and accuracy of essential management
information.
Benefits:       At the end of the project period, Government should have
improved macro-economic analysis capability resulting in a
more effective planning process which, in turn, will guide
the budget process. Government should also have improved
control over the budgetary process, from resource
constraint identification to monitoring of budget
execution. The introduction of a computerized Financial
Management System will help to produce timely information
for policy formulation, aid coordination, and better
control of available financial resources. The project's
training activities will result in a pool of competent and
better motivated staff at all levels from accounting
technicians to macro-economic planners to senior management
officials in the key economic institutions.
Risks:          The major risks associated with the proposed project are
(1) sustainability of institutional benefits anticipated in
view of high turnover rates in the civil service; (2)
sustainability of commitment adn accountability on the part
of line managers and operational staff towards full
implementation of the financial management system. The
Government is currently addressing the issue of salaries
for technical and professional staff with the goal of
reducing the drain of qualified and experienced civil
servants to the parastatal and private sectors. With
regard to the financial management system, the phased
design of a proposed comprehensive and extensive training
program is expected to improve morale and accountability of
agencies providing primary data.
This document hk a rtricted distibuton and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their ofacial duties. Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Fhank suthonntion.



Estimated                                           Prolect Costs
PirojectCosts:                                     (USS millions)
Local     Foreign    Total
Long Term Experts                                        1.5        1.5
Consultants                                  0.4          1.9       2.3
Training                                     0.3         2.3        2.6
Equipment, Supplies,
Maintenance, Office Space                   0.2         0.6        0.8
Contingencies                                0.7         1.5        2.2
Total1                                      1.6         7.8        9.4
Financing
(in US$ millions)
IDA                                              1.1           6.9         8.0
Government of Ireland                            0.1           0.9          1.0
Government of Zambia                             0.4            -          0.4
Total                                      1.6          7.8          9.4
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year       1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992
(US$ millions equivalent)
Annual:               0.4      1.6      2.0      1.7      1.2     0.9     0.2
Cumulative:           0.4      2.0      4.0      5.7     6.9      7.8     8.0
Rate of
Return:         Not applicable.
Staff
Appraisal
Report:         No separate Staff Appraisal Report has been prepared for
this project.
lTaxes included in project costs are negligible, as all items would be
exempt from import duties and local taxes.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA FOR A
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Zambia of SDR 7.3 million (approximately US$8.0
million equivalent) on standard terms to help finance a Second Technical
Assistance Project. Cofinancing is being provided by the Government of
Ireland.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Country Economic Memorandum on Zambia (Report No. 5000-ZA) was
distributed to the Executive Directors on April 24, 1984. This part is
based on that report's findings and on subsequent information received from
the Zambian authorities. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Zambia's economy is heavily dependent on external trade and on
government activity. Imports and exports range between 30 and 40 percent
of GDP. Government expenditures amount to about 35 percent of GDP, and the
Government owns a majority share of mining and most manufacturiug
enterprises. Copper mining provides over 90 percent of faoeign exchange
earnings and 15 percent of gross value added. Mueh economic activity is
dependent on expatriate technical, managerial, and administrative skills.
Current Economic Situation
4.        Zambia is currently in an acute stage of economic and financial
crisis. Production has declined steadily for four consecutive years in
most sectors due to reductions in import volumes. Due in part to continued
declines in the copper price, scheduled external debt service obligations
amount to over 70 percent of export earnings. Large arrears have been
accumulated on debt servicing and commercial payments to members of the
Paris Club and the IMF. (However, all arrears to the IMF were paid in
early January 1986). In addition, disbursements of external loans have
fallen sharply due to reductions in capital expenditure by both the
Government and many public enterprises. As a result, a multi-faceted
foreign exchange constraint now grips the country and threatens to override
the positive effects of the Government's economic recovery program
initiated in 1983. To avoid this, a major coordinated effort of debt
restructuring and renewed financial flows is, required for the third time
in the last four years -- the previous reschedulings were in 1983 and 1984.



- 2 -
5.        Zambia's economic and financial problems were initiated by a
sharp decline in the copper price in 1975. Zambia's terms of trade have
deteriorated steadily since then, and by 1984, were 70 percent below the
average for the early 1970s. Real GDP has been in a general downward trend
since 1975, declining on an average by about 1.5 percent per year. With
population growing by 3.1 percent per annum, real GDP per capita is 25
percent lower than in 1974. GNP per capita was estimated at US$580 in
1983, using the World Bank Atlas methodology, but is now much lower as a
result of major devaluations of the Kwacha in 1984 and after the
introduction of the foreign exchange auctionings in October 1985.
6.        The balance of payments has been in chronic disequilibrium since
1975, with current account deficits climbing to an average of 19 percent of
GDP in 1980-82. Nevertheless, the volume of imports declined steadily and
is now 50 percent below its level in 1980 and 75 percent below its level in
1974. This has resulted in an economy-wide problem of severe under-
utilization of capacity and, especially in the mining sector, a large
backlog of maintenance and rehabilitation expenditure that has contributed
directly to a declining trend in copper production and exports. In 1985,
copper exports fell to their lowest level (480,000 tonnes) since Zambia's
independence. The current level of imports is now inadequate to sustain
copper production and to provide a critical minimum for the rest of the
economy to function efficiently. The large current account deficits have
also led directly to Zambia's high level of external indebtedness. At the
end of 1984, Zambia's total external liabilities stood at US$4.4 billion,
including drawings from the DMF (US$740 million) and US$500 million in
overdue commercial payments. By comparison, exports of goods and services
amounted to somewhat over US$900 million.
7.        The decline in copper prices also severely affected Zambia's
fiscal and monetary positions. In the past, mineral taxes provided a large
share of government revenue, but they have been negligible since 1976. A
new mineral export tax was introduced in 1983, however, which now
contributes about 10 percent of Government's revenue. Deficit financing
absorbed a large share of net domestic credit and contributed to a sharp
rise in consumer prices, averaging 20 percent per annum during 1976-78 and
12 percent per annum in 1979-82. Price increases have accelerated in 1983
and 1984 to about 20 percent per annum, reflecting the decontrol of prices
in December 1982 and the devaluations of the Kwacha during the past two
years. Currently, the inflation is running at an annual rate of about 75
percent while the economy has been adjusting to the sharp increase in the
dollar parity of the Kwacha from 2.2 prior to the introduction of the
foreign exchange auctioning to 5.7 at present.
S.        There is no doubt that external factors have been an important
cause of Zambia's present economic difficulties. Apart from low copper
prices, severe droughts over three consecutive years have necessitated
substantial food imports. Nevertheless, inappropriate policies and
shortcomings in economic management have exacerbated the economic
difficulties. The main deficiencies in economic policies were that: (i)
pricing and subsidy policies favored the urban consumer at the expense of
the agricultural producer; also, controlled industrial prices led to low
profitability in the manufacturing sector; (ii) tax incentives and low



- 3 -
interest rates led to a pattern of capital intensive investment; (iii)
exchange rate and tariff policies encouraged the use of artificially cheap
imported raw materials and other inputs As a result, a highly capital and
import-intensive productive structure was created that proved to be very
vulnerable to prolonged declines in the availability of foreign exchange.
Strategy for Economic Restructuring
9.        Economically exploitable ore reserves are only sufficient to
maintain present levels of copper production for another 15 years or so,
after which production can be expected to decline sharply. In the absence
of new sources of income, employment and foreign exchange, Zambia may
expect a drastic fall in living standards and social well-being by the turn
of the century. However, Zambia has the potential to develop alternative
sources of income, employment and exports. The greatest potential is in
agriculture, where there are opportunities for import substitution (cotton,
oilseeds, livestock, grains, forestry products and fish) and for exports
(beef, cotton, coffee, tobacco, groundnuts, and sugar). Once a good start
is made with agricultural development, possibilities will be created for
agro-based industries-
10.       For any long-term growth strategy to succeed, however, it is of
the utmost importance that 'inancial balance be restored in the economy.
As the main provider of foreign exchange, the copper industry has a major
role to play. For this reason, in 1984, the Bank approved an Export
Rehabilitation and Diversification Project which aims to increase the
efficiency of the mining industry and make it competitive again by
international standards. This project was accompanied by an agreement on
changes that would be needed in macro-economic and sector policies in order
to restructure and diversify the rest of the economy.
11.       The Government, with Bank and Fund assistance, has developed a
wide-ranging package of economic restructuring policies that may be
summarized as follows:
- Providing a system of incentives to producers and exporters of
agricultural and industrial products in which production is
responsive to market forces;
-- Ensuring the competitiveness of exports through an active
exchange rate policy;
-- Using tariffs and interest rate policies to reverse past
trends of import dependence and capital intensity;
-- Liberalizing administrative restrictions on foreign trade and
the licensing of production, in order to improve the
allocation of resources and to encourage investment in
productive activities;
-- Reducing the Government's deficit and recourse to domestic
bank borrowing by reducing expenditure on personnel costs,
subsidies and other non-development related activities;



-- Improving planning and budgetary procedures to shift resources
to productive uses and economic investments;
-- Allowing greater competition in the procurement and selling of
food crops. The National Agricultural Marketing Board
(NAMBOARD), the Government's agricultural marketing agency,
will move towards the role of buyer and seller of last resort,
using a system of floor and ceiling prices for agricultural
produce and inputs, respectively;
-- Strengthening the technical and managerial capacity of Zambia
Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO), which is the
holding company of most state-controlled enterprises;
-- Restructuring the energy sector to bring about lesser
dependence on imported oil.
12.       In the past two years, the Government has made significant
progress in translating the above policies into tangible action. Stand-by
arrangements were agreed with the IMF in 1983 and 1984. Under these
programs, the Kwacha was linked to a basket of currencies and was
depreciated in a gradual manner by more than 60 percent (in foreign
exchange terms) through October 1985 when the foreign exchange auctioning
was introduced (paragraph 15). Because the Government has been successful
in holding wage increases to considerably less than rises in the cost of
living, it has maintained the benefits of devaluation in real terms, which
has improved the competitiveness of exports. Debt rescheduling with
members of the Paris Club, commercial banks and non-OECD governments was
also obtained.
13.       In terms of improving conditions for longer-term growth, the most
significant of the above financial measures was no doubt the exchange rate
adjustments. But other measures with significant long-term impact have
been introduced as well. In December 1982, the Government abolished the
control of all wholesale and retail prices except for three essential
commodities: wheat flour, maize flour and candles. Most recently, the
prices of wheat flour and bread were also decontrolled. Over the last
three years, producer prices for most agricultural crops have been
increased considerably in real terms. The Government has also improved the
incentives affecting foreign trade by introducing a foreign exchange
retention scheme and concessional tax rates for non-traditional exports,
and by imposing a minimum tariff on many non-dutiable imports which should
reduce the high rates of effective protection afforded to import-intensive
industries.
14.       The Government's efforta over the past two years represent a
major reformulation of economic policies and incentives. This progress is
currently in danger of being set back, however, due to insufficient foreign
exchange to maintain production (and exports) and to honor external debt
obligations. On one hand, the Government wishes to improve the supply of
essential consumer goods and thus show some benefits from the considerable
sacrifices its policies have required of tne population. In particular, a
rapid increase in the consumer price of maize (resulting from higher



-5-
producer prices, drought induced imports and lower subsidies) has
heightened the political sensitivity of further reforms that result in
higher prices for other goods and services. On the other hand, the
Government must allocate considerable foreign exchange to debt service that
cannot be rescheduled.
15.       In facing rhis dilemma, the Government has adopted a foreign
exchange auction system in recognition of the need for greater efficiency
in the allocation of these resources. This shoul'd also help mobilize
additional foreign exchange into the official market from unrecorded
exports and from official development agencies that would be willing to
support such a significant policy change with quickly disbursing
assistance. However, this strategy risks uprooting a hard-won political
concensus that the economic reform program must continue. Against the hope
that additional foreign exchange resources will materialize, the
Government's decision to adopt an auction system is being taken with the
clear expectation that higher prices will inevitably follow further
depreciation of the Kwacha. Indeed, petroleum prices doubled following the
first auction where the rate jumped from K2.2 to K5.0 per US dollar. It is
therefore essential that additional foreign exchange resources be aade
available for the new system to work and for an increase in production to
occur, in order to expand the supply of basic consumer goods and minimize
upward pressure on prices. Along with the new system, the Government has
introduced a wide range of supporting measures, including decontrol of
interest rates, conversion of the import licensing system to one of import
registration, and further measures to reduce government expenditure and
borrowing from the banking system.
Creditworthiness
16.       Scheduled service on public and publicly guaranteed (PPG)
external debt will remain over US$400 million per annum for the next three
years, or about 40 percent of export earnings at today's copper prices. Of
this amount, about US$65 million per annum is due to the World Bank Group,
including the IFC. (The Bank currently holds US$430 million, or 15 percent
of Zambia's US$2.8 billion PPG debt disbursed and outstanding). In
addition, about US$200 million per annum in payments is due to the IMF and
another US$50-70 million per annum on Zambia's pipeline of commercial
payment arrears and short-term borrowings. In total, then, scheduled debt
service will amount to over US$700 million per annum x-or the next three
years, and it will thus be necessary for the Government to continue its
financial stabilization policies in cooperation with the IMF and to seek
debt relief through further rescheduling. Even with maximum debt relief,
however, Zambia will continue to owe over US$400 million per annum in debt
service that cannot be rescheduled. The Government should, therefore,
avoid as much as possible borrowing on commercial terms, and additional
borrowing should carry sufficiently long grace periods and maturities.
17.       In the longer term, the restoration of Zambia's creditworthiness
depends on the vigor with which the Government continues to pursue its
economic restructuring policies. The Government is well underway in
adjusting its economic policies and is fully committed to take further
steps towards economic reform and the restructuring of Zambia's productive



- 6-
industries. Assuming successful economic policies, careful financial
management and adequate external assistance, Zambia could achieve a
reasonable measure of export growth and diversification in 10 to 12 years
and reduce its overall debt service ratio to 30 percent of exports.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
18.       Since 1956, the Bank Group has made 28 loans and 16 credits to
Zambia, totalling about US$803 million (net of cancellations). Two
additional Bank loans were made to Zambia and Zimbabwe jointly to finance
shared power facilities on the Zambezi River. Fourteen loans and seven
credits have financed energy, transportation, communications and rural
water supply projects. Four loans and one credit for education have helped
expand Zambia's secondary and higher education systems, teacher training,
and commercial, agricultural and technical education systems. Two program
loans have helped Zambia maintain its development program in periods of
severe economic dislocation. In agriculture, forestry and fisheries, six
loans and six credits have been for industrial forest plantations and wood
processing, livestock, commercial crops, integrated family farming, coffee
production and smallholder dairy and fisheries development.  Agricultural
projects in the Eastern and Southern Provinces are assisting smallholder
farmers and an Agricultural Rehabilitation Project is providing inputs to
the sector in support of policy reforms.  The Industrial Reorientation
Project is supporting policy and institutional reforms designed to increase
the efficiency and productivity of industrial firms and to reorient the
industrial sector towards greater use of domestic inputs and export
markets. Other loans have assisted Zambia's urban development program,
copper mining and, through the Development Bank of Zambia, its
manufacturing, agricultural and industrial sectors. The first technical
assistance credit is helping the Government improve its planning and
project preparation.
19        The International Finance Corporation (IFC) has invested about
US$85 million in eleven projects in Zambia since 1972. Two investments
were in shoe manufacturing, two in a packaging materials plant, two in
textiles and one each in the Development Bank of Zambia, cobalt production,
copper production, tou.ism and in food and food processing.
20.       The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia has
deteriorated significantly in recent years, and serious delays have been
experienced in the executior. of a number of these projects. The- are
several reasons for this, the main one being the lack of budgetary
resources with which to finance local counterpart expenditures and to
prefinance local expenditures which are subsequently to be reimbursed by
the Bank loan. Most seriously affected have been the Bankts agricultural
projects for which funds, although budgeted, have not been released to the
executing agencies for several months. Other reasons for the lagging
implementation of projects are ineffective project management and
inadequate inter-agency coordination. The Bank-assisted agricultural
projects, which require careful management and effective coordination due



-7-
to their complex design, have suffered from these problems, as has the
hird Highway Project.
21.       The deterioration of project implementation has, as expected,
substantially reduced the rate of disbursements on Bank Group loans and
credits. During the first four years of the period FY77-81, the disburse-
ment rate on loans and credits to Zambia averaged slightly over 25 percent
per annum, higher than the Bankwide average of 21.2 percent, or the 21.5
percent average for the Eastern Africa Region, and well above the 22.2
percent fo- Tanzania, 23.4 percent for Senegal and 20.2 percent for
Bolivia. In FY81, however, the rate dropped to just over 16 percent,
compared with 20.7 percent Bankwide, 16.5 percent for Eastern Africa, 23.6
percent for Tanzania, 20.8 percent for Senegal and 21.2 percent for
Bolivia. The rate has risen since FY81, reaching 20.1 percent in FY83,
which was slightly below the average for the Eastern Africa Region (20.7
percent) and for the Bank overall (20.8 percent). To alleviate the
problem, provision is being made for technical assistance in projects to
strengthen implementing agencies and increased use of the Resident Mission
in monitoring project execution. Revolving funds are being established
under new and ongoing projects which should ease the Government's financial
burden and accelerate disbursements. The Bank or IDA makes advance
deposits into these funds to eliminate the need for prefinancing by the
Government of local expenditures financed by the Bank/IDA. In addition,
estimates of counterpart funds required and their timing are being prepared
by Bank/IDA staff well in advance to allow implementing agencies as much
lead time as possible to plan for these expenditures. As of December 1983,
IBRD loans disbursed and outstanding were about 12 percent of Zambia's
total medium and ang-term debt disbursed and outstanding.
22.       The Bank Group's strategy in Zambia is to support the country's
efforts to diversify and increase economic efficiency. Raising the
efficiency of the mining industry through the Export Rehabilitation and
Diversification loan so that the industry may contribute resources to
diversification programs was the first step in carrying out this strategy.
Subsequent operations, such as the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project and
the Industrial Reorientation Project, focus on improving sector policies in
agriculture and industry, which are, respectively, the sectors with the
best potential for production and export growth and for employment
creation. The Group's strategy also gives priority to reducing consumption
of imported petroleum, substituting indigenous energy resources and raising
the efficiency of energy and transportation services. Emphasis will be
given to rehabilitation and maintenance, rather than expansion, of
infrastructure and Bank Group assistance is expected to include a
significant proportion of quick-disbursing resources. Support in
addressing the longer-term development constraints, e.g., improving
economic management, education, population, health, etc., is also part of
the strategy. Policy and institutional reform programs in each of the
sectors, as well as on the macroeconomic level, are being agreed with the
Government.



PART III - THE NEED FOR TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
23.       The Government of Zambia has completed the first phase of an
adjustment process designed to establish a policy environment conducive to
economic growth and diversification. Significant policy changes have been
introduced and supporting measures are in place. The next phase of the
adjustment process, covering a five to ten year period, will involve the
actual restructuring of production and will require improved sector
policies, psrticularly in agriculture and industry. A crucial element for
further reforms will be the Governments capacity to sustain the
macro-policy environment initiated in the first phase through subsequent
stages of the adjustment process. The capability and effectiveness of the
key economic ministries to guide and monitor this process will, therefore,
be a determining factor for its success.
24.       The economic crisis and the necessity to redefine economic
policies to meet that crisis has, however, put a severe strain on the
capabilities of these key institutions.   The Ministry of Finance (MOF) and
the National Commission for Development Planning (NCDP), which are
responsible for overall economic management and development planning,
respectively, do not have the analytical capabilities or the administrative
machinery to cope with the demands of the economic recovery program. An
efficient mechanism for initiating, executing and monitoring longer-term
financial and economic recovery programs needs to be established, and the
capability for analysis and formulation of economic policy needs to be
developed.
25.       Recognizing that existing weaknesses in both the areas of
financial and economic management are serious obstacles to sustained
programs of reform and further limit the country's ability to respond to
continuously changing economic conditions, the Government of Zambia has,
since early 1984, taken steps to improve coordination among the major
economic ministries, to define responsibilities for decision making and to
improve the planning and budgeting process. Specifically, the following
changes have been introduced:
i) implementation of an improved budget system consolidating
recurrent and capital budgets;
ii) establishment of a medium-term macro-economic and financial
plan to provide Government with estimates of the funds likely to
be available for expenditure over a three-year period, and
setting public finance in the context of GDP growth, balance of
payments, and debt flows;
iii) revised annual planning process designed to: a) be used as
a guide to the development of the budget, b) be more
comprehensive, and c) focus on the consequences of proposed
programs and policies rather than on pure description;
iv) the bringing together of the MOF and the NCDP under a single
minister -- Finance (a simplified organization chart of the
Minio'try of Finance and Planning reflecting recent changes
appears in Annex IV). In the short time since this change was
announced, the Government has moved to rationalize the functions



-9 -
of the two agencies and to improve coordination between the
planning and budgeting functions.
26.       The reforms described above have been implemented with
considerable assistance and advice from World Bank staff and reflect a
mutual understanding of the areas where assistance is most needed and
likely to have the greatest impact. Their implementation represents a
first phase in a longer term process of institutional strengthening, the
next phase of which will be supported by the proposed project.
27.       The second phase will address needed improvements in the areas of
macro-economic planning, financial management and development
administration which require a somewhat longer time frame to achieve.
Macro-economic Analysis
28.       At present, responsibility for macro-economic analysis and policy
advice is shared between three different entities:
i) The Economic Unit in the Budget Office (Finance) is
responsible for macro issues related to fiscal policy, balance of
payments and revenue estimation. It is also responsible for the
medium-term financial plan.
ii) The Research Department of the Bank of Zambia (BOZ) is
responsible for monetary and credit policy and balance of
payments issues; the National Debt Office in BOZ maintains
records of external borrowing. Procedures for coordination with
the MDF exist, though contacts at the working level are limited.
iii) The Investment Policy, Programming and Project Preparation
Department (IP), NCDP has responsibility for macro-economic
analysis,projections and forward planning.
29.       The Government has taken the decision to concentrate the major
responsibility for macro-economic analysis in one organization, the IP
Department in the NCDP.2 In terms of organization and staffing, however,
IP is not ideally structured to carry out these functions and its capacity
to provide advice and guidance on economic reform is weak. Responsibility
for macro-economic analysis and projections falls to a small macro-economic
unit in IP. Positions of the Under-Secretary (Department Read) and Deputy
Under-Secretary were vacant over long periods and the macro-economic unit
as a whole understaffed.  The emphasis of IP work programs has been more on
project preparation than on concept and analysis.
30.        The Government intends to restructure and strengthen IP
to develop it into an effective advisory body to the Ministry of Finance
and Planning with the capacity to analyze the impact on the Zambian economy
of internal economic policy decisions and exogenous factors, to analyze the
2The role of the Research Department of the Bank of Zambia will remain
unchanged



- 10 -
implications of alternative macro-economic scenarios. and to advise on
desirable structural changes in the economy.
31.       As a first step, previously vacant senior positions in IP
have been filled and the Government proposes to further strengthen its
economic staff by transferring economists from the Budget Office to carry
out the expanded work program. The proposed project will finance advisory
services to TP to reinforce the Government's efforts and to train national
staff in carrying out required analyses and in preparing background and
policy papers.
Financial Management System
32.       Lack of appropriate and timely data for effective management and
decision making is generally recognized as a major obstacle to economic
reform. Indeed, it is premature to think of elaborate reform mechanisms in
the absence of accurate basic accounts. The deficiency of meaningful
information for planning and control affects all aspects of the work of the
MOF and is a major contributor to its present weakness. It affects the
quality of preparation of briefing documents and policy papers.
Information on project progress in both financial and physical terms is not
available to help determine budget priorities or to ensure rational release
of domestic funds. The MOF often has no direct knowledge of the amount of
foreign funding available to and actually released to executing
ministries. Information on external trade is as much as two years out of
date. Labor-intensive and time-consuming accounting systems and practices
occupy the time of budget analysts which could be better devoted to the
compilation of annual and medium-term programs and budgets, monitoring
financial performance and adjusting budgets in light of policy changes,
resource availability and performance variances.
33.       The General Government Accounts system has been automated in a
piecemeal fashion, resulting in delayed production of reports, duplication,
incomplete and inaccurate information, and lack of accountability for
effective operations. Information needed for forecasting of cash flows,
project evaluation and planning, and to obtain donor financing of
development projects is too little and too late. Delays in receipt of
information on tax and customs revenue lead to a high degree of uncertainty
on the amount of money likely to be available and is one cause of an
unnecessarily low level of releases to the spending ministries. Lack of
information on actual project expenditures often results in ad hoc
decisions on the part of the Budget Office causing delays in project
implementation and the inability to fully utilize foreign funding.
Information on income tax revenues, external debt and capital project
expenditures is not automated and must be compiled manually.
34.       At present all data (capital and recurrent accounts, expenditure
reports, national accounts data from the Central Statistics Office,
payrolls, customs and excise data, population census) is processed in the
Data Processing Unit (DPU) of the Ministry of Finance. DPU has a staff of
approximately 25 trained analysts/programmers, as well as a number of
operations and data entry staff. lIo data base management system exists and
requests for new or more detailed reports cannot readily be accommodated,



- 11 -
as the major part of staff time is spent in maintaining the current
computer systems. The delayed receipt of transaction data, a high
incidence of errors transactions and processing delays at the DPU, result
in a government-wide perception of DPU as a bottleneck. The morale of the
staff is low resulting in a high turnover rate which further exacerbates an
already difficult situation.
35.       The problem, then, is not lack of data but the inability of the
present system to capture what is available, process it efficiently, and
make it available to decision makers in a timely and usable manner. Major
improvements in the financial management and information systems are
achievable with existing staff resources and the existing IBM 4341, though
the former will require additional training and the latter upgrading. The
proposed project will finance the introduction of an efficient financial
management system and the related training program.
Budget Process
36.       The weaknesses of the budget process were described in a 1983
World Bank report and included:
Mi)   Cabinet did not make its input into the budget cycle early
enough to plan and direct overall budget priorities;
(ii)  Annual Plan did not guide the preparation of the budget;
(iii) Ministries had to prepare detailed budget submissions
without knowledge of likely amount of resources available
to them;
(iv)  Responsibility for recurrent and capital budgets is
separated, preventing substantive analysis of the linkages
between the two.
37.       The Government has since taken significant steps to implement the
recommendations of the report in order to address these problems.
Specifically, the recurrent and capital budgets have been merged, a new
budget format has been adopted and budget guidelines are issued in
advance. A financial planning model is being utilized, ministries have
been given more flexibility in allocating funds to different programs and a
new forward-looking annual development plan is being introduced which will
guide budget decisions.
38.       Still to be accomplished, however, are revisions in the budget
heads along functional lines (programs of expenditures), and developing
mechanisms for assessing performance and adequacy of expenditure levels.
In addition, although a medium-term financial plan (MTFP) has been
developed and is being utilized by MOF as is the new Annual Plan procedure,
neither is completely institutionalized. Economic conditions change
continuously, and the MTFP should be rolled forward each year to make it
more dynamic. The Annual Planning exercise which has just been introduced
will require an experience of several years, during which some assistance



- 12 -
wlli be required to train staff in the operating ministries on the
procedures and to advise on working assumptions and scenarios for the
macro-economic and financial analyses, before it is fully effective. The
proposed project will finance assistance to the Budget Office to improve
its capacity for budget analysis and revenue forecasting.
Integration of Aid and the Budget
39.       The lack of clearly defined areas of responsibility and poor
coordination is particularly evident in the fragmentation of responsibility
for various sources of finance. The MDF does not have an overview of all
financial resources accruing to the Government nor of debt and debt
repayment. The Loans and Investment Division of MOF is in charge of
receiving or extending loans; the Economic and Technical Cooperation
Department of NCDP is generally responsible for grants and technical assis-
tance; proceeds from commodity aid are sometimes retained by the receiving
ministry and MOF has little control over these funds. Lack of reliable
information on amounts of aid expected results in a significant underesti-
mation of these resources in the preparation of the budget.
40.       Similar problems are encountered with debt management.  At
pre3ent, there are two government institutions that are responsible for
some aspects of debt management: MOF and BOZ. Neither institution,
individually, has complete information on foreign debt and no records are
yet maintained on public enterprise debt. Although MOF is the direct
source of information on government debt, its capacity to monitor and
maintain the data remain weak. Excessive delays in producing debt data are
encountered, inconsistencies in the statistics are persistent, and payments
o0 debt service are often delayed, resulting in penalty interest charges
and, in some instances, overpayments. Almost no analysis to aid debt
management is done at present and the Government has no foreign borrowing
strategy. As a result, indebtedness is incurred without sufficiently
exploring the implications of the external debt profile.
41.       The Government has announced its decision to bring together into
a single division reporting to the Permanent Secretary, Finance,
responsibility for all technical and financial assistance as well as
internal and external borrowing. Staff from NCDP responsible for grants
and technical assistance have been transferred to the Loans and Investment
Division of MOF. This expanded division will have responsibility for
loans, grants, commodity aid, aid coordination, and for establishing a
comprehensive debt management system. These changes represent a major step
in the direction of more efficient administration and improved control and
coordination of resources.
42.       Assistance to the Loans and Investment Division will be provided
from the special program of technical assistance to IDA-only countries
which will provide the services of a debt management specialist. The
advisor would be assigned to the head of the Loans and Investment
Division. In order to ensure that debt data is incorporated into the
computerized system, the Advisor will work closely with the consultants
selected under this project to design the Financial Management System.



- 13 -
43.       The expanded Loans and Investment Division will also have
responsibility for aid coordination and will serve as the Secretariat to
the Joint Monitoring Committee (comprising local representatives of donors
and the Zambian Government) which has been established to monitor and
coordinate all types of aid. The Government has requested the United
Nations Development Program (UNDP) to provide assistance to the Secretariat
to carry out its aid coordination functions. The UNDP project is currently
under preparation and should start implementation in early 1986. The
Financial Management System to be developed under the prooosed project will
also provide data on project expenditures and progress to the aid
coordination unit.
Accounting and Accountancy Training
44.       The largest single discipline in HOF is that of accounting
officers. For the most part, however, these officers do not possess
qualifications recognized by professional accountancy bodies, and the
Government remains highly dependent upon expatriate professionals. Much of
the professional accountants' time is spent in reviewing and correcting the
routine work of poorly trained and poorly motivated accounting clerks and
technicians. The quality of education and training of accountants in
Zambia ranges from excellent to substandard. There is no cohesion or
direction to the various institutions which provide training and a lack of
direction for the profession.
45.       In 1982, the Accountants Act established a professional
institute, the Zambia Institute of Certified Accountants (ZICA),
responsible for establishing and maintaining standards of conduct,
examining, admitting and maintaining a registry of accountants and
accounting technicians in the country, and assisting in their education and
training. ZICA, with assistance, can become the focal point of
professional development in the country by setting examination standards
and thereby assisting the training institutions to improve their own
curricula and teaching staffs.
46.       Improvements in the efficiency of accounting 3nd auditing in
Zambia and raising the education standards of the profession will require a
comparatively long-term infusion of technical and financial assistance. A
number of donors are active in providing accounting assistance to Zambian
institutions (the European Economic Community (EEC), and the Overseas
Development Administration, U.K.). Much of this assistance is in the form
of expatriate accountants teaching at Zambian training institutions. The
EEC, however, is financing a feasibility study on the organization and
development of the accounting profession in Zambia. Assistance under the
proposed project will focus on the training required as a follow-up to the
EEC study and on raising accountancy standards through support to ZICA.
Management, Supervision and Administration
47.       A major problem faced by MOF (and by all other ministries in
Zambia) is the extreme burden of work placed on the top echelon.
Consequently, ministers and permanent secretaries spend too much time on
routine matters and not enough on policy formulation and program
development.



- 14 -
48.       The quality of preparation of background papers required by
policy makers and senior officials is often weak. Advice concerning
important items on the Cabinet agenda is sometimes lacking or prepared only
at the last moment. Staff do not always receive adequate briefings and
lack the background knowledge required to take initiative in preparing
policy briefs. There is a certain lack of discipline, even as far as
routine work is concerned, such as maintaining files and notes of meetings,
which leads to unnecessary duplication of work. Those not present at a
particular meeting or discussion, but involved in the follow-up to it, are
handicapped. Also controversies may, and do, arise about what has been
decided. It is difficult for new staff (and staff changes are frequent) to
acquire the background information needed to do their work.
49.       There is a noticeable lack of motivation, particularly among
staff who do not see their work as worthwhile, those with unclear terms of
reference, and those receiving little guidance or supervision. Many staff
are unclear about the work required of them, and often do not know who is
supposed to supervise their work. Communication between the top and
working level staff, essential for adequate preparation and for motivating
staff, is extremely limited. Regular meetings with working level staff to
discuss policy issues and work programs are rarely held.
50.       Overall, there is a lack of awareness of basic management
practices, no orientation of new staff or briefing of existing staff, and
few established routines for day-to-day work. An attempt to tackle these
problems within one single ministry when the symptoms reflect a government
wide managerial climate, would have only a limited impact, even within the
target ministry. In addition, cross-ministerial transfers are so common,
particularly at the management levels, that institutionalizing reforms
would require an on-going re-education -ffort with very limited results
within the proposed project period. The most effective entry point
therefore is the central agency responsible for the civil service as a
whole (including manpower development and training) -- the Cabinet Office.
The proposed project will finance the design and implementation of a
management awareness and training program for all supervisory levels
through the existing training agencies reporting to the Cabinet Office.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
51.       The proposed project would be the second Bank Group-supported
technical assistance project in Zambia. The first project, approved in
1978, was designed to strengthen the Government's project preparation and
implementation capability. It provides: long-term expert services to
improve the effectiveness of the Project Preparation Unit (PPU) in the
National Commission for Development Planni.g (NCDP); short-term consultancy
services for project preparation and implementation and training of local
counterpart staff. Project implementation suffered serious delay in the
early stages due mainly to lack of commitment by NCDP. Implementation has
improved substantially following a change in NCDP's leadership. Since
then, the project has been re-focussed somewhat to support the Government's
economic restructuring and diversification efforts. Identification of



- 15 -
sub-projects accelerated following the appointment of a project coordinator
in PPU and counterpart staff training also gained momentum. As a result,
project funds were substantially committed by the end of 1985, and the
credit is scheduled to close in June 1986, two years behind schedule.
Although the project's institution-building objectives may not have been
fully achieved, nevertheless, it has provided the Government with
much-needed consultancy services to carry out specific tasks, including
project preparation work, some of which are supportive of activities
included in the proposed project. The lessons of the ongoing project have
been used in designipg the proposed project.
52.       In 1984, the Minister of Finance requested further assistance to
improve development administration in the key economic ministries. The
project was identified in June 1984 and, in part, follows up assistance
provided in planning and budgeting carried out as part of the Bank 's
Economic and Sector Work Program. Appraisal was started in April 1985 and
was completed in September 1985. Negotiations were held in Lusaka from
January 28 to January 31, 1985. The Zambian delegation was led by Mr. Fred
Siame, Senior Under Secretary, Ministry of Finance. A Credit and Project
Summary is provided at the beginning of this report.  Supplementary project
data are contained in Annex III.
Project Objectives
53.       The proposed project will address two major weaknesses in
development administration in Zambia: a) inadequate capacity to carry out
macro-economic analysis, and b) the lack of timely and accurate financial
information required for analysis and the efficient management of the
economy. Related to these two main aid objectives, the project will also
strengthen the processes of budget preparation and revenue estimation and
improve coordination between planning and budgeting.
Project Description
54.       Specifically, the project, cofinanced with the Government of
Ireland on a parallel basis, would provide the following:
(i)   Macro-economic Analysis: Macro-economist (48 m/m)
and 36 m/m of short-term consultants assigned to IP;
(ii)  Financial Management System:  Consultant services for the
design and implementation of a five-phase computerized
system over a four-year period; computer software, data
entry units and terminals for the DPU, and microcomputers;
(iii) Budget and Revenue: a budget specialist (36 m/m) assigned
to the Budget Office; a Revenue adviser (24 m/m) assigned
to the Revenue Section of the Budget Office (MOF);
(iv)  Training:
a) a training program including seminars, workshops,
coaching and fellowships in support of activities i)
through iii) above;



- 16 -
b) management training to assist in improving
administrative, managerial and supervisory practices in the
Zambian Government;
c) curriculum reform and accountancy training for
government Accountants and State Auditors;
d) on-the-job training of legal draftsmen in the
Ministry of Legal Affairs; and
e) funds to be provided under the training component
for text books and audio-visual equipment.
(v)  Follow-up to Technical Assistance I. Extension of the
services of the Economic Adviser to the Minister of Fitance
(24 m/m) and Financial Director, ZIMCO (24 m/m) currently
financed under TA I.
Detailed Features
A. Macro-economic Analysis
55.      The macro-economist would be assigned to the Under Secretary of
IP which is responsible for macro-economic analysis. He will report to the
Permanent Secretary, Planning. The macro-economist will advise on all
aspects of economic plAnning and development, preparation of a
comprehenslve economic plan and the preparation of annual development plans
(in coordination with the Budget Office and the sector ministries). He
will organize the work program for the Annual Planning exercise and ensure
that the Plan contains a macro-economic and financial framework and a
series of sector-specific analyses with material necessary to indicate how
these resources should be allocated among sectors. He will assist IP
in carrying out special tasks and studies of major concern to policy
makers; e.g., recurrent expenditure implications of investment,
relationship between imports and manufacturing output, cost of government
subsidies, assessment of the incentive framework, etc.
56.      The macro-economist would assist the Permanent Secretary, NCDP,
to develop an effective advisory body to the Ministry. The macro-economist
will formulate proposals for policy-oriented research and take
responsibility for organizing work groups (including short term
consultants, as necessary) to carry out such studies. In addition, he
would assist in developing proper supervisory processes within IP
and coordination procedures with other offices and ministries.
57.      In addition to the post of macro-economist, the proposeri project
will finance approximately 36 man-months of short-term consultants to
assist in carrying out special tasks and studies, including assistance for
three to four months each year in drafting the annual plan with particular
emphasis on the sector chapters. The primary function of the short-term
consultants will be to train national staff on-the-job to carry out
required analyses, to improve the economic model, and to coach staff in the
preparation of badkground papers for policy makers. The consultants would
also be expected to present in-country seminars for staff of IP as well as
other departments in NCDP.



- 17 -
58.       The development of the macro-economic analysis function and the
establishment of an effective advisory body within the Government are
long-term undertakings. The proposed project will initiate the process and
develop sufficient capacity within NCDP to reduce, but not eliminate, its
reliance upon external consultants for policy advice. The project will
establish the practice of using external specialists on a short-term basis
to supplement the regular work program. Specialized, short-term assistance
of this type will continue to be needed after project completion.
B. Financial Hanagement Systems
59.       The project will finance the services of a consulting firm to
introduce a financial management system designed to facilitate the
following:
a)    review of financial performance in relation to expected
targets and medium term programs;
b)    improved Dudget preparation process and institution of
performan:e measurement mechanisms in order to effect
budget and program revisions and re-allocations of
financial resources;
c)    effective revenue/expenditure management, planning,
control, and forecasting;
d)    generation of financial data for use by management in
making policy decisions and monitoring of technical and
routine operations;
e)    administration of capital projects; and
f)    management of external debt.
60.       A phased implementation strategy has been design..d with stringent
performance assessments, monitoring of progress, and quantifiable benefits
at each defined project milestone. Training programs are an integral part
of each stage to ensure that new and revised systems are effectively
implemented by Zambian personnel and are sustainable over the long run
without further need for external assistance.
Phase I: Streamlining Data Flow
61.       This exercise is designed to improve the manual data flow to the
DPU for processing. It will streamline forms and coding structures to
eliminate existing duplication in transcription and thereby reduce
opportunities for errors, define supervisory and administrative
requirements and institute schedules, accountability, and deadlines.
Timely collection of financial data from operating ministries, parastatals,
etc. will be realized. A manual of the policies, procedures and
responsibilities for reporting will be prepared. Phase I will improve the
accuracy and timeliness of the informati'on currently received and processed
by MDF, introduce reports for effective planning and control, and lay the
ground work for subsequent enhiancements. Duration: 9 months.



- 18 -
Phase II: Training
62.       The objective of this program is to ensure that the new or
revised systems are effectively implemented by government personnel.  It
will encompass staff within MDF as well as other organizational units which
provide data to HOF. Design of the tzaining program will be concurrent
with Phase I and cover the entire project period. It will include a set of
courses for key staff in the routine operation of the data management
system, general introduction and awareness courses for all staff either
using the system or the system's output, special courses to upgrade
management skills and practices; specialized training for selected staff in
Database Management Systems and Structured Systems Design, and a limited
number of fellowships abroad. Duration: 4 years.
Phase III: Requirements Definition and Development Strategy
63.       Upon the successful completion of Phase I and related training,
further improvements will depend upon the development of an integrated
Financial Management System which would further increase the accuracy and
timeliness with which financial data is recorded and processed and generate
comprehensive reports for financial control, programming and budgeting
policy formulation, and resource allocation. The enhanced system would
also integrate information on capital project management, external debt,
external trade, and income tax revenues which are not currently automated.
The objectives of developing the system further are, therefore, to enable
the production of reports and mechanisms to facilitate the programming of
financial resources, means of forecasting committed expenditures (both
capital and recurrent) in light of policy changes or resource
availabilities, to assist the annual planning exercise by improving the
basis for allocating available financial resources between program areas,
to improve management of budget execution, and to improve the financial and
management auditing functions. Phase III of the program will investigate
the information needs for effective management, specify the appropriate
reports and mechanisms, and recommend either an enhancement or redesign of
the financial applications, prepara detailed cost estimates, and propose an
implementation strategy. Duration: 6 months.
Phase IV: Implementation and Integration
64.       Based on the agreed development strategy, the integrated
financial management system will be designed, programmed, tested and
implemented by the consultants together with selected counterpart staff of
DPU. The full integration of the local staff into this development phase
is crucial both in terms of long-term system maintenance and transfer of
skills. Thus Phase IV must be considered also as a major training
exercise, in addition to the more formal courses and workshops budgeted in
the Training Phase. Hardware and software acquisition will be limited to
additional data entry machines and terminals, plus the purchase and
installation of appropriate software. Duration: 27 months.
Phase V: Introduction of Microcomputers in Sectoral Ministries
65.       This is the last phase of the program and will be undertaken only
if the previous four phases are deemed successful. In this phase
microcomputers will be introduced into the accounting divisions in sector



- 19 -
ministries and the Customs and Excise Department. The automation will
facilitate timely closings, accurate sectoral bookkeeping, improved local
control over expenditures and releases, and expedite the transmission of
edited and accurate financial transactions to MOF. The DPU will aggregate
and process the data received and forward reports to appropriate management
in MOF and the sector ministries. Duration: 15 months.
66.       The focus of the proposed Financial Management System will be on
the information requirements of the Ministry of Finance including inputs
from the sectoral ministries. In addition to the MOF component, however,
the proposed project will assist the Bank of Zambia thrortgh the provision
of short-term consultants (9-12 m/m) and training to implement its on-going
computerization program. Particular attention will be given to information
sharing and coordination of data requirements between the MOF and the Bank
of Zambia.
C. Budget and Revenue
67.       The Budget Analyst would be responsible to the Director of the
Budget. He would assist the Chief Budget Analyst to develop the capacity
of the Budget Office to undertake detailed assessments of program
performance and to introduce more effective methods of budget analysis. He
will be responsible for on-the-job training of Budget Office staff in
analytical procedures and in adequate commitment reporting. The Budget
Analrst will also assist in introducing budget reform procedures which have
been agreed but not yet implemented and ensure that improvements already
made in the planning and budgeting system are fully incorporated into the
operational systems of the Budget Office.
68.       The Revenue Advioer would also be assigned to the Budget Office.
He would assist the Chief kevenue Inspector in preparing detailed revenue
projections and to train staff in the Revenue Division to prepare such
projections as a part of the routine operations of the Budget Office. The
Revenue Adviser would also advise and assist government in implementing
acceptable tax reform measures and other means of revenue generation.
69.       The Budget Analyst and the Revenue Adviser would collaborate with
the DPU and the consultants selected to design and implement the financial
management system to ensure that the data needs of the Budget Office
are adequately covered in the new system.
D. Training
70        Training programs have been described as an integral part of
components A, B, C and D above. In addition, the project will
finance fellowships (260 m/m) in economics and development planning,
budgeting and financial analysis for staff of IP, Budget Office, Loans and
Investment Division, and the Data Processing Unit (MOF). Details of the
fellowship program are provided in Annex V).
71.       Accounting and Auditing.  The first step in imp-oving accountancy
training in Zambia is to raise the standards of the training for
accountants and accounting technicians. The proposed project will finance
Accountants and accountancy training as follows:



- 20 -
a)    ZICA (24 m/m) to draft standards and principles for
professional conduct and practice and to review the supply
of facilities and adequacy of curriculum for training of
accountants and to recommend improvement.
b)   Accounting curriculum reform (24 m/m) National Institute
for Public Administration (NIPA). NIPA is responsible for
training of accountants in MOF and the Auditor General's
Office. Two accountants will be provided to improve the
accounting curriculum, one reporting to the Chief
Accountant in MDF and one reporting to the Auditor General
to ensure that the accountancy courses provided by NIPA
meet the needs of the receiving institutions. The
accountants will also conduct seminars for the teaching
staff at NIPA to ensure that they are prepared to conduct
all courses included under the revised curriculum. Funds
for textbooks and teaching materials are also included
under this component.
c)   Local refresher training of government accountants (25 m/m
of consultant/trainer input.
72.       Management, Supervision and Administration. The management
training program will be implemented with the assistance of management
training specialists (36 r/m) financed under a parallel agreement with the
Irish Government. They will be assigned to the Office of the Secretary to
the Cabinet and will be supported by trainers in specialized fields (25
m/m) and by Zambian specialists from the Directorate of Manpower
Development and Training, the National Institute of Public Administration,
and the Management Services Board. The management training team will
prepare, during the first three mDnths, a detailed training program for
middle- and upper-level officers with supervisory responsibility covering
principles of organization and management policy formulation and
implementation, effective supervision techniques, problem solving and
on-the-job coaching. The training seminar will begin with the supergrades
and be in the form of seminars where participants will diagnose the
problems, identify solutions and indicate their role in implementing these
solutions. Seminars will then be presented to successively lower
managerial levels. In addition, the advisers will prepare courses in
effecti-e writing for working level officers and an orientation and
induction program for all in-coming staff. The management training team
will prepare course material specifically designed for the Zambian
Goverment with appropriate case studies developed from local material. A
schedule of courses ranging from two to seven days, with refresher courses
as required, will be prepared covering a five year implementation period.
All courses will be presented under the auspices of local training
institutions, employing and training counterparts from these institutions
and increasing the capacity of the Zambian staff to continue the management
training program after the project is completed.
73.      Funds will also be available under this component for books and
audiovisual equipment and ten short-term fellowships or internship programs
in functionally comparable organizations.



- 21 -
74.       Legal Training.  The shortage of legislative draftsmen in the
Ministry of Legal Affairs creates a serious bottleneck in the promulgation
and implementation of new laws in Zambia. The lack of fully trained and
experienced draftsmen is, in addition, a major constraint on the
effectiveness of the Ministry of Finance in implementing policies and
programs (including debt rescheduling) which require the drafting of
legislation. The proposed project will provide on-the-job training in
legislative drafting (36 m/m) as well as overseas seminars for qualified
lawyers in the drafting department. Funds for books for the library of the
Attorney General as Puell as office equipment are included under this
component.
Follow-Up to Technical Assistance I
75.       The proposed project will continue financing the services of two
long-term advisers, financed under the first Technical Assistance Project,
the Financial Director, ZIMCO (24 m/m) and the Economic Adviser to the
Minister of Finance (24 m/m).  While, in the main, the proposed project
addresses the longer-term issue of strengthening the national capacity to
guide and monitor the economy, there remains an immediate need for policy
advice and management skills to assist Zambia through its present period of
crisis. In this regard, there is a continued need for the services of both
the Economic Adviser who is currently advising the Minister on matters of
budget and foreign exchange policy and liaison with the BOZ, as well as the
Financial Director of the Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation (ZIMCO)
who is responsible, inter alia, for introducing sound economic appraisal
practices into investment decisions in the mining and industrial sector.
Project Implementation
76.       MOF will have overall responsibility for project implementation.
A National Project Administrator will be assigned to the project and with
qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association. The
assignment of the administrator will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The Project Administrator will report to the Permanent
Secretary of MOF and have responsibility for coordinating the execution of
the project and liaison with the Association and the government offices and
agencies involved. The National Project Administrator will be responsible
for ensuring that all actions relevant to the project are carried out on a
timely basis and for clearing all documents (short lists, curriculum vitae
of experts, letters of invitation, contracts, bidding documents) with the
Association. He will ensure that timely arrangements are made with
educational institutions for all fellowships included in the project's
training program and arrange interviews for candidates for expert posts.
He will ensure that withdrawal applications and supporting documents are
submitted as required. In order to facilitate the monitoring of project
implementation, the Project Administrator will prepare six-mnthly progress
reports covering all project components, status of project commitments,
evaluation of consultants' performance and recommendations with regard to
desirable modifications in the work program. Such reports will be
submitted to the Association and provide the basis of discussions and field
review between the Bank and the Government. Not later than six months



- 22 -
after the credit closing date, the Project Administrator with the
assistance of other agencies involved would provide the Association with a
report evaluating the execution, initial operations, costs and benefits of
the project and the performance of the Government and Association including
the lessons learned.
77.       With regard to the Financial Management System, prior to the
first phase of the sub-project, and the selection of a consulting firm to
carry out the assignment, a Monitoring Committee will be established within
the Government to exercise control over project design and implementation.
The establishment of the Monitoring Committee will be a condition of Credit
effectiveness. The Committee will review project progress on a monthly
basis, approve recommended procedural/structural changes, agree on training
programs, and approve recommended software and hardware strategies. The
Committee would also monitor the quality and effectiveness of the outputs
at each checkpoint as specified in the Plan of Action during the project
cycle and approve the start of work for the next phase only after being
fully satisfied with the project's progress. The Committee will consist of
the following: Data Processing Manager, Director of Budget, Head of the
Accounting Division of the MOF, Director of IP Department (NCDP), Bank of
Zambia, Finance Director, ZIMCO, Controller of Audit, and Controller of
Customs and Excise, Commissioner of Taxes and representatives from at least
three operational ministries.
78.       Terms of reference for short-term consultants to assist IP staff
in carrying out special tasks and studies will be prepared by the
Macro-Economic Adviser in consultation with the Permanent Secretary of
NCDP. All proposed terms of reference would be subject to the
Association's agreement.
79.       The selection of candidates for the fellowship program would be
the joint responsibility of the Permanent Secretary, MOF and the Permanent
Secretary of NCDP. A program of fellowships has been agreed with the
Association (see Annex V). The Government will submit to the Association
for approval, on an annual basis, the names and CVs of the proposed fellows
before the start of the academic year.
Project Costs
80.       Cost of computer hardware and software has been estimated at
US$450,000 including terminals, software and macro-computers for the
Financial Management System. Price contingency estimates assume increases
in local currency costs of 40 percent in 1986, 20 percent in 1987 and 10
percent thereafter; and, in foreign exchange costs, f 8 percent per
annum. Physical contingencies of 5.0 percent for equipment have been
added.



- 23 -
Project Costs (by Component)
(in US $ '000)
Local      Foreign    Total)
NCDP - Macro-economic Analysis                            840        840
Financial Management System                   410        1,500     1,910
Budget and Revenue (MOF)                                  600        600
Training
Management Training                         160         750        910
Accountancy Training                         90          630       720
Legal Training                               40         400        440
Fellowships and Study Tours                             500        500
TA I, follow-up                                -           440       440
Equipment (including maintenance)             160         600        760
Base Costs                                  -77          6,310     7,170
Contingencies, physical  (5% on equipment)  10              30        40
Contingencies, price    (31%)                 730       1,510      2,240
TOTAL                                       1,600       7,850      9,450
Project Costs and Financing (by Category)
(in US $ '000)
Government   IDA    Co-Financing   Total
Long-term experts                           1,520                   1,520
Short-term Consultan.s            110       2,140                   2,250
Training                           80       1,650         860       2,590
Equipment (incl. maintenance)    50           760                     810
Contingencies                     210       1,930        140        2,280
TOTAL                             450        8000        1000       9,450
Procurement, Disbursement and Accounting
81.       It is expected that the Government would recruit directly under
individual contracts the long-term experts to be funded under the project.
Two of the experts are already 'n post. The Association will provide
assistance, as required, in identifying qualified and experienced
candidates for the remaining three positions financed under the project.
The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment of
all experts and consultants would be satisfactory to the Association and in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines for use of consultants. Consultants
for the management training component are to be financed by the Government
of Ireland on a parallel basis. The Irish Institute of Public Administra-
tion which has provided assistance to Zambia in the past in the area of
management training are expected to undertake this component.



- 24 -
82.       For the design and implementation of the Financial Management
System, the Government will engage a consulting firm with representation in
Lusaka and with qualifications and experience acceptable to the
Association. The short-list of firms as well as the letter of invitation
will be cleared with IDA before inviting proposals. Contracts for
equipment (including computers and related items) costing less than US$
50,00 per contract would be awarded following one of the following
procedures: (a) local competitive bidding (LCB); (b) international or
local shopping or; (c) direct contracting in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines for procurement. Contracts costing more than US$ 50,000 each,
if any, would be procured by International Competitive Bidding (ICB).
Estimated cost for procurement under these procedures is US$ 1.0 million
including contingencies. The Project Administrator would submit to the
Association for prior review, the tender documents indicating the method of
procurement proposed. Items would be grouped to the extent practical to
encourage competitive bidding. Mini-computers, to be purchased in Phase V
of the Financial Management System implementation program, must be
compatible with the main-frame computer currently used in the DPU.
83.       In order to expedite disbursement and give the Government
improved control over the timing of payments due under the credit, the
Government will establish a Special Account in the Bank of Zambia under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, into which the
Association would, upon credit effectiveness and receipt of withdrawal
application, make an advance deposit of UIS$200,000. The Association would
periodically replenish this account upon receipt and approval of withdrawal
applications together with satisfactory evidence that the expenditures paid
out of the Special Account were eligible for financing out of this project.
84.       The Association would disburse against 100 percent of foreign
expenditures and 60 percent of local expenditures for experts and
consultant services, training, equipment and supplies. All disbursements
would be fully documented except those for training and study tours and
payments against contracts of less than US$20,000 equivalent which would be
made against statements of expenditure, documentation for which would not
be submitted for review, but would be available for IDA representatives
during project supervision. The disbursement profile for Bank Group
financed projects in Zambia is not appropriate for comparison and the seven
year disbursement period is deemed reasonable.
85.        Auditing would be required on a yearly basis for expenditures
related to the project with particular attention to expenditures reimbursed
against statements of expenditure. Auditing would be performed by an
independent auditor acceptable to the Association within six months after
the end of each fiscal year of the borrower.
Project Implementation Schedule
86.       The proposed credit is expected to become efEective in April
1986. Long term advisers would be identified prior to project
effectiveness with the intention of posting them within the first six
months. Proposals for the establishment of the Financial Management System



- 25 -
will be requested prior to project effectiveness and work in the field
should commence within three months of the effectiveness date. The
fellowship program would start in September 1986. The project is expected
to be completed by June 1992. The closing date is December 31, 1992.
Benefits and Risks
87.       At the end of the project period, Government should have improved
macro-economic analysis capability resulting in a more effective planning
process which, in turn, will guide the budget process. Government should
also have improved control over the budgetary process, from resource
constraint identification to monitoring of budget execution. The
introduction of a computerized Financial Management System will help to
produce timely information for policy formulation, aid coordination, and
better control of available financial resources. The project's training
activities will result in a pool of competent and better motivated staff at
all levels from accounting technicians to macro-economic planners to senior
management officials in the key economic institutions.
88.      The major risks associated with the proposed project are (1)
sustainability of institutional benefits anticipated in view of high
turnover rates in the civil service; (2) sustainability of commitment adn
accountability on the part of line managers and operational staff towards
full implementation of the financial management system. The Government is
currently addressing the issue of salaries for technical and professional
staff with the goal of reducing the drain of qualified and experienced
civil servants to the parastatal and private sectors. With regard to the
financial management system, the phased design of a proposed comprehensive
and extensive tcaining program is expected to improve morale and
accountability of agencies providing primary data.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
89.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association and recommend that it be approved
, the Executive Directors.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
March 3, 1986



- 26 -
ANE I
L-Pa   1 of 6
u               ~~~~~- 3021 IU5e*    gal 0113
on                 COW~~(60  uu00u LSUTAZ3  AL
le             oerr r  rxmums UK
1 obe.               e3r A. OF0e                             13M11* 1 L,0
r4~~~~~~~~~~uuaub   1311 0..1Sal .-000 18h
TOML                               732         732.0       73L         
AOLFIMMM                           297.4       2".3        401.
=W  PM  eU&r                            ..          .. (M.                       03L                      5134.9
amommurniniUm  mmU
(uLiu  0r 02. 93 02&uT)              ..        30LO        44.0               581.3                      239
'wusano m 410IrML  MrEUC
vOUou.xZoKuIum        t(UAINM)    2141.0      413.0       029.0
-gum1 TOMAI. tC or WIL)              *J.1          .         46.3               3                        09.0
IOIaruO  MN mm* 2000 CUCLL)                               11.0
$Za-mmarn IOUj        p=&)                                33.0
vonuunx                                                    LO 
mm
ii  SQ. a1.                                    5.5 3  .3    .                3.5                     72.
mum M 1. Ai. UWA                   7.9         0.4        13.1              1.                       470.1
10IMA110  AMl grETU  CZ)
Tam 13                         45.0        "0.I       40.3               43.0                      GM.
13-64 u3s                         32.3        312    0.3                    31.3  3l 3.0
03*1AND2Awn                        2.4         2.3         LI                 2.1                      3.2
musrn neinn  u&u CZ)
1O L                               2.3         2.3         541               29.0
9.5         .A          0.2               3 L7A
cum urn 3am  CPU Iun                03.0        43.0        50.0              47.0                      00.
c3l oc   am1 (313 Won               32.4        13.7        10.0               13.0                     11.3
0693 GDMmoU                          3.2         3.3          2I 2.2                                     2.3
~1UUS  43211                         *.OU  ..                       .1
'Om  am -
mm    or roonm in.r 
(1969-71-100)                       99.         90.         91.0              32.9                      9.
c   hn cormA 0 .*7
ulmu CZ cw wquumm)       100.0        MD.         91.0                                       118.2
F2133 (GRAseN  m  o)               0.0        04.0        20.0              35A                       771
OF ISta LOUI. AND MM8            10.0        14.0        14.0 &,           10.                       117.4
(MUD (mm  1-4) 0 t13 lZ             11.0        26.2        19.0              10A                       12.
swim
Lrn =PIC!. AT us= (13485            41.7        W43         N30.              1.0                       37.3
3lwAU  lull. Rat (133 Pon13        15L1.3      123.0       100.0             103.3                      90.3
ACCESS To 1*1  "Mr (1301)
TOMA                               .          37.0        30.0 A             2.0                      07.2
03n3                               .          70.0        67.0              07.5                      93.4
reu.                                          22.0        MG                33.0                      4
(2 Or P0iUAMO)
Tat.  er                           ..         1.0            A               3.                       '3.
gum                               ~~~~~~~~12.0  00.0             37.1                     02.0
33*1                               ..         1.0         00.0              207                        MG4
9090LT.ZUM in NmuICI              9330.0      3140.0     7070.0            11791.7                   0331.0
P0M. 931302522  13230             9920.0 fL~ 2020.        1720.0  L         20)9.3                    1801.0
-01. 13 0MW0 AL. WD
TomAl                            300.0       300.        210.01 Ig.         31.                      021.
enoN                             1100f          .        30.0     3         05.8                     33.0
IDEL                            470.0                   240.0              A1.3                    2311.3
AagSU u  M  IOIU  In                                        31.0 .           17.2                      25.7
100 *30111   0 luIDW
TOTL.                              ..         n.o
,TEUW*M or  MD Jr                                                7 uw.
on"3                             27.3
lamS.                              .          U



- 27 -
AN= I
T aaL                                           Page 2 of 6
2*11 _A                 -UCAL 1 4IOS DATA  SE
ZA*IA                                       MML GaOn CIICWITES 3A0SJ
MOST                      CaOSs uCLus UL ATS) /b
1960&               APUM S   Or SAAARA   IL ~~~~~AVIIIC  & Hi1 M AST
ADJUST= CLU0NKN RtATLOS
1324ff    OTAL                     *2.0        n.o         96.0 id 9. I                                   9.8
KALZ                    31.0        ".0        102.0              L0ou.                     103.7
rau.s                   o.3n.0      79.0        9.                  12am                     7l
581ISA1h  TOTAL                     2.0       1U.0         17.0 Id            17.3                      62.9
KLZ                      3.0        17.0        22 .O              23.0 o0.9
n                          o 1.0.0              12.0 __            16                        34.6
CAumma  CZ or somui)                 27.S          .2         2.3       a        S.I                       10.0
n               oZL-'rASEZ 1*12
P32hZr                  -          50.0        47.0        48.0                41.1                    29.7
SUSOIDM                            14.0        22.0        22.0               23.5                      IS.8
i*S8SSM CAaSA11 PM                   10.4        14.3        16.7 .             20.6                      17.s
RAM  u0I  uin/uoIN    106             4.8 L0     16.0        26.3              107.4                     175.9
TV USCZIMESITNSND PM                              4.1        12.4               20. L82
MERU CLEU Cmus
PM TSO32AI POUZATOI                  5.1          .7        16.7               18A.                      37.2
CD  A L Um         SC                 ..          ..          0.3 A              0.4                       Z.
TOM 1.L A      M C0 t)             1263.0      163b0       216.0.
131. ClaW!)                        33.3        32.6        33.0               362z                      11.
AG2U3=U  (lla.C)                   79.0        73.0        67.0 #d            34.3                      424
ie U   CT)                          7.0         9.0        11.0               16.3                      27.9
mu,IrEATiO  imA  ctnc
TOhL                               41.2        3.0         34.6               26.8                       M2
t'                                35.3         32.9        47.3               47.1                      46.2
TSlmLR                             27.3        23.2        22.6               27.2                       S.&
ZCuZC    tUMM  AM@                    1.2         1.2         13                 1.3                       1.8
_- m
IU l 2301   U0U _6.2                           63.0 Li      6.7 11A..
I~S   23201 UOZWI                   3.      E    .  L        .
IS? 401 01 3018                    13.0        10.1        11.1                ...
agm       - orn
=c   oumv==c
211UL                               ..          ..        168.07i            27.3                      14.0
D32*3                               ..          ..        12.0 9             543.6                     431.
LOA=                                ..          ..         63. 0             201.1                     3260
Ea rnD ia.  &   6182
1UN o.                              .. .0                  23.0,               ...
36*1                                ..         ..           ..                 ..                       2i.0
OraS ASSOLUT fME          XM
amm                                              16.0              273301343
LVS (U    MCM
/!   The LV       tq   few *e_ IuiutFevm,.Ia   m.m*ged a_t1t-  _*_ . 0wtq   of  mto
-o        ail01 ded                                             _2 6 al y  1  _ n  l   _U
1k.  0... ocb.1.  mad.  0afor IWVwtat tor w  ree  __.     193 _   1361w  k3  few 1970  bern-
1969   PM. U7tl  dS==         e _      t     m      e . 1           19
a   1977: .  1980: b  1 973  IL 1a3  Ia   7;    1976  A,U92;               1973.
_wm  196



- 28 -
ANNEX I
Page  3 of 6
oumorr4 oW SOCaL sMcA'Mss
%o: Al*"g dw dsL mrwn (mmlure semwa_dnttt dwpl WAN 1wtm mW MA    it tld  b  o o   wcey any i b
bermo h  w  fsoada dngmad                       mdb  dmcomi colam t ? d . Dadut ame nemisac&a, mvdad so0
dmcnbhi re., of mapiuad,diLA. wtneds,and baracwus ara. aajrddilue,but..wmanfion.
T      p          l ew                    e       it                t4 tX                                  i
grouptof  tipacciamry   1-aps tr -Higb ncnm0.1 EO porin, group wmr %Emddl. ten Afn tori mamddiEaa.scioam hau.o(arampr
Ioemo.uhd afhl _ra In the efama  romp data do awapw an populaoe wtgltui idbmac mana to ada nicatr a*d moaI eody whnr qeunay
f teir coeinn uo a goup h dua ftor stu n4a;  Sance,t cisowap otcuanm among z  dmwon depends onthb avadaabty o(daui nd  t mamforim
cauton must bemmou.de i nsung a.er eiof ane medictor to anoter Thes aseraa al ul *m in evparieg dat  Growon,mw mt a DMe aimonug
Ib muta cad roauergop
A.C  (thousand sq.km.i                                          Cm& B    R  ra (pr r_masmad)-lumber o live bits in hdw yea
Teed-Total surae are compnsng  nd ae and inland water          pa thousnd of md-yer popula          1960.1970. and 1933 dama
1960. 1970 and 1983 daa                                        Oak Deo  Rre pff trhmusdad)-Number of deths in the year
Agricak;ar-Esturate or agrcutura area used tempornly or        per thousand of md-year population 1960. 1970. and 1983 data.
pemanently ror crop patures, market and ktchen prdeas or to    Grm R        _odam RNa- age number ordaughtr a woman
lie fallow. 1960. 1970 ad 1982 data.                           wil bear in her nornal reproductive penwd tf she   x
present aeca frility ratas usually fiyvear averages endng
GNP PER CAPITA {ISS)-GNP per cap  estimats at currrnt          in 1960.1970. and 19U3.
market pces cakuated by same conwrsion method as World         FU.4y Pim.-AcUFi.r. Amount frha.sij-Annual nu-
Bank A     lr1931-13 bass); 1983 data.                       ber ofaeptosadbutrh-cmtrol devis under auspices ofnation
ENERGY CONSUMPFION PER CAPITA-Annual appart                    faidy planning progmL
comumpuon of commereal pnmary energy (col and lignite,         Fe-* P1i.qa-lim (p-ttm ofmnrvid .m --Tbe percea-
petroleu    natural aS md hydra-. nuear and geotbermal el-     tage of mArried women of chaldbearing age who ane practicin or
maty) in hilogrm  of ol equNaJent per capiut 1960. 1970. and   whose husbands ame prscticing any rorm orcontracepon. Women
1932 data.                                                     of clhld-bearing age ar generlly women aged 13 9. althnugh tor
some counti  contraceptive usage is meaured ror other Kge
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                grOups.
Toal Popenarkme. Md- Yew fr*musauds i-As of July 1: 1960. 1970.  FOOD AND ?4LTRMTON
and 1933 data.
1mhz of Food Prndmdac Per Capius (1f9-71 - 100)1-Index of per
VUn. Pbpaktarpffer   of tet)lJ-Ratao of urban to total         capi  annual podut   o afl aoofood commodities. Production
population: different delnaitions of urban aress may affect camper-  excludes ainial reed and seed rar agriulture Food commodities
abtity of data among counries. 1Q60. 1970. and 1983 data.      incude pnmary comnnoditin (e g. supcaranc instead of supri
A_wi- Pro jeraoie                                              which am edible and contain nutrients (ce.  coffee and t  are
Pbpuono.  yew -V0-The projecuon of population for MM           excluded): they compnse ceeal. root rops, pubes ad weeds.
made ror each economy  eparately Starting with informatti  on  vegetabla. nrts. nuts. supgrcan and supr bes livestocL and
total population by ag and sem. ferilily rate. mortaity rate and  livesock producs Aggeptc production of each country me based
mitenatonal migtion in the base yr 1980. these prunerrs        on natonal averag  producer price wetgls 1961-65. 1970. and
we  projected at five-year iterals on the b as  of gnaliurd    1912 data.
assumption until the population became stauoaary.              Air C,t S., ofcalmses ipCviut    qfrqM- -Comput-
Snarir,y pop lariu-hs one in which 2ge- and se-specific mor-   ed trom ctlorte equivalent of aet food supplies avalable in country
tafity razes have aot changed over a long perod. whil agepecific  per capis per day Avaiable supplie comprise domestc produc-
fility rate have simultaneously remuined at rmpcement kvel     ton. umports kss exports, and changes an sck. Net supplies
(net eproduction rte - Ii. In such a populatuiL the birth rae is  exclude atnal feed seeds for use in apiculture. quantties used in
constant and equal to the death rate the ae structure as also  food processing. ad losas   n disribution  Requirements were
constant. and the gowth rate is ao. The sationry populao       esimmated by FAO based on physiolokcl needs for noral activty
six wa estimated on the basis of the projected characteristics of  and health considering environmental temperatur  body weights.
the population in the year 3000. and the rate of decline of tertility  age andsedistbumaooofpopulation.andallowing  10 perent tfor
rawe to repacemnt level.                                       waste at household level: 1961. 1970 and 1982 datL
Rurdm .Moarinrm-ls the tendency ror population growth to      Per Caita s* of hoe.. srams pwt d)-Protein content oa
continue beyond the ime that rcemient-kvd felity ha been       per cpitu net sappy of road per day. Net supply of road is defned
achived: that i. even after the net rroducton rae hb  reached  as above Requirements for anl countries established b  USDIl
unity. The momentum of a population in the y'r r is meaured as  provide for mmimum allowances o0 60 grms of total ptn per
a ratio orfthe ultimte stationary popWation to the populaion in  day an 20 gms or animo  and pule protein, or which 1o grams
the year r. given the assumption that fertilit remns at replace-  should be animal proteinL These standards.are lower than those of
mt levelfrom year onward 195 data                             75 grams of toal protein and 23 Smans of animal protein as an
A:bdo,    Denirl                                              averag For the world. proposed by FAO in the Third World Food
I r sqkm.-Mid-year populatian per square kilmer (ICO bec-     Supply. 1961. 170 and 192 datL
tares) of towl ara: 1960. 1970. ad 1913 daa                   Pr Ca*a Pirm  Saqy  Fium Anbmofad Psab-Protein *upply
Per sq,m. agrwviar lard-Computed as above tar agrkultural     of rood deived from animals and pulses in gran per da.: 1*1-45.
land only. 19Yt. 1970. and 1982 dataL                          1970 and 1977 data.
Pupaion Age Semerm (pifeeari-Chludren (0-14 yearsl work-      CMU (ges 1-4j Dwrw Nwe (Mr tlhssiJd)-Number ordesths or
ing age I15-64 yer). and retired (65 years and over, as pementage  children agd 14 year per thousand chidren in  e smat age
of mad-year population 1960. 1970. and 1983 dat,              group in a puien year. Fba most drveloping cauntre data dermed
pdedow Growk Rate (peremer)-toraf-Annual growth rates or       ftrm life tablek 1960. 1970 and 19t3 datL
toal mid-year populaton ror 1950-40. 1960-70. and 197043.      HEALTH
Ry.hniaa Gowt Lw         msrerF-w     Annual growth rates      WfL rperamey E r   Ws   fyarrn)-Number of years a nesbom
of urban population rOr 1950-60. 1960-70. and 1970-3 data.     infant would live if prvaiig patte  of mortalitv rOr all people



- 29 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
at the tm  ofofks birh w    to stay the sethroughout it le    Ped-reacher Ratdo - riMry. mi macrsdlm-Total sudents mn*
1960. 190 Mad 19M  daa                                        roiled in prmry ad secondary  eels divided by numben of
W1Afwne RJ    (wr _e.rmdJw-Number of  antsu who die    techa          n the corresponding  velb.
befom  aching on yr of agp per thusand live birhs Ina  iven
;  196  1970 ad 19M da.                                       CONSUMION
A       SO  WNw  (etW  dfPpdnde           WA   W*a   Md   - Pama           Cas (p- trhsaud populo_aJ-Plseng"r can com-
-wd-nimbm r of peopl (toaL urban   d rwa  with raon           pri mor ckn seating less ta eigh persons exclude ambul.
soo safe wor supply (ndd  eftutad surface watm or             snm. heas and militry vehkil
unmaed but uncontamuse  wasuch u tat ftrm  mprotect   J b     Rftjm 4w t4bsaNd p *iei-AlU types of recovers
bombal.. sprnge and sanita  webl) a paining or their onspec-  tor radio boadcasts to general public per fthusnd ot populuiatin
tive papulo. In a urban an a publi: foungain or senxpost       cdudes un-licensed recevers in  cunies and in yar   when
*oo ben  wi  thinraosslM sd fom tat hous ey be emdee          regitration of radio sem was in edrect; dat tar recet years may
w             rould impay th of din houswi   oru       -      not be comparable since most countries abolished licensing
hous1bold do not hlve to spend a dispoportwon   part of the day  7'ean   (dpar   soedpapmIdom)-TV recivror boadcast
in feeciiine, tho fismily's wata aseds.                       w gSnel ral        Per housand ppuationd pcuides unlicense TV
A*m f   Ezbi m      was   p                                   rncePmrs in countri  and in yer when regictation of TV se was
A  um Leave.  qpaaef (putotfpopmkAfei)-.Ewa. -tem.    incfw
mE mwrd-Number or people (totaL urban, and .urals) srved by
eusm dbposa as percentags of tbeir resPece popat io.          M          C   de (pr trhe.soodpwe"pb-Sbows the aver-
Eacema disposl may indlude the colction and disposaL with or  age ciculason of daly geeal intest newspaper.- dened As a
wibhot tr _amt. of humat eae  and waste-water by water-          F     publicaon devoted prinmanly to r qodn genr neas.
bon syIm- or th us of pit privin   d similar i nsallation.    It is consid   to be -daily if it apper at lms four tines. a wek
Pi f  eup  31r!A        l'-bputi- divided by number of prc.   Clbia Amie Aar,dac pop Capit jr Yea-a-sed on the
tiin physiciens qualified tram a ndicwholat uiverity lewd.    number of tick    old dunng the year. induding admions to
PieJ I        Nw  Posew-ftpulation divided by number o'       dnv   cind      and mobile units.
practn  male ald female gaduate nunm  assiat nurm
practcl nors and nun auailie                                  L     R FORCE
-_whdm Pr gesila im-aroKar. in,            r       l          Td Labor Faer frhendri-Economically actve person  in-
(total ueba  and nag diided by their respective number of     duding armed fore and unemployed but exduding housives
hosptlbeds available in p blicand            nd-  -           students. tc.. covering popuation or all aes. Definitions in
hospil and rehabilictation ccmzs Hospitas we evblshmets       various countries am not comparable: 1960. 1970 and 1983 dat
permanently stffed by at as one physica  Establishmen  prov-  A       (p rJ-Fna  l  boroc u percentge of tou labor
iding prineipaly cso l care a  not inclued Rurlkonpias.       forc
howev   clude helh and medical centers not permanedy saffed   4p*axh: (prcear)-L-abor force in farming, torestry. hunting
by a physidn (but by a medical intnt. nurse. midwife. c.)     ana fiusiaspe te of to  abor for  1960. 1970 nd 199
whch offer in-paUient accommodation and provide a lnmted range  dam
of medical fadcities                                          bidrry f(prcaraJ-Labor rorc in mining. consuction. manu-
ARdsalee per oespaW Red-Total number of admissons to or       facturing and eectricity, water and gs as permctwe of wta Ilabor
dicharip frm hospitals divided by the number of bedL          force; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
Plricpe"  Rat prcaJ-ar4me-w  aadjbriiw-4articipaucn
HOUSlNG                                                       or actvty raes am computed as totaL male. and female labor force
Aswae .ke of H  aa  (pf   pr j esauhold)- l. when,            as perntages of toal. male and female population of all ages
_ndrA    boueboldcn    ofagroup of individuals who share      rpectively 1960. 1970. and 1913 dataL Thee are based on ILOs
fiving quarte  and dteir main mels. A boarder or lodger may or  participation rzes reding age-e sure ofthe populatio. and
my not be inluded in the househol for stistc  purpose        long time trend. A few cstma  are from national soume
Awe -.uaube  frsns per Raem-vw4 mhba, and  arul_-             Ec. ondc Depenecy Rario-Ratio of population under 15. and
Avrage number of pensm per room in all urban and rural        65 and over, to the working age population (those aed 15-64).
occid conveniona; dwelings spectively. Dwelinp exclude
non-pemanent structures and unoccupied parts                  INCOME DISTRIB-LTION
P--cantap ofDswiqp  it Ekerky-r.ra w. and yr_!-               Awcanrwe of Tor Disp_aah  fircw  both is cash ca kind)-
Conventionl dwelinp with electricity in living quarters as percen-  Accruing to percenile grups of housesolds ramked by toutl house-
tage of total. urban, and rural dwelinp  spectively,          hold income.
EDUCACTION                                                    POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Anssd E              _                                        The following estimata are very approxmate measures of poveny
Arinmry Ioleel - noat. mtk adj /ma-Grosa toal male and        Ies. t  hould be interprd with considerbe cation.
Icle enomlk    ofal ag u dt  primary lewd as percentages of   EAsiv  AwdAhe Pbw ly ircn.e Lewd ( CSSper c4e     -ar-het
IEp        pnrmy sholRe populaos. While many countre          md roi-Absolute povery inme levd is that income levl
consir pimary school a*F to be 6-11 year otber do not The     below which a mnimal nutritionally adequae diet plus essential
diffecs i counry prac    in the age and durao  of school      non-food requirements is not affordable.
am refeced in th rtios pvenL For some countries with univers  EI.wd Rui Pe rey Ioem  Lad (C USpur caqtl-when
edition  gSs ement may eacxed 100 percent since some          .d tool-Rural relative poverty income levd is one-third of
pupils am bdelw or above the counys sandard primary-school    avrage per capita personl income of the country. Urban levl is
age                                                           derived From the rurl levvd with aujusment cr higher cost of
Srco_ASy iduod - w. nmik amd fmwk-Computed as above          living in urban  u
scondary ducato  requir  at lest four yea  of approved pn-    Eftmied fPpblrn 1.1w Ah,der Pa_osy Iwame Lad Iptr-
mary unructi04 p Dov   general. vocationaL or tacher trainin4g    canrbsir and ,orl- Penent of population (urban and rural
in ctuon for pupils usually of 12 to 17 years of age: cornspond  who are 'absolute pooorc'
ec coUr  amenerally cliuded.
VOcuia *wo      d (piep t   seOf dwyj-Vo0ational insiUc-               Comparative Analvsis and Dat Division
tiota inlude sechniml industrial, or other programs which operate    Economic AnaLysis and Projections Department
independenty or as Jeptmets of sewndary istitutionsL                                 June 1915



- 30 -                                          N
PRe 5 of 6
ZUg: EQRIC DIDICAIS
PopiLation:      6.225 udilio  (mid-1983)
GI per Capita: U;S580 (mil-1983)
NWMA AmXNI
1984
us$      Perceni                   Annual Grwth Rates (Z)
Tndicator          milioe   of GOP        1975-80     1981      1982      1983    1984
GDP, Factor Cost            2224        84         -0.7       2.7     -2.1      -8.0      -2.0
MDP, Malket Prices          2638      1to          -1.1      6.2      -2.8      -2.0    -1.3
Agriclttwe                 382        15          0.5      8.2    -11.7        8.4      9.7
mInhg                      363        14         -3.0      4.7       0.0       3.0    -80
Other I    1               653        25         -0.2      5.1       0.9      -5.1    -1.3
Services                  1240        46          0.4      6.5      -1.6      -4.3    -3.5
co^umption                  2232        85          0.0      9.3      -8.8      -4.4    -1.5
Grcss Irwehttle              370        14        -16.9    -11.1    -23.5    -24.2    -4.2
EWrts of Goods & NFS         964        37         -3.5    -12.8      15.7      -9.7    -8.0
IuMPrts of Goods & NFS       928        35        -8.9    -16.0    -22.0    -15.6   -13.5
Grcas O    tic Savixgs       406        16          0.0    -48.2    -26.6       83.9      6.3
GDVERfflE  FtnKNE              General Go8mme=2 Ctrentral Government (1984)
(K Mn.)       % of OP        (K Mln.)        2 of GP
Onrreat Receipts                                             1,098           23.2
Orreant   pendities                                          1,303           27.5
Orzent Swplu                                                  -205           -4.3
Capital Exoeaile                                               182            3.9
ereruia  Pinaerixg                                              58            1.2
MOMY, a=  an PRE                                                                       (Sept.)
1975   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
_on K, EMd Bariod)
Mcrey and Qasi Noe                        493    907    979   1309   1454   1704   1871
Bnk Credit to Goverumei                   318   1355   1495   1983   2099   2287   2512
Badk Cadit to Private Sector3             393    505    765    905    1052    1220   1411
(Percentge and Irdex Numbers)
Money and Qaasi  txe as I of GDP         31.3   29.6.  2B.4   36.4   34.8   36.0   14.2
Wholeale Price Idsc (1966100)4          188.6  424.2  475.9  542.8  663.7  829.2
Amml percentae duarge in:
Wtolesale Price Irndc                  16.6   11.1   12.2   14.1   22.3   24.9
Bark CLedit tD Gbverruent             40f.9   2n.8   10.3   32.7    5.8    9.0   12.8
Bark Crmeit to Private Sector3         17.0    4.6   51.4   18.3   16.2   16.0   20.5
1 Maunacttwirg, oanstruction, electricity, ss and water.
2 Figures do not differ significantly fran 'entral Goermentr.
3 Tnuxlie perastatal orwnizations.                                            EAISA
4 All daesticlly used pods.                                                    .iru,ary 29, 1986



- 31 -
ANNEX I
*age 6 of 6
ZRMIA
TRAM PATf AND CPTD FLOW
BALANCE OF PAIMENIS                                               MMCWI)I  EXPMEtRS 1984
1981    1982    1983    1984
(MU llions USS)                                  US$ Mn.  %
Exports of Goods, WVS           1,lI4   1,067   1,005     964     03pper                   685       82
r ports of G3ods, NS           1,633   1,410   1,043      928    (bbalt                     74       9
Rixwre Gap (defict - -)         -504   -343       -38      36    lead and Zinc              31       4
All other                 47       5
Factor Services (net)a          -218    -235    -188    -221        Thtal                  837      100
Net Mfrasfers                   -158      -72    -50    -51                               -        -
Balance on Caurent Account      -880    -650   -276    -236
EXIERNAL Mer, Dec. 31, 1984
Official Grsats                    26      30      42      50
DPrect Fcreizn Investnen           ..    ..       ..      ..                                     USS Kln.
Net M[T Borradwn                 220      258     128     134    Public Debt, incl. guaranteei   2,817
Disbursements                  407     350      176     155     NonGuararteed Private Debt         ..
AoartizatIon a                  187      92      48      21    Ibtal Outstsnling & Oisbursed   2,817
Net MF                           367     -57       64      75
UmMIrcial Payents Arrears         53      240    -50       25
Other Iteis (n.e.i.)              176     267      67     -53     Dr SERVICE RAIO FOR 1984
qne In Reserves                    38    -88       25       5                                     Z
- irase)a
Public Debt, iml. guaranteed   7.4 b
5mcraadui  Items                                                  Not-Gu.nateed  Private Debt
Total Outsts lirg & Disbursea   7.4 b
GsOSs Int'l. Peserves             52    .140      115     110
(we"w of lImports)              (1.7)   (5.2)   (5.7)   (6.3)
O{rent AIC Bal. as Z GDP       -21.9  -16.7   -8.2    -8.2    IBMR/IDA LENDDC, March 31, 1985
(fMlllion USS)
RAIES OF EXGAN                                                                              IBMD    MA,
EAcha
Outstaiding & Disbwsed  337.92   43.03
1981      US$1.00   -         0.8684                              U-disbursed              108-23  139.52
1982                          0.9282                             COutstandiig ml1.
1983                          1.2506                                 Undisbursed           446.15  182.55
1984                          1.7943
a E1ides arrears on interest and a.  tizstion psyments and a'ounts resdeleu1Bi.
b Actual debt service pad oan Public and PublIcally QGarantecd debt, excluding arrears and DIF
repeynents. Sdisduled debt service due on PPG debt m.s equivalent to 46.1 percent of exports of RDods
and nmmfactor services.
..not available                                                                         Jkuary 29, 1986



-32-                                           ANNEX II
Pae 1 of 2
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ZAMBIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as of Sept. 30, 1985)
Amount in USS Million
(Less Cancellations)
Loan  Credit                                                                        Undisbursed
No.   No.     Year   Borrower           Purpose                   Bank    IDA    Loan  Credit  7/
21 Loans fully
disbursed                                  448.77
1566   798    1978   Zambia             Third Highway             11.25   11.25  11.25    3.41
863    1979   Zambia            Coffee Production                   6.00            0.20
873    1979   Zambia            Technical Assistance                5.00            1.22
1790   973    1980   Zambia            Third Railway              25.00   15.00   6.50    0.74
1923          1981   Development        Second Development
Bank of Zambia   Finance Company            15.00            0.22
2001           1981   Zambia            Eastern Province
Agric. Development        11.00            7.35
1193    1982   Zambia            Southern Province
Agric. Development                18.00           13.85
1196    1982   Zambia            Smallholder Dairy Dev.              7.50            6.69
1251    1982   Zambia            Fifth Education                    25.00           17.33
2151           1982   Zambia Indus-
trial & Nining
company           Oil Refinery Mod. Eng.    5.10             3.23
2152          1982   Zambia             Pet. Exploration Prom.    6.60             2.45
1333    1983   Zambia            Naamba Coal Eng.                    4.30            2.76
1362    1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply                 10.00            8.10
SF2     1983   Zambia            Rural Water Supply                  6.00            4.00
1437    1984   Zambia            Ind. Forestry-PhaseIII             22.40          21.98
2391          1984   Zambia             Export Rehab. & Diver.   75.00            55.69
1529    1985   Zambia            Fisheries                           7.10            7.07
1545    1985   Zambia  '         Agricultural Rehab.                25.00           21.98
1575    1985   Zambia            Fourth Railways2/                  20.00 __       2:0.00
Total                                             597.74  182.55  86.69  127.49
of which has been repaid                         166.78     -
Total now outstanding                             430.96  182.55
Amounts sold                         28.58
of which has been repaid            28.58           -       -
Total now held by Bank/IDA                        430.96  182.55
of which is undisbursed                           86.69  127.49
NOTES:  The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report on all
Bank/IDA-financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and circulated
to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
1/ Credits denominated in SDRs (Credit 1193-ZA and above) are shown in US Dollar equivalents.
based on the exchange rate in effect at the time of negotiations.
2/ Not yet effective
3/ Credit 1627 (Tazama) for US$3.1 million equivalent, signed on October 16).



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTHENTS
(as of Sept. 30, 1985)
Inves;zat   commitment                                        US$ Million Equivalent
No.          Year                      Type of Business      Loan  Equity      Total
216-ZA       1972   Zambia Bata Shoe                          0.85   0.23        1.08
Company Limited    Shoe Manufacturing
250-ZA       1973   Zambia  Bata Shoe  Shoe Manufacturing
Company Limited    and Tannery            1.20    -         1.20
307-ZA       1975   Century Packages
Limited            Packaging Materials  0.78   0.21         0.99
324-ZA       1976   Development Bank   Development Finance
of Zambia          Company                -      0.54       0.54
394-ZA       1978   Century Packages
Limited            Packaging Materials  0.10    -           0.10
483-ZA       1980   Zambia Consoli-    Copper and Cobalt
dated Copper Mines Production           28.00    -         28.00
427-ZA       1980   Kafue Textiles of
Zambia Limited     Textiles & Fibers    7.60    -           7.60
600-ZA       1982   Zambia Consoli-
dated Copper Mines Copper Production   25.14    -          25.14
709-ZA       1984   Zambia Hotel
Properties Ltd.    Tourism              16.96    -         16.96
743-ZA       1985   Mpongwe Develop-   Food and Food
ment Co. Ltd.,     Processing            1.81   0.29        2.10
721-ZA       1985   Kafue Textiles of  Textiles & Fibers    3.15    -            3.15
Zambia Limited
Total gross commitments                 85.59   1.27       86.86
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                   31.81   0.20       32.01
Total now held by IFC                   53.78   1.07       54.85
Total undisbursed                        7.06    -          7.06



- 34 -
ANNEX III
ZAMBIA
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Preparation: November/December 1984
(b) First presentation to IDA and initial
appraisal: April 1985
(c) Post appraisal discussions: September 1985
(d) Completion of Negotiations: January 1986
(e) Board Presentation: March 1986
(f) Planned Date of Effectiveness: May 1986
II. Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
None.
III. Special Conditions
Ci) Conditions for Effectiveness
(a) The Government will assign a Project Administrator
acceptable to the Association (para. 76) and
(b) The Government will establish a Monitoring Committee for
the implementation of the Financial Management System
(para. 77).
(ii) Other Conditions
(a) The Government will submit annually to the Association for
approval, the names and CVs of the fellows proposed to be
included under the agreed training program before the
start of the academic year (para. 79).
(b) The Government will prepare, within six months after the
date of credit effectiveness and every six months
thereafter during the project, a progress report on the
status of project implementation which will be made
available to the Association and provide the basis of a
thorough field review and discussions between the
Association and the Government (para. 76).



35                        Annex IV
Page 1 of I
X Zs
X
X~ii
le ~ ~  ~   I
Zs] jl
2 L'



- 36 -
Anex V
Page I of ;
ZAMBIA - DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT
Fellowships
Field         Number       14/N          1ype and
Organization    of Study     of Fellows     Each     Purpose of Training
NCDP            Economics        3           18      Masters level courses
in development
economics.
Project          8            3      Short-term training
Prepara-                             (3-4 i.) for staff of
tion and                             the IP and Sector
evaluation                           Planning Departments.
Data Pro-
cessing
Planning
Budget          Economics        2           18      Masters level courses
Office                                               in economics
Financial        3            3      Short-term training
Analysis.                            for bud4et office
Use of                               staff responsible for
computer                             budget preparation and
for                                  inplementation.
Financial
Planning.
Loans and       Economics        3           18      Masters level courses
Investments                                         to upgrade economics
(as opposed to
accounting) cadre.
Debt Man-        7            3      Short-term training
agement.                             (3-4 no.) for staff
Financial                            working on debt
analysis.                            management, reveyue,
Computer                             and aid coordination.
programm-
ing.



- 37 -
Annex V
Page 2 of 2
Field          Number       MNM             Type and
Organization    of Study       of Fellows      Each      Purpose of Trainlng
Data             Systems           1             18      Master's Level for DPU
Processing       Analysis I                              staff member to be
Unit                                                     assigned full-time to
work on new FMS.
Database         12             3       Short-term courses for
systems.                               DPU staff familirri-
Computer                                zation with available
programm-                               software and progr mm-
ing.                                    ing.



- 38 -
Annex VI
Page 1 of 1
Zambia - Development Assistance Project
Technical Assistance II
Documents in Project File
1.   Final Report of Mission to Prepare Technical Assistance Credit to
Improve Economic Management and Development Administration in Zambia,
Berenschot-Moret-Bosboom, Consultants.
2.   Planning and Budgeting in Zambia, February 1983, World Bank.
3.   Mission reports on Management Development, R. Youker, September 1985,
M. Goodarzi, September 1985.
4.   Plan of Action and Implementation Strategy for Financial Management
System (FMS).
5.   Terms of Reference, Long-term advisors and FMS.



