Docu3ment of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14502
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF ZAMBIA
SECOND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (TA II)
(CREDIT 1679-ZA)
MAY 5, 1995
Macro, Industry and Finance Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Kwachal
Feb.
1986  1987  1988  1989  1990  1991  1992  1993  1994  1995
US$1.00 =   7.79  8.89  8.82   12.90 28.90 61.70  171.00 452.76 700.00 830.00
Fiscal Year
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
GRZ          Government of the Republic of Zambia
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA          International Development Association
MOF          Ministry of Finance
NCDP         National Commission for Development Planning
NCZ          Nitrogenous Chemicals of Zambia
NIPA         National Institute of Public Administration
PIP          Public Investment Program
PIRC         Privatization and Industrial Restructuring Credit
PSRP        Public Sector Reform Program
PTC          Posts and Telecommunications Corporation
RVP          Regional Vice President
UTH          University Teaching Hospital
ZCCM         Zambia Consolidated Copper Mines
ZIMCO        Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
Annual average exchange rate (Kwacha per U.S. Dollar) February figure is end-of-period rate.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY                                                                  ii
PART I:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                                 I
A.    Background                                                      I
B.    Statement of Objectives                                         2
Macro-economic Analysis                                        2
Financial Management                                           2
Budget and Revenue                                             3
Training                                                       3
Parastatal Reform, Privatization and Public Sector Management   3
C.    Achievement of Objectives                                       3
Project Design and Organization                                4
Project Implementation                                         4
Studies                                                 6
Consultants                                             6
Training                                                7
Equipment                                               8
D.    Major Factors Affecting the Project                             8
E.    Project Sustainability                                          9
F.    IDA Performance                                                 9
G.    Borrower Performance                                            10
H.    Assessment of Outcome                                           10
I.     Key Lessons Learned                                            12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS Cont'd
PART II:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                              14
PART III:   STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                               15
Table 1.     Summary of Assessment                                          15
Table 2.     Related Bank Loans/Credits                                     16
Table 3.     Project Timetable                                              17
Table 4.     Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative
Estimated and Actual                                       18
Table 5.     Key Indicators for Project Implementation                      19
Table 5A.    Key Indicators for Project Implementation (modified indicators)  20
Table 5B.    Key Indicators for Project Implementation: training (actual)  21
Table 6.     Studies Included in Project                                   22
Table 7A.    Project Costs                                                 23
Table 7B.    Project Financing                                             23
Table 8.     Status of Legal Covenants                                     24
Table 9.     Bank Resources: Staff inputs                                  25
Table 10.    Bank Resources: Missions                                      26



FOR OFFICE USE ONLY                                           CONFIDENTIAL
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Second Technical
Assistance Project (TA II) for Zambia, for which Credit 1679-ZA in the amount of SDR 7.3
million (US$8.0 million) was approved on April 1, 1986 and made effective on August 26, 1986.
The dollar equivalent had risen to US$10.4 million by April 30, 1995 due to movements in the
exchange rate between the dollar and the SDR. Of this amount, a total of approximately US$8.5
million or 81.7 percent had been disbursed, leaving an undisbursed balance of approximately
US$1.9 million. The SDR equivalents are 6.1 million and 1.2 million respectively. The entire
undisbursed balance of US$1.9 million was canceled effective April 30, 1995. The original
closing date for the IDA credit was December 31, 1992 with two extensions to December 31,
1994 when it finally closed.
The ICR was prepared by Gilbert Patrick Uwujaren, Consultant, and Lemma Merid, Task
Manager, AF 1 MI, Southern Africa Department. During an ICR mission, which visited Zambia
in February 1995, the original draft was shared with the Borrower which was in agreement with
the Bank's views and elected not to write a separate report (Part II) but proposed revisions for a
joint report. This Report incorporates the Borrower's suggestions and Part II contains the
Borrower's letter to that effect.
Preparation of this ICR is based on a review of the documentation in the project files,
including the President's Report, The Development Credit Agreement, Project Supervision
Reports, correspondence between IDA and the Borrower, internal IDA memoranda, interviews
with IDA staff involved in the implementation of the project, and interviews with Borrower's
staff and beneficiaries in the field during the ICR mission to Zambia in February 1995.






EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background and Objectives
I.    This project was identified in the early 1 980s when Zambia was undergoing a
period of acute economic and financial crisis precipitated by the secular decline in copper
prices that started in 1975. Key ministries and institutions lacked the macroeconomic
analytical capacity and administrative machinery to support needed reform. This project
was the second among the self-standing technical assistance (TA) projects, which were
approved in 1978 and 1986 and were designed to address these capacity issues. The first
was designed to improve the planning and project preparation capacity of government.
The development objectives of the second TA project were to improve: the capacity of
government to carry out macroeconomic analysis; the planning and budgeting systems to
make resource allocations more responsive to government policies and objectives, and
management and accounting skills and the availability, speed and accuracy of essential
management information. In June 1991, concurrently with a resumption of disbursement
after a four year suspension, the project's objectives were expanded to include support of
parastatal reform. privatization and public sector management. The attainment of these
goals would contribute to macroeconomic stability, restoration of growth, and to
structural changes and indeed long-term sustainable development.
2.    These objectives were to be achieved through support in the following areas:
strengthening the National Commission for Development Planning (NCDP) in carrying
out macroeconomic analysis by providing consultants and equipment; strengthening the
Data Processing Unit in the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in designing and implementing a
computerized financial management system; strengthening the MOF in budget analysis
and revenue estimation and forecasting through provision of technical assistance and
equipment; training Zambians both on-the-job and through short- and long-term courses
and seminars; and by providing assistance in parastatal reform, privatization, and public
sector management.
Achievement of Objectives
3.    The World Bank rates the achievement of the objectives in respect of institutional
development and public sector management as partial, and in respect of private sector
development (as well as privatization) as negligible mainly because of implementation
problems and the lack of sustainability of much of what was implemented. Some
improvement in capacity to carry out macroeconomic analysis has taken place in Zambia,
partially' as a result of this project, and the short- and long-term training it provided. But
this is still a far cry from what is required, so that continued technical assistance in this
area is needed. There have also been marginal improvements in public sector



ii
management, the planning and budgeting systems, resource allocation, as well as in
management and accounting skills. But a lot more needs to be done in this area. By
contrast, private sector development and privatization effort has lagged considerably.
Implementation and Project Results
4.    The project faced several implementation problems. First, the agency responsible
for implementation, the Loans and Investments Department of the Ministry of Finance
lacked experience with line agency responsibilities. Second. unfamiliarity with IDA
procurement and disbursement procedures, led to ex-post rather than ex-ante approval of
procurements and granting of "no objection" letters. This delayed implementation.
Third, implementation was haphazard and ad hoc. This was because after the lifting of
suspension, the project was used more or less as a general-purpose fund. Components
were shuffled in and out of this project depending on the availability of funding from
alternative project budgets. Also, the implementing agency did not prioritize its
implementation to ensure that those activities implemented had the greatest possibility of
achieving the objectives of the project. For example, ensuring that short-term training
programs selected had the greatest potentials for capacity building and practical
applications on the job.
5.    Fourth, barely nine months after effectiveness of this credit, disbursements to
Zambia were suspended for failure to service her debt to the Bank. This disrupted
implementation and created a discontinuity in implementation and its momentum. The
result was that the project that was implemented was different from the one that was
originally designed, but without the benefit of a thorough revision. Fifth, the
Implementation Monitoring Committee was not resuscitated after the suspension to
provide direction and long-range planning in terms of consultants, training, and
equipment procurement, as originally envisaged. This greatly affected the quality of
implementation. Sixth, on-the-job training was inoperative in most cases. This was
because of the lack of interest on the part of Zambians to receive training from expatriates
due to their reticence, and the reluctance on the part of some experts to train Zambians
because of preoccupation with getting the job at hand done with the minimum of
distraction. This reduced the potential for capacity building. Seventh. there was lack of
transparency in choice of consultants and trainees. This resulted in delays and protracted
correspondence between the implementing agency and the Bank on the one hand. and
undermined the confidence of the other beneficiary agencies, on the other. And finally,
frequent changes in task managers at the Bank and in project managers at the
implementing agency were disruptive and created a "memory" problem in terms of
implementation.
6.    In spite of these problems, the project supported: several useful studies which
served as inputs in the design of other loans to Zambia; twelve consultants; fifteen long-



iii
term trainees and some sixty-two short-term trainees. and procured over 12 vehicles and
more than eighty computers and an even greater number of peripherals (prilters,
uninterruptable power supply units, scanners, and network servers) as wvell as software.
7.    Two components received about 60 percent of the total disbursements under this
credit. First, about 41 percent (US$3.4m) of the total disbursemenits augmenited
consultancy for the Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia (NCZ) Operations Management
Services component of Cr. 1662-ZA - Fertilizer Industry Restructuring Project. The
Project Completion Report (PCR) on Cr. 1662-ZA dated April 1. 1992 concluded that the
project failed to meet its overall objective of improving the domestically produced supply
of fertilizers for development of Zambia's agriculture at mininmutmi foreign exchanlge
outflow and comparable prices. In addition, the plant is still not operating properly and
its extensive need of cash to complete and maintain its rehabilitation projects is a drain on
the energy and finances of the country. Second, another 17 percent (LUS$ 1 .4m) went to
the Outplacement and Business Development component, with a job search and
entrepreneurial development sub-components. The job search sub-component was
disappointing. But by contrast, the Business Development or entreprenieurslhip training
sub-component has generated significant interest nation-wide to warrant expandinlg it to
cover non-retirees and non-civil servants, both within and outside Lusaka. This has
helped to overcome implementation problems caused by the slow pace of the Public
Sector Reform Program on which the success of the outplacement componient depended.
8.    The results of the project are mixed but unsustainable, and for that reason. the
outcome is rated unsatisfactory. This is in line with World Bank Operational Manual (OP
13.55, BP 13.55 and GP 13.55) of April. 1994, particularly section G, paragraplh 33 (c
and d) of GP 13.55.
Key Lessons Learned
9.    First. in the event of a hiatus in project implemenitationi, the project should be
completely reformulated or canceled at the end of the hiatus. Second, to ensure proper
implementation, someone should be deployed full-time to manage the project. Third,
project salaries of locally recruited consultants (previously with the civil service) should
be such as not to demoralize non-project staff and one that the country can comfortably
support even without donor funding, by maintaining a unified, but rewardinig pay
structure. Fourth, a monitoring unit working with measurable indicators is essential to
guide implementation and ensure success of the project. Fifth, effective project
supervision from the Bank (supported by the Resident Mission) is indispensable to
project success, by clearly identifying and addressing problems. Finally. capacity
building should be an integral part of all projects in Africa.






PART 1.    PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE.
Project Identity
Name:             Technical Assistance Project II
Credit Number:    1679-ZA
Project ID:       000003193
RVP Unit          Africa Region
Country           Zambia
Sector:           Public Sector - Economic Management
A.   Background
I    This project was identified in the early 1980s when Zambia was undergoing a
period of acute economic and financial crisis precipitated by the secular decline in copper
prices that started in 1975. Copper mining provided about 90 percent of foreign
exchange eamings and 15 percent of gross value added in the early 1980s. In the wake of
the crisis, production in all sectors declined, in large part due to cutbacks in import
volumes. Large arrears on debt service accumulated and disbursement of external loans
fell sharply. Government had begun preparation for an economic recovery program in
1983, but a foreign exchange constraint threatened to counteract the positive impact of
the adjustment program. On top of this, there were severe and intermittent droughts over
a number of years that induced higher than usual levels of food imports. These
economic difficulties were exacerbated by shortcomings in government policy and
economic management.
2.    The implementation of Bank-assisted projects in Zambia also deteriorated
considerably, resulting in serious implementation delays in most of them. These delays
were due to lack of budgetary resources to finance or pre-finance local counterpart
expenditures and ineffective and inadequate project management and coordination. This
led to a considerable slow-down in the rate of disbursement on Bank Group loans and
credits.
3.    The Bank recognized that a key element for further reforms would be the
government's capacity to sustain the macroeconomic policy environment initiated in the
adjustment process. This in turn rested on the ability and effectiveness of the key
economic ministries to guide and monitor the process. The adjustment program adopted
in the early 1980s put severe strain on the capabilities of the key institutions. The
Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the National Commission for Development Planning
(NCDP), which were responsible for overall economic management and development
planning, lacked the analytical capabilities or administrative machinery to cope with the



2
demands of the economic recovery program. They were poorly staffed and in need of
skills upgrading and institutional strengthening to meet the clhallenges of initiating,
executing, and monitoring the financial and economic recovery program and to respond
quickly in terms of timeliness of available data and analysis. It was against this
background that TA II was conceived.
B.    Statement of Objectives
4.    This was the second of the self-standing technical assistance projects to Zambia
financed by the Bank. It was approved on April 1 1986 and closed on December 31,
1994. The first was Cr. 873-ZA, '*Zambia Technical Assistance Project" (TA I), which
was approved in 1978 and closed in July, 1987. It was designed to help the government
improve its planning and project preparation capacity. The development objectives of the
second TA project were to improve the capacity of the government to carry out
macroeconomic analysis; improve the planning and budgeting systems to make resource
allocation more responsive to government policies and objectives, and improve
management and accounting skills and the availability, speed and accuracy of essential
management information. In June 1991, concurrently with the resumption of
disbursements after a four-year suspension, the project objectives were expanded to
support parastatal reform, privatization and public sector management. The attainment of
these goals would contribute to macroeconomic stability, restoration of growth, and to
structural changes needed for long-term sustainable development.
5.    These objectives were in consonance with the spirit of self-standing Technical
Assistance projects that characterized this period (early and mid-1980s) in Africa. The
underlying assumption was that a dose of foreign expertise in critical areas would plug
the deficiency in analytical capacity in the short run. In the long run, through on-the-job
training provided by foreign experts and formal training courses, the Zambians would
acquire the required analytical skills. At the same time, computerization and the
provision of equipment would speed information processing.
6.    These objectives were to be achieved by supporting:
Macro-economic analysis
*     Strengthening the Investment Department of NCDP in carrying out macro-
economic analysis through the provision of both short-term and long-term
consultants. vehicles and equipment.
Financial Management
*     Strengthening the Data Processing Unit of MOF and Bank of Zambia in
designing and implementing a computerized financial management system
through the provision of technical assistance, computer hardware and
software, data entry units, terminals and microcomputers.



3
Budget and Revenue
Strengthening MOF's capacity in:
1.    assessing the program performance and effective budget analysis
through the provision of technical assistance, vehicles and
equipment; and
2.    establishing a system for revenue estimation and projection of
future external revenues through the provision of technical
assistance, vehicles and equipment.
Training
I .    Training of Zambians by use of seminars, workshops, coaching
and provision of fellowships;
2.    Training of employees of the government of the Republic of
Zambia's (GRZ's) ministries in adminisirative. managerial, and
supervisory practices:
3.    Carrying out curriculum reform and provision of accounting
training for accountants and auditors of GRZ's ministries, and the
provision of textbooks, audio visual and other training equipment;
4.    Provision of on-the-job and other training for Zambian lawyers in
legal drafting and the provision of textbooks, office equipment and
vehicles for the Ministry of Legal Affairs.
Parastatal Reform. Privatization and Public Sector Management:
The 1991 expanded objectives provided for assistance to:
*     study, rehabilitate and operate the Nitrogen Chemicals of Zambia
(NCZ);
*     review and assist Zambia Industrial and Mining Corporation
(ZIMCO) companies under the privatization program;
*     c.arry out a number of public sector management activities; and
*     study the viability of the Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation (PTC).
C.    Achievement of Objectives
7.    The Bank rates the achievement of project objectives in respect of institutional
development and public sector management as partial, and in respect of private sector
development (as well as privatization) as negligible (see table 1). The reasons for these
ratings are tied up with project implementation experience discussed below. This
contrasts with a rating of "satisfactory" in the last Bank supervision report "based on the
support it provided for (i) drafting the legal framework for market-led and private sector-
based economy; (ii) improving budgeting and expenditure control at the Ministry of
Finance; (iii) short and long-term training locally and abroad; (iv) studies to improve
Zambia's foreign exchange earnings from the export of emeralds and timber products,



4
public sector reform, prepare a background report to thie upcoming Public Expenditure
Review, improve the tracking of food security in the country; and improve national
accounting practices; and (v) outplacement and business development services for
retrenched staff." The supervision report concluded that the project could not be rated
higher than satisfactory due to questions raised regarding the sustainability of the
advisory services (national or otherwise); absence of Zambian counterparts understudying
foreign advisors; and the ad hoc nature of the training program due to the lack of a human
resources development plan. The difference in rating between this report and the
supervision report is the result of different rating categories. The supervision report
rating is based on the categories: "Highly Satisfactory", "Satisfactory". "Unsatisfactory"
and "Highly Unsatisfactory"; while the ICR rating is based on the four categories:
"Substantial", "Partial", "Negligible" and "Not Applicable". In addition, the World Bank
Operational Directives indicates that any project which is deemed "unsustainable" cannot
be rated "satisfactory" or higher.
Project Design and Organization
8.    The project brief was distributed in March 1985 and the project was appraised in
April 1985. Negotiations took place in Lusaka during the period January 28-31. 1986
and the project went to the Board on April 1. 1986. The credit became effective on
August 26, 1986. The credit started disbursing soon after, but all Bank disbursement to
Zambia, including TA II, was suspended from May 1987 until March 1991. After
suspension was lifted, the project components and objectives were amended on June 11,
1991 and a revised budget was prepared on January 15. 1993. The project was originally
scheduled to close on June 30. 1992. but due to the hiatus in Bank operations in Zambia,
the closing date was extended twice to December 31, 1994. The credit account remained
open until April 30, 1995 to allow disbursements against expenditure authorized and
made prior to the closing date of December 31. 1 994
9.    The management and administration of the credit was assigned to Loans and
Investment Department of the Ministry of Finance. A condition for eflectiveness of the
credit was the establishment of an Inter-Ministerial Coordinating and Monitoring
Committee. The committee was supposed to set criteria for the selection of trainees and
consultants, and to provide semi-annual reports on implementation progress.
Project Implementation
10.   The project suffered from management problems. First. the project administrators
and managers (prior to the suspension) were relatively junior staff and lacked the clout to
effectively manage the project against the conflicting claims and vested interests of more
senior officials and line ministries. Second. the quality of the project managers
deteriorated in terms of educational attainments and experience. For example. the highest



5
educational attainment of one of the managers was a high school diploma. The lack of
clout referred to above on the part of the project managers was compensated for by the
Inter-Ministerial Coordinating Committee that functioned from 1986 until shortly after
the suspension of disbursements to Zambia The Committee, was not revived after the
resumption of disbursements.
11.   The project faced implementation problems. First, the MOF, the agency vested
with the management of the project, did not have much experience with line agency
responsibility. It was not an "implementing agency" for Bank financed projects like the
sectoral ministries. For example, procurement was very new to them. This generated an
endless traffic of telexes, faxes and correspondence to and from the Bank throughout the
life of the project centering on how to procure, what to procure, what supporting
documentation should accompany requests for "no objection" letters or withdrawals.
This greatly hampered successful implementation.
12.   Second, some of the withdrawal applications were sent to IDA Disbursement
Department without first obtaining "no objection" letters from the Task Manager on the
components to be financed. This resulted in the approval of the underlying
procurements/expenditures being given ex-post rather ex-ante. In some cases the Bank
was presented with afait accompli, and in the interest of flexibility, it approved the
activity after protracted correspondence.
13.   Third, barely nine months after effectiveness, and after a slow start of
disbursement, all IDA disbursement to Zambia was suspended between May 1987 and
March 1991 for nonpayment of arrears to the Bank. The special account, that had been
opened as part of the effectiveness conditions. proved very useful during the hiatus as the
means for honoring commitments that were made prior to suspension. One example of
this, and a major disbursement item during the period of suspension, involved the
purchase of six vehicles for which approval had been given prior to the hiatus.2 Positions
advertised to be filled in 1986, such as those of the Macroeconomist and Legal Draftsman
were held in abeyance. After the suspension, other developments (including increased
assistance from other donors) made it superfluous to appoint a Macroeconomist under
this project. Even after the suspension was lifted in March 1991, another suspension that
lasted until end-January, 1992 came into effect for failure to continue servicing its debt to
the Bank.
14.   Fourth, implementation was ad hoc and haphazard for the most part. After the
hiatus, a proper structure for successful implementation was not present either in terms
of Zambian counterpart project management staff or effective Implementation
2 The borrower found the ICB process cumbersome in this case, and argued that the purchase (which was made from
Botswana) should actually be regarded as a local purchase.



6
Steering/Monitoring Committee. The non-revival of the Committee after the resumption
of disbursements greatly reduced the transparency of the training and consultant selection
processes. It also robbed the Borrower of a chance to review implementation progress
and take corrective action.
15.   Fifth, the project design did not provide proper monitorable indicators. While
difficult to devise for a project of this nature, such quantitative and qualitative indicators
as the skills gap; manpower requirement to carry out certain activities; the courses to
which staff will be sent abroad; the number of trainees and quality of training received;
the quality, timeliness and impact of consultants; the number of on-the-job trainees; and
effectiveness of policy advice given or position papers written by staff; could be used for
monitoring.
16.   Sixth, there was lack of interest on the part of Zambian counterparts to receive
needed on-the-job training from foreign experts. either because of reticence, a feeling that
there is nothing the expert can impart to them, or because of pay-differential between the
consultants and the local counterpart. The reverse was also true in some cases - some of
the experts were too concerned with the day-to-day business at hand and in completing
the assignment to spend time imparting their skills and expertise to local counterparts.
Studies:
17.   Studies funded by the project are detailed in Table 6. Some of them were inputs
into other projects in the Bank's Zambia portfolio. For example, the NCZ component
supplemented the Fertilizers Investment Restructuring Project (Cr. 1 662-ZA). The
Revaluation of fixed assets of 10 ZIMCO subsidiaries was designed to benefit the
Privatization and Industrial Restructuring Credit (PIRC). The Ghost Workers Study and
the Outplacement and Business Development component supported the Public Sector
Reform Program (PSRP). Others, such as the Food Security Study and the Export
Promotion and Diversification Studies supported aspects of the adjustment program or
economic and sector work on Zambia. There is very little in the files about the quality or
evaluation of these studies and whether or not they advanced the achievement of the
project's objectives. Merely carrying out a study is no guarantee that the resulting report
would be a useful one, or that local staff could replicate these studies or utilize them for
similar ones in the future.



7
Consultants:
18.   There were twelve consultants engaged for the project (see Tables 5a and 6). The
process of recruiting consultants was not sutficiently transparent. IDA raised issues with
the selection process for some consultancies, including the terms of payment.
19.   Much of the resources disbursed as of January 30, 1995 - US$3.4 million or 41
percent - was used to augment and support the consultancy for NCZ's Operational
Management component. TA II documents are very sketchy on this component. referring
to it only as a "refund" to NCZ. The project managers have also not shed much light on
it. However, the Project Completion Report (PCR) on Cr. 1662-ZA dated April 1 1992,
while not providing a direct link to TA 11 shows that the payments went to the same
consultants under both projects. The PCR concluded in paragraph 6.1 that "The project
did not meet its overall objective of improving the domestically produced supply of
fertilizers for development of the Zambia's agriculture at minimum foreign exchange
outflow and comparable income prices (sic).. .the plant is still not operating properly and
its extensive need of cash to complete and maintain its rehabilitation projects must be
considered a drain on the energy and finances of the country. At present less than 20% of
the country's fertilizer needs are supplied from the cost intensive operation in Kafue."
The prognosis has not changed since then, and may have even worsened.
20.   On the specific consultancies which formed the bulk of the Bank's support, the
PCR concluded in paragraphs I 1.1 and 1 1.2 that "Neither of the consultants seems to
have performed fully satisfactory... (their selection) resulted in the sending to Zambia of a
team which members in some cases were less highly qualified than the Zambians they
displaced... and in some cases they did not seem to possess any experience or knowledge
about parts of the technology of the NCZ plants." Furthermore, it concluded that "The
insufficient performance led to an extension of NCZ's need for expatriate operational
support for several years."
21.   Another component of this credit that absorbed substantial resources - 17 percent3
- was the Outplacement and Business Development component, with a job search and
entrepreneurial development sub-components. The Bank raised issues concerning the
selection process for the consultants and the change in focus and emphasis from
outplacement to entrepreneurship training in the TOR for the consultants. These issues
were resolved and the component went on. However, the payment plan ran into
difficulties because 40 percent of the contract was to be paid on signing of the contract
and close to 100 percent of the TA II share within six months of the commencement of
the two-years. This created a difficulty because such front-loaded disbursement provided
IThe total cost of this component was US$1.8 million, of which US$1.4 million was to be borne by TA 11, and the
remaining USS0.4 million by PIRC TA.



8
no recourse to the Bank or the Borrower in case the contractor defaulted. In the end, the
disbursement schedule for the project had to be altered. Part of the problem resulted from
lack of proper control by the project management over implementing agencies.
22.   In addition, the Outplacement and Business Development component, would have
been more successful and more useful if the civil service reform and retrenchment
exercise had proceeded in accordance with the Public Sector Reform Program (PSRP) of
1993. The PSRP lagged behind, and the Outplacement component lacked candidates for
training until it was opened up to the general civil service and even non-civil servants.
Government budget has been provided for continuation of this component in 1995. This
has made the Outplacemnent and Business Development component sustainable.
Training:
23.   In all, fifteen individuals were provided long-term training exceeding nine months
in duration. Several of these received master degrees in economic development. Sixty-
two short term courses were provided to staff of beneficiary agencies. This compares
favorably with the nine long-term fellowships and thirty short-term training provided for
in the President's Report. While a number of the long-term trainees pursued master
degrees in economics, this was not sufficient to build the critical mass of
macroeconomists needed to substantially raise the level of local macroeconomic
analytical ability in the agencies involved. This is because policy advice is concentrated
in the hands of donor-funded foreign technical assistance groups, and the trained
Zambians are in other functions. The earlier the Zambians are phased-in. by using them
progressively in providing "hands-on" technical policy advice, the better their chances of
putting the type of training into practice and internalizing it. The short-term training was
too eclectic to raise the level of macroeconomic analytical capability.
24.   Taking into consideration the reallocations in the TA budget, the training budget
was not fully used. However, the amount spent for training exceeded the original
allocation. One area where training was not fully utilized was the Financial Management
Systems (FMS) component. This was because of the hiatus and the late start of this
component. Much of the training that took place occurred towards the end of the project
because of the haphazard and ad hoc implementation of the training component. Proper
planning and the revival of the Implementation Monitoring Committee would have
focused on the organization rather than the individual. It would have identified and
justified deficiencies and training needs in advance and would have sought to identify the
staff who would best benefit from this training in order for the organization to reap
maximum benefit. The training program would have been presented as a bundle, not
piecemeal. This would have been better than identifying individuals and trying to fit
whatever training to their needs and would have ensured synchronization of the timing
between the availability of consultants and on-the-job trainees.



9
25.   From an operational point of view, approval of training was often done ex-post
rather than ex-ante. Since the threshold for the documentation of withdrawal claims had
been raised from $10,000 in 1986 to $100,000 in July 1992, trainees continued to be
identified and sent abroad piecemeal, thereby avoiding the need to obtain "no objection"
letters from the Bank and also avoiding the need for additional documentation and
scrutiny. Apparently, managers of the project in the borrowing country felt that since the
credit was going to be repaid by the country, there was no compelling need to follow the
stringent requirements of IDA for disbursement and procurement.
Equipment:
26.   As with training, procurement of equipment was slow initially. It improved
towards the end of the project as the closing date approached, out the equipment acquired
was not properly maintained or used in the best way possible, or for the purposes for
which it was procured. In particular, vehicles were not always used for the project for
which they were meant, they were sometimes used outside office hours and some of them
were involved in accidents. Of the six vehicles which were purchased earlier in the
project life, one remains on the road. Most of the computers were procured late in the
project life, thus delaying achievement of the purpose for which they were bought. Those
that were bought earlier are being put to good use. There was difficulty in abiding with
IDA procurement procedures in the acquisition of computers. Despite a procurement
workshop held in Lusaka for project staff, problems with procedures persisted throughout
the project implementation.
27.   The FMS component was to finance (i) the design and development of a
management system based in the Data Processing Unit (DPU), (ii) the purchase and
development of computer hardware and software, and (iii) the training of staff in its
operation. The FMS component was time-phased in the President's Report. Yet, there
was a lag in putting in place a system that would be responsive to the financial
information needs of the government as identified in the project document.
D.   Major Factors Affecting the Project
28.   The first and most important factor that affected this project was the suspension of
disbursement to Zambia between May 1987 and March 1991 and again from July 1991 to
January 1992. This resulted in very little being done beyond what had been approved in
the first nine months. The already precarious capacity to do macroeconomic analysis was
further compounded by the fact that the traditional source for augmenting this capacity -
foreign experts - ceased as donors cut off disbursement. Capacity was neither built nor
augmented during this period. This can be seen from the unsuccessful attempt at a home-
grown alternative to adjustment tried during this period.



10
29.   Second, instability and frequent changes of project staff both at the Bank and in
the country affected implementation. There were at least five task managers for this
project at the Bank and six in the implementing agency. In the latter case. the quality of
the project managers also tended to decline with the passage of time. The result was that
implementation problems kept recurring because new managers had to learn. At the
Bank, the frequent changes meant that commitments made by previous task managers on
financing studies, were not properly conveyed to succeeding managers or even
recollected by past managers. This led in some cases to rejection of the request for
payment when the studies in question were completed.
E.    Project Sustainability
30.   The project does not seem to be sustainable because of its piecemeal and ad hoc
implementation. There are, at least, four factors that indicate the lack of sustainabilitv.
First, not much training of Zambians by the foreign expert advisers has taken place.
Consequently, Zambians are ill-prepared to take on the responsibilities required of them
under the project. Second, funding for key experts under this project was requested past
the closing date. Third, Zambian experts cannot be absorbed into the normal budget
without a substantial cut in their project-supported salaries which is higher than the
regular civil service salaries. Unless alternative sources of funding are found, most of the
personnel will be gone and their slots will be empty. This applies both to foreign experts
and Zambians being paid internationally competitive salaries. Finally, some equipment
procured with the proceeds of this credit has also not always been put to the best use to
ensure sustainability. Computers, on the other hand, are being used to enhalnce
productivity and are greatly appreciated by the beneficiaries, even thouglh their arrival
was delayed. Question of sustainability for the computers would depend on wlhat
arrangements are made for repairs and maintenance and how SOOI1 they are overtaken by
technical obsolescence and depreciation.
F.    IDA Performance
31.   The implementation problems identified in this report are the result of failure to
redesign the project after the hiatus. The hiatus provided an opportunity to look more
carefully at the project and completely redesign it. This would have involved looking at
the objectives, reprioritizing, and extending the closing date for the project in order to
take account of the period of suspension. Unfortunately, this was not done. When the
project was reinstated in 1991/92, the Bank assumed implicitly that funds would fully
disburse and the project would close by the original closing date of December 3 1, 1992.
This was unrealistic and may have led the borrower to feel that there would be several
extensions. Failure to redesign and extend the closing date meant that towards the end of
the project. exhortation to disburse as much as possible of the funds focused attention on
the quantity rather than quality of implementation. in an attempt to heat the deadline.



I 
32.   The revision of the project in 1991/92. merely expanded it to cover areas in
which the Bank's portfolio was becoming active. This robbed it of focus compared to its
original objectives and made it a general purpose fund. The achievement of the
objectives of such general purpose fund would be difficult to judge. Supervision should
have made up for some of the design flaws, or for the failure to do a mid-term review or
redesign and extend the closing date when the project was reviewed for reinstatement..
33.   The effectiveness of some of the supervision missions is questionable. First, they
did not always identify implementation problems of the project. Second, even when the
problems were identified, required follow-up action to resolve them were not carried out.
Third, earlier supervision had glossed over some of the problems that arose, and it
became difficult for subsequent managers to take definite stance on project
implementation without being regarded as inflexible. Fourth, the ratings for project
implementation and achievement of development objectives in the supervision reports
during the suspension of disbursements, 1987-1991, were not realistic because ratings
were assigned to these variables during that period when nothing vias taking place. Fifth,
some of the supervision missions were undertaken incidentally as part of supervision of
other projects. robbing the project of the depth of attention it needed to be successful.
Sixth, there was inadequate information on implementation progress in some of the
supervision reports to fully evaluate the project. Aide-Memoirs and other attachments to
Form 590 were often separated and they did not contain sufficient information to allow
for a proper evaluation of achievement of objectives. Seventh, the project was not clear
in spelling out monitorable yardsticks. Finally, as already mentioned, frequent changes in
project staff posed a big problem both for the supervision and for the implementation of
the project.
G.   Borrower Performance
34.   The implementation of the project accelerated after the lifting of suspension.
Nevertheless, the pace was still too slow. There was inadequate attention to cost
effectiveness in terms of use of project funds either for consultancies or for studies and
personnel. This lack of attention to cost effectiveness conveyed the impression that in
spite of the point made in paragraph 24 above, the project was implemented as if it was a
grant rather than a credit that had to be repaid in the future. This led to the subordination
of project-wide considerations to individual needs.
35.   In spite of the length of the project life, the basics of IDA procurement and
disbursement were not mastered. Proper coordination was also absent and progress
reporting and use of institutions established for the project were lacking. Project staff
were working only part-time on this project and were saddled with other responsibilities
that appeared to take more of their time, so that only passing attention could be given to



12
the project. Overall the implementation experience tended to call into question the
government's commitment to the objectives of the project.
H.    Assessment of Outcome
36.   The result of this operation is mixed but unsustainable, and for that reason the
outcome is rated unsatisfactory. The project resulted in upgrading the education of
several beneficiaries. It provided equipment for more efficient delivery of services. It
also funded consultants and studies that were important in policy preparation and advice.
Its primary objective of capacity building was, at best, partially achieved. Some
Zambians received higher education and have improved their capacity for policy analysis.
Nonetheless, the training programs have not been based on any systematic analysis of
skills needs or deficiencies. However, all who went on training are still within the
government. It is not certain how many are applying the skills they acquired and how
many of those training courses were actually relevant to the jobs held by the
beneficiaries.
37.   Although notable progress and improvements have been made in some areas of
macroeconomic analysis, findings highlight continued weaknesses in: macroeconomic
analysis, particularly in public investment programming and its linkage to the budget
process; budgeting and revenue estimation and projections, particularly in accounting for
donor funding; and financial management, mainly due to the delay in establishing the
computerized Financial Management System.
38.   Since improving the budgeting process was one of the objectives, the fact that
these problems still persist is symptomatic of the stunted achievement of this project.
Moreover, during the Government Feedback Survey meeting held in February 199:5.
Zambians pointed to the continued lack of analytical capacity in the key economic
ministries - an indication that TA 1I was not successful in removing this constraint to
policy-making.
39.   The legal component is the most successful. It has provided legal draftsmen who
have drafted the legislation required for the reform program and investment laws. This
has greatly advanced the adjustment program of Zambia. The legal draftsmen drafted
about 43 pieces of legislation, acts and statutory instruments in 1993 and 46 in 1994.
The Legal Affairs Ministry's training component. particularly the on-tle-job training.
partially eased the constraint posed by shortage of legal draftsmen. At the outset of the
project, there was a critical shortage of personnel in the Ministry of Legal Affairs: there
were fourteen positions of which four were filled at the outset. The recruitment of two
Legal Draftsmen reduced the deficit to some extent.



13
40.   There have been improvements, albeit limited. in other areas as well. First. the
NCDP has improved its economic policy analysis capability and the quality of its
Economic Report and Public Investment Program (PIP) publications. Secondly. the
Ministry of Finance is improving its accounting and financial professionals and the
standard of training for accountants. Third. some of the studies and sub-projects have
met with success. The export promotion study resulted in actual orders for Zambian
goods from potential foreign buyers. This will improve exports of non-traditional
products, mainly timber and gemstones. After a slow start. th. Business Development
and Outplacement component is now enthusiastically embraced nationwide by civil
servants and non-civil servants alike. The program has been extended to the regions and
provinces using local trainers who will take over the scheme at the end of the consultant's
contract. Notwithstanding these successes and apparent sustainability of the Business
Development and Outplacement component, sustainabilitv is doubtful for the project as a
whole.
41L    Despite the weak performance of this TA project. and the shortcomings of self-
standing TAs, there is room for further capacity building in Zambia. A well-focused and
well-conceived project, under the management of a department very much concerned
with macroeconomic issues, could be rewarding, provided the lessons learned from this
experience are taken into account.
1.    Key Lessons Learned
43.   The following lessons emerge from the review of this project:
(a)    Where there has been a hiatus in project implementation, as was the case
between
May 1987 and March 1991 in Zambia, the Bank should have done a mid-
term review and given careful thought at reinstatement to redesigning it.
At a minimum, it was necessary to ensure that there was sufficient time to
implement the project by extending the closing date to reflect the time
elapsed as a result of the hiatus.
(b)   Measurable monitoring indicators and a monitoring unit are needed to
guide implementation and ensure the success of the project in achieving its
objectives. (See paragraph 15 above).
(c)    The Resident Mission should be intimately involved in the supervision of
a project as was the case at the very beginning of this project. The need
for both Headquarters staff and the Resident Mission staff to work
together cannot be overemphasized. In this connection, as of late, the
Resident Mission's role in vetting some of the withdrawal applications,



14
providing a resident procurement officer to act as an adviser, and being
easily accessible to the borrower, have greatly improved implementation
as well as relations with the Bank.
(d)   The remuneration of local staff should be such as not to produce a dual
salary structure. This can lead to loss of morale among civil servants not
benefiting from higher remuneration tied to Bank projects, and is often
counter-productive when the objective is to build local capacity.
(e)    To ensure proper project implementation, a full time staff of the
government should be in charge of project management and
implementation. The incumbent should be freed from other
responsibilities.
(f)    Systematic analysis of training needs and the formulation of a training
program should be undertaken by the government to ensure orderly
implementation.
(g)   Supervision is very important for project implementation. It is critical that
supervision missions help identify and address the problems wlhich arise in
the implementation of a project. Form 590 should contain sufficient
information to permit properjudgment about the project experience.
(h)   Institution building is important and crucial to development in the
countries of Africa. In future projects, whether for institution-building or
not, the terms of reference of consultants should include the training of
local counterparts who would provide services similar to those provided
by the consultants. This should be a condition for final payment of fees.
Fulfillment of this condition would be shown by presenting local staff
input or allowing them to do similar analysis in areas that are important to
the government.
(i)    Using local consultants should be encouraged. however, care should be
taken to avoid demoralizing the other staff who are not being paid
internationally competitive salaries.
(j)    Zambia may benefit from a well-planned and properly implemented
Technical Assistance project if these lessons are takeni into account. But a
self-standing project may not be the most appropriate vehicle for tlhis.



PART III: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1: Summary of assessment
A.  Achievement of Objectives         Substantial    Partial        Negligible        Not applicable
Macro policies                                                                   X
Sector policies                                                                  x
Financial policies                                                               X
Institutional policies                          X
Physical objectives                                                              X
Poverty reduction                                                                X
Gender issues                                                                    X
Other social objectives                                                          X
Environmental objectives                                                         X
Public sector management                        X
Private sector development                                      X
Other (specify)
B.   Project sustainabilitv            Likely         Unlikely        Uncertain
x
Highly
C.   Bank performance                  Satisfactoy    Sifacti         Deficien
Identification                                  X
Preparation assistance                          X
Appraisal                                       X
Supervision                                                     X
Highly
D.   Borrower performance              Satisfactory    Satisfactory   Deficicnt
Preparation                                     X
Implementation                                                  X
Covenant compliance                                             X
Highly                                         Highly
E.   Assessment of outcome             Satisfactory    SatisfactorI   Unsafisfactor    Unatisifaco
x



16
Table 2: Related Bank loans/credits
Year of
Loan/credit title             Purpose                     Approval  Status            Comments
Zambia Technical Assistanec   Project preparation & planning  1978   Fully disbursed.   TA 11 was to continue financing of
Project (TA l; Cr. 873)                                              Closed 7/31/87    Macroeconomist and Debt Adviser
Zambian Program Loan 11       Macroeconomic adjustment    1976       Fully disbursed.
(L. 1322)                                                            Closed in 1977
Economic Recovery Credit      Support of macroeconomic     1986      Fully disbursed.
(ERC l; Cr. 1720)             stabilization and adjustment
Economic Recovery Credit 11   Support of macroeconomic     1991      Fully disbursed
(EIRC I: Cr. 2214)           stabilization, market                   Closed 6/30/92
liberalization and adjustment
Government Privatization/Ind  Privatization and parastatal  1992      Completed
Reform Credit (Cr. 2405)      reform
Govt. Privatization/industrial  PIRC technical assistance  1992       Ongoing         Continued support for some TA 11
Rcrorm (PIRC TA: Cr.2406)                                                             components
Govt. Privatization/industrial  Privatization and parastatal  1993    Ongoing          TA 11 supported project preparation/
Reforn Credit (PIRCIl:Cr.2523)  reform                                                studies for this program
Zambia Economic and Social    Macroeconomic stabilization    1994     Ongoing
Adjustnient Credit (ESAC;     export promotion. delivery of
Cr.2577)                      vital social services.
Fertilizer Industry Restructuring    Restore technical integrity/  1986  Closed 12/31/91   TA II provided support (refund) for
Project (Cr. 1662)            financial viability of NCZ and                          the Operations Management
timely and cost-effective de-                           Services for the rehabilitation of
livery of fertilizers to farmers                       the NCZ fertilizer plants



17
Table 3: Project timetable
Steps in project cycle   Date planned       Date actualAatest estimate    Status
INITIAL EPS                                                               Completed
PREAPPRAISAL                         6/12/85           6/12/85            Completed
REVIEW
FEPS/IM TO OC                                                             Completed
DEPART. APPRAISAL                    3/17/85           3/17/85            Completed
YELLOW COVER                        10/16/85           10/16/85           Completed
DOCS TO RVP                         11/13/85           11/13/85           Completed
INVIT. TO NEGOTIATE                                                       Completed
START NEGOTIATIONS                     9/85            1/27/86            Completed
BOARD APPROVAL                       3/27/86            4/1/86            Completed
SIGNING                               5/2/86            5/2/86            Completed
EFFECTIVENESS                        8/26/86           8/26/86            Completed
CLOSING DATE                        12/31/92           12/31/94           Completed
ICR (PCR) DRAFT                      3/31/95           3/31/95            Completed
GOVT. APPROVAL                       5/31/95           3/06/95            Completed
ICR (PCR) TO OED                     6/30/95                                Active



18
Table 4: Credit disbursements - cumulative, estimated and actual
DisbL       Original   Cumulative    Actual   Cumulative  Cumulative
Estimate     DUE        Original     Disb.      Actual    Actual/Est.
FY      Estimt    Disb. Est. $                Disb.$    % by vear
1986        0.4         0.4          0           0         0.00%
1987        1.6         2.0         0.42        0.4       20.00%
1988        2.0         4.0         0.23        0.65      16.25%
1989        1.7         5.7          0          0.65      11.40%
1990        1.2         6.9          0          0.65       9.42%
1991        0.9         7.8          0          0.65       8.33%
1992        0.2         8.0         2.31        2.97      37.13%
1993         0          8.0         1.47       4.44       55.50%
1994         0           0          1.95        6.39
1995         0           0          2.09        8.48
Note: Column 7 is column 5/column 3.



19
Table 5: Key indicators for project implementation
L. Key implementation indicators in
the SAR/President's Report                        Estimated                     Actual                        Remarks
a). Macroeconomist                      48 m/m                                                    Not appointed under TA II
b). Short-term consultants (Investment Plan.) 36 rn/m
c). Consultant (computerization)
d). Budget Adviser                      36 r/mr                       24 rn/m
e). Revenue Adviser                     24 r/rm                                                   Not appointed
0. Management training                                                                           Irish parallel-financed component.-
g). Accountancy training/curriculum
reform
h). On-the-job training of legal
draftsmen in Ministry of Legal Affairs  48 n/m                      38 nrm
i). Economic Adviser (MoF)
(extension from TA I)                  24 mim                                                   Not appointed
j). Financial Director (ZIMCO)
(extension from TA I)                  24 m/m                                                   Not appointed
k). Training fellowships:               260 m/m
NCDP
- Economics                         3 fellowships 18 n/m each;        (See Table 5B below)    Masters in Development Economics.
- Project Preparation, Evaluation, Data   8 short-term 3 mrm each training.                   Investment Planning (IP) and Sector
Processing, Planning                                                                        Planning
Budget Office
- Economics                         2 fellowships 18 mrm each;                               MA In Economics
- Financial Analysis, Computing.    3 short-term 3 m/m each training                          Budget preparationlimplementation
Financial Planning                                                                          staff
Loans and Investments
- Economics                         3 fellowships 18 n/m each;                                MA in Economics
- Debt management, Financial Analysis,  7 short-term 3 mrm each training                      Debt, revenue, aid staff
Computer Programming
DPU
- Systems Analysis I                1 MS 18                                    * m            FMS staff
- Database system; Computer         12 short-term 3 m/m each                                 DPU staff (sotware/programming)
Programming.
I). Financial Management Systems:
- Phase l: Streamlining data flows  9 months                                                Suspension of disbursements to
-    _Phase II: Training            4 years                                                  Zambia delayed and disrupted the
-Phase II: Requirements definition/  6 months                                                schedule.
development strategy     I
-Phase IV: Implementation/integration  127 months
- Phase V: Microcomputers in sector  15 months
Ministries.                I
Note:
* The Irish Government had an agreement with the Government of the Republic of Zambia to parallel-finance the management training component
to the tune of US$1 .00 million. This parallel-financing arrangement appears in the project document, and earlier supervision reports indicate activity
in the component during the hiatus. Later supervision reports, however, are silent on this and the project managers profess to be unaware of the
component and its implementation.



20
Table 5A: Modified key indicators for project implementation.
II. Modified indicators                           Estimated                  Actual                        Remarks
1 Consuttants:                                   $3.350.000                S5,113,936        Credit amounts for consultants & studies
a). Budget Advisor (Prof. Ben Mweene)             24 m/m                    21 m/m
b). Auditor-General (Mr. Nair)                    24 m/m                    24 m/m
c). Financial Adviser (Mr. Dhalabhoy)                                      6 months
d). Financial Director, UTH (Mr. Alam)            36 m/m                    24 m/m
e). Consultant, CSO (Mr. Kansal - see studies)    60 days
f). Legal Draftsman (Mrs. Eva Jhala)             24 mrm                    20 m/m
g). Legal Draftsman (Mr. Graham)                  24 m/mrn                 20 mrm
2. Studies:
a). ZIMCO study                                  $588,000                                   No disbursement
b). Public sector reform study(phase 1)          $15,000                    $9,950
c). PTC study                                    $700,000                  $334,300         Report expected
d). Export promotion/development study           $500,000                                   Also includes study tours & exp. directory
- GOPA Timber study                           $132,750                   $82,631          $82,631 of $132,750 to GOPA
- Brunelli Engineering Gemstone study         $219.750                  $191,661          $183,161 paid by IDA
a). OutplacementBusiness development            $1,800,000                $1,400,000        Remaining S400k from PIRC II TA
f). Public expenditure review                    $10,000                                    Su cortZambian input into PER
g). Matchmaking invitabon (Korean Business-      $20,000                                    Visit of Korean businessmen to Zambia
men)                                  _
h). TA procurement study                         S100,000                                   Held in Lusaka
i). Revaluation of fixed assetsfor 10 ZIMCO      $15,000             GBP 14,500; K975,600
companies
j). TAIl preparation study (B-M-B)              $200,000                  $200,000       -
k). Food security study (Oxford group)          S129,000                  S129,000
I). NCZ refund                                 $2,200,000                53,496,013         Revised estimate: $4.6m. ($3.5m paid to
EINICHEM AGRICULTURA)
m). Audit of NCZ rehab. proj. (SASOL Ind. Ltd)   $94,000                   $89,628          Physical audit of NCZ rehabilitation proj.
n). Census of public employment                 S500.000       =                         _ No withdrawal under this project
o). Ghost workers study (IRI)                    $15,000                   $9,950           Paid to Harry Sasson (consultants)
p). National accounts study (Mr. kansal - CSO)   $20400; revised: $64000   $48,523          See Mr. Kansal above.
,3.Equipmejnj                                    S768,000                  $1,530,276
Vehicles                             ___                                                  At least 12 vehicles bought
Computen                                                       _       _=                In addibon to 80 computers and an equal
Printers                                                                                 number of printers and peripherals for the
Uninterrupted Power Supply           _                           _                       DPU. computers also procured for other
Ministries/Agencies (incl. MoF & NCDP)



21
Table 5B: Key indicators for project implementation (training, component - actual)
No.  |Name                     I Position             Affiliation              Counre                                Univesity/institution               Duration
4 TRAININGI
A Lona term training (gmonths and over)
t Mr. L. Chiinda           Economist              NCDP                     M.Sc. (Economics)                     Manchester Univeristy               2 years
2F. Muwezwa                Economist              NCDP                     M.Sc. (Economics)                     Manchester University               2 years
3 Miss P. Nyirenda         Computer Programmer  NCDP                       Dipiploma in Computer studios         Gloucester College                  2 years
4 Bimbe Simbe              Analyst                                         HND                                   Brighton University                 2 yeas
5L  Chibangula             Programmer                                      __HND                                 Brighton University                 2 year
8 D. Chizenda              Economist                                       Macroeconomic Adjustment              Manchester Met Univ.                2 yeam
7 Mr. A. G. Goma           Senior Accountant      Loans & Investments (MoF) MBA                                  Univemsty of Wales                  1 year
8 W. Kasem a               Economist                                       M.Sc. (Economics)                     Universty of Wales                  1 year
9 Mrs. G. N oma            Senior Economist       NCDP                     M.Sc. (National Dev. & Project Planning)   Bradford Univeity              1 year
0 Mr. J Kapai_                 Director              Budget (MoF)             M.Sc. (Economics)                      Birmingham Univerity                1 year
11 C. Chiwam                Accounts Clerk         Loans & Investments (MoF) ACP Di plomi in Programming          West London CoieLe                  1 year
12 K Mubanga                Accounts Clerk         Loans & Investments (MoF) Programming & computer systems       West London College                 I year
13 Ms. F Zimba              Senior Analyst         Data Center (MoF)        HND (Computer studies)                Sheffield Hallam Univerity          1 year
14 M Munumi                 Economist                                       M.Sc. (National Development           University of Bradford              1 year
1 5 E. Musaba               Auditor   _ACCA III                                                                   Emile Wolt College                  gmonths
B. Sho t-term training (less than 9 months)
_ 1 S. Ndhlovu                 Principal Accountant    NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Financial Management                    Crown Agents, London                5 days
2 B M. Zimba               Assistant Secretary                             Debt Management                       Crown Agents, London                14 days
3 A. G. Goma               Senior Accountant      Loans & Investments (MoF) Debt Management                      Crown Agents, London                14 days
4 A. G. Goma               Senior Accountant  _  Loans & Investments (MoF) Accounting                            ADB                                 14 day
S W. D. Musonda            Director               Loans & Investments (MoO Accounting                            ADB                                 14 day
6 J. Chali                 Accountant             Loans & Investments (MoF) Accounting                           ADB                                 14 day
7 J. ChaIr                 Accountant             Loans & Investments (MoF) Financial Management                 Crown Agents                        12 days
B 6 J. Chah                    Accountant             Loans & Investments (MoF  Loan Negotiations                    Internatonal Law Institute          27 doys
9 J. Chali                 Accountant             Loans & Investments (MoF) Disbursement seminar                 Nairobi                             5 day
10 J. Chali                 Accountant             Loans & Investments (MoF) Financial Analysis                   Euromoney                           8 days
11 L. G Chikopela           Accounting Assistant                            Financial Management                  ESAMI                               30 day
12 J. Mweetwa               Economist                                       Budgeting & Planning                  Harvard Institute                   48 days
13 E. Musenge               Economist                                       Budgeting & Planning                  Harvard Insttute                    48 days
14 C. Mwango                Principal Accountant                            Computer                              UNCTAD                              7 days
15 V. Ng 'ombe              Accounts Clerk                                  Computer                              UNCTAD                              7 days
16 V. Ng ombe               Accounts Clerk                                  Financial management                  Crown Agents                        14 do
17 Dr. K Mwamba             Director               NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Financial Management                    Crown Agents                        12 days
18 Dr K Mwemba              Director               NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Management of Stock Exchange            Johannesburg Stock Exchange         30 days
19 Dr. K Mwamba             Director               NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Environmental Assessment                Aberdeen University                 51 days
20 Eddah Phini              Accounting Assistant                            Fiancial Management                   ESAMI                               36 days
21 M Lukwesa                Accountng Assistant                             Debt Management                       Crown Agents                        14 days
22 K. Nkolola               Economist                                       Proposal writing for projects         Graduate School, USDA               21 days
23 Bede Mphande             Principal Economist    NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Computer systems                        Faculty Unit I                      30 day
24 E. C. Katai              Director                                        Investment & appraisal                Harvard Insttute                    50 days
25 P. Sitwala               Economist                                       Financial Planning                    University of Strathclyde           3 months
26 Ms. F. Sitwala           Economist              NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Financial Planning & Management         Univerity of Strathclyde            74 days
27 A. Zulu                  Economist                                       Public Enterprise                     HIID                                40 days
28 Ms. Eddah Chirwa         Economist              NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Budgeting in the public sector          HIID                                40 days
29 C M Mwauluka             Computer Analyt                                 Structured aytems & analysis           ESAMI                              30 days
30 Bimbe N Bimbe            Computer Analyt                                 Structured systems & analysis          ESAMI                              30 days
31 K Mwanza                 Computer Analyt                                 Structured sstems & analyis            ESAMI                              25 days
32 Mrs. Nvula               Prncipal Accountant                             Donor funded projects                 ESAMI                               30 days
33 W  Kalaluka              Economist                                       Legal issues in Privatization         International Law Institute          14 days
34 G. Nyirenda              Clerical Officer                                Management applications for computers   Graduate School, USDA             40 days
35 Mr E Longwe              Director                                        Macroeconomic policies                Malawi                              9 days
36 C Lishomwa               Economist                                       Negotiating international joint ventures    International Law Insttute    14 days
37 C. Simpasa               Planner                                         Macro computers in proect planning    Bradford Univesity                  52 days
38 Mrs P. K Bwalya          Planner                NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Managing sustainable projects           University of Bradford              81 da
39 B Mphande                Economist                                       Advanced computer sstems              Persona Faculty                     29 days
40 Mrs Mwanakaoma           Legal Counsellor                                Negotiating & drafting of agreements  International Law Institute          14 day
41 B I Mulens aPrincipal Accountant                                         Ne otiating & drafting of agreements  International Law Institute         14 days
42 B I Mulenga              Principal Accountant                            Disbursement seminar                  Nairobi                             5 days
43 F. K Yamba               Economist                                       Investment appraisal                  Harvard University                   0 days
44 L M Mwale                Economist                                       Analysis & negotation                 Financ:al Eng                       14 days
45 A Musenge                Senior Economist       NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Macroeconomic adjustment                Harvard Institute                   4E je
48 Mr E Kapwepwe            Senior Economist       NCDP (Macroeconomics)  Environmental economics                 Harard Insttute                     30 days
47 M Lukwesa                Assistant Accountant                            Financial management                  USDA Graduate School                30 days
48 J K Mwenda               Accountant                                      Financial Analyis                     Euromoney                           7 day
49 F. X Ndakola             Assistant Secretary                             nformaton systems                     USDA lntemational Institute         33 days
50 G R Moono                Economist                                       Management applications for computers  Intemational Insitute for Development  52 days
51 A Musunga                Economist                                       Financial management                  Crown Agents                        16 days
52 M. Ngomalala             Economist                                       MA (Economics)                        Jnivert of Manchester               3 months
53 L Chikopela              Assistant Accountant                            Financial Management         _        ESAMI                               30 days
54 E Tembo                  Accounting Assistant                            Financial Management              _   ESAMI                               30 days
55 S Chibanda               Deputy Director                                 Financial Analysis         _Euromoney                                     8day
58 H Banda                  Accounting Assistant                            Financial management                  Crown Agents                        14 days
57 A. 0 Chijungula        .Assistant Auditor                                ACCA level Ill                        Accountancy Tutors                  3 months
58 P Chuungu                Accounting Assistant                            Computer applications                 Crown Agents                        30 days
5S. Muyunda                 Princip l Analyst                               Advanced issues in micro-con   er'    ESAMI                               25 days
eoLJ M Mwansa               Princip l Economist                             Management applications for cr- nuters  International Institut or Devek>pment  52 days
81IN N. Phini               Economist                                       Project Analysis                      Grduate School USDA                 87 day
82 F Mushibw                Economist                               _       Economic policy management            Universty of Bradford                3 week



22
Table 6: Studies included in project
Purpose as defined
Study                   at appraisal/redefinition        Status               Impact of study
I Report of mission to prepare TA II  Prepare TA il               Completed, 1985       Input in design of TA II
2 Outplacement & Business             Train retrenched civil servants   On going. Entrepreneur- 4553 attended training.
Development Component              in entrepreneurial skills and  ship training aspect sus- Estimated 25-28% started
help with job placement    tainable. Funds        businesses. About 2% job
allocated for 1995.   placement rate.
3 Review of parastatal sector         Comprehensive review of     Not carried out under   Input in privatization and
(Phase 1)                          financial, technical & manage-  this project       public sector reform program
ment restructuring of ZIMCO
4 PTC study                           study of post and telecom.  Ongoing               Report expected
service to restructure or reform
5 Revaluation of fixed assets for     Revalue assets of companies   Completed.          Revaluation of assets
group of 10 ZIMCO companies
6 Privatization of ZIMCO subsidiary   Privatization/restructuring of    Not carried out under   Input in privatization program
comnpanies(INDECO, National Hotels    ZIMCO                     this project
NIEC, & ZCCM)
7 Food security study                 Evaluate Food security in   Completed             Policy options and early
the face of drought                               warning system
8 Export promotionidiversification    Study export potential, program  Completed        Resulted in increased orders
study:                              for export development and                        for non-traditional exports
a). Pre-export handling of gemstones    export diversification for                    from Zambia and publication
(Brunelli)                    Zambia.                                           of comprehensive directory
b). Timber grading/sustainable                                                        of Zambian exporters.
exploitation of wood resources
(GO PA)
c). Publication of Zambia Export Dir.
d). Study tours/visits; trade fairs
9 Ghost workers study                 Identify ghost workers      completed             Identified ghost workers
10 Census of Public Employment         Census of public servants   No disbursement under  Identified ghost workers. Input
this project         in PSRP
I NCZ (Nitrogen. chemical of Zambia)   Management services to      Completed.            Designed to provide manage-
restructure and improve     (Supplemented main    ment services for NCZ.
management, efficiency, and    project that financed the Accomplished with some
profitability of NCZ.      INCZ effort).          delay. Not very successful.



23
|Table 7A: Project Costs            I
I            I _                    I             I     
ApDraisal Estimate (U $M)             Actual/latest estimate (US$M)
Item                    Local costs Foreign costs Total      Local costs Foreign costs Total
Consultants:                   0.41          2.94       3.35                                  5.114
NCDP - Macroecon Anal.                     0.84        0.84
FMS                          0.41           1.5       1.91
Budget & Revenue (MoF)                      0.6        0.6
Training:                      0.29          2.28       2.57                                  1.719
Management Training          0.16          0.75       0.91
Accountancy                  0.09          0.63       0.72
Legal Training               0.04           0.4       0.44
Fellowships & study tours                   0.5        0.5
TA I followup                                0.44       0.44
Equipment (incl maint.)        0.16           0.6       0.76                                   1.53
Contingencies/unallocated      0.74          1.54       2.24                                   0.12
Total                           1.6          7.85       9.45                                  8.483 (b)
Undisbursed (as at 4/30/95)                                                                   1.914 (b)
Table 7B: Project Financing
I   _     _  _     _     I  _  _     I  _        I   _   _                  =__         _     _
Appraisal Estimate (US$M)          Actual/latest estimate (U  $M)
Source          Local costs Foreign costs    Total    Local costs Foreign costs  Total
IBRD/IDA                        1.1           6.9          8                    8.483         8.483 (b)
Cofinancing institutions
Other external sources (a)      0.1           0.9          1
Domestic contribution           0.4                      0.4
Total                           1.6           7.8        9.4                    8.483         8.483 (b)
Undisbursed (as at 4/30/95)                                                                   1.914 (b)
Notes:
(a). The project document indicates that the Irish Government agreed to parallel-finance the management training
component (US$1.00 million). Earlier supervision reports confirm activity in the component during the hiatus. But
later supervision reports and project managers were silent on this component. (See footnote on Table 5 above)
(b) Because of exchange rate fluctuations and since the original credit was in SDR, the total estimated amount of
the loan as of April 30, 1995 was $10.4 million {excluding the $1.00 million mentioned in note (a) above} of which
about $8.5 million was disbursed leaving a balance of $1.9 million which was undisbursed and hence canceled.



24
Table 8: Status of Legal Covenants
Agemetnt           Section         Covenant type           Present    Original   Revised              Description                    Comments
Status    fulfniment flfilment           of Covenant
Credit allocation           2.02a  Disbursement                      C          Life of    Life of  Credit disbursementfsector     Reallocations were made as
project    project  allocation,                    project proceeded.
Special account             2.02b  Disbursement                      C         Aug-86     Aug-86  Special account operation
Closing date                203   Project closing date               CD       12131l92    1213194  project closing date            extended twice to 12/31194
Cornmiftni t to objecbives  3.01   General                           CP        Life of     Life of   carry out project with due    Lack of commitment
project    project  diligence and efficiency
with appropriate mgmt.
and financial practices
Prcject execution           3.02   Procurement                      CP                             Procurement pnnciples           Did not follow IDA
procurement principles
Project execution           3.03   Employment of consultants        CP                             Qualified consultants according   No transparent method of
to principles & procedures     engaging consultants
satisfactory to IDA
Qualified countrpart        3.04   mplEmentation arrangement         NC                            Assigning qualified             No qualified counterparts
staff assgnment prior to    |                                                                      counterparts to consultants     assigned in every case to
appointment of oonsultant A                                                                                                        ensure capacity building
/expert                                                                                                                            Where assigned, interest in
=__________  ___________  __________  _______________________________    receiving  training  often  lacking
Fellowships/Training        3.05   Sectoral policy                   CP                      _     Institutional/sectoral allocation  Original allocation not closely
of fellowships by number, type,   followed. No prior planning of
field, duration, purpose       fellowships.
Appointment of Natonal      3.06   Implementation arrangement        CP        Aug-86     Aug-86  Nabonal pro. administrator as    Effectiveness condition. Did
Administrator                      Effectiveness condition                                         co-ordinator of project         not always prepare progress
reports
Appointennt of Monitonng    3.07a  Monitoring/Review                 CP        Aug-86     Aug46  Appointment & membership          Established to fulfill
Committee                          Effecbveness condibon                                           of monitoring committee         effectiveness condition. Not
_____________________________    revived  at the  end  of
_______________________                                            _____________________________   ~~~~~~~suspension  of disbursements
to Zambia in 1991.
Responsibilites of          3.07b  Monitoring/Review                 NC        Life of     Life of   Duties of monitoring Committee   Did not do i) monthly progress
Monitonng Committee                Effectiveness condition                     project    project                                  reew ii aprov training
_programs: iii) approve
soware/hardwarestrategyfor
=project as required in project
___________________________________________  ________________docum ents.
4_01a   Financial                        CD        Life of     Life of   Keeping appropriate records   On one occasion, auditors had
project    project                                  to assemble financial state-
ments themselves, then audit
__________________   _______  _____________________                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~records  of their own  makin    i
Financial records          4 Olb,c  Accountstaudits                 CD         Life of     Life of  Auditng accounts regularly     During suspension, accountsi_
project    project  and sending copy to IDA        went unaudited. There were
_                                                                about 5 overdue audits at end
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~of hiatus. Thereafter improved
=_______                                        considerably
Legend:  C =covenant complied with
CD = complied with after delas
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with    I                                                               I



25
Table 9: Bank Resources Staff inputs
Stage of project cycle    Planned           Revised             Actual
Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$    Weeks    US$
Through appraisal    34.55             34.55               39.2  T
Appraisal - Board     5                  5                 3.4   ____4_T_
Board - Effectiveness   15.825           15.83               1.3
Supervision      97.775              97.77               95
Completion          8                 8                   8
Total          161.15            161.15              146.9



26
Table 10: Bank Resources: Missions
________ ______                    Perfomance Rating
Number of   ys       Specialized Staff   Implementation Development             Types of
Stage of project cycle Monthtyear  persons   field    skills represented  Status     Objedives                Problems
Through appraisal      hMar-8                   PSM,TA LO
Appraisal through
Board approval          Apr-861
Board approval
through effectiveness  Aug-8 _6___
Supervision:
#1              7/1/86    1        na   PSM                         2            1       - Lmited legal powers of planning agency
to request info from line ministries
#2             Mar-87     1             PSM                         2            2        nmgmt. performance of NCDP and need
to transfer project management to MoF
#3             12/1/87    1        5   PSM                          2            2       - Suspension of IDA acivities In Zambia
#4             Mar-48     I             PSM                         2            2
15             Jun-89     1             PSM                         2            4
#6             Aug-90     1             PSM                         2            4
#7             Aug-91     1             Economist                   2            2
#8             Mar-92     1             Economist                   2            2
#9             Sep-92     1                                         2            2
#10             Jun-93     2            Country officer, Econ       2             2      Non-compliance with procurement
procedures & de"ys in training requests
#11             Jun-94     1             Economist                  S             S
Completion:
Notes:__                                                                                              _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _  _  _  _  _
PSM  Public Sector Management Specialis
TA= Technical Assistance Expert 
LO= Loan Officer  I         I






A  -)I  : 9~ 181LI
- L       IDVN :   T ; 1 I E--
c t I I -1 v I     -   , - il I OF -   'I



