Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15011-TU
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
MAY 22, 1996
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(as of May 1996)
Currency Unit  =  Turkish Lira (TL)
1TL   =  0.00001 US$
US$1  =  75,000
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
(per US$1)
Jan 1992     Jan 1993     Jan 1994     Jan 1995     Nov 1995      May 1996
5,113 TL     8,628 TL     14,000 TL    38,801 TL    50,000 TL    75,000 TL
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Principal Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
- AADT       Average Annual Daily Traffic
- AC         Asphaltic Concrete
- EA         Environmental Analysis
- ERR        Economic Rate of Return
- EU         European Union
- GNP        Gross National Product
- GU         Gazi University
- HDM III   Highway Design and Maintenance Model, Version III
- HIMP       Highway Investment and Maintenance Program
- ICB        International Competitive Bidding
- IMF        International Monetary Fund
- KGM        General Directorate of Highways
- KOY        General Directorate of Rural Affairs
- MOE        Ministry of Education
- MOEn       Ministry of Environment
- MOH        Ministry of Health
- MOPWS   Ministry of Public Works and Settlements
- MOT        Ministry of Transport
- MTMP       National Transport Master Plan
- PCR        Project Completion Report
- PMS        Pavement Management System
- PPAR       Project Performance Audit Report
- RUC        Road User Charges
- SEE        State Economic Enterprises
- SPO        State Planning Organization
- TCDD       Turkey State Railways
- TETEK      Trans-Turkey Highway
- TL         Turkish Lira
- TTP        Turkish Traffic Police
TURKEY - FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
Contents
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...............................    i
I. THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  ...... ..1.......... 
A.  Economic Background  and the Transport Sector  ..................                                                   1
B.  Overview  of the Transport Sector and Transport Sector Issues   ...                                     ......    3
C.  Sector Issues   .......................................                                                             4
(i) Institutional Setting and  Sectoral Planning  ..................                                          5
(ii) Operational Efficiency, Transport Costs and the Role of the Private
Sector  .....................................                                                       6
D.  Previous Bank Experience in  the Sector  .......................                                                    7
E.  Rationale for Bank Involvement  ............................                                                        9
II.  THE  HIGHWAY  SECTOR   ...................................   10
A.  Sector Issues   .......................................   10
B.  The Network   .......................................   13
C.  Highway  Administration   ................................    14
D.  Road Transport .......                    ......        ..    ......................    15
E.  Highway  Design, Construction  and Maintenance  ..................   15
F.  Highway Planning   ....................................    16
G.  Highway Expenditures   .............                              ....................    17
H.  Highway Financing   ......                     ........ .....................   19
I.  Environmental Aspects  ..................................   20
II.  THE  PROJECT                     ...................                         ......................   21
A.  Project Origin    ......................................   21
B.  Project Objectives   ....................................   22
C.  Project Description    ...................................   22
State Road  Rehabilitation.    .............................   22
Improvement of Rural Roads    ...........................   23
The Road Traffic Safety Program   .........................   23
Institutional Development ..............................   25
D.  Cost Estimates   ......................................   26
E.  Financing   .........................................   26
F.  Implementation, Monitoring  and Auditing  ......................   28
G.  Procurement                   ..................                        .....................   30
H.  Disbursement                   ..................                       .....................   33
I.  Environmental Impact  ..................................   34
IV.  ECONOMIC  EVALUATION   .................................   36
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries  ................................   36
B.  Costs and Benefits  ....................................   37
C. Risks   ............................................    38
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION ........ ..                                                             ............. 38



ANNEXES
1.    Past and Ongoing Operations in the Highway Sector
2.    Axle Load Control
3.    Road Traffic Safety
4.    Road User Charges
5.    Road Traffic Safety Action Plan
6.    Project Implementation Plan
7     Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
8.    Environmental Analysis
9.    Example of KGM's Economic Evaluation of Road Projects
10.   Economic Evaluation of the First Year Projects
11.   List of documents in the Project File
TABLES
1.    Table 2.1 Highway Investment and Maintenance Plan
2.    Table 3.1 Project Cost Estimate
3.    Table 3.2 Financing Plan
4.    Table 3.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
CHARTS
1.    Chart 1.1 Freight Transport
2.    Chart 1.2 Passenger Transport
3.    Chart 2.1 KGM Technical and Administrative Staff Per 1000 km of State &
Provincial Roads
4.    Chart 2.2 KGM Labor per 1000 km of State & Provincial Roads
5.    Chart 2.3 Accidents, Fatalities and Injuries per Million Vehicle - km
6.    Chart 2.4 Vehicles, Population and GDP
7.    Chart 2.5 Expenditures on State, Provincials & Rural Roads
8.    Chart 2.6 Road User Charges & Expenditures
MAP: IBRD) 27396
This document is based on an appraisal mission to Turkey in June 1995, consisting of Mirtha
Pokorny (Sr. Operations Officer and Task Manager), Charles Jeremy Lane (Sr. Highway
Engineer); Dong Liu, (Economist); Spyros Margetis (Sr. Environmental Specialist) and Peter
Nygaard (Consultant). Peer reviewers are Jaffar Bentchikou (Sr. Highway Engineer) and
Peter Parker (Sr. Transport Economist). The Division Chief is Ricardo Halperin and the
Department Director is Kenneth G. Lay.



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Republic of Turkey
Executing Agencies: General Directorate of Highways (KGM) in the Ministry of Public
Works and Settlements (MOPWS), Turkish Traffic Police (TTP) in the
Ministry of the Interior, Ministry of Health (MOH), Gazi University
(GU), and Ministry of Education (MOE).
Loan Amount:      US dollars 100 million, and
US dollars 150 million equivalent
Terms:            100 million US dollars payable in seventeen years, including five years
of grace, at the standard interest rate of LIBOR-based US dollar single
currency loans;
and 150 million US dollars equivalent payable in seventeen years,
including five years of grace, at the standard variable interest rate for
currency pool loans.
Project Objectives:  The project objectives include: (a) the reduction of road transport costs
through infrastructure improvements and the protection of past
investments in the highway sector through rehabilitation and
strengthening of paved highways (b) the improvement of traffic safety
in state and provincial roads; (c) the improvement of the operational
efficiency of KGM through the implementation of management systems
and computerization, and (d) improvement in the consideration of
environmental factors in project selection and design.
Project Description: The project includes: a) the road improvement program, comprising
strengthening or upgrading of about 600 km of high priority state
roads, about 300 km of rural (provincial) roads and town passages;
b) the road traffic safety program, involving i) civil and traffic
engineering improvements to accident black spots; ii) a program to
improve driver education; iii) provision of equipment to TTP and the
medical hospital at GU; iv) extension of TTP's accident data base to
other users; and v) provision of road safety materials for traffic
management; and c) the institutional development program, consisting
in the introduction of various management systems and computerization
throughout KGM and training of the staff of KGM in the areas of
environmental analysis, road planning, construction and maintenance.



- ii -
Benefits:         The project's main direct benefits would be to reduce road transport
costs through the improvement of the condition of state and provincial
roads. The project would also support KGM's programs to improve
road traffic safety, providing social, economic and environmental
benefits.
Risks:             The project poses no undue risks from an investment or environmental
view, and KGM has a very good implementation record. The main
risk concerns the possible failure of the Government to allocate
sufficient budgetary funds for highway strengthening and rehabilitation
programs because of macroeconomic constraints and the normal
institutional and organizational risks associated with the establishment
of a new integrated approach to address road traffic safety. The project
would incorporate a strong link between the programs and the annual
budgets to mitigate risks related to funding. In particular, to avoid the
possible atomization of investments in many projects with uncertain
future funding, the pace of approval of new contracts will be contingent
to satisfactory funding of works in the initial phase of the program.
Also, the economic evaluation of projects to be financed under the loan
quantifies the economic impact of delays in project implementation due
to shortage of funds; only projects estimated to be economically viable
even when completed with possible delays, will be financed under the
loan. Institutional risks are limited by the project focus on issues in
which the Government has already demonstrated a strong interest and
in which there is already solid progress. The coordination of the
various agencies involved in traffic safety will pose a difficult
institutional challenge, and in recognition of this the project proposes a
gradual approach.
Estimated Project Cost:'/              Local      Foreign        Total
------------ US$ million    ------------
Traffic Safety                          27.2         47.9         75.1
Road Rehabilitation                     168.2       121.8        290.0
Institutional Development                0.3          5.2          5.5
Sub Total                               195.7       174.9        370.6
Price Contingencies                      9.9          88          18.7
Grand Total                            205.6        183.7        389.3
1/           Differences due to rounding



- 111 -
Financing:                            Local      Foreign       Total
------------ US$ million   ------------
Government                            139.3         0.0        139.3
Bank                                   66.3        183.7       250.0
Total                                 205.6        183.7       2-389.2
Estimated IBRD Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year        97      98     99      00      01      02     03
---------------    US$ million     --------------------
Annual                15.0   40.0   75.0   65.0   30.0   17.5    7.5
Cumulative            15.0   55.0  130.0  195.0  225.0  242.5  250.0
Economic Rate of Return:
Above 20% for the First Year Program. All projects in the state road network to be
financed under the loan should have an economic rate of return (ERR) in excess of 12%.
Subprojects in the provincial (rural) road network with an Average Annual Daily Traffic
(AADT): (i) above 250 vehicles should have an ERR of at least 12%; (ii) between 150 and
250 vehicles should have an ERR of at least 10%; and (iii) below 150 vehicles should have
an ERR of at least 8%. The benefits of the road works are derived from savings in vehicle
operating costs and reduced road maintenance expenditures due to improved road surface.
The screening and ranking process for the selection of projects in the provincial road network
ensures that they have priority based on social factors such as accessibility to rural towns and
villages. Estimated ERRs for improvements of traffic accident "black spots" range from
12% to above 500%. Benefits were calculated on the basis of the monetary value of avoided
accidents, that is, income foregone due to injuries and savings from reduced damages to
vehicles.






REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
I. THE ECONOMY AND THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Background and the Transport Sector
1.1         Turkey's population of about 60 million has grown at an average rate of about
2.3 percent per annum during the last decade. Population density is low, and about 60
percent of the population lives in urban centers. Unemployment has remained slightly above
10 percent through most of the past decade, and income inequality is high, with considerable
differences in income between regions and between rural and urban communities. During
the last several years, there was a resurgence of high fiscal deficits and inflation that
overshadowed the gains attained through the broad-based liberalization of the economy in the
1980s. In 1993 the intemal imbalances spilled over into the external accounts, culminating
in a severe currency crisis during the early months of 1994. There were successive
downgrading of Turkey's credit rating by the international rating agencies, and access to
external financing was virtually severed.
1.2         Faced with a general financial crisis, the Government initiated a stabilization
program in April 1994. The main objectives of the program were to: (i) achieve a
substantial reduction in the fiscal deficit and inflation; (ii) reduce the external deficit and
restore foreign exchange reserves; and (iii) establish a structural framework for more
sustainable rapid growth, chiefly through a considerable reduced role of government in
economic activities. The Program was supported by a fourteen-month IMF Stand-By
arrangement approved in July 1994.
1.3         Some of the initial results of the Program were very encouraging. The budget
deficit was reduced substantially in 1994, largely through a number of special taxes and real
cuts in spending on personnel costs and subsidies. As a result, the overall public sector
borrowing requirements fell from 12.6 % of GNP in 1993 to 8% in 1994. The external
current account registered a sizable surplus of about US$ 2.6 billion in 1994 and foreign
currency reserves have been fully restored to the levels prevailing before the crisis. Despite
these achievements, the underlying economic situation remains tenuous. There has been slow
and uneven progress in implementing the structural reforms that would provide the basis for
sustainable growth. While good progress has been made in introducing tax reforms, and in
some areas of government spending, progress with reforms in the rest of the public sector,
including transport agencies, have been lagging. Inflation reached an average annual rate of
about 90% in 1995 and real interest rates remain very high. Real GNP, which declined by
an estimated 6% in 1994, grew by about 8% during 1995.



- 2 -
1.4         The immediate economic challenge facing Turkey at this juncture is to bring
about a sustainable reduction in inflation by improving the fiscal situation. The sharp
improvement in economic activity achieved during 1995 is an indicator of the country's
strong growth potential and of the dynamism of its private sector. However, to fully reap
the benefits of this, and avoid stop-go cycles of high inflation and stabilization and set a basis
for sustainable growth fundamental reforms of the public sector are needed, including: (i)
privatization or closure of state economic enterprises; (ii) a substantial downsizing of the
public administration; (iii) further rationalization of the costly government interventions in
investment, production and market decisions; and (iv) action to stem the financial losses of
the main pension funds, followed by comprehensive medium-term reforms of health and
social security financing. In the transport sector, the focus should be on improving
operational efficiency, cost recovery and resource allocation through (i) modernization of
policy instruments; (ii) development and implementation of realistic and balanced pricing and
investment strategies; (iii) approximation of laws and standards with international standards,
in particular those of the European Union (EU); and (iv) development of strategies to
increase the market orientation of the sector through a better private-public sector mix.
1.5         These policy reforms need to be complemented by a variety of institutional
reforms to strengthen public financial management. A major impetus for change stems from
the requirements of the customs union with the EU that took effect from the beginning of
1996. Expenditure management and control is severely hampered by the complex and
outdated budgetary framework and systems, the plethora of agencies and funds that are
effectively outside the budgetary process, and deficiencies in cash management and public
sector accounting. The management of personnel expenditures presents a particular problem.
The public administration in Turkey is characterized by considerable over-staffing due to
poor information on and controls over personnel expenditures. There are also serious
problems of staff quality and performance due to the inadequate wage structure, weak career
incentives and inefficient procedures. These issues, which also affect the transport sector in
general and the road subsector in particular, are further discussed throughout this report.
1.6         To address the problem of public expenditures and personnel management, the
recently approved Public Financial Management Project has as one of its objectives to
improve the government's ability to program and control spending efficiently. The project
focuses at enhancing the government's budget usefulness as a fiscal policy instrument, and as
the tool for managing public finances. To do so, it aims at reducing, and where possible
eliminating, the many sources of spending which now operate outside budgetary channels. It
also aims to substantially modernize the complex and outdated budgetary, accounting and
auditing procedures and systems that impede effective control over government finances.
The project includes the introduction of budgeting of public administration positions and
payroll which is expected to help improve control over personnel expenditures and provide
the information base for a structured rationalization of the civil service. Modernization of
the budgetary system should improve the level of accountability and transparency of
expenditures, which is also an impediment to improve the efficiency of the road subsector
(para 2.3).



- 3 -
B. Overview of the Transport Sector and Transport Sector Issues
1.7         Transport is vital for the economic development and integration of Turkey.
Increasing the efficiency of the transport sector is a priority both because of the enabling role
the sector can play in the economy and the integration of the country with the EU. Turkey
is a large country, with an area about that of France and UK combined, and population and
activities widely spread. For instance, Ankara is over 400 km from any of its nearest ports,
i.e., Samsun, Istanbul, and Mersin. Turkey is also the natural land transport bridge between
Europe and the Middle East. Again, the distances are long, 1,750 km from the Bulgarian
border to Iran and 1,900 km to Iraq. Problems of distance are increased by the mountainous
terrain and harsh winter conditions in most of Anatolia. Hence the improvement in the
transport infrastructure is a major priority for the overall development of the economy.
1.8         The backbone of Turkey's transport system consists of the 380,000 km of
roads (61,000 km of state and provincial roads and motorways, and 320,000 km of rural
roads) and to a lesser extent the 8,400 km of rail network. Surrounded by seas on three
sides and with a coastline of 8,300 km, Turkey has some 80 ports and 100 coastal facilities,
ranging from open roadsteads to small jetties. Airports (22 state airports, 13 of them
international) and pipelines (1,200 km) complete the transport infrastructure.
1.9         Turkey's freight transport includes not only domestic freight and import/export
traffic, but also transit traffic between Europe and the Middle East. The domestic traffic has
been growing at about 5% annually from 1983 to 1992 and reached a total of 107 billion ton-
kilometers (tkm) in 1993 (Chart 1-1). 91 % of the tkm were carried by road and the rest by
rail, coastal shipping, and air. In addition, some 3 billion tkm of crude oil and products
were shipped by pipeline. The focal points of Turkey's transit and foreign trade are the
ports. In 1994, the ports handled a total of about 109 million tons of cargo. Of this total,
22 million tons were exports, 53 million tons were imports, 34 million tons were coastal
trade, and 0.2 million tons were transit cargo.
1.10        Turkey's passenger transport has been increasing at 5.6% per year over the
past 10 years and reached 155 billion passenger - kilometers (pkm) by 1993 (Chart 1-2).
94% of the pkm was handled by road, 5% by rail, and the other 1% by air. Travel by
private cars or buses has been booming, increasing near 6% annually over the past twenty
years. Rail mainline passenger traffic, however, has been stagnant since the 1950s. Air
transport has been growing fast in recent years. The total number of passengers has been
increasing at an average rate of 12% annually over the past five years, reaching 20.7 million
in 1993, of whom 7.4 million were domestic and 13.3 million international.
1.11        Generally, Turkey's transport system capacity has been sufficient to handle the
growing demand without major bottlenecks. A large increase in transport investment took
place in the 1980s, after the publication in 1983 of the first National Transport Master Plan
(NTMP). Road transport services for freight and passengers are deregulated, responsive to
demand, and highly competitive. For instance, privately operated buses run frequently to
virtually every point of the country, offering different levels of services at different prices.
International trucking also developed rapidly in the 1980s. Turkey now has the largest fleet



- 4 -
of trucks operating between Europe and the Middle East: their services are an important
sources of foreign exchange earnings. Air transport deregulation has brought in a number of
smaller private airlines, notably Istanbul Airlines and Green Air. These airlines compete
with the national airline, Turkish Airlines, on domestic and international routes, in both
scheduled and chartered flights.
Chr 1-1: FreiJ Transport (MiNion Taon-Ilormters)
100,000
90.000
80,000
70.000                                      *Hghway
60.000
50,000 .:P1l
40.000                                      M Sea & Air
30,000
20,000
10,000
0
83    85    87    89    91    93
hwt 1-2: Passenger Trxsport (Million Passengw-
Kiomrers)
160,000
140,000
120,000
100,000                                       *  ighway
80,000                                         Ral
60,000                                         Sea & Air
40,000,
20,000
0
83    85    87    89    91    93
C. Sector Issues
1.12          The main issues affecting the transport sector are related to: (i) institutional
setting and sector planning; and (ii) operational efficiency, transport costs and the role of the
private sector in the provision of transport services.



- 5 -
(i) Institutional Setting and Sectoral Planning
1.13        There are two main institutions responsible for the transport sector at the
central government level, the Ministry of Public Works and Settlements (MOPWS) and the
Ministry of Transport (MOT). The MOPWS, through its General Directorate of Highways
(KGM), is responsible for the development and maintenance of state and provincial roads and
motorways. The MOT is responsible for developing the infrastructure of rail, maritime and
air transport modes; the regulation of transport operations in the various modes and the
supervision of State Economic Enterprises (SEE) in the transport sector, except for the
pipelines which are under the Ministry of Energy. The Turkey State Railways (TCDD) is
responsible for the operation of the railways and the major ports in the country, while the
Airport Agency operates the civilian airports. In addition, the Ministry of Agriculture,
through its General Directorate of Rural Affairs (KOY), is responsible for the construction
and maintenance of rural roads.
1.14        Planning units within the modal agencies and SEEs are responsible for
identifying and proposing capital investments and operating budget estimates. They provide
the technical, economic and, in the case of SEEs, financial feasibility studies for investment
projects. The State Planning Organization (SPO) has the responsibility for reviewing the
agencies' investment proposals and establishing the medium-term as well as the annual
investments programs.
1.15        The institutional capacity to undertake analysis on an intermodal basis could be
strengthened. The SPO's in-house capability could be improved to integrate subsectoral
demands into a comprehensive intermodal investment plan through an annual budgeting
exercise guided by a clearly defined government investment strategy providing broad
guidelines based on economic considerations.
1.16        The 1983 National Transport Master Plan (NMTP) represented an important
step towards the introduction of a sectoral approach to transport planning. It provided the
basis for the surge of investments in the second half of the 1980s, and still continues to be
quoted to justify some road projects. As is the case with the experience of other countries,
however, the plan has not been designed as a dynamic tool with the capacity to incorporate
changes in conditions and demand. Thus, some of its recommendations have become
outdated. The lull in major investments that is expected to result from stringent budgetary
constraints will certainly help to avoid major distortions in expanding the capacity of the
sector. This period of limited investments, coupled with the government's commitment to
reform, should provide an opportunity for strategic thinking. A clearer definition of the role
of the private sector in the development of transport infrastructure, particularly ports and
railways, and the commercial orientation of transport agencies should precede institutional
reform and the allocation of intermodal planning responsibilities.



- 6 -
(ii) Operational Efficiency, Transport Costs and the Role of the Private Sector
1.17        Road transport is operated entirely by the private trucking operators and
handles over 80% of the freight and 95% of the passenger demand. The industry is
competitive and freight rates are below those in neighboring countries. However, the total
cost of road transport (the addition of vehicle operating costs incurred by the private sector
and the cost to the public sector of expanding, improving and maintaining the road network)
could be further reduced through improvements in investment decisions, downsizing KGM
operations and eliminating excess staff, accelerating the shift to contracted road works, and
reducing road deterioration due to excessive overloading. The main issues in the road
subsector are further discussed in Chapter II.
1.18        The most pressing issue in the transport sector, both in terms of transport
efficiency and fiscal equilibrium, is the future role of the railways. Like in most other
countries, Turkish railways under TCDD have lost their monopoly in the face of road
competition and their share of the market has decreased considerably, from near 50% in the
1960s to about 20% in the 1970s and to around 10% since the 1980s. In 1994, revenues
from TCDD's passenger and freight operations covered less than 30% of their respective
costs, down from about 50% five years ago. The drain on public funds has reached nearly 2
million US dollars a day. The losses are covered by Government subsidies and by port
operating profits. Government controls tariffs and increases are granted late and lagging
behind inflation. There is, however, a limited scope to increase TCDD's finances through
tariff increases because of the very competitive trucking charges. Hence, to reduce deficits
there is no option but to substantially reduce costs by closing down uneconomic lines and by
increasing efficiency and productivity, focusing operations on the more profitable freight
business sharply reducing passenger services.  The Bank, with funds from a Japanese Grant,
is helping the Government to carry out studies of alternative railway restructuring options,
including the closure of non-profitable lines, the elimination of less-than-car-loads, and the
privatization of ancillary services.
1.19        The importance of the participation of the private sector in the provision of
services is particularly evident in the port subsector, where many changes that improve
competition come about as a result of pressure from shipping lines, national shippers, trading
partners and equipment manufacturers seeking the advantages through transport from origin
to destination, including improved total transport speed, lower inventory costs, more
predictable collection and delivery, less packaging, and reduced damage and lower insurance
costs. Thus, ports are adapting rapidly to containerization, introducing computers, and
automating container terminals. The new technologies require operators with sophisticated
computer knowledge and the ability to absorb large amounts of rapidly transmitted
information and use information technology in response. Port workers need higher levels of
skills and more training that emphasizes independent decision-making. The existing
centralized institutional setting coupled with the distorted system of incentives that is typical
of a public enterprise, is not conducive to incorporate the changes necessary to improve the
competitiveness of the Turkish ports. The Government is in the process of evaluating



alternatives to increase the participation of private operators in the system and to encourage
private investments in port modernization. However, the profitability of the ports, derived
mostly from their monopolistic position, greatly reduces the sense of urgency for changes in
the system.
D. Previous Bank Experience in the Sector
1.20        The Bank's involvement in Turkey's transport sector has been sporadic and on
a relatively small scale. Over thirty years, the Bank made only eight loans to the sector; two
for railways, three for ports, and three for roads. Project implementation has generally been
satisfactory in achieving physical targets, although experiencing delays, but policy and
institutional reforms have generally been below original expectations. The related Project
Completion Reports (PCR) and Project Performance Audit Reports (PPAR) attribute the
disappointing institutional results to (i) over-ambitious project design; and (ii) a dialogue with
the Borrower characterized by little common grounds, both on key sectoral issues and on the
role of the Bank in the sector. In particular, the contribution of the Bank to the sector has
been largely perceived by the Government in financial terms, rather than as a source of
relevant experience for institutional strengthening and policy reform.
1.21        Regarding the highway projects (Annex 1), the PPAR of the First Highway
Project of 1982 concludes that the physical work on the priority sections of the network was
implemented satisfactorily, while the impact on highway safety, vehicle loading, and KGM
planning and control capacity building components was limited. The PCR of the Second
Highway Project of 1984 concludes that the physical objectives of the project were
successfully achieved. Delays occurred as a result of disagreement between the Bank and
KGM over bidding documents, lack of KGM funding, and KGM's practice of adding extra
work to contracts. Economic Rates of Return (ERR) were lower than appraisal estimates
because of costs overrun and because traffic was affected by regional military conflicts.
Physical completion was not achieved within the loan disbursement period and funds from
the follow-on project were allocated for completing the works. There was institutional
strengthening in road safety and project management, institutional procurement and pavement
design.
1.22        The objectives of the ongoing State and Provincial Roads Project
(Loan 3324-TU) were to keep road transport costs low by ensuring adequate maintenance and
by reducing the backlog of road strengthening, to continue the downsizing, modernization
and improvement of the management of KGM's equipment fleet, to further strengthen the
planning capabilities of KGM, and to improve the management and safety of the road system
through reforms and training. Except for an early procurement dispute, the implementation
of the State and Provincial Roads project has been progressing well, without significant
problems. It is expected that about 85 % of the contracted works will be financed within the
loan disbursement period.
1.23        With respect to traffic safety, the Bank has carried out 107 projects in 51
countries containing road safety related elements. Of these, 36 included projects where
improving road safety was a specific objective. In the remainder, where road safety was an



- 8 -
indirect objective, road safety impacts were achieved as part of traffic engineering, traffic
control and/or traffic management components. In many of these projects, as is the case of
the State and Provincial Road Project in Turkey, safety-related elements include safety
engineering measures such as improvement to signals, guardrails and road painting.
1.24        A considerable body of experience has now been built up at the Bank which is
being used to shape future projects that seek to address road safety. This experience points
to the fact that road safety components in Bank projects are only likely to be effective where
senior decision makers in the country are aware of the problem and committed to its
resolution. Four broad categories of awareness are identified: (i) countries with little
awareness; (ii) countries in which the Government is aware of the road safety problem but
has given it limited priority; (iii) countries in which efforts are being made to tackle the
different aspects of road safety but face a need for financial and technical resources; and (iv)
countries similar to (iii) but with resources being allocated and specific improvements being
implemented which show reductions in accident casualty rates and in the number of
casualties. The situation in Turkey, characterized by the willingness of different ministries
with fragmented responsibility "to do something", the incipient mobilization of pressure
groups and the growing involvement of academic centers to produce research on the subject,
places the country as just entering the third level of awareness. Experience suggests that in
countries with Turkey's level of awareness, projects should be designed in phases, with
involvement of specialist consultants with extensive experience in technology transfer and in
the development and implementation of Road Traffic Safety Action Plans to strengthen local
institutions and individuals so that they can carry out subsequent phases independently.
About 5-10 years should be allowed for this process of "institution building" based on rolling
three-year Action Plans2/. These lessons have been taken into account in the design of the
road traffic safety component of the proposed project.
1.25        In summary:
(a)  the main lessons drawn from the physical implementation of the road
projects show the need to ensure: (i) adequate annual budgetary
allocation of funds for ongoing and committed subprojects, before any
agreement is made to include new subprojects for Bank financing; and
(ii) the completion of detailed designs for works prior to contract awards
and a stringent limit in the addition of extra works. The proposed
project design draws from these lessons by consolidating annual
consultations on KGM's Highway Investment and Maintenance Program
(HIMP) and budget (para 3.17). Also, detailed design for the first year
state road subproject have been completed.
(b)  the experience with the limited success in achieving the institutional and
policy objectives of past Bank projects, points to the need for realistic
objectives, suitable rewards for good performance, and support for
2/    Review of World Bank Experience in Road Traffic Safety by Alan Ross and Michael Ray. Paper
presented in the Policy Seminar 'Road Safety for Central and Eastern Europe". Budapest, October
1994.



- 9 -
worthwhile reforms undertaken by the Turkish agencies themselves.&'
The proposed project incorporates these findings by focusing its
institutional and policy objectives in supporting ongoing KGM's efforts to
improve road safety and road management. KGM is also maling
progress, albeit at a slower pace, on important issues that cut across
sectors and require a political definition outside the agency's control: i.e.
staff reductions (para. 2.2), increased participation of the private sector
(para. 2.2), and expenditure controls (para. 2.3).
(c)  past experiences with road traffic safety components points to the
complexity involved in the design and implementation of
multidisciplinary and interinstitutional measures to improve safety. The
Road Traffic Safety Action Plan developed during project preparation
(paras. 3.8 - 3.10) takes into consideration the long term character of
institutional development, and the need to phase planned efforts to
provide the necessary flexibility to a process with a strong element of
learning by doing.
E. Rationale for Bank Involvement
1.26         The proposed project is consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) as
discussed by the Board of Directors during the presentation of the Bursa Water and Sanitation
Project, Report No. P-5897-TU, on March 11, 1993. The preparation of a new CAS is well
underway. However, discussions of the country strategy with the Turkish authorities have been
affected by the recent elections and the subsequent formation of a new Government during the
initial months of 1996. These discussions are now expected to be held in the coming months.
Meanwhile, in keeping with the priorities and graduated Bank response outlined in the March
1993 CAS, the Bank is continuing support for infrastructure development.
1.27         Easing transport bottlenecks is an integral element of the Government's
development agenda to promote the growth of Turkey's dynamic private sector. Accordingly,
continued maintenance of the road network, which carries the major share of all traffic, is a
priority. The roads sub-sector lends itself to continued Bank support. KGM has a proven track
record, the implementation of the ongoing State and Provincial Roads Project is successful, and
the institution building and resource needs for road improvement are considerable. Therefore,
we propose to continue Bank support for the maintenance of the road network through the
proposed project. The project will also support efforts to improve traffic safety, which has
become an important issue due to the increasing incidence of accidents.
I/    PPAR of Highway Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2137-TU); February 15, 1991.



- 10 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. Sector Issues
2.1           This chapter reviews the main issues that the proposed project would address, in
particular institutional strengthening, planning and budgeting, and road traffic safety. The
chapter also discusses size and weight limits for trucks, since reducing excessive road damage
caused by overloading is one of the main priorities in KGM's agenda.
2.2           Institutional Strengthening. KGM  is a highly effective organization aiming at
gradually increasing its efficiency in road management. As many other public agencies in
Turkey, KGM is striving to reduce overstaffing and excessive reliance on force account. In
1994, KGM employed a personnel of 35,000, of which 5,600 are technical and administrative
staff and 29,500 laborers. Over the past ten years, the number of technical and administrative
staff have been rising, (mainly to attend the operation and maintenance of an expanding
motorway system) while the number of labor has fallen, especially temporary labor (Charts 2-1
and 2-2). The net is a reduction of 5,200 employees (13 %) from the 1983 level of 40,000. The
reduction in the labor force has been accompanied by an increase in construction works by
contract, from 25% in 1983 to 70% in 1994. KGM, in line with Government's policy directives
is committed to continue the gradual downsizing of KGM's labor force and the shift to contracted
works4'.
awt 2-1: KGM Staff pe 1000 km State & Rovincial Pis
100
90
80-                    staf
70
60
50
40-                                         
83  84  85  86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93  94
The level of personnel in KGM is in line with that encountered in developing countries with a GDP per
capita similar to Turkey. The ratio of kilometers attended per employee in Turkey is about 1.8.
Although the ratio is influenced by the type of network and its connectivity and the activities
performed, it offers a rough measure of productivity. The most efficient organization is that of New
Zealand, with a ratio of 70 km/worker. In the different states in the US the ratio varies from 5 to 10.
Colombia had a ratio of 1.7 in 1993, and Russia has a ratio of 1. Ratios below 1 are not uncommon in
the developing world.



- 11 -
Chart 2-2: KGM Labor per 1000 km State & Provincial
Roads
700
650
600
550
500
450
400
83  84  85  86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93  94
2.3    As discussed in Chapter I, expenditure controls, including those on personnel, are
hampered by an outdated budgetary system. In fact, because KGM is under a line budget, as
opposed to a program or project budget, it is very difficult to relate physical and financial
results. KGM does not have a common system of cost accounting and key information on the
productivity of equipment and/or labor is not readily available for decision making. The
proposed project would support the development of management systems that, once
implemented, would result in better planning, improved allocation of resources among different
road interventions, a more transparent accounting system, and enhanced expenditure controls
(para. 3.12). KGM is in the process of aggregating useful 1994 cost data now available only at
the project level, in order to better evaluate the allocation of funds to different road interventions
and their cost, and will continue producing the aggregated data for subsequent years. This
information will provide the basis for the discussions on KGM's investment program that will
take place during the annual project implementation reviews (para. 3.17).
2.4          Axle-load controls. The legal axle load limit in Turkey is 13 tons on a single
axle and 19 tons on a tandem axle. However, vehicle overloading is reported to be a serious
problem leading to accelerated wear and tear of pavements and to road accidents. This not only
applies to the KGM administered 60,000 km road network but also to rural roads (320,000 km)
which are the responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Affairs. To minimize the total economic
cost of the road haulage affected by regulations of axle-loads and gross vehicle weights, KGM is
embarking on a comprehensive program to revise and enforce the relevant regulations. To that
effect, a proposed Highway Law, now under the consideration of Parliament, proposes a
substantial increase in fines and grants permission for unloading overloaded vehicles. Also,
KGM is in the process of procuring 18 weigh-in-motion stations to be placed in key points of the
road system where their needs are more obvious. A more comprehensive coverage of the
network is expected to follow the completion of surveys to determine the number and location of
additional stations.



- 12 -
2.5            KGM  recognizes the limitations of controls as a deterrent for overloading and is
engaged in a constructive, although sometimes politically difficult, dialogue with the trucking
industry to reach a satisfactory solution to the problem. Thus, it is pursuing measures to reduce
overloading through additional methods, such as incentives for self-control based on the
dissemination of information on the long-run costs of overloading to the trucking industry;
dissemination to the general public of performance of the trucking industry and its effects on
costs to the tax payers; and active participation of the insurance industry in controlling accidents
caused by overloading. The planned investments in weigh-in-motion stations will provide the
possibility to gather reliable data to support continued dialogue with Parliament and the trucking
industry on the importance of effective legal deterrents and compliance with existing regulation.
Annex 2 provides further information on axle-load controls.
2.6           Road Safety. Road accidents are a serious socio-economic problem in Turkey.
In 1993, about 210,000 accidents were reported by police, of which there were 6,500 deaths and
104,000 injuries. From 1983 to 1993, the number of accidents had been growing at an average
14% per year, more than twice the growth rate of vehicle-kilometers (6%). Accidents per
million vehicle-kilometers has more than doubled over the ten-year period, from 3.2 in 1983 to
6.8 in 1993 (Chart 2-3). The number of injuries has been increasing at about 9% per year, and
the injuries per million vehicle-kilometers has risen from 2.5 in 1983 to 3.4 in 1993. Due to the
introduction of air bags and seat belts in cars, the number of fatalities had been increasing at a
lower rate than accidents, about 2% per year, and the fatalities per million vehicle-kilometers
have been falling, from 0.3 in 1983 to 0.2 in 1993. However, the fatality rate is still about eight
times the average of the European Community.
ChaFt 2-3: Accidents. Fatalities and lrIuries per Million
Vehicle-Kilometers (mvkm)
35.00
30.00
26.00
20.00
15.00
10.00          .njunesi vkm
Acci7denVtslmvkm 
5.00 ___L_
0.00
83  84  85  86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93



- 13 -
2.7           The Government has realized the seriousness of road traffic safety problem and
has initiated several activities aimed at raising public awareness and changing aggressive driving
behavior. Campaigns have recently been performed by KGM and a new program to educate
school children on important traffic rules have been prepared. The Federation for Commercial
Drivers has started up special training courses to improve the skills of commercial drivers. The
proposed project, through its road traffic safety component (paras. 3.8-3.11), will support the
improvement of accident black spots, police enforcement of driving regulations, and training.
Annex 3 provides further details on road traffic safety in Turkey.
2.8           The success of the efforts to improve road traffic safety depends heavily on the
effective coordination of activities carried out by the several agencies involved. Particularly
critical for the prompt identification of accident black spots is the coordination between KGM and
the Police, which to some extent exists at the working level but needs to be institutionalized and
systematized. Meanwhile, effective informal coordination is taking place at the working level.
The project is expected to have a catalytic role in strengthening the coordination process through
the implementation of a pilot scheme that brings together the relevant agencies responsible for
road safety.
B. The Network
2.9           Public roads in Turkey are classified in a four-tier system: motorways (multi-lane
access-controlled highways), state roads, provincial roads, and rural roads. KGM is responsible
for the administration of motorways and state and provincial roads. The Ministry of Rural
Affairs has jurisdiction over rural roads. In addition, there are urban roads which are under the
administration of municipal authorities.
2.10         By 1994, the road network, excluding urban roads, totalled over 380,000 km
compared to 230,000 km in 1980 and 140,000 km in 1970. In the last decade, the increases
occurred in rural roads and motorways, while the state and provincial roads remained at about
60,000 km. In 1985 KGM started an ambitious program for building 1650 km of motorways in
the most trafficked corridors of the country. To date, 1070 km have been completed at a total
cost of about US$ 8 billion. Completion of the program, estimated to cost an additional US$ 4.3
billion is tentatively programmed for the end of 1997. However, because of the financial
difficulties confronted by the country, it is likely that the program will suffer delays.
2.11          Parts of the state and provincial road system are old and have weak pavements,
leading to high road maintenance and vehicle operating costs, especially in the case of vehicle
overloading. The geometry is also poor in some sections. However, the system is generally
maintained in good condition. Maintenance is always given top priority by KGM. When funds
are short, as in recent years, investments have been deferred so that more funds could be used
for maintenance including periodic resurfacing. As a result, the surface condition of the state
road network is rated 80% good, 15% fair and 5% poor. Ratings are not available for provincial
roads, but conditions have improve!d since 1980. The r)ercentage of bituminous surfaced



- 14 -
provincial roads increased from 35% in 1980 to over 70% in 1994. The rural road network,
built to much lower standards, suffers especially from overloaded two axle vehicles and is
difficult to maintain to an adequate operating standard. Urban roads are in general, adequately
maintained.
C. Highway Administration
2.12         KGM is a mature organization and has a proven track record of project
implementation. About 16% of the staff and 2% of the labor are stationed at headquarters in
Ankara, both ratios are lower than the 1983 levels (25% and 3%, respectively). The
headquarters staff is organized in 11 departments with 37 divisions. The field organization
consists of 18 regional divisions (bolge), each division comprises 4 to 9 sub-divisions (sube).
Each sub-division covers about 500-600 km of the state and provincial road network. Within
each division are based an average of 7 maintenance teams, each team has a crew of 5 to 8
workers with responsibility for 50-100 km of road. There are in addition three equipment and
workshop groups at Maltepe (Istanbul), Iskenderun, and Akkopru (Ankara). Winter maintenance
is a major activity of KGM, to keep roads free from snow and landslides. No roads included in
the winter maintenance program are allowed to remain closed to traffic for more than two days.
During 1994, 94% of the state and provincial road network was covered by the winter program.
2.13         The division directors of KGM exercise a large measure of executive authority.
They are accountable to the General Director for operational matters and to the department heads
for technical matters. Construction and periodic resurfacing works are managed from the
divisional offices, while routine maintenance work is done at sub-divisional level. Equipment is
allocated to the 18 divisional offices according to the construction and maintenance programs of
the divisions. The head of the Equipment Department in Ankara is responsible for the overall
inventory control of the fleet and the operation of central stores and equipment pools in Ankara,
Istanbul and Iskenderun, and through divisional directors for the provision and maintenance in
running order of sufficient equipment for KGM's road maintenance and construction activities.
2.14         KGM is making successful efforts to adapt its organization to new demands and to
the changing character of the network. To that end an Environmental Division created in 1995 is
now in the process of being staffed. To date, the Division is working with teams of experts
assigned on an ad-hoc basis to carry-out particular Environmental Assessments of major road
works. Also, KGM is in the process of deciding the institutional arrangements for the operation
and maintenance (O&M) of the motorway system. About 10% of the toll revenues are allocated
to that end, while the rest are for servicing the debt incurred in the construction of the system.
In addition to reviewing the adequacy of the financial resources available for O&M, KGM is
considering the creation of a Motorways Department with the necessary skill to carry-out the
more sophisticated (information-intensive) operation of the expanding motorway system.



- 15 -
D. Road Transport
2.15          Road transport is deregulated and both the trucking and bus industries are mainly
privately owned. Transport companies, both domestic and international, vary greatly in size and
many are grouped into associations and cooperatives. Competition between operators keeps
tariffs, as well as profit margins, low.
2.16          The number of registered motor vehicles has been growing at a rate of over 10%
a year over the past ten years, reaching 4.4 million in 1993. This growth rate was more than
four times the population growth rate (2.2% p.a.) and two times the GDP growth rate (5.5%
p.a.) during the same period (Chart 2-4).
Chat 2-4: Veliides. Population and GDP
(GDP in constant 1987 US dollars)
80
70                                  Vehicles per
60                               Thousand People
50
40
Vehicles per
30                                           Million GDP
20      l
83   84   85   86   87   88   89   90   91   92   93
2.17          Traffic counting and surveys are conducted by KGM regularly on state and
provincial roads. Statistics show that traffic on state and provincial roads had increased from 17
billion vehicle-kilometers in 1983 to 31 billion vehicle-kilometers in 1993, growing at about 6%
per year. Over 90% of the traffic was concentrated on the state highways. Average daily traffic
densities are highest (over 20,000 vehicles per day) in the vicinity of large cities such as Istanbul,
Ankara and Izmir.
E. Highway Design. Construction and Maintenance
2.18          Design, construction and maintenance functions for state and provincial roads are
performed to satisfactory standards by or under the supervision of KGM. Road design standards
are appropriate to traffic flows and physical characteristics. To avoid rapid deterioration of the
network under conditions of strict budgetary constraints, KGM has felt necessary to spread its
resources thinly over the network. The practice of engaging in shortcycles of surface treatment



- 16 -
and postponing the more expensive, but economically justified pavement strengthening,
contributes to the apparently good condition of the network but masks the build-up of the backlog
in road strengthening.
2.19         In 1980, about 25% of construction work was carried out by contract, this has
increased to 70% by 1994 and the long term target is 75%. For maintenance works, over 30%
is now also done by contract. Force account operations have been greatly reduced in the western
and coastal areas, with the 75% target already achieved in the Istanbul and Izmir regions.
KGM's force account operations and training have proved beneficial to the economy by providing
trained personnel for the construction industry. KGM remains the primary source of trained
highway personnel in the country with a fairly high turnover of professional and skilled staff
from KGM to private contractors. The ongoing State and Provincial Road Project financed
laboratory equipment for a new training center on the outskirts of Ankara, which offers courses
to KGM staff, private sector and foreign personnel. Its performance has been good but, because
of across-the-board budget cuts, the center remains largely underutilized. KGM is now
evaluating the possibility of making the center available on a pay-back basis to other institutions
for their training needs.
2.20         KGM's equipment fleet consisted of some 15,000 units in 1994 with a total
purchase price value of US$600 million. About 25% of the trucks, 33% of the pickup trucks,
and 78% of the tractors are over 16 years old. Over 90% of the snow removal equipment are
under 10 years old. KGM is actively pursuing a policy of reducing the size and age structure of
its fleet, consistent with its policy of reducing the role of force account work. Considerable
modernization of the fleet was accomplished with financing under the Second Highway Project
and the State and Provincial Roads project. The projects also helped KGM implement a
computerized equipment management system to control the use of the fleet and spare parts.
F. Highway Planning
2.21         Planning for the state and provincial roads is the responsibility of KGM, with
virtually all the work carried out in house by the planning department. Methods for evaluating
the economic feasibility of road investment projects have been developed by KGM on the basis of
Bank models. In the early 1980s, the Bank's Road Analysis Model was used for project
evaluation. KGM has also been utilizing parts of the Bank's Highway Design Model, particularly
its vehicle operating cost module. Projects are analyzed and ranked according to their economic
rate of returns. This approach is satisfactory and places KGM with the capability for using a
country-wide approach to investment planning . There are far more economically justified
projects than resources available to carry them out. KGM had a tendency to start too many
projects at the same time and, due to lack of funds, extend their execution over too many years,
a practice that considerably increases the costs of the works.
2.22         The concept of pavement management was introduced to KGM by the Second
Highway Project and some experimental sections of highway were built on the Ankara-Izmir
road. The ongoing State and Provincial Road Project has assisted KGM to further develop and
refine its planning process by introducing a more formal pavement management system (PMS).
The project financed the purchase of special equipment to monitor road conditions, and store and
analyze large database, which is needed for a fully developed computerized PMS. The first
phase of the development of PMS is in the process of being completed and parameters for road
deterioration are being calibrated for local conditions. The next step will integrate physical and
financial aspects of the system with a sub-routine for economic evaluation of different road



- 17 -
interventions. The proposed project will continue to support the second phase of the design and
implementation of PMS (para. 3.12). Once the system is operational it should help KGM to
make decisions based on economic criteria and life-long costs.
G. Highway Expenditures
2.23        During the five-year period from 1983 to 1988 the expenditures on state and
provincial roads declined in real terms by about 35%. However, the following five-year period
from 1988 to 1993 experienced a sharp increase of expenditures on state and provincial roads,
148% in real terms (Chart 2-5). This spending surge occurred against the background of real
GDP growing by about 5% per year, overall fiscal deficits rising from 4.8% in 1988 to 12.6% in
1993, and inflation averaging over 60% per year. The currency crisis that hit Turkey in early
1994 forced the Government to cut its real budgets across the board. As a result, expenditures
on state and provincial roads were about US$677 million in 1994, a 44% drop from in real terms
the 1993's peak. The real expenditures on rural roads have been largely following a trend
similar to state and provincial roads over the period (Chart 2-5).
Chart 2-5: EkpendRures on Stade. Rovincial & kxal Roads (in
1994 US$ nillion)
1,400
1,200
1,000                Exp's on State & Provincial Roads
800
600
400
200                                   Exp's on Rural Roads
83  84  85  86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93  94
2.24         Typically, about 15% of road expenditures in state and provincial roads is
allocated for routine and winter maintenance that covers over 97% of the road network; 30% is
used to add new bitumen surfacing to about 1,200 km of roads a year; 5% is spent on periodic
resurfacing and strengthening an average of 7,300 km of roads a year, which keeps an effective
resurfacing cycle of 6 years; and about 50% is used to provide surface treatment to about 2,100
km of gravel and earth roads a year.
2.25         Shortage of funds has prevented KGM from carrying out strengthening work
adequately. The ten-year NTMP of 1983 recommended the laying of over 1,000 km per year of
new asphaltic concrete (AC) surfacing to reinforce all roads with more than 500 heavy vehicles
per day. However, only some 3,000 km of new AC pavement were laid out during the entire
past 11 years, averaging about 250 km per year. The need for pavement strengthening is



- 18 -
becoming acute. Almost 10,000 km of state roads have an average traffic exceeding 2,000
vehicles per day, of which over 1,000 are heavy vehicles. All these roads are candidates for
pavement strengthening including AC surfacing. At present, only 4,500 km of state roads have
AC surfacing.
2.26         KGM's budget for 1995 remained far below its pre-1994 level as the Government
continues its stabilization program. The expenditures on state and provincial roads were about
US$600 million in 1995, 11 % less than the 1994 level. While routine road maintenance
continued to cover over 97% of the network, the periodic resurfacing and strengthening covered
only 6,300 km of roads, dropping from the previous year's 7,800 km. New bitumen surfacing
-will add 620 km to the network, down from 1994's near 800 km and about half of the average
1,200 km. Surface treatment on gravel and earth roads was 1,090 km, also down from 1,914 km
in 1994.
2.27         A tentative Highway Investment and Maintenance Program (HIMP) for the period
1996-2000 has been prepared by KGM  (Table 2.1). The Program, based on the 1995 seventh
Five-Year Investment Plan recently approved by Parliament, emphasizes the Government's
priority of improving and strengthening existing roads and modernizing road links in which
congestion has reached uneconomic levels. Routine and winter maintenance will continue to
cover over 97% of the road network. Periodic resurfacing and strengthening work will be
carried out on some 6,500 km of roads each year, giving an effective resurfacing cycle of 7
years. New bitumen surfacing will be added to about 1,350 km of roads each year. The
program is a first attempt at the preparation of pluri-annual rolling expenditure plans, and
together with the improvement in the analysis of the physical and financial relations of different
activities discussed in para 2.3 should provide a solid basis for developing the current HIMP into
a valuable programming tool. Annual reviews will emphasize the upgrading and updating of a
rolling expenditure program (para 3.17). Also, during negotiations. agreement was reached that
the Government shall maintain its policy of ensuring adequate balance between road
improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance and ensure that road works included in the HIMP
are economically viable and environmentally sound according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank
(para 5.1 (a)). In addition, state roads to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan should be
technically and environmentally sound and such state road works should have an estimated ERR
of at least 12% (para 5.1 (b)). Also, the Borrower shall obtain the prior approval of the Bank
for any road work to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan. such approval to be based.
inter-alia. on an environmental analysis prepared in accordance to criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, together with an evaluation of the MOEn of such road works (para. 5.1 (c)).



- 19 -
Table 2.1: Highway Investment and Maintenance Program
(constant 1995 prices)
Periodic
New Pavement     Resurfacing &    Surfacing, Gravel Routine
Surfacing     Stren2thenin2    & Earth Roads   Maintenance   Total
Year    km     bil TL    km    bil TL    km    bil TL    km    bil TL    km   bil TL
1996    1,350  6,486    6,500  2,112    5,493  16,000   59,832  1,365    73,175  25,963
1997    1,350  6,486    6,500  2,112    5,390  15,639   59,832  1,365    73,072 25,602
1998    1,350  6,486    6,500  2,112    5,670  16,444   59,832  1,365    73,352 26,407
1999    1,350  6,486    6,500  2,112    5,410  15,677   59,832  1,365    73,092 25,640
2000    1,350  6,486    6,500  2,112    5,220  15,068   59,832  1,365    72,902  25,031
H. Highway Financing
2.28           State, provincial and rural roads are financed primarily through the budget,
while motorways have been financed from extra-budget funds and foreign borrowing. It is
Government policy that road users shall pay the cost of roads by means of road user charges
(RUC). The objective is to charge road users for the maintenance of the road system and the
provision of road space in proportion to their needs or their impact. This more particularly
applies to the main and secondary road system. Local and urban roads provide a different or
specialized service which it is reasonable to expect to be financed through local taxes and
charges.
2.29           In addition, Turkey is pursuing a policy of attracting private sector
financing, mainly under the Build, Operate and Transfer scheme, to carry-out major
financially attractive projects. That is the case of the bridges over the Bosphorus and the
Dardanelles which are in the process of being awarded to Turkish-European joint ventures.
2.30           The present system of RUC in Turkey bears an adequate relationship to the
maintenance and improvement needs of the network and the resource consumption of the
various categories of road user. This is borne out by a 1995 KGM study which provides
useful background information. The study estimates that light vehicle, bus and truck users
contribute about 113%, 77%  and 82% respectively of the estimated maintenance and
construction costs for which they are accountable. Current road charges are adequate
considering that externalities such as congestion and air pollution can be mainly attributed to
light vehicles. The study also estimates that the total annual needs of the state, provincial,
village and urban network in 1994 were TL41,000 billion compared with the TL32,660
billion actually spent (including the estimated expenditure on urban roads). Actual revenue
during 1994 amounted to an estimated TL 43,656 billion. It should be noted, however, that
urban and some village roads fulfil important functions other than serving traffic (for
example, pedestrians, businesses, utilities) and the entire cost should not be borne by the
road user. Annex 4 discusses the different taxes and duties levied on users and assesses the
extent to which they are road use/vehicle related and can be considered as RUC.



- 20 -
2.31          A comparison of the revenues and expenditures between 1989 and 1994
shows that the revenues have been growing faster than expenditures and by 1992 had
surpassed the expenditures (Chart 2.6). It is expected that, even including estimated
expenditure on urban roads, revenues will still exceed outlays in expanding and maintaining
the system and providing extra resources for the general budget. Furthermore, in 1995 the
standby agreement between the Government and the IMF caused fuel taxes to increase,
which should lead to about a 60% increase over the 1994 revenues.
hart 2-6: Road User Charges & Expndtures (corkstart 1994
US$ million]
1800                                       Road   er Chages
1600
1400
1200
1000
/        U                 ~~~~~~~~~~Expenditure 
800
600
400            l          l
89         90         91        92         93         94
I. Environmental Aspects
2.32        Turkey has in place a Framework Environment Law (Law No. 2872 of 1983)
and regulations for the protection of the environment. Article 10 of the Law (passed in
1993) covers the specific requirements for Environmental Impact Assessments of
development projects, including detailed regulations on preparation, public participation,
review, and approval procedures. A regulation was approved in 1989 giving KGM the
authority to introduce proper technical inspection of road vehicles, with adequate equipment
to measure various technical parameters including vehicle emissions. A decision was made
to let the private sector invest, build and operate the testing stations. Since then, KGM has
built two testing stations, with the assistance of Germany, and is now seeking potentially
interested private sector groups to operate the stations on an experimental basis.
2.33         Environmental Analysis (EA) in Turkey's highway sector is carried out by the



- 21 -
Environment Commission of KGM and is subsequently reviewed by the Ministry of
Environment (MOEn). All road works require clearance from MOEn on the basis of its
review of the EAs following extensive public participation. The proposed project would help
to strengthen the existing capabilities for incorporating environmental concerns from project
inception. Using the EA work required to keep the proposed project running, a training
program will be provided for interested staff in the highway sector at large, and will involve
in addition to MOEn and KGM, the universities, contractors and the consulting profession.
The training program would concentrate on scoping, classification and clearance procedures;
EA issues, study design and execution and reporting; and the design and incorporation into
contract documents of mitigating measures.
2.34        The standards adopted for air emission control are those of the United Nations
Economic Commission for Europe. These standards should be considered only as gradually
achievable targets, since the average age of vehicles in Turkey is high and the quality of
vehicle construction and maintenance and of fuel is lower than in other European countries.
One of the immediate objectives is to reduce the sulphur content of diesel fuel; originally
around 1%, it has been reduced to about 0.6%. Unleaded gasoline was introduced and a
proposal to price it lower to promote its use is under consideration. New vehicles with
engines larger than 1300cc are equipped with catalytic converters. By 1997, all new
vehicles will be required to have catalytic converters.
2.35        KGM, which is responsible for preparing or supervising detailed design for
road projects, applies acceptable design criteria for erosion control and drainage.
Contractors are responsible for maintaining work sites pollution free and returning sites to
their original conditions. The bidding documents contain these points specifically. In
particular, they specify that asphalt plants be equipped with dust collectors. They also cover
guidelines for the emissions of asphalt plants and crushers.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin
3.1         Preparation of the proposed project started in June 1994 following a request
from Treasury for continued Bank assistance in improving and protecting past investments in
the State and Provincial Road Networks. In particular, the Government sought Bank
cooperation in implementing ongoing measures, some of them started under Loan 3324-TU,
for improvements in road safety and road management.



- 22 -
B. Project Objectives
3.2         The project objectives include: (a) the reduction of road transport costs
through infrastructure improvements and the protection of past investments in the highway
sector through rehabilitation and strengthening of paved highways (b) the improvement of
traffic safety in state and provincial roads; (c) the improvement of the operational efficiency
of KGM through the implementation of management systems and computerization, and (d)
improvement in the consideration of environmental factors in project selection and design.
C. Project Description
3.3         The components of the proposed project are:
(a) the road improvement program, comprising strengthening or upgrading of
about 600 km of high priority state roads, about 300 km of rural
(provincial) roads and town passages;
(b) the road traffic safety program. involving i) civil and traffic engineering
improvements to accident black spots; ii) a program to improve driver
education; iii) provision of equipment to TTP and the medical hospital at
GU; iv) extension of TTP's accident data base to other users; and v)
provision of road safety materials for traffic management; and
(c) the institutional development program, consisting in the introduction of
various management systems and computerization throughout KGM and
training of the staff of KGM in the areas of environmental analysis, road
planning, construction and maintenance.
State Road Rehabilitation.
3.4         Sections of state roads totalling some 600 km and associated bridges, will be
rehabilitated or improved, including asphalt paving and geometric or capacity improvements
where justified. The first year program includes the rehabilitation of the Ankara-Kirikkale
road (78 km). Contingent to the submission of a satisfactory Environmental Analysis, the
first year program will be expanded to include the improvement of the Ankara-Polatli-
Sivrihisar road (para 3.6).
3.5         The Ankara-Kirikkale road plays an important role in linking Ankara with
Northern, Eastern and South Eastern parts of Anatolia and serves the international traffic
between Europe and the Eastern neighbors of Turkey; it also provides access to Kayseri, one
of the most important trade and industry centers of Middle Anatolia. The Average Annual
Daily Traffic (AADT) is about 12,000 with 60% of heavy vehicles. The pavement is in an
advanced state of deterioration, requiring urgent attention. The total estimated cost of the
proposed rehabilitation works is US$11.0 million and the estimated economic rate of return
(ERR) is 25 %.



- 23 -
3.6         The Ankara-Polatli-Sivrihisar road (132 km) provides the main link between
Ankara and the West and South-West, connecting the capital with the second and third
largest cities in Turkey: Bursa and Izmir. Traffic levels range from AADTs of 7000 to
AADTs of 80,000 and congestion occurs frequently. The road is being upgraded to a two-
way two-lane road with a surface type of asphalt concrete in order to bear heavy vehicle
traffic. The estimated total cost of the proposed project is US$60 million and the estimated
ERR's of investments in different road sections range from 17% to 34%. Contracts on four
road sections for a total cost of US$12 million have already started, and once the Bank
receives satisfactory evidence that these works are environmentally sound and any required
mitigation measures are adequately provided for, eligible expenditures incurred after June 30,
1995 will be retroactively financed under the project.
Improvement of Rural Roads
3.7         Selected road sections of KGM's provincial road network will be improved,
mainly by provision of an all weather asphaltic surface. These roads are being selected from
a list of about 300 links proposed by local interests. Screening and prioritization of the
proposed works is being done on the basis of a multicriteria analysis, considering the existing
traffic, as well as social factors such as the size of the population afforded all weather access
for employment, evacuation of produce, and social integration. Upgrading of these roads is
expected to contribute directly to alleviating poverty in the areas served (provincial roads
generally serve as collectors for a tertiary network of village roads) and by improving access
for social services. Geometric standards adopted will be the minimum necessary to provide
access for most of the year, but in areas with heavy snowfall roads may still be closed to
traffic in winter. During negotiations agreement was reached that works on provincial roads
to be included in the proiect with AADT: (i? above 250 vehicles should have an ERR of at
least 12%. (ii) between 150 and 250 vehicles should have an ERR of at least 10%: and (iii!
below 150 vehicles should be have an ERR of at least 8% (para 5. 1(dD).
The Road Traffic Safety Program
3.8         As part of project preparation, a working group comprising KGM, MOE,
TTP, MOH and the University Hospital at GU prepared, with Treasury coordination, a
comprehensive Road Traffic Safety Action Plan to be supported under the project (Annex 5).
During negotiations agreement was reached that the Borrower shall carry out the Road
Traffic Safety Action Plan on the basis of a timetable and targets included in said Plan (para.
5. 1 (e!!.
3.9         The proposed Action Plan consists of: (i) the design, implementation,
monitoring and evaluation of safety measures on a pilot network of about 300 km, selected
for high traffic accident levels (the Pilot Traffic Safety Project!, and (ii) a nationwide traffic
safety program to be implemented in two phases (the National Traffic Safety Project). The
pilot project, with an estimated total cost of US$ 6 million, will have as its main objective to
test and gradually improve the capabilities of the different agencies responsible for
formulation and implementation of measures for the improvement of accident black spots
using an integrated approach involving several agencies. The pilot project will serve as a



- 24 -
vehicle to improve Turkey's capabilities to assess the possible impact and cost-effectiveness
of alternative measures, which is necessary for the development of economic evaluation
criteria for future investments in road safety.
3.10         The National Traffic Safety Project, as mentioned, will be implemented in two
phases. The first phase will address the improvement of accident black spots with obvious
priority, and implement measures such as the continuation of the national awareness
campaign and safety education in schools, the enforcement of a points system for violators,
and the improvement of medical response to traffic accidents. The second phase of the
project will benefit from the experience gained and the statistical data gathered during the
previous phase, and its design will aim at improving inter-institutional arrangements. Within
the Action Plan, the project would finance:
(a)   improvements (signing, marking, geometric improvements to intersections,
etc,) to sections of state roads running including those through small towns and
villages, which have been identified as Accident Black Spots by statistical
analysis of police records;
(b)   provision of road safety materials (modern signing, marking and guardrailing
materials) for routine maintenance of traffic safety measures following the
success of a similar component in the current loan. These materials would be
in addition to the black spot program, and would not necessarily be used on
the priority network;
(c)   traffic police equipment for enforcement of traffic regulations in the pilot
network (radar speed meters, alcotesters, video cameras);
(d)   medical equipment to improve the emergency response of the University
Hospital at Gazi University;
(e)   education equipment and literature for carrying out road safety
campaigns in selected schools; and
(f)   technical assistance and training for the agencies involved in traffic safety
covering design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the pilot and
national programs.
3.11         Implementation of the safety component is discussed in para 3.15. One
particular aspect, coordination among the agencies responsible for implementing the Action
Plan, is crucial to the success of the program. KGM has provided satisfactory coordination
in the preparation of this component and heads the working group in charge of the Action
Plan. Hence. during negotiations. agreement was reached that the Government should
appoint a Task Force comprising representatives of KGM. TTP. MOE, MOH. and GU to



- 25 -
oversee the implementation of the Action Plan for Road Traffic Safety. Appointment of the
Task Force will be a condition of disbursement of loan funds for the road traffic safety
component (para 5.2).
Institutional Development
3.12        Like any modem highway organization KGM is keen to introduce modem
computer based management systems to improve control of its assets. A start was made
under the on-going loan. The activities to be financed by the proposed loan are:
(i)    Computer Network. The loan will finance the continuation of ongoing work
on upgrading KGM's existing capability and the installation of a KGM-wide
client/server network, the computerization of various routine functions and the
introduction of management systems;
(ii)   Pavement Management System (PMS). The loan will provide funds for:
(a)   an instrumented data logging vehicle to provide data on pavement
surface condition and road geometry;
(b)   data collection by a specialized firm using its own instrumentation (to
supplement data gathering using equipment financed under the ongoing
loan);
(c)   continuation of the technical assistance started under the ongoing
project for software creation, staff training and bringing the network-
wide system on line. This program will be managed by KGM's
Technical Research Department in close collaboration with the Planning
Department, which will be responsible for the data logging vehicle.
(iii) Bridge Management System. A Bridge Management System will be
introduced by building on the existing computerized bridge inventory
developed and maintained by KGM's Bridge Maintenance Department.
The proposed loan will finance:
(a)   an advisor to recommend a list of existing systems suitable for
adaptation to KGM's needs and Terms of Reference for the introduction
of the system;
(b)   the acquisition of the system and necessary terminals (it is assumed that
the basic hardware and KGM network will be provided by others);
(c)   technical assistance for the installation of the system and training of
operations staff.



- 26 -
(iv)  Training to strengthen KGM's capabilities for incorporating environmental
concerns in project design and execution, and for road planning, construction
and maintenance.
D. Cost Estimates
3.13        The cost estimates are given in Table 3.1. The costs of civil works, including
safety improvements, have been estimated from MOPWS's 1995 Schedule of Rates,
published annually on January 1, with further details from contracts and safety installations in
progress. Because of the program nature of much of the works, no physical contingencies are
included for these items. Technical assistance costs are estimated from current rates in the
region, and those for equipment from recent International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
contracts under the current project, and consultations with manufacturers. Price
contingencies have been included at 2.6 percent per annum throughout the disbursement
period. The foreign exchange component for civil works is based on estimates of the direct
and indirect foreign cost.
E. Financing
3.14        The total cost of the project is estimated at US$389.3 million equivalent with a
foreign exchange component of US$183.7 million (47%). The two loans for a total of
US$250 million equivalent (the US$100 million single currency loan plus the US$150 million
equivalent currency pool loan) would finance 100% of foreign costs and 32% of local costs
for an aggregate amounting to 64% of total costs. The balance of about $140 million would
be financed by the Government (Table 3.2). Retroactive financing of up to US$10 million
(amounting to 4% of the loans total amount) will be used to finance eligible expenditures
incurred after June 30, 1995.



- 27 -
TABLE 3.1: PROJECT COST ESTIMATE (US$ THOUSAND EQUIVALENT)
BASE      CONTIN-  TOTAL  TOTAL  IBRD
PROJECT COMPONENT              COST  GENCIES a/   COST    IBRD            %     FOREIGN   LOCAL b/
TRAFFlIC SAFETY
PROGRAM
Treatment of blackspots      40,000        2,135   42,135   26,637       63        17,275      24,860
Safety materials            20,000         1,067   21,067   21,067    100         18,961       2,106
Police equipment and
enforcement               9,000           357    9,357    9,357    100          8,421         936
Medical equipment and
services                  2,700          107    2,807    2,807    100          2,526         281
Accident data bank           1,000           40    1,040    1,040    100             936         104
Technical assistance and
training for monitoring,
research                  1,200            48    1,248    1,248    100          1,123         125
Driver and pedestrian
education                  1,200           47    1,247    1,247    100          1,060         187
Sub-total              75.100        3.801   78.901   63.403      80        50,302      28.599
ROAD REHABILITATION
State roads                240,000        12,809  252,809  160,095      63       103,652     149,157
Provincial (rural) roads    22,000         1,174   23,174        0       0         9,501      13,673
Road design and EAs,         7,000           184    7,184    7,184    100          6,465         719
including training
Town Passages               21,000          551   21,551    13,673      63         8,405      13,146
Sub-total             290,000        14,718  304,718  180.952      59       128,023     176,695
INSTITUTIONAL
DEVELOPMENT
Technical Assistance and
training for management
systems                   2,500            66    2,566    2,566    100          2,437         129
Equipment and data
collection services       3,000            79    3,079    3,079    100          2,925         154
Sub-total               5,500          145    5.645    5.645    100          5.362         283
GRAND TOTAL                  370,600        18,664  389,264  250,000      64       183,687     205,577
a/ Price contingencies reflect anticipated changes in local and international prices of 2.6% per year.
b/ Includes all local taxes, including the Value Added Tax of 20%.



- 28 -
TABLE 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ Million)
Foreign           Local              Total
Government                     139.3             139.3
IBRD        183.7               66.3             250.0
Total       183.7              205.6             389.3
(*) including taxes estimated at $24 million.
F. Implementation, Monitoring and Auditing
3.15        KGM will be responsible for the implementation of the road improvement
program, and the institutional development component. The Road Traffic Safety Task Force
will be responsible for the overall implementation of the road traffic safety component with
assistance, as necessary, of outside experts. Funds for the execution of the project will be
allocated to each agency (KGM, TIP, MOE, MOH and GU) through the budgetary process.
The Project Coordination unit in KGM is expected to have a leadership role in coordinating
information from the different agencies on project accounts and project reporting.
3.16        Field supervision is expected to take place at least twice a year. Supervision
missions at the appropriate point of the annual budget cycle would seek assurance of the
adequacy of funding requested for each component which would be confirmed at the annual
reviews. Because of the country-wide nature of the project, supervision requirements are
expected to be about 20 staff weeks per year, including support from the Resident Mission in
Ankara. As part of project supervision, the Bank and the Government will carry out annual
reviews of project implementation. An outline of the agenda for the annual reviews is
presented in para 3.17. In addition, an in-depth mid-term project implementation review will
take place not later than November 1998 to take stock of project achievements and agree on
any remedial actions as necessary. The Project Implementation Plan, including monitoring
and evaluation parameters, is shown as Annex 6. During negotiations, agreement was
reached on the scope of the annual and mid-term implementation reviews and the Project
Implementation Plan (para 5.1 (fl).
3.17        Annual reviews, in November of each year, would consider progress in project
implementation with particular focus on:
(a)     the evolution of the 1996 - 2000 HIMP, as it is revised annually to
incorporate the recommendations of the 1996-2000 Highway
Investment Plan; the physical and financial execution of the previous
year program based on aggregated project data; and the proposed
program for the subsequent year, including budgetary allocations;



- 29 -
(b)      the progress made towards achieving the institutional objectives of
the loan, as measured by the implementation of the different
management systems;
(c)      the progress in carrying out the road traffic safety component, to be
reviewed on the basis of the timetable and targets included in the
Road Traffic Safety Action Plan;
(d)      the selection of further road sections to be financed and contracted
on the basis of feasibility studies, environmental analyses, and
progress reports prepared by KGM;
(e)      a bidding timetable for civil works to be bid on the following year;
(f)      the agreed allocation of funds for the coming year for each contract;
(g)      progress in commitment and disbursement of loan funds, to be
assessed on the basis of the summary of expenditures and on the
physical progress of subprojects. Monitoring project progress will
eventually result in setting a cut-off date for approval of new
contracts in order to ensure Bank participation until the finalization
of road works started under the loan.
(h)      the experience of KGM in the execution of the contracts under the
project to ensure that increases of contract value in real terms do
not exceed the original value by more than 15%, or that extensions
of the contract completion date do not bring that date to more than
12 months from the original completion date; and
(i)     the impact of the investments proposed for the following year on the
Bank-Government cost sharing ratio, and implementation of the
measures necessary to ensure that Bank financing remains within an
adequate cost sharing ratio at all time.
3.18        Project Accounts and Auditing. KGM is an experienced borrower with a solid
record of keeping good project accounts and presenting timely and satisfactory audit reports.
During negotiations, agreement was reached that project accounts. the special account and
statements of expenditure will be audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
that audit reports for each financial year would be furnished to the Bank within six months of
the end of the financial year (para 5.1 (g)).
3.19        Project reporting. The quality and comprehensiveness of KGM's reporting has
improved under the ongoing project, and computing capabilities have been enhanced in
hardware and human terms. During negotiations agreement was reached that KGM will
prepare bi-annual reports summarizing progress in project implementation. main problems
encountered in the execution of the proiect. and proposed remedial actions (para 5.1 (h)!.



- 30 -
G. Procurement
3.20        Procurement arrangements for the Bank-financed project elements, their
estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are summarized in Table 3.3 below.
All goods and works to be financed from the Bank loans proceeds would be procured in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995), including
amendments as of the loans signing date, using the Bank Standard Bidding Documents (SBD)
for goods and for works. Consulting services would be procured in accordance with the
Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981), including amendments as of the loans signing date. A
procurement schedule giving contract numbers and sizes and thresholds for prior review is
included in the Project Implementation Plan (Annex 6).
3.21        Civil Works. Major roadworks to the value of US$198 million will be
procured through ICB. Works on town passages and traffic safety treatments of selected
road sections or black spots, comprising up to 240 small and widely scattered works
estimated to cost less than $4 million each and an aggregate amount of $55 million will be let
through NCB, using procedures acceptable to the Bank. ICB contracts will be open to
prequalified contractors, selected using the Bank's model form of questionnaire and
advertized internationally. NCB contracts will be open to contractors either using the same
method of prequalification, but advertized nationally, or using lists of contractors locally
accepted and licensed annually for works up to a stated value by the Regional Directorates,
the process to be approved by the Bank. NCB contracts will be bid in annual packages by
the Regional Directorates (Annex 6). Works estimated to cost less than US$500,000 per
contract and US$18 million or less in the aggregate, will be procured under unit rate or lump
sum contracts awarded on the basis of bids obtained from at least three qualified domestic
contractors in accordance to procedures acceptable to the Bank.
3.22        Goods. Materials (US$ 21 million) and equipment (US$13.5 million) to be
financed from the loan would consist of safety materials (road signs and markings,
guardrailing etc), computer hardware and software, radar speed meters, video cameras,
alcotesters, equipment for the medical program and management systems, an instrumented
vehicle for recording road condition data, and computer systems, and will be procured
through ICB where appropriate. International Shopping (IS), based on comparison of price
quotations solicited from at least three suppliers from at least two eligible countries, will be
used for procurement of specialized items available from only a small number of suppliers,
e.g. some Police equipment and instrumentation for the PMS, in contracts estimated to cost
less than US$250,000, with an aggregate limit of US$2.1 million. Goods estimated to cost
US$50,000 or less per contract and US$700,000 or less in the aggregate, will be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance to the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Bank Guidelines. Turkish manufacturers



- 31 -
competing for the supply of goods procured under ICB procedures and meeting the
requirements under Annex 2 of the Guidelines will receive a preference in bid evaluation of
15 percent of the CIF price or the prevailing custom duty applicable to non-exempt
importers, whichever is less.
3.23        Consultant services. An estimated US$7.2 million equivalent of consultant
services for design of roadworks (including environmental assessments (EA) and training in
EA for KGM's Environment Division) and the implementation of management systems in
KGM, would be awarded following Bank Guidelines with short-listing. A further US$2.6
million, will be in the form of contracts to individual consultants (for traffic safety and
management systems, monitoring and research) ranging from several weeks to 13 months in
duration, also awarded in accordance with the Guidelines. A total of 10 consultancies is
expected, totaling $12.2 million.
3.24       Country Procurement Assessment. A Country Procurement Assessment
Report (CPAR), which was completed in 1985 is presently being updated and is expected to
be finalized in June 1996. Laws and regulations regarding local procurement procedures and
practices in Turkey were reviewed by the Bank in order to assess whether local procedures
are acceptable for Bank-financed contracts. The findings of that review were discussed with
Turkish authorities and agreement was reached regarding changes needed to make procedures
acceptable to the Bank.
3.25        Review. All civil works contracts estimated to cost US$4,000,000 or more,
the first two contracts for civil works estimated to cost more than US$500,000 but less than
US$4,000,000 all other contracts for goods estimated to cost US$250,000 or more, and
contracts for technical assistance and consultancy services estimated to cost US$100,000 or
more for firms and US$50,000 or more for individuals will be subject to prior Bank review.
This will result in prior review of about 85 percent of total procurement. Contracts for
lesser amounts will be subject to ex-post review. Also, terms of reference for all technical
assistance and consultancy contracts will be reviewed in advance by the Bank. KGM will
promptly inform Bank staff regarding procurement plans, solicitations, proposed contract
awards, and progress in the implementation of its procurement activities. Contracting and
purchase actions will also be summarized in periodic reports prepared for the Bank by KGM.
During negotiations agreement was reached on the procurement arrangements and bidding
documents (para. 5.1 (i!!.



- 32 -
TABLE 3.3: SUMMARY OF PROPOSED PROCUREMENT ARRANGEMENTS
(US $ thousand equivalent 1/)
ICB       NCB        NBF          OTHER          TOTAL
PROJECT ELEMENT
1. Civil Works
Treatment of Black Spots                         40.1                                  2.0 2/        42.1
25.3                                 1.3            26.5
State Roads                                     197.8        55.0                      0.0          252.8
125.6        34.7                     0.0           160.3
Provincial (Rural) Roads                                               23.2 3/                       23.2
0.0
Town Passages                                     5.7                                 16.0 2/        21.6
3.6                                10.1            13.6
2. Equipment & Goods
Safety Materials                                 21.1                                                21.1
21.1                                                21.1
Police equipment & Enforce.                       8.7                                  0.7 4/         9.4
8.7                                 0.7             9.4
Medical equipment & Services                      2.1                                  0.7 4/         2.8
2.1                                 0.7             2.8
Accident data bank                                0.3                                  0.7 4/         1.0
0.3                                 0.7             1.0
Equipment and data collection                     2.4                                  0.7 4/         3.1
services                                          2.4                                  0.7            3.1
3. Consultancies
TA & training for monitoring,                                                          1.2 5/         1.2
research                                                                              1.2             1.2
Driver & Pedestrian Education                                                         1.2 5/          1.2
1.2            1.2
Road Design and EA                                                                    7.2 5/         7.2
including training                                                                    7.2             7.2
TA and training for management                                                        2.6 5          2.6
systems                                                                               2.6            2.6
GRAND TOTAL                              279.4         55.0      23.2          33.0           389.3
189.0       34.7        0.0          26.4           250.0
1/ Amounts in italics are to be financed by the Bank loan. Costs include contingencies and taxes
2/ Small works (see loan agreement; Schedule 4)
3/ KGM contracting; not financed from loan
4/ International or local shopping
5 Through shortlist following consultants' Guidelines



- 33 -
H. Disbursement
3.26 The proceeds of the Bank loans for a total of US$250 million will be disbursed as
follows:5'
Currency      Total
Single Currency     Pool         US$        % of Expenditures to be
Categorv        Item           US$ Million     US$ Million    Million           Financed
1      Civil Works for:                                                        63%
a) Traffic Safety            8.8          13.2        22.0
b) Other                    60.8          91.2       152.0
2      Equipment &                                                   100% of foreign or 100%
Material for:                                                 of local (ex-factory net of
(a) Traffic Safety          16.4          24.6        41.0  taxes and duties) or 60%
(b) Other                    2.0           3.0         5.0   of items procured locally
3      Consultant
Services for:
(a) Traffic Safety            0.5          0.7          1.2            100%
(b) Other                     1.9          2.9         4.8
4      Unallocated                   9.6          14.4        24.0
Total                       100.0         150.0      250.0
3.27          Disbursements for civil works and goods with a value of US$2,000,000 or
more and goods with a value of US$250,000 or more and contracts for services with a value
of US$100,000 or more for consulting firms and US$50,000 or more for individual
consultants would be fully documented. All other contracts would be disbursed against
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). The supporting documentation would be retained by the
Project Coordination Unit in KGM and be made available for review by Bank supervision
mission. To facilitate payments from the loans, a Special Account will be established at the
Central Bank for the US$100 million single currency loan, which will be drawn first. The
account will have a maximum size of US$8 million, referred to in the Loan Agreement as
the Authorized Allocation, but until the pace of activity on the project justifies a balance of
The total disbursements for each category have been allocated proportionally between the single
currency loan and the currency pool loan. Since the single currency loan will be drawn first, flexibility
in the reallocation of funds between different categories will be necessary to allow for the different pace
of implementation of project components.



- 34 -
this size, defined as when the total of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the value of
any Special Commitments made against the Loan are equal to US$20 million, the maximum
balance in the Special Account shall be US$4 million. Once the single currency loan is fully
disbursed, a Second Special Account will be established at the Central Bank for the US$150
million equivalent currency pool loan. The account will have a maximum size of US$12
million, referred to in the Loan Agreement as the Authorized Allocation, but until the pace
of activity on the project justifies a balance of this size, defined as when the total of
withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the value of any Special Commitments made against
the loan are equal to US$20 million, the maximum balance in the Special Account shall be
US$6 million. Applications for replenishment of the special accounts would be submitted on
a quarterly basis or when 1/3 of the amount deposited has been withdrawn, whichever occurs
earlier. In addition to the documentation requirement stated above, each replenishment
application would be supported by monthly bank statements of the Special Account which
have been reconciled by the Project Coordinator's office. All other applications for direct
payments or Special Commitments must be for an amount not less than 20% of the special
account deposit. Retroactive financing in an amount not exceeding US$ 10.0 million would
be provided under the single currency loan for certified expenditures incurred during the
twelve-month period prior to the estimated date of Loan Signature, i.e., June 30, 1996.
During negotiations, agreement was reached on the establishment of the Special Account and
Disbursement arrangements
(para. 5.1 i)}.
3.28        The project is expected to be substantially completed by September 30, 2002
and the Closing Date of the Bank Loans would be March 31, 2003. A Disbursement
Schedule is shown in Annex 7. This schedule is consistent with the relevant historical profile
for the Region, adjusted for the actual start date of construction.
I. Environmental Impact
3.29        The project has been classified in Environmental Screening Category "B",
requiring sub-projects environmental analyses consistent with OD 4.01. Moreover, given
the nature of the project a satisfactory environmental control framework is needed for the
sub-projects of the outer years. Accordingly, the Bank has examined the: (i) analysis of the
environmental features of the road-works included in the first year program (Ankara-
Kirikkale road); and (ii) availability and adequacy of the mechanism and capacity to
satisfactorily assess and control potential environmental impacts of the roadworks which are
not yet identified.
3.30        In line with the Environmental Impact Assessment Regulation requirements,
preliminary environmental analysis of the first year program roadworks (consisting of an
Initial Environmental Check-list and Evaluation Matrix (ICEM)) has been prepared by the
KGM Environment Commission for each sub-project and submitted to the relevant Provincial
Organization. Review of the preliminary analysis indicates that there are no negative



- 35 -
environmental impacts, or any resettlement issues expected from the first year roadworks.
The environmental, analyses of roadworks beyond the first year program and their evaluation
by MOEn, will be submitted to the Bank for review before approval of the future roadwork
to be financed by the loan. During negotiations, the government reconfirmed that no
resettlement problems are expected to arise from the road works to be financed under the
project. Annex 8 provides a summary of the analysis and recommendations to mitigate the
possible impact of the road works under the project.
3.31        The existing legal and regulatory requirements for environmental impact
assessment, the procedure and methodology followed in environmental screening and analysis
by KGM, and the process of reviewing and evaluating the environmental analysis by the
MOEn were found satisfactory. KGM's Environmental Commission is adequately staffed
with well qualified staff to carry out the required environmental assessments. Its conversion
into a full fledged Environmental Division (which has already been approved by the Council
of Ministers) will strengthen its organizational authority and improve its operational capacity.
In addition, the training program planned by the KGM Environmental Division will further
improve its professional competence.



- 36 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.1         The project's main quantifiable benefits are derived from the savings in transport
costs, arising from the avoidance of further deterioration in the road network through the reduction
in the substantial backlog of rehabilitation, and the improvement of key segments of the network.
Benefits will be mostly in the form of reduced vehicle operating costs (VOC), i.e. lower fuel
consumption, tire wear and general vehicle maintenance costs, time and wage savings. Also, the
present value of road maintenance will be reduced by undertaking road strengthening now and
avoiding more expensive reconstruction at a later date. Road maintenance expenditures will also
decrease on newly paved provincial roads. The improvement of provincial roads will facilitate all
weather access and transport in predominantly rural areas, which are presently isolated by the poor
conditions of existing roads.
4.2         The road safety component will contribute to the reduction of accidents, but only
benefits related to the black spot program have been quantified. It is more difficult to attribute
monetary values to the benefits arising from improved education, medical response and police
enforcement but there is significant experience worldwide showing that such expenditures are very
cost effective, if properly designed and integrated into a coherent program. In addition, road safety
feasibility studies are conditioned by the availability of data of the appropriate kind and quality.
KGM is in the process of introducing economic evaluations of hazardous road location
improvements, a process that at the initial stage will focus on the introduction of objectives and
methodologies but is expected to eventually result in cost-benefit analysis. Under the project, KGM
seeks to establish a methodology that would provide objective assessments of which projects
intended to improve road safety should be given priority.
4.3         KGM has developed with past Bank assistance, a satisfactory capability for carrying
out economic evaluations of road projects. These evaluations will serve as the basis for the Bank's
review of road subprojects proposed by KGM for financing under the loan. Annex 9 shows an
example of a typical cost-benefit analysis prepared by KGM. 6' Traffic data is provided by a
network of continuous counting stations, a one week nationwide annual count and ad hoc counts at
the site. Traffic projections for the economic analysis of works on existing alignments are based on
historic growth data and tested for different growth scenarios. Projects on new alignments,
involving traffic generation and/or traffic diversion are subjected to a more detailed analysis of
expected economic activity and origin and destination surveys. The Bank's Highway Design and
Maintenance Model, Version III (HDM III) is used for the calculation of vehicle operating costs.
The example tests the economic viability of the investments in Ankara-Kirikkale for a low traffic
growth scenario.



- 37 -
B. Costs and Benefits
4.4          KGM has prepared feasibility studies for the road section financed under the
first year of the project. All costs and benefits were calculated in constant 1994 prices, net
of duties and taxes. Domestic distortions in the labor market, which is characterized by
unemployment and binding minimum wages, were not taken into account in the analysis.
(Since the main impact of wages is in the cost of the projects, using shadow wages would
increase the economic returns of the proposed works). Historic data shows a traffic growth
rate of about 10% per annum in the Ankara- Kirikkale road, as the main corridors in the
network are experiencing above average traffic growth. For the purpose of estimating the
economic merit of the proposed projects, traffic growth were assumed at 8% for the first five
years, 5% for the subsequent five-year period and 3% thereafter. The proposed
rehabilitation of Ankara-Kirikkale has estimated an ERR of 25 %. The sensitivity analysis
shows that the works have robust ERRs even in the case that costs are 20% above original
estimates, and traffic decreases by 20% (ERR of 18%) or in the case that completion of the
works is delayed by two years (ERR of 21%) (Annex 10).
4.5         The selection of the improvements in the provincial road network was made
from a list of candidate projects proposed by the different regional offices of KGM. The
first selection was made on the basis of a multi-criteria analysis based on social importance
of the proposed works (access to towns and public services, connectivity with primary and
secondary network, etc), and in rough measures of costs and benefits: cost per km, level of
traffic, etc. As a result of this screening process, KGM selected a list of roads that will be
subjected to the same type of economic evaluation as state roads.
4.6         The economic evaluation of the improvement of black spots was carried out by
KGM on the basis of the benefits derived from the reduction of traffic accidents. Alternative
interventions (flyover junctions, guardrails, road widening, lighting, etc.) were considered in
order to find the least cost solution to the target of an 80% reduction of accidents. The
expected impact of different interventions were calculated on the basis of parameters used in
Germany and the UK. As already mentioned, one of the objectives of KGM is to develop
country specific data for future economic analysis. The cost of the different interventions
were estimated for each black spot by KGM's Traffic Division on the basis of unit prices for
recent contracts on similar works. Costs used for the economic evaluation are net of taxes.
4.7         In the without project case for the analysis of black spots, it was estimated that
the number of accidents would increase at the same annual rate than traffic (i.e. 5%), which
is considered to be a conservative hypothesis. Benefits were calculated on the basis of the
monetary value of avoided accidents, that is, savings from reduced damages to vehicles
(about US$1000 per accident) and savings from labor foregone due to injury or death. The
cost of labor was estimated at about US$ 75 per month. Because of the high incidence of
fatalities among young people, it was estimated that the labor lost amounted to 25 years per
fatality. In the case of injury, it was estimated that 40% resulted in one month of foregone



- 38 -
labor, 30% in three months and 20% in six months. Annex 10 shows the ranking of the
selected improvements in black spots, their cost and the estimated ERR for the proposed
works, which range between 12% and 985%. These rates should be taken cautiously, as
they reflect the potential merits of black spot improvements once drivers' behavior has been
modified by enforcement of traffic safety regulations and education. Nevertheless, they
represent a step forward in the objective selection of traffic safety measures and a cut off rate
of 12% will be used to determine which interventions will be eligible for financing under the
loan.
C. Risks
4.8          The project poses no undue risks from an investment or environmental view,
and KGM has a very good implementation record. The main risk concerns the possible
failure of the Government to allocate sufficient budgetary funds for highway strengthening
and rehabilitation programs because of macroeconomic constraints and the normal
institutional and organizational risks associated with the establishment of a new integrated
approach to address traffic safety. The project would incorporate a strong link between the
programs and the annual budgets to mitigate risks related to funding. In particular, to avoid
the possible atomization of investments in many projects with uncertain future funding, the
pace of approval of new contracts will be contingent to satisfactory funding of works in the
initial phase of the program. Also, the economic evaluation of projects to be financed under
the loan, quantifies the economic impact of delays in project implementation due to shortage
of funds; only projects estimated to be economically viable even when completed with
possible delays, will be financed under the loan. Institutional risks are limited by the
project focus on issues in which the Government has already demonstrated a strong interest
and in which there is already solid progress. The coordination of the various agencies
involved in traffic safety will pose a difficult institutional challenge, and in recognition of
this the project proposes a gradual approach.
V. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1.        During negotiations, agreement was reached from the Government:
(a)   to maintain its policy of ensuring adequate balance between road improvement,
rehabilitation and maintenance, and ensure that road works included in the
HIMP are economically feasible and environmentally sound according to
criteria satisfactory to the Bank (para 2.27);
(b)   to ensure that state roads to be financed out of the proceeds of the loan should
be technically and environmentally sound, and that such state road works
should have an estimated ERR of at least 12% (para 2.27);



- 39 -
(c)   to obtain the prior approval of the Bank for any road work to be financed out
of the proceeds of the loan, such approval to be based, inter-alia on an
environmental analysis prepared in accordance to criteria satisfactory to the
Bank, together with an evaluation of the MOEn of such road works para.
2.27);
(d)   to ensure that works on provincial roads to be included in the project with an
AADT; (i) above 250 vehicles should have an ERR of at least 12%; (ii)
between 150 and 250 vehicles should have an ERR of at least 10% and (iii)
below 150 vehicles should have an ERR of at least 8% (para 3.7);
(e)   to carry out the Road Traffic Safety Action Plan on the basis of a timetable
and targets included in said Plan (para. 3.8);
(f)   on the scope of the Annual and mid-term Project Implementation Reviews and
the Project Implementation Plan (paras 3.16);
(g)   to ensure that project accounts, the special account and statements of
expenditure will be audited by external auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
that audit reports for each financial year would be furnished to the Bank within
six months of the end of the financial year (para 3.18);
(h)   to prepare bi-annual reports summarizing progress in project implementation,
main problems encountered in the execution of the project, and proposed
remedial actions (para. 3.19);
(i)   on procurement arrangements and bidding documents (para 3.25); and
(j)   on the establishment of the Special Account and disbursement arrangements
(para 3.27);
5.2.        Prior to disbursement of loan funds for the road safety component of the
project, the Government should appoint a Road Safety Task Force, comprising
representatives of KGM, the Traffic Police, the Ministries of Education and Health, and Gazi
University to oversee the implementation of the Action Plan for Road Safety (para 3.11).
5.3.        With the above conditions, the proposed project is suitable for a Bank loan of
US dollar 100 million to the Republic of Turkey, repayable in seventeen years, including five
years of grace, at the standard interest rate of LIBOR-based US dollar single currency loan,
and a loan of US$150 million equivalent, repayable in seventeen years, including five years
of grace, at the standard variable interest rate for currency pool loans.
=V1mtJhid.f
Max 24 1996



- 40 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
PAST AND ONGOING OPERATIONS IN THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
Loan No.  Board      |Loan Amount   Project      Project Purpose           Status       Commenb
Date       (USS mil)       Name      I                         I            I
2137-TU   1982        71.1           First       Rehabilitation and        Completed   PPAR found that the
Highway   strengthening of certain   1987         physical work was
priority highway sections;            imnpkmented satisfactorily,
improvement of planning               while the impact of
and control systems of                highway safety, vehicle
KGM; and assistance to the            loading, mnd KGM
government's efforts to               planning and control
improve highway safety and            capacity building
control vehicle loading,              components was limited.
Actual ERRs were close to
or higher than appraisal
estimates.
2439-TU   1984        186.4           Second     Rehabilitation of state   Completed   PCR concluded the project
Highway   highways; supply of road    1992        objectives were
maintenance equipment;                successfully achieved.
and improvement of                    Delays were mainly due to
planning and management               disagreement over bidding
capabilities of KGM.                  documents, lack of KGM
funds and adding exta
work to contracts. ERRs
were lower than appraisal
estimates because traffic
was affected by regional
military conflicts, and due
to cost overruns.
3324-TU   1991        300.0          Stae and   Ensuring adequate          In Progress  The project is progressing
Provincial  maintenance and reducing              well, and is expected to be
Roads      the backlog of road                    completed on schedule
strengthening; downsizing,            despite budget constraints.
modemization and
improvement of KGM fleet
management; strengthening
KGM's planning
capabilities; and
improvement of the
management and safety of
the road system.
Source: World Bank reports.



- 41 -
Annex 2
Page 1 of 4
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
AXLE LOAD CONTROL
Introduction
1.          The legal axle load limit in Turkey is 13 tons on a single axle and 19 tons on a
tandem axle. However, vehicle overloading is reported to be a serious problem leading to
accelerated wear and tear of pavements and to road accidents. This not only applies to the KGM
administered 60,000 km road network but also to rural roads (320,000 km) which are the
responsibility of the Ministry of Rural Affairs infrastructure branch (KOY). Although there are few
statistics on overloading, the results of sample weighings, carried out by KGM, indicate that on state
and provincial roads about 30% of heavy commercial vehicles are overloaded; single axle loads of
20 to 22 tons (equivalent to about 52 standard axles) are not uncommon. Without a more detailed
study than is available it is not possible to be precise about the economic benefits that would be
derived from a successful axle load control program. However, using 1995 civil works costs for
roads resealing and rehabilitation, and assuming that KGM's proposed program of 18 weigh-stations
would control overloading on 10% of the state and provincial network, thus prolonging road life by
20%, an economic rate of return in excess of 80% would be expected.
2.          Although these estimates must be treated with caution, largely because of uncertainties
regarding reliability of the portable weighing equipment and skill of the operators, overloading is an
important issue. The government has accepted this and stronger vehicle construction and use
legislation is currently going through Parliament. Present fines and other penalties for contravening
vehicle loading regulations are very low and present no real deterrent despite low profit margins.
The new legislation increases the fines considerably but they are still relatively low and do not
differentiate between the degrees of overloading. However, they represent an important step
forward in KGM's efforts to fight overloading.
3.          Currently there is a flat rate of TL210,000 (about US$5 in 1994) for freight
overloading. The new legislation before Parliament proposes to increase the fine to TL2,736,00.
Based on KGM's estimate that road deterioration made by one standard axle load (8.2 tons) amounts
to TL160.73 per kIn, it is possible to compute the additional deterioration costs incurred by axle
loads heavier than the legal limit of 13 tons. Chart A-1 illustrates the estimated average overloading
costs incurred by one truck per day and compares them with the current and proposed fines. The
calculation assumes that a truck has an average 4.21 axles and travels 80,000 km a year, with 300
working days and 50% of time empty. The chart shows that the proposed fine overcharges trucks
with single axle load under 20 tons and underchages those over 20 tons.



- 42 -
Annex 2
Page 2 of 4
awt A-1: Ovw4mnig Costs i  Fws Touuw iL)
6,000
5,000
Over-oadmg Cost
4,000
3,000       Proposed Rne
2.000
1,000
Curwnt Rn
0    I
13   14   15   16   17   18   19   20   21   22   23
Tons
Present Situation and Short-Term Actions
4.          KGM currently has about 200 portable weigh-bridges but many of these are obsolete
and unreliable or not in working order (an estimated US$100,000 is required to repair and
recondition a minimum number). These are used by the Traffic Division, as the budget permits, to
undertake spot weighings in different parts of the country but, with the limited resources available
and low penalties, there is little or no impact on the overloading. A weighing "program" also
requires strong police support in the field and this is difficult to arrange. There is almost no control
on village roads.
5.          KGM made proposals to install about 50 fixed weigh stations at an estimated cost,
including equipment, buildings, utilities and civil works, of US$400,000 each. The actual number,
as well as the locations of the stations, should await the outcome of a study being undertaken by
KGM). An associated problem is the acquisition of land for the sites which can be a contentious
issue. Because of these problems, KGM decided to undertake a program of weigh station
construction in two or more phases. The first phase would be limited to 18 weigh stations located at
obvious sites and on land already owned by KGM. The Government is planning this first phase,
costing approximately US$9.0 million, with its own resources. Seven specialist companies have
been prequalified to bid for this work.



- 43 -
Annexc 2
Page 3 of 4
6.          The second and possibly subsequent phases will depend on the outcome of the study
referred to above, and monitoring the experience with and results of the first phase of 18 permanent
weigh-stations. However, it is expected that a more extensive system of weigh stations will be
built which may also assist in monitoring and regulating axle and vehicle loads on village roads.
Action Plan
7.          The Phase I of the program to enhance axle load control requires a number of related
actions to be taken. However, it is clear that unless the proposed construction and use legislation,
currently under consideration by the Parliament, is passed with adequate inflation indexed penalties
there is little prospect of having an impact on overloading. The actions proposed by KGM are
concerned with establishing the scope of the issue, designing and implementing a solution and
monitoring results and are described below:
Proposed Actions:
A.   Using the most up-to-date traffic counts as a basis, prepare a sampling frame
for vehicle weighing;
B.   Repair and test portable weighbridges and train operators;
C.   Review specifications for proposed permanent weigh-stations. It is important
that the operation of these weigh-stations is made as tamper-proof as possible;
D.   Evaluate proposed weigh-station bidding procedures;
E.   Undertake a carefully supervised sample vehicle weighing program using
portable weighbridges in order to assess the scope and importance of vehicle
overloading - results should be in the form of axle loads and not total vehicle
weight;
F.   In relation to available traffic data and site investigation, assess the adequacy
of the proposed program of 18 permanent weigh-stations and amend as
necessary;
G.   Make arrangements for and formalize police cooperation for the program of
sample weighing and the eventual use of permanent weigh-stations.This should
include investigating the possibility of having police permanently attached to
the axle load control program;
H.   Assess other control methods such as, providing incentives for self-control by
disseminating information on the long-run costs of overloading to the trucking
industry and to the tax payers; creating incentives for the station operators to
enforce the law by offering them a percentage of the fines collected; and
encouraging participation of the insurance industry in controlling overloading
through premier schemes;



- 44 -
Annex 2
Page 4 of 4
I.    Based on the assessment, choose an appropriate set of enforcement methods,
make arrangements with the organizations concerned), and establish
monitoring and reporting procedures for the permanent weigh-stations;
J.    Procure equipment and contracting services for proposed additional weigh-
stations and complete work;
K.   Monitor operation and results of stations and make recommendations regarding
the extension of the program of permanent weigh-stations and other actions
regarding the enforcement of vehicle construction and use regulations.



- 45 -                               Annex 3
Page 1 of 7
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
ROAD SAFETY
Current Road Traffic and Safety
1.    Road transport In Turkey is deregulated and both the trucking and bus industries are
mainly privately owned. Transport companies, both domestic and international, vary greatly
in size and competition between operators keep tariffs as well as profit margins low.
2.    The number of registered motor vehicles had been growing at a rate of over 10% a
year over the past ten years, reaching 4.4 million in 1993 (Table B-1). This growth rate was
more than four times the population growth rate (2.2% p.a.) and two times the GDP growth
rate (5.5%) during the same period.   In 1983, there were 34 vehicles per 1000 people and
31 vehicles per one million GDP (in 1987 US$). By 1993, there were 73 vehicles per 1000
people and 49 vehicles per one million GDP (Chart B-1).
Table B-1: Road Motor Vehicles
(thousands)
Mini            Small             Motor   Special      Road
Year     Car      Bus     Bus   Truck   Truck       Cycle   Vehicle  Machines  Total
1983     856       74      38      186      190       217        15        34  1,611
1984     919       81      44      198      198       256        16        39  1,752
1985     983       88      47      213      205       289        18        46  1,889
1986    1,087      98      51      225      217       327        19        51  2,075
1987    1,193     106      54      233      226       370       21         55  2,259
1988    1,310     113      56      241      234       421       23         58  2,457
1989    1,435     118      59      249      241       473       25         60  2,660
1990    1,650     125      64      263      257       532       27         63  2,981
1991    1,864     134      69      281      273       590       29         67  3,307
1992    2,181     145      76      308      287       655       31         72  3,756
1993    2,620     160      84      354      306       743       34         79  4,380
Annual
Growth 11.8%    8.0%     8.3%    6.6%     4.9%      13.1%     8.5%       8.8%  10.5%
Source: State Institute of Statistics



- 46 -                              Annex 3
Page 2 of 7
Chat B-1: VeNcis, FPapLdain md GDP
(GDP in oonstart 1987 US dollws)
80
70                                 Vehies per
60                               sand
50 -
40-
VeNcles per
30                                         Million GDP
20      l      l  l
83   84   85   86   87   88   89   90   91   92   93
3.    Statistics show that traffic on state and provincial roads had increased from 17 billion
vehicle-kilometers in 1983 to 31 billion vehicle-kilometers in 1993, growing at an average of
about 6% per year (Chart B-2). About 90% of the traffic was concentrated on the state
highways. (Annual growth rates of traffic above 10% in major road corridors are common).
Average daily traffic densities are highest (over 20,000 vehicles per day) in the vicinity of
large cities such as Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir.
Chart B-2: Traflic on State and Provircial Roads (million
vehicle.kilometers)
36,000
30,000
25.000
20 .000
15 .000
10,000
5.000
0
83   84   85   86   87   88   89   90   91   92   93



- 47 -                              Annex 3
Page 3 of 7
awt B-B: Acciden. Ftalities and Irjuries per Milbon
Veice-Kiomrters (mvkm)
36.00
30.00                      atesl0  mvkm
25.00
20.00
15.00
10.00      Accd ntsJmvkm       Injuries/ Vkm
5.00
0.00
83  84  85  86  87  88  89  90  91  92  93
4.    Road accidents are a serious social-economic problem in Turkey. In 1993, about
210,000 accidents were reported by police, there were 6,500 deaths and 104,000 injuries
(Table B-2). From 1983 to 1993, the number of accidents had been growing at an average
14% per year, more than twice the growth rate of vehicle-kilometers (6%). Accidents per
million vehicle-kilometers had more than doubled, from 3.2 in 1983 to 6.8 in 1993. The
number of injuries has been increasing at about 9% per year, and the injuries per million
vehicle-kilometers had risen from 2.5 in 1983 to 3.4 in 1993. Due to the introduction of air
bags and seat belts in cars, the number of fatalities had increased by about 2% per year, and
the fatalities per 100 million vehicle-kilometers had been falling, from 30 in 1983 to 21 in
1993 (Chart B-3). However, 21 is still about eight times the average of the European
Community, which is 2.7. Table B-3 compares major road safety indicators of Turkey with
those of Central Europe and European Community as a whole.
5.    About 17% of the accidents happened on state and provincial roads, and 83%
occurred on urban roads. However, about 50% of the deaths occurred on state and
provincial roads. The shares of accidents and deaths that happened on state and provincial
roads has been falling. Among the injured and killed in 1993, drivers represent about 30%,
pedestrians about 30% and passengers about 40%. The most involved age group was
between 20 - 40 years.
6.    According to the results of a recent questionnaire among the leading responsible
agencies for traffic safety in Turkey, the most severe problems of traffic safety are: (a) lack
of traffic safety organization on the national level; (b) lack of coordinated action at the local
level; (c) deficiency in traffic enforcement; (d) excessive speed; (e) deficient infrastructure;
(f) helmets not worn; (g) deficiency in the judiciary system and penalties; and (h) deficiency
in emergency services.



- 48 -                                     Annex 3
Page 4 of 7
Table B-2: Road Traffic Accidents
Accidents                   Fatalities                    Injuries
Year      Total   On    On   Per       Total   On   On   Per        Total   On    on   Per
Urban S & P mvkm            Urban S & P mvkm             Urban S & P mvkm
1983    55,256  73%   27%   3.20      5,200  36%   64%   0.30    43,888  61%   39%   2.54
1984    60,705  74%   26%   3.38      5,684  43%   57%   0.32    49,234  63%   37%   2.74
1985    63,473  75%   25%   3.40      5,477  40%   60%   0.29    49,058  56%   44%   2.63
1986    92,468  79%   21%   4.44      7,278  44%   56%   0.35    71,445  60%   40%   3.43
1987    110,207  79%   21%   4.79     7,661  46%   54%   0.33    80,456  61%   39%   3.50
1988    107,651  80%   20%   4.38     6,848  48%   52%   0.28    79,243  62%   38%   3.23
1989    103,758  79%   21%   3.90     6,352  48%   53%   0.24    79,928  63%   37%   3.00
1990    115,295  80%   20%   4.26     6,317  49%   51%   0.23    87,668  63%   37%   3.24
1991    142,145  81%   19%   5.46     6,231  48%   53%   0.24    90,520  62%   38%   3.47
1992    171,741  83%   17%   6.02     6,214  49%   51%   0.22    94,824  63%   37%   3.33
1993    208,823  83%   17%   6.78     6,457  50%   50%   0.21   104,330  62%   38%   3.39
Annual
Growth      14.2%                        2.2%                         9.0%
Source: State Institute of Statistics.
Table B-3: Averages of Road Safety Indicators
Turkey, Central Europe (*) and European Community
Major Safety Indicators        Central          European          Turkey
Europe         Community
Number of deaths per              172               157              108
million inhabitants
Number of deaths per              909              357              1,474
million vehicles
Number of deaths per          6.2 to 8.6            2.7              21
100 million vehicle-
kilometers
(*) Central Europe includes Bulgaria, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Czech Republic and
Slovakia.
Source: General Directorate of Highways of Turkey
Road Safety Organization and Funding
7.      In Turkey, like the situation in other countries, road safety involves several
Government Ministries including Interior, Transport, Public Works and Settlements (KGM),
Health, and Education. The institutional setting for road safety is inadequate to ensure the
coordination of the varous agencies. The three main agencies in the traffic safety area are;
KGM, the Traffic Policy under the Ministry of the Interior, and the Ministry of Education.
KGM's safety program mainly focuses on black-spot detection and control through a series of



- 49 -
Annex 3
Page 5 of 7
measures including signing, white lining, guardrail, pedestrian crossing, geometric
improvements, etc. The Traffic Police enforces traffic regulations, collects and issues data
on traffic accidents, and produces educational material for schools. The annual traffic safety
week is also organized by the Traffic Police. The Ministry of Education is responsible for
traffic safety education in all primary and secondary schools and the training and testing of
all drivers. The licenses are issued by the police after being certified by the Ministry of
Education. Public dissemination of traffic safety information is currently run by KGM and
the Traffic Police, in cooperation with universities and expert consultants.
8.    The existing road safety actions are financed through the budget of the above relevant
Ministries. There is no coordination on the road safety funding and the total amount
available for road safety is insufficient to satisfactorily tackle the problem. In addition to
budget allocations, other sources of funding include motor vehicle insurance and traffic
offense fines. The insurance market includes a state company and several private companies.
The third party insurance is compulsory and the comprehensive insurance is optional. In
1993, total premiums for the third party insurance were US$197 million and the premiums
for the comprehensive insurance were US$267 million. Currently there is a prevention fund
of US$2.7 million, which is only 1.4% of the third party insurance premiums. By the end of
August 1994, the traffic offense fines were approximately US$16 million. The fines are
generally low and not inflation-indexed.
Driver Education and Public Awareness
9.    Road safety education is partly provided at pre-school level and it is compulsory in
primary school. Elective traffic courses are available in secondary and high schools. Since
1992, a network of private driving schools has been set up around the country. Minimum
driving age is 18 for private cars and 17 for motorcycles. The length of compulsory training
required to obtain a driving license for private cars is 83 hours (35 hours for traffic and
environment, 16 hours for machine and vehicle technique, 12 hours for emergency, and 20
hours for practice). Training is not provided in a systematic and coordinated manner and
teachers are not properly trained on the subject. Teaching aids and material are often
inadequate and out-of-date. Most teaching and training is of a technical nature and only little
time is spent on training of safe behavior in traffic. The failure rates at the driving tests are
around 5 to 10 %, which is low and suggests many candidates are not being properly tested.
10.   The Government has realized the seriousness of the traffic safety problem and has
initiated activities aiming at raising public awareness and changing aggressive driving
behavior. Campaigns involving five short television films, ten radio spots, and 2,500
billboards have recently been organized by KGM to help the public understand that traffic
accidents can happen to anybody at anytime, and to illustrate and explain traffic rules to
drivers as well as pedestrians. A new road safety program specifically targeted at school
children is in preparation. The Federation for Commercial Drivers has also started up
special training courses to improve the skills of commercial drivers.



- 50 -
Annex 3
Page 6 of 7
Regulations, Checks and Penalties
11.   Road safety rules are incorporated into a highway code which is compiled on the
basis of legislation passed by the Parliament. In addition, conventions and agreements have
been elaborated and implemented under the auspices of the United Nations Economic
Commission for Europe, in particular: the 1968 Convention on Road Traffic and on Road
Signs and Signals (the Vienna Convention), the 1971 European Agreement supplementing
this convention, and the 1958 Agreement Concerning the Adoption of Uniform Conditions of
Approval and Reciprocal Recognition for Motor Vehicle Equipment and Parts.
12.   Three laws have a direct impact on driver behavior and are the most important from
a safety point of view. They are speed limits, drinking and driving, and use of seat belts.
Studies have found that the frequency of accidents varies according to the square of the
average speed recorded, and the number of deaths varies according to the fourth power of
the latter. It has also been shown that, for an alcohol level of 0.5 g/l, the risk is multiplied
by 2, for 0.8 g/l, it is multiplied by 10, and for 1.2 g/l by a factor of 35. Studies have also
concluded that front seat passengers wearing seat belts are 50% less likely to be killed than if
they did not wear them.
13.   In Turkey, the speed limit on motorways is 130 km/h, higher than the speed limits in
Central Europe which range from 90 to 120 km/h. Speed limits on open country roads are
90 km/h and on urban areas 50 km/h. Regulations on drinking and driving are severe:
alcohol is prohibited (permissible level is 0.0 g/l). In practice, however, up to 0.5 g/l is
tolerated. Wearing seat belts is compulsory in front seats on all networks. Vehicles are also
required to install seat belts in front seats. It was estimated that about 90% of people wear
seat belts on highways and 60% do on urban roads.
14.   The Traffic Police under the Ministry of the Interior have a wide range of
responsibilities which gives them a central role in road safety matters. They are responsible
for enforcing traffic rules, managing traffic flows, reacting to road accidents, assisting in
emergency and first aid, making accident reports and maintaining the corresponding records.
However, they are understaffed, with 12,500 officers averaging 2.8 officers per 1000 road
vehicles and 15 officers per 1,000 square kilometers. In addition, inspection equipment is
insufficient, old and obsolete, which is a major weakness in the road enforcement system.
Thus it can be seen that checks are insufficiently frequent to reduce road accidents: speed
checks are fairly rare, especially in urban areas, and seat belt checks are practically
unknown.
Road Infrastructure
15.   Infrastructure design has a strong influence on the perception of the drivers, including
their understanding of the way the road operates, and consequently their behavior.
Depending on its design, a road may encourage people to drive too fast, or without the
driver being consciously aware of it, cause him or her to drive more slowly. A well-
designed access to a built-area is capable of slowing down speeds and creating more respect
for other drivers and pedestrians, whereas, in the reverse situation, the motorist is likely to



- 51 -
Annex 3
Page 7 of 7
drive in much the same way as on the open highway. In addition, the standard of road
maintenance, the shoulders, signs, guardrails, traffic lights, etc., all have a direct effect on
the behavior of users.
16.   Design, construction and maintenance functions for state and provincial roads are
performed to satisfactory standards by or under the supervision of KGM. Road design
standards are appropriate to traffic flows and physical characteristics. The proposed project
will support the systematic adoption of safety audits, to integrate safety considerations at the
design stage and avoid the increase of black spots.
17.   In spite of the budget problems, KGM has given special importance to the road safety
activities. The road marking program has covered an increasing amount of the networks,
and the vertical signs and guardrails have also been improved. KGM's Traffic Division has
carried out a black spot analysis and contracted out three black spot research projects to the
selected universities.
Data Collection
18.   The collection and analysis of data on traffic accidents are fundamental to the design
of roads. They are necessary to understand why and where accidents occur and helpful to
perform cost/benefit analysis and identify appropriate safety measures. In Turkey, the
accident reports, as filed by the Traffic Police, are compiled by a central computer at the
Police Headquarters and are accessible through terminals at 29 police locations around the
country. The database is extensive. It is published annually and shared with KGM, the
universities and other bodies monthly by diskettes. Turkey also maintains databases on road
traffic volumes and infrastructure conditions. But linking up the data on accidents, traffic,
and road conditions is a problem. The major difficulty encountered by KGM is in
evaluating accident reports filed by the Traffic Police. The accident report format was not
properly designed and computer facilities and software are also inadequate. This issue will
be addressed under the proposed project.



- 52 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 10
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
ROAD USER CHARGES
Introduction
1.          The principal objectives of road user charges (RUC) are (a) to ensure that
there are sufficient resources to meet short/medium-run marginal costs of the road network,
which are primarily routine and periodic maintenance; (b) to make a significant contribution
to improvement and construction of the network; and (c) to meet the cost of repairs and
construction according to the damaging effect or demand for road space of different
categories of road user. However, RUC also serves an important economic function by
promoting or deterring road transport. Their level, relative to the cost of using other
transport modes also drives the modal mix, with important implications for the overall
efficiency of transport services. In addition, since the different modes have different
environmental impact, environmental externalities become relevant to the design of sound
transport pricing policies. Hence, RUC must be set bearing in consideration both financial,
economic, and environmental objectives. Although from an economic perspective it is
arguable whether RUC should meet the entire cost of road improvement and construction,
RUC should be designed so as to enable funding an adequate level of maintenance and
construction, which is necessary to sustain a road transport system which will support
economic and social activity in a cost-effective way.
2.          Whilst there is little disagreement over the importance of these objectives there
is considerable debate over the manner in which they should be managed and financed.
There are two main schools of thought, earmarking certain revenues for use only on the road
system (the road fund approach) and financing road maintenance and improvement from the
general or development budgets. Many governments have rejected the road fund approach
primarily on the grounds that it constrains governments on the use of revenues and may lead
to a suboptimal allocation of resources. However, this reasoning is being reviewed within
the context of "commercializing" all or part of the road network and there are a number of
countries where a modified road fund system is being introduced. Turkey's approach is
mainly to finance sector expenditures out of the general budget although there are certain
funds (part of the fuel tax, proceeds of privatization and motorway and bridge tolls) which
are specifically earmarked for certain road-works. At this stage, the Government is not
considering any major change to this approach, a move that is unlikely to happen until a
broader review of the taxation system and the organization of the road agencies is carried
out. However, as a first step, it may be useful to consider defining very clearly those parts
of the taxation system which are considered to be RUC. For example, the main tax paid by
road users is on fuel and it would be useful if this were divided into a regular tax (eg VAT
at 15 %) and a road user levy (the balance). This would enable the road users and authorities
to see the relationship between what is paid by the user and what the user gets for this
payment: a step towards commercialization of the road system.



- 53 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 10
3.         In addition to the physical objectives outlined above, financial and fiscal
considerations also have to be given due weight. Among these is the need to support macro-
economic strategy, especially focussing upon controlling public expenditure and making sure,
as far as practicably possible, that efficiency of resource use is measured by the market
pricing mechanism. This entails the collection and presentation of accurate and detailed data
conceming expenditure on roads, and revenue received from road users. In Turkey, these
data are difficult to obtain as the government accounting system is concemed more with
controlling and monitoring cash flow than with the origin and application of funds. This
issue is being addressed under the project, and reforms such as the introduction of special
cost accounting are being considered as part of the development of PMS, in order to provide
the necessary information for the design, introduction and monitoring of a charging system
that will lead to the optimum use of revenues and cost effective road use.
4.         Increasing attention is now being placed upon the environmental impact of
roads and road traffic and the need for road users to pay for environment protection
measures. However, although this subject is being actively discussed in Turkey, in common
with more developed economies, an appropriate charging system has yet to be devised:
physical controls through road works design or vehicle testing remain the most common
environment protection method. The possibility of introducing vehicle design and fuel
incentives or taxes to encourage environmentally acceptable road transport should be
examined.
Expenditure on the Road Network
5.          Table C-1 shows the total expenditures on state, provincial and rural roads and
motorways from 1983 to 1994. Excluding motorways, the total was TL26,271 billion in
1994 (US$897 million). KGM's 1995 budget is TL27,167 billion (US$700 million) and the
expenditure on state and provincial roads are budgeted around TL23,644 billion (US$609
million) (Appendix C-1).
6.          Very few data are available for the urban network. The total expenditures on
urban roads were estimated by KGM as TL8,630 billion in 1994 (US$294 million). Thus, as
a whole, a total of TL32,660 (US$1,114 million) were spent on state, provincial, rural and
urban roads in 1994.
7.          The motorway program, initiated by the Government in 1985, comprises about
1,660 km in the most heavy transport corridors of Turkey; namely from the Bulgarian border
through Istanbul (including the Second Bosphorus bridge) to Ankara; in the South between
Mersin and Iskenderun through Adana; and around Izmir. Most motorway sections have
acceptable economic rate of returns and are financed by extra-budgetary funds and external
borrowing. The investment increased from its initial US$500 million in 1987 to its peak of
US$2.2 billion in 1992 and then declined to about US$440 million in 1994 (Table C-1). As
of 1994, 1,167 km (70%) has been completed.
8.          Prior to reviewing RUC it is pertinent to comment further upon the cost
effectiveness of road maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement in Turkey. The level of



- 54 -
Annex 4
Page 3 of 10
maintenance on the state and provincial networks and village roads is generally good but
records do not permit the analysis of cost effectiveness. This is important, not only in the
case of the KGM routine maintenance and most of KOY's work which are undertaken by
force account, but also work under contracts which are frequently delayed and lead to
increased costs. The introduction of pavement/maintenance management systems supported
by a cost accounting system to be financed under the proposed project is thus of considerable
importance. If road users are expected to pay for less than efficient works this can only
impact upon economic efficiency.
Table C-1: Highway Expenditures 1983-1994
S & P     Rural       Total       Motor
Year       Roads     Roads                    -ways
(Current TL billion)
1983         116        34         150
1984         180        45         225
1985         224        72         297
1986         273        94         367
1987         370       230         600         341
1988         558       225         783         765
1989         998       385       1,383       1,081
1990       1,777       704       2,481       2,571
1991       3,609      1,984      5,593       5,998
1992       6,063      3,067      9,131      14,089
1993      12,801      4,603     17,404      12,463
1994      19,839      6,432     26,271      12,800
(Constant 1994 US million)
1983         748       221         969
1984        687        172         859
1985         580       187         767
1986         533       184         717
1987         552       343         895         509
1988         483       195         678         662
1989         555       214         769         601
1990         772       306       1,078        1,117
1991         943       519       1,462        1,568
1992         936       474       1,410       2,175
1993       1,200       432       1,632       1,169
1994         677       220         897         437
Source: KGM, Ministry of Rural Affairs and State Planning Organization.
9.            It is reported that vehicle overloading is a serious problem in Turkey, leading
to increased maintenance and construction/rehabilitation costs. However, the actual
incremental cost due to overloading is not known. Taking account of the generally well
maintained standard of roads in Turkey, the costs involved are largely included in the figures
in Table C-1; and to that extent required expenditures would decline were overloading to be
better controlled. At the same time, if the authorities undertook a major road strengthening
program to permit the operation of heavier vehicles, expenditures would need to rise.



- 55 -
Annex 4
Page 4 of 10
Pavement and maintenance management systems, such as are proposed under the project,
should permit these trade-offs to be assessed and monitored.
The Present System of Road User Charges
10.         Simplicity, clarity and fairness are key requirements of taxation systems and
this is equally true regarding RUC. The objective is to charge road users for the
maintenance of the road system and the provision of road space in proportion to the costs
(financial and non financial) that they impose to the economy. This more particularly applies
to the main and secondary road system. Local and urban roads provide a different or
specialized service which it is reasonable to expect to be financed through local taxes and
charges. The taxes themselves should be related either to road access (e.g., annual license
fee) or road use (eg tolls or fuel). Ideally RUC should be based on a fee calculated on
vehicle size/weight and distance travelled: indeed such systems are being applied in some
technologically advanced and relatively small countries and Turkey is in the process to
develop the information base and know how to progressively move in this direction.
11.         The present RUC system bears some direct relationship to the maintenance and
improvement needs of the network and the resource consumption of the various categories of
road user. This is borne out by a 1995 KGM study which provides useful background
information. The study estimates that light vehicle, bus and truck users contribute about
113%, 77% and 82% respectively of the estimated maintenance and construction costs for
which they are responsible: it also estimates that the total annual needs of the state,
provincial, village and urban network in 1994 were TL41,000 billion compared with the
TL32,660 billion actually spent (including the estimated expenditures on urban roads). The
difference may be due to an exaggerated assumption of the need for state and provincial road
upgrading and a recognition that rural roads need more maintenance and improvement
resources. Actual revenue during 1994 amounted to an estimated TL43,656 billion (Table C-
2). It should be noted, however, that urban and some village roads fulfil important functions
other than serving traffic (for example, pedestrians, businesses, utilities) and the entire cost
should not be borne by the road user.
12.         At present, some taxation rates need to be reviewed. For example, some
vary inversely with vehicle age despite the fact that the older commercial vehicles tend to
have greater damaging effect on roads than new modem vehicles. Also, the actual rates of
tax are not appropriate to the type or size of vehicle - the highest rate of motor vehicle tax
(vehicles exceeding 20 tons capacity) is only about US$166 per annum. The following taxes
and duties are described and assessed as regards the extent to which they are road yse/vehicle
related and can be considered as RUC. As from the 1st January, 1995 they are indexed to
inflation.
13.         Motor Vehicle Tax: This is charged annually according to the size and age of
the vehicle, it is also calculated differently for domestically produced and imported vehicles.



- 56 -
Annex
Page 5 of 10
Appendix C-2 gives the different rates, which range from (1994) TL1,054,000 (US$30) for a
1 - 6 year old car less than 950 kg to TL5,984,000 (US$166) for trucks over 20 tons.
Trucks of 20 tons or more capacity and 7 - 15 years old have an annual tax of TL4,998,000
and over 15 years TL2,652,000. In principle this tax is a relevant RUC in the sense that it
is a fee for entry to the road system but it requires reform in order to: (a) be simplified and
unified for each category of vehicle with no adjustment according to age; (b) charge more
realistic levels of tax, especially to reflect the damaging effect of different vehicle types; and
(c) be the same for each size class irrespective of origin. (Part of this tax is earmarked: 11%
for the maintenance of municipal roads and 19% for roads in urban areas that are not the
responsibility of municipalities but form part of the state and provincial network).
13.         Value Added Tax (VAT!: This is charged on new vehicles, tires and
lubricating oil. The rate for cars is 23% and for trucks, buses, tires and lubricating oil 15%.
As the average level of VAT in Turkey is 15%, the revenue derived from buses, trucks and
tires should be classified as general revenue and only part of the tax levied from cars that are
in excess of the VAT could be classified as RUC. However, even if the tax were to be
adjusted accordingly there is no linkage with road access or use and, thus, VAT as whole
should be excluded from RUC.
14.         Motor Vehicle Purchase Tax: This tax is charged every time a vehicle
changes hands and varies according to the size and age of the vehicle: there is no
differentiation between domestic and imported vehicles (Appendix C-3). The tax ranges
from TL2,380,000 (US$66) for a <950kg car over 9 years old to TL20,460,000 (US$568)
for a > 20,000kg 1 year old lorry. Although this is a vehicle specific tax it is not road
related and should be considered as general revenue and not a RUC. However, it is
important to note of this tax that there is a 25% surcharge which is collected and allocated
for use by the Ministry of the Environment: in 1994 this would have amounted to about
US$30 million. The "additional vehicle purchase", equivalent to 6% of VAT, is no longer
levied.
15.         Customs Duty: Customs duties are levied as a percentage of the cif price of
imported vehicles. The percentage ranges from 23 % for trucks to 60% for cars with an
engine capacity over 2,000cc. This is considered a measure for raising general revenue and
not a RUC.
16.         Registration Fees: These include registration of vehicles, vehicle inspection,
special operating permits and temporary traffic documents. Registration and vehicle
inspection charges should not be classified as RUC but as payment for a specific service. On
the other hand, registration fees and special operating permits (i.e., overweight vehicles) are
road related and ought therefore to be defined as RUC.
17.         Fuel Taxes: In March 1995 fuel taxes are levied by the refinery/oil company
at the rates of 70% for gasoline and 58% for diesel. It is understood that these taxes will



- 57 -
Annex 4
Page 6 of 10
shortly be increased but full details are not yet available. These taxes are clearly road use
related and reflect both access to the road system and road wear and tear. As a rule the
larger and heavier a vehicle is the more fuel is consumed and more tax is paid. There is,
nonetheless, a clear case of cross subsidization with the lighter vehicles paying for a greater
share of road wear and tear than their impact warrants. It is also considered that only that
amount of tax which exceeds the general level of VAT should be regarded as a road user
charge and, in the following table, total fuel tax has been adjusted accordingly.
18.         Road User Revenues: There is no central source of data on the amount of
road user revenues collected and the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the
collection, has difficulty in making this information available in a timely way. Furthermore,
the motorway program and its financing is kept apart from the finance and planning of the
rest of the road network and figures have not been made available. These are issues that
should be addressed if information on revenues is to be available as part of the road network
annual planning and budgeting process. The following table gives available information on
RUC revenue by source, with the exception of motorways, for the period 1989 to 1994.
Their totals are compared with the total expenditures obtained earlier from Table C-1 above.
Table C-2: Revenues from Road User Charges
And Comparison with Expenditures
(current TL billion)
Year     Vehicle    Traffic     Fuel     Total     Total  Rev/Exp
Tax      Fees      Tax       Rev       Exp         %
1989        134        23       797       954     1,383      69%
1990        329        47     1,486      1,862    2,481      75%
1991        539        67     2,878     3,484     5,593      62%
1992      1,020       130     8,219     9,369     9,131     103%
1993      2,078       244    15,532    17,854    17,404      103%
(*) 1994     3,620       352    39,684    43,656    26,271     166%
(*) Revenues for 1994 were to September 30 only.
Source: Ministry of Finance and Treasure, adjusted by Mission.
19.         A comparison of revenue and expenditure over the past six years in Table C-2
shows that revenues have been growing faster than expenditures and by 1992 surpassed the
expenditures. And, it is expected that, even including estimated expenditure on urban roads,
revenues will still exceed expenditure. Furthermore, as noted earlier, further increases in
fuel taxes expected for 1995 should lead to about a 60% increase over the estimated 1994
full year revenue. Thus there is no issue regarding the adequacy of RUC in relation to
current levels of expenditure on the road system. During the project implementation RUC
will continue to be monitored, and the Bank and KGM will exchange views on measures
toward improving the efficiency of RUC, with particular focus on:



- 58 -
Annex 4
Page 7 of 10
(a)        systematic collection of statistics on actual and forecast levels of
revenue derived from RUC should be made available to the
planning authorities such as KGM, KOY and SPO in a timely way
in order to gradually make it a required input into the planning
process;
(b)       revision of the motor vehicle tax to ensure that the level of tax for
each category of vehicle more accurately reflects the road
damaging impact of particular classes of vehicle;
(c)       upgrading data on the cost effectiveness of maintenance and
construction operations needs to ensure that the road users are not
being effectively over-charged. This review which will become
possible as the implementation of PMS progresses is particularly
important regarding the force account operations of KGM
(primarily routine maintenance) and KOY;
(d)       evaluating the financial impact on the transport industry of future
tax increases over and above what is necessary to cover the costs
of the road system must be examined. Typically, the industry
operates on very small margins due to competition which could be
reduced if taxes rise too much and small operators are driven out
of the market; and
(e)       develop accounts in order to monitor the motorway program's
economic and financial viability.



- 59 -
Annex 4
Page 8 of 10
Appendix C-1
General Directorate of Highways 1995 Budget
(TL billion)
Personnel Service  Supply Equip. Constr.  Others       Total  Total (*)
(TL bil) (US$ mil)
Management          14,808      75      90                       6      14,980      386
Planning                       376      51      43       -      27        498         13
Investment                     354     587    358   6,722      704       8,726      225
Motorways                      17     11                        5         33         1
S. & P. Roads                207     413      74   6,137       29      6,859       177
Tourist Roads                  9                     249                 258         7
Buildings                                      2      84        1         87         2
DSI Roads                                            248                 248         6
Land Acquisition                                              644        644        17
Equipment                     121     163    283       4       25        596        15
Maintenance           292       13    443              611       6       1,365       35
Transfers                                                      157        157         4
Foreign Credits                 54            385   1,003                1,441       37
Total               15,100     873   1,172    786   8,336      900     27,167       700
(*) 1 US$=38,801 TL.
Source: KGM



- 60 -
Annex 4
Page 10 of 10
Appendix C-3
Vehicle Purchase Tax 1994 (*)
(Thousand Turkish Lira)
Vehicle Type Up to 1 year   2-3 years    4-5 years  6-8 years   9-11 years
Cms up to 950 kg      9,560       6,380       4,780        3,180       2,380
951 - 1,200 kg    15,960      11,160       7,980        4,780       3,980
1,201 - 1,600 kg    22,340     15,960       11,160       7,180        5,580
1,601 - 1,800 kg    31,920     22,340       15,960       10,360       7,980
over 1,800 kg     38,300     28,720      20,740        14,360       9,560
Buses up to 15 seats    9,120      5,480        4,020        3,280       2,540
16 - 25 seats    10,960      7,300       5,100        3,640       2,920
26 - 35 seats    13,160      8,760       7,300        5,100        3,640
36 - 45 seats    16,800     11,680      10,220        7,300        5,100
over 45 seats    20,460      15,340      13,160       10,960       8,760
Trucks up to 1,500 kg     7,300      4,560       3,280        2,540        1,820
1,501 - 3,500 kg     9,120      5,480       4,020        3,280        2,540
3,500 - 5,000 kg    10,960      7,300       5,100         3,640       2,920
5,001 - 10,000 kg    14,460      8,760       8,040        6,580        4,380
10,000 - 20,000 kg    16,800     11,680       9,500        7,300        5,100
over 20,000 kg     20,460     15,340      13,160        10,960       8,760
(*) This tax is charged every time a vehicle changes hands.



- 61 -
Annex S
page 1 of 3
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
ROAD TRAFFIC SAFETY ACTION PLAN
OBJECTIVES                           ACTIONS                     RESPONSIBILrTY               DATES
A. Develop and test an
integrated approach to road
safety through a Pilot
Program
Plan Pilot Program         -Identify the pilot region where prograrm will   TASK FORCE           11/96 - 12/96
be implemented
- Retain Consultants to assist in the design and  TASK FORCE
implementation of the program.
*complete TOR                        KGM                       12/96
* prepare short list                 KGM                       1/97
*issue letter of invitation          KGM                       1/97
*negotiate and sign contract         KGM                       3/97
- Carry-out an Accident Problem Analysis for  TASK FORCE             3/97 - 6/97
pilot region (dedicated analysis for all roads in  CONSULTANTS
region)
- Design traffic safety activities         TASK FORCE                6/97 - 10/97
in pilot region (content and timing)       CONSULTANTS
*select countermeasures for the      TASK FORCE                6/97 - 7/97
treatment of black-spots              CONSULTANTS
Oagree on police enforcement activities
and present to the Bank a satisfactory
program for training Trainees.
*design local mass-media information   TASK FORCE (MOE)
campaign (road-user groups, TV/Radio,  CONSULTANTS
Posters, etc)                                                  6/97 - 9/97
* agree on rescue service improvement  TASK FORCE              6/97 - 8/97
program (staffing, equipment, service    (GU,MOH)
area, etc.)                          CONSULTANTS
Plan and start-up monitoring  -Design before-and-after studies (data   TASK FORCE                6/97 -8/97
activities                 collection , sampling strategies, analysis, etc)  CONSULTANTS



- 62 -
Annex 5
page 2 of 3
OBJECTIVES                          ACTIONS                    RESPONSIBILITY               DATES
-Carry-out base-line study of traffic safety  TASK FORCE           9/97 - 12/97
conditions in pilot region                CONSULTANTS
Implement Pilot Road Safety      *set-up coordinating procedures and  TASK FORCE              11/97
Program in Pilot Region         coordinate time-related activities of  CONSULTANTS
Pilot Project
*implement the Black-spot program   KGM                      12/97 - 12/98
(carry-out activities leading to the
completion of agreed countermeasures
(civil works, signalization, etc.)
*implement the agreed Police Program   TTP
(carry-out procurement of necessary
equipment, staffing of units, etc)
*put in place the Public Campaign for   MOE
Road Safety (retain consultants, mass-
media and regional experts, etc)
*implement the Rescue Service
Program (procure ambulances and
equipment, set-up stations and tele-  GU, MOH
network, etc.)
Implement monitoring             *procure equipment and carry out data   KGM, TTP
activities                      collection and analysis.             CONSULTANTS
Evaluate impact of pilot   -Carry out 'after studies' (data collection,  TASK FORCE           12/98 - 4/99
project                    analysis, evaluation of cost effectiveness of    CONSULTANTS
different interventions, etc)
-Complete ex-post evaluation report with  TASK FORCE               4/99
conclusions and recommendations.          CONSULTANTS
B. Implement the First     -Carry out nation-wide countermeasures for    KGM                   1/97 - 12/98
Phase of the National Road   improvement of high priority black spots at a
Safety Program             total cost not exceeding US$27 million
-Implement the revised accident reports and    TASK FORCE          1/97 - 12/98
establish a system for sharing relevant
information across agencies
-Carry out the agreed road safety training for   MOE               1/97 - 12/98
school children in selected schools
-Implement the nation-wide point system for   TTP                  1/97 onwards
police enforcement
-Carry out the health service improvement  GU, MOH                 1/97 onwards
| _________________________  program                                                         I                I



- 63 -
Annex 5
page 3 of 3
OBJECTIVES                           ACTIONS                      RESPONSIBILlTY               DATES
C. Monitor First Phase of    -Set-up before and after studies of the    TASK FORCE                1/97 - 3/97
the National Road Safety    program                                     CONSULTANTS
Program
-Prepare a report with conclusions and      CONSULTANTS               1/99 - 3/99
recommendations covering all aspects
(including legal, regulatory and institutional)
that need to be addressed in the second Phase
D. Design Second Phase of  -Carry-out a mid-term review of the traffic  TASK FORCE                6/99
the National Road Safety    safety component of the project and agree on   CONSULTANTS
Program, including          the scope of the Second Phase National      WORLD BANK
measures to raise the degree   Program
of awareness of stakeholders
to address traffic safety.  -On the basis of the preliminary results of the   TASK FORCE WORLD    6/99 - 8/99
Pilot Project and the First Phase of the    BANK
National Program, define activities to be
started and/or continued during the Second
Phase of the Program, including:
*preparation of proposals to improve    TASK FORCE
the legal, regulatory, and institutional    CONSULTANTS
framework of road safety
*design of activities (workshops,     TASK FORCE
seminars, etc) to disseminate lessons  CONSULTANTS
leant in the Pilot and First Phase to
relevant stakeholders (government
officials, drivers associations, teachers
groups, etc.)
*improvements in data collection and    TASK FORCE
data analysis                         CONSULTANTS
*continuation of the black spot      TASK FORCE                 9/99 onwards
improvement program through           CONSULTANTS
countermeasures evaluated on the basis
of experience gained in the Pilot and
First Phase
*revision, as necessary, of programs  TASK FORCE
for police enforcement, health services,  CONSULTANTS
education and mass-media campaigns.
E. Implement second Phase  -Carry-out the agreed Second Phase of the    TASK FORCE                9/99 onwards
of the National Road Traffic   National Road Safety Program             CONSULTANTS
safety Program            I_II_



- 64 -
Annex 6
page 1 of 6
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFIC SAFETY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PLAN
EPoect Obectives
1.   The project objectives are:
(a)   the reduction of road transport costs through infrastructure improvement and
the protection of past investments in the highway sector through rehabilitation
and strengthening of paved highways
(b)   the improvement of traffic safety in state and provincial roads; and
(c)   the improvement of the operational efficiency of KGM through the
implementation of management systems, computarization, and environmental
analysis of road works.
2.    The project comprises:
(a)   the road improvement program, comprising strengthening or upgrading of
about 600 km of high priority state roads, about 300 km of rural (provincial)
roads and town passages;
(b)   the traffic safety program, ments to accident black spots; ii) improvements to
driver education; iii) provision of equipment to TTP and the Ministry of
Health; iv) extension of TTP's accident data base to other users; and v)
provision of road safety materials; and
(c)   the institutional development program, consisting in the introduction of various
management systems, computarization throughout KGM and training of the
staff of the Environmental Division in KGM.
3.    KGM will be responsible for the implementation of the road improvement program,
and the institutional development component. The Road Traffic Safety Task Force will be
responsible for the overall implementation of the road safety component with assistance, as
necessary, of outside experts. Funds for the execution of the project will be allocated to
each agency (KGM, Traffic Police, Ministries of Education and Gazi University through the



- 65 -
Annex 6
page 2 of 6
budgetary process. The Project Coordination unit in KGM is expected to have a leadership
role in coordinating information from the different agencies on project accounts and project
reporting.
4.    Project supervision is expected to take place at least twice a year. Supervision
missions at the appropriate point of the annual budget cycle would seek assurance of the
adequacy of funding requested for each component which would be confirmed at the annual
reviews. Because of the country-wide nature of the project, supervision requirements are
expected to be about 20 staff weeks per year, including support from the Resident Mission in
Ankara. As part of project supervision, the Bank and the Government will carry out annual
reviews of project implementation. An outline of the agenda for the annual reviews is
presented in para 3.19 of the main text. In addition, an in-depth mid-term project
implementation review will take place not later than November 1998 to take stock of project
achievements and agree on any remedial actions as necessary.
5.    The Project Implementation Plan is given in a series of tables attached to this annex
and in the Road Traffic Safety Action Plan presented in Annex 5. Table 1 shows the tasks,
the inter-relation one with another, and their timing. Table 2 provides the Procurement
Schedule. The project cost table and disbursement schedule are given in the SAR in Tables
3.3 and 3.5 respectively.
6.    Auditors will be appointed in late 1996, in time to prepare and submit a report on
financial year 1996 prior to June 1997.
7.    Feasibility Analyses, including the economic evaluations and environmental analysis
of the first year program and projects to be elegible for financing in subsequent years will be
entered in the Project File.
8.    Monitoring for the road improvement and rehabilitation works and the establishment
of the different road management systems will be the task of KGM through its Coordination
Office. Quality and works progress will be monitores by KGM's resident engineers. The
traffic safety component begins with an Action Plan with milestones. These milestones will
serve as monitoring indicators. In addition the monitoring indicators attached to this Annex
will serve to evaluate the impact of the road safety program. As the implementation of the
program progresses and before and after studies are designed, the Action Plan might be
updated to include additional monitoring indicators.



Project Implementation Plan
ID_                                                                                 1996                   1997                   1 98                 _1999                   2000                   2001
0 ID   Task Name                               Duratlon'   Start       Finish    Apr| Jul | Oct Jan  |Ap   Jul Oct  Jan I Apt I Jul  O                            Od Jan  Apr  Ju  Jn  Jul J O    Jan  Apr  Jul  Oct
1   Project Start                                 Od     518/96            5160  _/6
2   Negotlattons                                  1w     5196       5/110r
P   3   Soard Presentation                          0.2w    C/20/98     6/20190
4 CIvl WoI  o   PrOa trmme                    290.5w tvv      6 U  t2/2T/Ot
6        1}lt'lirl ," t~irrWdfillU d,,'rl',111014s  now  o/i/on     7/261_
6        invite and evaluate bids               sow      91219a    10/24/97
7        award lexecute contrads               260w      1/3/97    12127/01                                                  .            I 5'
6   Traltic Salety Prografnme                 185.6w     711196     1/20/00        -                                                      I
9        Black spot Campaign                   166w    11/1/96      1120100                   _                      _
10             prepare works contracts           12w    i/11/116     1/2319i
s    11            Invite and evaluate boda            Ow    1/24197       3/Al97
12             award lexecute contrads          I sow     J/7197    11120_00
13        Otlher Components                     lew      7/1/9tJ    9/20/99
14  Institutional Development Prog               74w    1111196       4/2/98
16        preparerORsLOI                          ew    11/1/96    12112196
1S       Invie & eveluale proposals              t2w   12113/t6       31t/97
17        award A execute contract               6w       3/7/97      412198
lS   Project Completion                           Ow   12127101    12127/01
Page I



PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
44 11                                 Prior
'0    Item                              Review     Method & Doc.                    Packaging/Review                Comments
x 'It                                 Threshold
aQ) oo0I9OO's
"4 X   Civil Works
All
1) Works on State Roads                     *ICB SBDW (January 1995) with   *About 20 individual contracs;    oContracts bid and nunaged by
($195m)                           4.0       KGM's modifications to Part 2   bid over 3 years, values $7-$15  Constmction Department, Ankara
2) Works on State roads          million     NCB, using procedures          million; each subject to prior  First bid Nov '96
incl. some black spots                      satisfactory to the Bank        review.                         Project launch Nov '96
($65m)                                                                                                      GPN June '96
Small Works
oUp to 120 contracts in each
3) Black spots ($12m)             500       *NCB using Bank-approved KGM   category; valued between $0.3-
4) Town Passages ($22m)           500       document                        $l.0m to be bid in 3 annual
packages in each RD.
I    Other Safety
5) Materials ($21m)               250       *ICB CSBD for Goods              *Individual contracts after
agreement on a generic version of
the CSBD. Specification will be
agreed individually.
6)  Equipment ($16m)              250       *ICB through CSBD for goods;    OAII specifications will be     *Some specialist equipment may be
IS for some specialized items.  reviewed and first three contracts,  IS,LS or SS.
prior to bid. Medical & Police
equipment will be packaged.
7) Consultants ($12m)             100       *Short list and RFP, January    *Up to 10 contracts foreseen    *PMS Consultant under Loan 3324 will
(firms)    1996, LOI package & contract    valued between $100,000-$I      be retained. 5 contracts for road design
form.                           million. No packaging. All TOR   let in 1st and 2nd years
50                                       will be reviewed.               2 contracts for traffic safety
(individuals)                                                                let in I x 2nd years
Upto 3 others T.B.D.



- 68 -                       Annex 6
page 5 of 6
TURKEY
PROPOSED ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND SAFETY PROJECT
SlUMMARY OF MONlTORING INDICATORS FOR THE ROAD SAFETY PROGRAM
A. Black Spots
Project Name   No. Accidents   No.Accidents    ERR (ex-ante)   EER (ex-post)
(ex-ante)      (ex-post;
yearly figures)
B. Police Enforcement in National Project
1995     1996     1997     1998      1999
Accident rate
Fatality rate                          _                           l
Hours of control
No. of rmes                                                        l
No. of points
No. of trained staff
C. Health Pilot Program (140km)
l ___________________   1995    1996     1997     1998      1999
No. of Fatalities
No. of Injured
No. of Hosp. Assisted                                    _   _
Time of response to
accident
Morbidity rate after
assistance
-   .                    .             .     .. 



Annex 6
- 69 -                      page 6 of 6
D. Education Targets
___________________I  1997   11998   I 1999
No. of scool teachers   200   400      600
(instructors) trained
(Cumulative)
No. of schools with    100    200      300
children road safety
program (Cumulative)
m:Amp\tur\monAit.ar



- 70 -
Annex 7
Page lof 1
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Cumulative
Disbursements
Bank Filscal Year           Ouarter Ending              US$ million
97                     September 30, 1996             10.01
December 31, 1996             12.5
March 31, 1997                15.0
June 30, 1997                 25.0
98                     September 30, 1997             35.0
December 31, 1997             45.0
March 31, 1998                55.0
June 30, 1998                 70.0
99                     September 30, 1998             85.0
December 31, 1998            110.0
March 31, 1999               130.0
June 30, 1999                160.0
00                     September 30, 1999            175.0
December 31, 1999            185.0
March 31, 2000               195.0
June 30, 2000                205.0
01                     September 30, 2000            215.0
December 31, 2000            220.0
March 31, 2001               225.0
June 30, 2001                230.0
02                     September 30, 2001            237.5
December 31, 2001            240.0
March 31, 2002               242.5
June 30, 2002                245.0
03                     September 30, 2002            247.5
December 31, 2002            248.8
March 31, 2003               250.0
1/ Retroactive financing payment of US$ 10 million
Source: Based on Standard Disbursement Profiles, Turkey, Transportation Sector, 1994.



- 71 -
Annex 8
page 1 of 5
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL ANALYSIS
1.    The road rehabilitation program comprises the improvement and upgrading of about
600 km of heavily traveled state roads and 300 km of rural roads passing through various
towns. Furthermore, the project includes a road traffic safety program that would encompass
improvements in minimizing black spots responsible for accidents, providing driver's
education training, providing equipment for Turkish Traffic Police and the Ministry of
Health, reviewing Turkish police data base for identifying the causes of accidents and the
development of cost effective measures to minimize them including the provision of road
safety materials for traffic management. Road management would be strengthened by
introducing various management systems including computerization of the General
Directorate of Roads (KGM) and training for the environmental and safety staff in KGM.
The institutional development program also includes pavement and bridge management and
maintenance systems including training to address basic issues associated with environmental
and safety aspects in project design and implementation. The total investments of the project
is about 389.3 million dollars. However, only a few roads for rehabilitation and expansion
have been identified yet.
2.    The proposed rehabilitation project consists of various upgrading and rehabilitation of
roads. Some of the roads are passing through populated areas. Traffic loads on some of
these roads have been very heavy because of single lanes on each side. The rehabilitation
project requires upgrading and expansion of existing roads where many businesses and
residences are located close to the roads. This analysis covers the environmental impacts of
a typical road rehabilitation project.
3.    National Environmental Policy and Legal Framework. For the past few years,
Turkey has made good progress towards the formulation of an environmental policy with the
introduction of the "Environmental Law" which has become effective in 1983. According to
the Environmental Law, Private or Government organizations should prepare Environmental
Impact Assessment (EIA) reports for the activities which might have an impact on the
environment. Identification and assessment of all impacts and mitigation measures of all
activities to minimize the impacts along with considerations of different alternatives should be
addressed in the reports. Legal and administrative guidelines should be applied to address
environmental concems. According to EIA regulation, all EIA should be completed and
submitted to the regional organization of the Ministry of Environment 75 days prior to start
the activities.



- 72 -
Annex 8
page 2 of 5
4.   Identification of Environmental Impacts and Proposed Mitigation Measures.
The proposed rehabilitation road project may have potential impacts due to construction,
excavation, widening of roads, soil erosion, spilled materials, quarries, asphalt plants,
encroachment with buildings and residential housing located on both sides of the roads,
storm water drainage, impacts on flora and fauna, air and water pollution, emissions from
construction equipment, noise pollution, impact on cultural heritage , issues related to land
acquisition and resettlement, issues related to road safety, environmental monitoring and
training etc. Comments on each individual issues have been addressed below.
6.    Design Requirements. A number of environmental problems are normally addressed
during the design and expansion of roads. Since the roads tentatively identified for
expansion and rehabilitation are heavily used by trucks (over 40%), proper design
requirements are very important. The design requirements should also consider the type of
soil or clay used in road construction to minimize erosion.
5.    There are two kinds on environmental impacts associated with this project; direct and
indirect impacts.
A.   Direct Impacts:
A. 1  Construction Related Activities. The major construction impacts come from
clearing and grading of the roads. This will create the loss of vegetation cover,
changes in the natural drainage systems and erosion. Precaution must be taken to
minimize the impacts on environmental damage. Use of construction fences are
suggested to minimize erosion. Old construction equipment might be very noisy and
should be avoided in a large populated areas. New machinery comes with improved
mufflers to reduce noise and improved combustion. In highly populated areas
improved machineries and equipment are recommended to minimize noise level.
Occasional spraying of water on the road will help to control dust emissions. During
construction, proper drainage should be provided on both sides to minimize road cuts,
erosion or land slides.
A.2   Construction Camps. There will be construction camps at the site for
workers. The pollution sources near construction camps are expected to be from air
pollution emitting from asphalt plants, quarries and breakers, wastewater and solid
wastes. Solid wastes generated during construction are composed of the wastes from
the buildings, construction, machineries and garbage that need to be disposed off
properly.
A.3   Noise Reduction Control. A number of roads may have well established
residential and business dwellings on both sides. During the widening of the road,
these dwellings will be closer to the road than before. Noise barriers may be
required by constructing a wall or trees in populated areas to minimize the noise
impact on the people living on both sides of the road.



- 73 -
Annex 8
page 3 of 5
A.4   Quarry Plants. The environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) reports indicate
the use of water scrubber to minimize dust emission in quarries plants. This might
create a water pollution problem. The approach is reasonable if the water is recycled
back to the plant with zero discharge. In some cases, the wastewater can not be
discharged into municipal wastewater treatment facilities. It is suggested to consider
the use of dry dust collection systems such as mechanical cyclones, bag houses or
others in order to eliminate wastewater disposal problems.
A.5   Asphalt Plants. The Environmental Impact Analysis reports prepared by the
General Directorate of Highways indicates the use of wet scrubbers for asphalt plants.
Before deciding on the type of scrubbers, fuel gas need to be analyzed for sulfur
dioxide, nitrogen oxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matters. It would also be
worthwhile to evaluate the option between the wet and dry scrubbing systems such as
mechanical cyclones. If it is found that mechanical cyclone can plug up due to the
presence of heavy hydrocarbons, then a wet scrubber should be desirable to remove
sulfur dioxides, hydrocarbons and particulate matters. The main problems with the
wet scrubber is the production of wastewater that can contain hydrocarbons, sulfur
dioxides and particulate matters and may not be easily disposed off in existing
municipal facilities. The wastewater collection in a pond would be a reasonable way
to provide the settlement of solids, which can be collected and disposed off properly
and the wastewater is recycled back to the asphalt plant. Consideration of wet
scrubbers with water zero discharge and a proper disposal of hydrocarbons would
also be effective as proposed by the General Directorate of Highways.
A.6   Air Pollution. The General Directorate of Highways has taken air quality
data in the project regions. Measurements indicates the NOx concentration at 566
mg/m3, Carbon Dioxide concentration at 1080mg/m3, sulfur dioxide concentration at
27 mg/m3 and particulate matters at 93 mg/m3. All parameters are less than the
threshold value established by the Government of Turkey. However, after improving
the roads, traffic may increase and some of the components such as NOx and
particulate matters may increase considerably. In order to minimize the pollution,
mandatory tune up, inspection and NOx reduction program should also be considered.
This can minimize the ground level ozone layer.
A.7  Flora and Fauna. During construction, natural soil will be grazed from the
surface and trees will be planted on both sides of the road. A number of flora species
are listed in the Environmental Impact Assessment report. Consideration of wild life
will be made in accordance with the wild life protection requirements of Turkey.
A.8   An application will be made with the Ministry of Culture, General Directorate
for the preservation of Culture, and natural heritage in order to assess the proposed
road section within the existing Laws. Preliminary research indicates that throughout
the routes there is no destruction of cultural heritage on several roads currently being
considered for rehabilitation.



- 74 -
Annex 8
page 4 of 5
B.   Indirect Impacts
B. 1 Induced Development. After completion of the road expansion or highways,
there could be future possibilities of road side development of commercial, industrial,
and residential activities on each side of the highways. The Government of Turkey
should establish a law to prevent the construction of buildings at least 50 meter away
on both sides of the new highway.
7.0   Environmental Management, Monitoring and Training
7.1  In accordance with Turkish Government requirements, environmental analysis
of each road should be conducted to identify key issues associated with the project
and to develop mitigation measures to deal with negative aspects arising from the
construction and improvements. A sample environmental mitigation plan has been
developed and attached herewith. The General Directorate of Highways has taken
some data on air pollution and found the current air pollution emissions are within the
limits of the environmental requirements of Turkey. Some funds for monitoring the
environmental requirements and the requirements of mitigation measures should be
considered. Monitoring of maintenance requirements, traffic, planning and expansion
will be carried out on a regular basis.
7.2   Second Phase of Road Development. The first year road program covers
only a few roads. This is a small investment in comparison with the total investment.
A separate environmental analysis of each road will be conducted before starting the
construction so that environmental mitigation measures will be considered during the
design and implementation of the project.
7.3   Road Safety. Analysis of road safety is done by the KGM to identify the
causes of accidents and to develop mitigation measures. Information on accidents are
being used to minimize blind spots and to improve safety aspects of the program.
Mitigation measures will include more traffic signs, markings, proper intersection,
layout, and the provision of road barriers. Safe driver's training, speed limits, vehicle
inspection and other measures will be implemented to improve safety concerns of the
people. Measures to improve worker safety during the road construction are to be
addressed.
8.    Training. The project provides environmental training to improve the quality of
environmental assessment and to formulate an effective environmental management plan to
address environmental concerns normally associated with existing and new roads.



- 75 -                    Annex 8
page 5 of 5
POTENTIAL IMPACTS                       PROPOSED MITIGATION
Construction Phase
Excavation in the Bayindir       Regular watering will be applied.
Stone Quality will generate
dust.
Scrubbers will be used in the asphalt plants
Asphalt preparation phase        to reduce the pollutant emissions.  Waste
will generate dust and           water produced in the scrubber will be
hydrocarbon emissions.           settled in a pond and the clear upper layer
will be reused in the scrubber. Water will
not be discharged in to a water body up to
the end of the construction work. The final
waste water will be treated with the
suitable chemical processes according to its
characteristics.
Dust will be generated Lrom      Wind direction will be taken in to
the breaker.                     consideration to minimize dust emissions.
Easily fluidized materials will not be
stored for along periods, without coverage.
Around 20000 m3 of water will   Water is lost, no waste water is produced
be used in the construction
processes.
Daily 5.5 ml of water will be   Seepage pits designed according to the Water
consumed in the field by the    Pollution Control
workers.
Stone washing water (rarely      Will be precipitated in sedimentation ponds
applied).                        and reused as washing water.                   _
Noise generated in the quarry   Limited work hours (8:00-20:00) and
(explosions)                     announcements by radio spots.
Noise level from machines in    Limited work hours (6:00-22:00).
construction site will be
around 67.4 dBA, which is less
than the Turkish Noise Level
Standard of 75 dBA.              ___                                 __
Excavation in the Quarry will   With physical improvement and landscape
create visual pollution.         applications the quarry area will be
rejoined to the nature.
Solid wastes of construction
machines are:
-  Tires                      Renewed and used, the ones that are not
suitable for renewal are sold as scrap
material.
- Greasy Oakum (mop)
Used as fuel in stoves.
- Grease
Precipitated in containers, upper layer is
reused again, while the remaining part is
used as fuel.
Domestic and official solid      Collected in containers and deoosited to the
wastes.                          deoosition sites pointed out by the
municipality.
Noise from traffic               Trees will be planted on both sides of the
road.



- 76 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 14
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
EXAMPLE OF KGM'S ECONOMIC EVALUATION OF ROAD PROJECTS
Ankara - Kirikkale road, due to its location, plays an important role in road network
of Turkey. The connection of Ankara with Northem, Eastem and South-Eastem parts of
Anatolia can be provided over this route.
At Kirikkale Junction, traffic is diverted in two directions. Approximately, 1/4 of the
total traffic follows the Kirsehir - Kayseri direction. As it is known, Kayseri is one of the
most important trade and industry centers of Middle-Anatolia. In other direction traffic is
again diverted in two directions at Samsun - Yozgat Junction: one of them reaches to the
Black Sea cities and ports where the other one continues to the Eastem Borders of Turkey.
Ankara - Kirikkale Road is a 26 meter-platform width and 2'2 dual carriage way state
road. Deformations had occurred, the pavement had been damaged, and subsidence and
cracks had occurred related to the end of the economic life because of the high rate of heavy
vehicle traffic on the road under consideration.
Because of these reasons, the feasibility studies have been done for the rehabilitation
of the road.
The Ankara-Kirikkale Road is 78 km in length and the type of the route of the road is
rolling. The roughness factor is assumed to be 4.5 because of the end of the life of the
pavement of the existing road.
Average Annual Daily Traffic (AADT) is 11751 in 1994 and the ratio of heavy
vehicles to total traffic is more than 60%. The reasons for high rate of heavy vehicle traffic
are: i) the road serves the international traffic between Europe and Eastern neighbors of
Turkey, ii) petroleum products which are obtained from Kirikkale Refinery are reached to
the markets over this road.
The feasibility study of the road has been studied according to the two different
traffic scenarios so that IRR and B/C values have been calculated.
The cost of the maintenance of the existing and the proposed roads have been
determined with the connections to the Maintenance Department. Therefore, the period of
maintenance is taken as 2 years for the existing road. It is assumed for the rehabilitated road
that the wearing course and the binder course will be renewed 10 years after the road is
opened to traffic.
The vehicle operating costs (VOC) are calculated by using the HDM-VOC Program
of the World Bank.
As a result, the B/C and IRR values are calculated according to the different traffic
scenarios and different costs.



IL'~~~~ Ml - _|rM ---                                        !#
i<'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'EIE :1'IA '                                                              II ERE
,}X \\\/ ,,)/ \X y MS \4_ /X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--- DELE SINIRI                                  0 lICE MEPF1IZI
lL   5H/   (\    "            X           >    /   * .                           --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- ILO SlhlRI  * KCIY VE p.IEVKILER
t"S)^4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  -_                                CVE EKSPRES e0I
0 Mau~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~05HR El1R
\ . S F;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rWOE EBASLANGlC VF SONU                                      Er I 
. Wl a i S Ee~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ITUP.ILU KAIA ONA1 rYS                                                c      laa Ke 1m tQ
t      9                                 KoPu wKom 
%\ AS ;;W0 I4~~~~~EVELAN O8ILEMHE xO' 4Pe.q Ar *. 5: , >
q 3-., .aO ~~~~~~~~IErELAN C)NEEI.IE .IC rL C, i.)T.F4Mi-i 
S~~                  _.



KGM - Planning Division
Economic Analysis Section
THE VARIATION OF VOC AQC9R-fNG TO QR9$ R            Rt Q n   k      k     a     h     J   * 9<1   il.     ,     "."'.;. -  *   I
Roughness         Car               eur              TrucK             Tral!r.:                                                 ;
VOC (T.K, ,r o_
2            3302             30492             15206             26750
4            3579             31902             17288             29781              -30=.
6            3951             33807             19393             32938               25 lOO
8            4453             36353             21556             36179                                           f                                               Cm
10           5119              39529             23760             39464               2                                    | _,
1I40oQ
Car        Y=225.4x+2728.4                     R2=0.9716
Bus        Y=1591.3x+23475                     R2=0.9999                  ,0 
Truck      Y=1068.8x+13028                     R2=0.9997
Trailer    Y=1 126.3x+27659                    R2=0.976                                        a                       ','.;'
L   X ,' .,'Jj,,;.!,ir,e':l'lt'?aUg   g   '-'. ';''-  ''    ..'9  lo
.                   hP., 4 A1: !,a) .
Maintenance period (year)                              2                 10                       _-;-!         _    A    / _   A    /   _    __    .;
Inilial roughness (IRI)                      4I         5                2
Roughness before maintenance       .                   8                 8_______________  8
Recommended roughness values for paved roads (IRI)        ' ;                            j                                                                        AC
Smooth                                                 2                                                                                                          A.0  A Conxb
Reasonably  Smiooth                                    4                                    OA       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Medium Rough                                           6                                        1  i ,    4    ,                .    10  II  12  13  14  16
Rough                                                  8                                     ..qar
Very Rough                                             10                                      ._.,
Svuww: Aidmmiu Cu* oWI FuL. (MUU4). Slbi*w  Vlsid OpwUito Cuo
Wwk idau* In lcd Pq1uwr NoM:I4
0Q 0
fD X
0
Ih
F



GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS - PLANNING DIVISION
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS OF ROAD PROJECT
I) GENERAL INFORMATION
a. 1. SECTION NAME         ANKARA - KIRIKKALE(EXISTING ROAD)
b. 2. SECTION NAME:        ANKARA - KIRIKKALE
c. ANALYSIS DATE  *           Jul-95
d. TRAFFIC DATA YEAR:          1994
a. TRAFFIC SEGMENTS               1
f. ANALYSIS PERIOD :             15
g. INVESTMENT YEAR :           1996
II) ROAD INFORMATION
PROJECT- 1           PROJECT -2
a. PROJECT LENGTH.(Km) .......            78.000             78.000
b. ROUGHNESS - TERRAIN TYPE
TERRAIN TYPE
FLAT                 ROLLING            MOUNTAINOUS
ROUGHNESS FACTORS           PROJ.-I     PROJ.-2  PROJ.-I   PROJ.-2  PROJ.-1     PROJ.-2
ASPH.CONCR. IN GOOD COND.        0.000    0.000     0.000   78.000        0.000       0.000
ASPH.CONCR.IN POOR COND.         0.000    0.000    78.000    0.000        0.000       0.000
SURFACE TREA.IN GOOD COND        0.000    0.000     0.000    0.000        0.000       0.000
SURFACE TREA.IN POOR COND        0.000    0.000     0.000    0.000        0.000       0.000
STABILIZED SURF.IN POOR CO       0.000    0.000     0.000    0.000        0.000       0.000
m >>
I-h



GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS - PLANNING DMSION
111) TRAFFIC INFORMATION (CORRIDOReDIVERTED+GENERATED)
a. TRAFFIC DATA                                           TRAFFIC DATA(A.A.D.T.)
TRAILER
TRAFFIC SEGMENTS  Km.    RATIO %                  CAR       BUS      TRUCK       TRAILER      HEAVY VEH.
78           9               6067      1117        4135         432        4567
o           0                  0         0           0           0           0
0           0                  0         0           0           0           0
o           0                  0         0           0           0           0
0           0                  0         0           0           0            0
0           0                  0         0           0           0           0
0           0                  0         0           0           0           0
o           0                  0         0           0           0           0
o           0                  0         0           0           0           0
o           0                  0         0           0           0           0
0           0                  0         0           0           0           0
0           0                  0         0           0           0           0
TOTAL                   78           9                6067     1117        4135          432
b. TRAFFIC ASSUMPTIONS
TRAFFIC GROWTH RATES            DIVERTED            GENERATED
FROM THE OPENING YEAR           TRAFFIC             TRAFFIC(%)
CORRIDO              --
VEHICLES  %        -'5      6-20        1>         YEAR   RATIO        YEAR      RATIO
CAR          3.00      3.00        2.00     2.00      0.00     0.00           0         0.00
BUS          3.00     3.00         2.00     2.00      0.00     0.00           0         0.00
TRUCK        3.00     3.00         2.00     2.00      0.00     0.00           0         0.00
TRAILER      3.00     3.00         2.00     2.00      0.00     0.00           0         0.00
O  O
OO
O   O  O      O           O            O           O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'
O   O  O       O           O           O            O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
O   O  O       O           O           O            O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIfYS - PLANNING DMSION
IV) COST INFORMATION
a. MAINTENANCE COSTS
MAINTENANCE COST (Million TL/Krn)
MAINTENANCE TYPE          PROJECT -1           PROJECT - 2
1. ROUTINE MAINTENANCE            109                 75
2. WINTER MAINTENANCE              53                 53
3. PERIODIC MAINTENANCE           625               1876
MAINTENANCE PERIOD(YEAR)            2                 10
INITIAL DATE OF MAINTENANCE      1996               2000
b. CONSTRUCTION COSTS (million TL)
CIVIL WORKS               PROJECT -1           PROJECT-2          US S (Million)                                                               m
_   _  .             ~~~~~~....  ....   -------_ 
1. DESIGN                           0                  0                 0.00
2. RIGHT OF WAY                     0                  0                 0.00
3. STRUCTURES                       0                  0                 0.00
4. EARTHWORKS                       0                  0                 0.00
5. PAVEMENT                         0             448430                 10.68
TOTAL             0             448430                 10.68
c. CONSTRUCTION YEARS (YEAR)                 0                  4
d. OTHER COSTS (Million TL)                  0                  0
YEAR OF THE OTHER COSTS                     0                 0
PERIOD OF THE COSTS(YEAR)                   0                 0
x
0
I-h



GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS - PLANNING DIVISION
e.       CONSTRUCTION RATIO AND COST DISTRIBUTIONS
PROJECT-1                                                             PROJECT .2
YEARS   C.RATIO  DESIGN  R.OF WAY   STRUCTU. EARTHW. PAVEMEN YEARS            C.RATIO     DESIGN      R.OF WAY STRUCTU.   EARTHW.   PAVEMENT
0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  I.YEAR            0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00        0.00        0.02
0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  2.YEAR            0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00        0.00        0.30
0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  3.YEAR            0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00        0.00        0.30
0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  4.YEAR            0.00        0.00     0.00        000         0.00        0.38
0.00    0.00        0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00  0400                          0.00     0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
0.00     0.00       0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00                    0.00        0.00     0.00        0.00        0.00        0.00
TOTAL             0.00        0.00     0.00      0.00     0.00    TOTAL                       0.00     0.00        0.00        0.00        1.00
ao
X m
1h
-4H



GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS - PLANNING DIVISION
V) TRAFFIC PROJECTIONS
GROWTH RATE OF THE CORRIDOR                                       CORRIDOR+DIVERTED*GENERATED TRAFFIC
YEARS                  CAR        BUS      TRUCK        TRAILER    TOTAL                  CAR          BUS          TRUCK       TRAILER    TOTAL
1996                6436      1185         4387        458      12467                    6436          1185         4387        458         12467
1997                6630      1221         4518        472      12841                    6630          1221         4518        472         12841
1998                6828      1257         4654        486      13226                    6828          1257         4654        486         13226
1999                7033      1295         4794        501      13623                    7033          1295         4794        501        13623
2000                7244      1334         4937        516      14031                    7244          1334          4937       516         14031
2001                7462      1374         5086        531      14452                    7462          1374          6086       531         14452
2002                7685      1415         5238        547      14886                    7685          1415          5238       547         14886
2003                7916      1457         5395        564      15332                    7916          1457          5395       564         15332
2004                8154      1501         5557        581      15792                    8154          1501          5557       581         15792
2005                8317      1531         5668        592      16108                    8317          1531          5668       592         16108
2006                8483      1562         5782        604      16430                    8483          1562          5782       804         16430
2007                8653      1593         5897        616      16759                    8B53          1593          5897       616         16759
2008                8826      1625         6015        628      17094                    8826          1625          6015       628         17094
2009                9002      1657         6135        641      17436                    9002          1657          6135       641         17436
2010                9182      1691         6258        654      17785                    9182          1591          6258       654         17765
2011                9366      1724         6383        667      18140                    9366          1724          6383       867         18140                         1
2012                9553      1759         6511        680      18503                    9553          1759          6511       680         18503                         c
2013                9744      1794         6641        694      18873                    9744          1794          6641       694         18873
2014                9939      1830         6774        708      19251                    9939          1830          6774       708         19251
0                   0         0             0         0          0                       0             0             0         0             0
0                   0         0             0         0          0                       0             0             0         0             0
0                   0         0            0          0          0                       0             0             0         0             0
0                   0         0            0          0          0                       0             0             0         0             0
0                   0         0            0          0          0                       0             0             0         0             0
0                   0         0            0          0          0                       0             0             0         0             0
o                   0         0            0          0          0                       0             0             0         0             0
0                   0         0            0          0          0                       0             0             0         0             0
0
I-a4:-



GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS - PLANNING DIVISION
VI) VEHICLE OPERATING COSTS (Million TL)
PROJECT - 1                                                    PROJECT - 2
YEARS               CAR        BUS       TRUCK      TRAILER   TOTAL                CAR           BUS          TRUCK       TRAILER  TOTAL
1996                  0         0            0         0          0                     0            0             0        0             0
1997                  0         0            0         0         0                      0            0             0        0             0
1998                  0         0            0        0          0                      0            0            0         0            0
1999                  0         0            0         0         0                      0            0             0        0             0
2000             691047  1167451       2196290   401660   4456447                  681064      1157844      2137533   392839       4369280
2001             711778  1202474       2262179   413709   4590140                  701496      1192579      2201659   404625       4500358
2002             733131   1238548      2330044   426121    4727844                 722641      1228356      2267708   416763       4635369
2003             755125  1275705       2399945   438904   4869680                  744217      1265207      2335740   429266       4774430
2004             777779  1313976       2471944   452072   5015770                  766544      1303163      2405812   442144       4917663
2005             793335  1340255       2521383   461113   5116086                  781875      1329226      2453928   450987       5016016
2006             809201   1367060      2571810   470335   5218407                  797512      1355811      2503007   460007       5116337
2007             825385  1394402       2623246   479742   5322775                  813463      1382927      2553067   469207       5218663
2008             841893  1422290       2675711   489337   5429231                  829732      1410586      2604128   478591       5323037
2009             858731   1450736      2729226   499123   5537816                  846327       1438797     2656211   488163       5429497
2010             875906  1479750       2783810   509106   5648572                  863253      1467573      2709335   497926       5538087
2011             893424  1509345       2839486   519288   5761543                  880518      1496925      2763521   507885       5648849
2012             911292  1539532       2896276   529674    5876774                 898128      1526863      2818792   518042       5761826
2013             929518  1570323       2954202   540267   5994310                  916091      1557401      2875168   528403       5877063
2014             948108  1601729       3013286   551073   6114196                  934413      1588549      2932671    538971      5994604
0                  0         0            0        0          0                      0            0             0        0            0
0                  0         0            0         0         0                      0            0             0        0            0
0                  0         0            0        0          0                      0            0            0         0            0
0                  0         0            0        0          0                      0            0            0         0            0
0                  0         0            0        0          0                      0            0            0         0            0
0                  0         0            0        0          0                      0            0            0         0            0
o                  0         0            0        0          0                      0            0            0         0            0
o                  0         0            0        0          0                      0            0            0         0            0
0
O   O   O   O   O      O                      O            O            O         O            O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~8



GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS - PLANNING DIVISION
VIl) TOTAL MAINTENANCE AND CONSTRUCTION COSTS (Millio TL)
PROJECT-1                                             PROJECT -2
YEARS                MAINTEN. CONST.  OTHER            TOTAL               MAINTEN. CONST.         OTHER         TOTAL
1996              12636         0            0    12636                      0         8969            0         8969
1997              12636         0            0     12636                     0       134529            0       134529
1998              61386         0            0    61386                      0       134529            0       134529
1999              12636         0            0     12636                     0       170403            0       170403
2000              61386         0            0    61386                   9984            0            0         9984
2001               12636        0             0     12636                 9984            0            0         9984
2002              61386         0             0    61386                  9984            0            0         9984
2003              12636         0             0    12636                  9984            0            0         9984
2004              61386         0             0    61386                  9984            0            0         9984
2005               12636        0             0    12636                  9984            0            0         9984
2006              61386         0             0    61386                  9984            0            0         9984
2007              12636         0             0    12636                  9984            0            0         9984
2008              61386         0            0    61386                   9984            0            0         9984
2009              12636         0             0     12636                 9984            0            0         9984
2010              61386         0            0    61386                 156312            0            0       156312
2011             184964         0            0     12636                  9984            0            0         9984
2012              61386         0            0    61386                  9984             0            0         9984
2013              12636         0            0      12636                 9984            0            0         9984
2014              61386         0            0    61386                   9984            0            0         9984
0                  0         0            0         0                     0            0            0            0
0                  0         0            0         0                     0            0            0           .0
0                  0         0            0         0                     0            0            0            0
0                  0         0            0         0                     0            0            0            0
0                  0         0            0         0                     0            0            0            0
0                  0         0            0         0                     0            0            0            0
0                  0         0            a         0                     0            0            0            0
o                  0         0            0         0                     0            0            0            0
0



GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS - PLANNING DIVISION
VIII) EVALUATION TABLE
COSTS
BENEFITS (PROJECTI-PROJECT2)               PROJECT - 1            PROJECT - 2
------                ------       *----         PROJECT2-PROJECT1   NET BENEFIT OF PROJECT-2
YEARS      T.SAVING V.O.C       MAINTE. TOTAL                    CONST.    OTHER   CONST.            OTHER        COST DIFFERENCE    WITH RESPE TO PROJECTI
1996        0         0          0            0                    0          0         8969            0                    8969                      -8969
1997        0         0         0             0                    0         0        134529            0                  134529                    -134529
1998        0         0          0            0                    0          0       134529            0                  134529                    -134529
1999        0         0          0            0                    0          0       170403            0                  170403                    -170403
2000         0    87167      51402       138569                     0         0            0             0                      0                     138569
2001         0    89782       2652       134631                     0         0            0             0                      0                     134631
2002         0    92475      51402       246525                     0         0            0             0                      0                     246525
2003         0    95250       2652        61707                     0         0            0             0                      0                      81707
2004         0    98107      61402       153433                     0         0            0             0                      0                     153433
2005         0   100069       2652       165765                    0          0            0             0                      0                     165765
2006         0   102071      51402        48340                     0         0            0             0                      0                      48340
2007         0   104112       2652        32844                    0          0            0             0                      0                      32844
2008         0   106194      51402       135295                    0          0            0             0                      0                     135295
2009         0   108318       2652      -118664                    0          0            0             0                      0                    -118664
2010         0   110484    -94926        114995                    0          0            0             0                      0                     114995
2011         0   112694   194948         304672                     0         0            0             0                      0                     304672
2012         0   114948    51402         165201                     0         0            0             0                      0                     165201
2013         0   117247       2652       180867                    0          0            0             0                      0                     180867
2014         0   119592    51402         321680                    0          0            0             0                      0                     321680
0         0        0          0            0                    0         0             0            0                       0                          0
0        0         0          0            0                    0         0             0            0                       0                          0
0        0         0          0            0                    0         0             0            0                       0                          0
0        0         0          0            0                    0         0             0            0                       0                          0
0        0         0          0            0                    0          0            0            0                       0                          0
0        0.        0          0            0                    0          0            0            0                       0                          0
0        0         0          0            0                    0         0             0            0                       0                          0
0        0         0          0            0                    0         0             0            0                       0                          0
0
O   O   O   O   O        O         O            O             O                      O                          O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,
O   O   O   O   O       O          O            O             O                      O                          O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS - PLANNING DIVISION
IX) RESULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
DISCOUNT RATE %                        15
INT.RATE OF RETURN (IRR):          0.2315
NET PRESENT VALUE (NPV)            150140  Million T.L.
BENEFIT/COST RATIO(BIC)             1.5083
NET BENEFIT/COST RATIO             0.5083
X) SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
NEW VALUES              NPVS ACCORDING TO DIFFERENT DISCOUNT RATES
TRAFFIC VARIATION             ---
#                          IRR       B/C          10%        12%        15%       17%          20%          22%
-25             0.1892       0.8348   226642      149898    67934         28979        -13299       -33627
-20             0.1981       0.8905   252616      171391     84375        42868         -2368       -24233
-15             0.2068       0.9462   278589      192884    100816        56757          8562       -14839
-10             0.2152        1.0018   304563    214376    117258         70646         19492        -5445
-5             0.2234        1.0575   330537    235869    133699         84535         30422         3950
0              0.2315       1.1131   356510    257362    150140          98424        41353        13344
5              0.2152       1.1688   382484    278855   166581          112312        52283        22738
10              0.2152       1.2244   408457     300347    183023        126201        63213        32132
15              0.2472       1.2801   434431     321840    199464        140090        74143        41526
20              0.2548       1.3358   460405    343333   215905          153979        85074        50921
25              0.2622       1.3914   486378    364825   232346          167868        96004        60315
30              0.2695       1.4471   512352    386318   248788          181757       106934        69709
35              0.2767       1.5027   538325    407811   265229          195646       117864        79103
40              0.2838       1.5584   564299    429304    281670         209535       128795        88497
( X
Fh



- 88 -
Annex 9
page 13 of 14
SENSlrrNY ANALYSIS OF ANKARA - KIRIKKALE ROAD
TRAFFIC VALUES OF 1994 (AADT)
CAR       BUS    TRUCK  TRAILER  TOTAL
6067      1117     4134      433      11751
TRAFFIC SCENARIO 1:
7> ->5    6 -10    11->
CAR           7        5         3
BUS          3         3         3
TRUCK         3        3         3
TRAILER |   3   |   3            3
RESULTS OF ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
DISCOUNT RATE %           15
IRR                    0.242
NPV                117055 Million TL
B/C                   1.5994
COST VARIATION %          IRR       BiC         NPV (Million TL)
10%      15%       20%
-10              0.2665    1.7771   438985   206595   83334
-5               0.2538    1.6835   422145   191825   70288
0               0.2420    1.5994   405306   177055   57241
5               0.2312    1.5232   388466   162285   44195
10               0.2212    1.454    371626   147514   31149
15               0.2119    1.3907   354786   132744   18102
20               0.2032    1.3328   337946   117974    5056



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT
ANKARA-KIRIKKALE-COST BENEFITS STREAMS
pROJECT BENEFITS
VEIIICLE
OPERATING                          TOTAL                          NET          NET         NET
YEAR         COSTS         MAINIENANCE   PENEFITS   INVESTMENTS   13EN-FITh   tENFFITIV V1EN IYSt
1996             0                    0             0           -8909        -8969       -10763      -8969
1997             0                    0             0         -134529      -134529      -161435     -87892
1998             0                    0             0         -134529      -134529      -161435    -87892
1999             0                    0             0         -170403      -170403      -204484     -87892
2000         87167                51402        138569               0       138569      115474     -87892
2001         94140                 2652         96792               0        96792        80660     -87892
2002        101672                51402        153074               0       153074       121561    153074
2003        109805                 2652        112457               0       112457        93714    112457
2004        118590                51402        169992               0       169992       141660    169992                                  1
2005        128077                 2652        130729               0       130729       108941     130729                                 m
2006        134481                51402        185883               0       185883       154902    185883
2007        141205                 2652        143857               0       143857       119881     143857
2008        148265                51402        199667               0       199667       166389    199667
2009        155678                 2652        158330               0       158330       131942    158330
2010        163462               -94962         68500               0        68500        67084      68500
2011        171635               194948        366583               0       366583       305486    366583
2012        176784                51402        228180               0       228180       190155    228186
2013        182008                 2652        184740               0       184740       153950    184740
2014        107551                51402        230953               0       238953       199127    238953
2015              0                   0             0               0             0            0          0
2018              0                   0             0               0             0            0          0
2017              0                   0             0               0             0            0          0
2018              0                   0             0               0             0            0          0
2019              0                   0             0               0             0            0          0
x
_                                                           IRR=          25%          18%        21%
it otbowK Kh  et krseedby 20% 5,,u benefis decreased by 20%                                                                           0
21 No bwwfh aoatsw ocreaseydn  rdi   esron%
vIHa Nbeeiswitshatoyear delay Iprojet copeion. 



REPUBLIC OF TURKEY  yrPRJC
ROADIb~OVEMb1NT  ANiD TRAFFIC  SA.T FR EC
BILACK( SPOT -ANALYSIS 'EVALUATION
CONSTIWCIVION   CUMI)LAT11V1  tiUMaiEN Of
r foRnrY   pnoflCr       PR1OJECT NAME      I Om5ioN         TYPE OF WORK              -COST            COST-  ACC..IDENTs _.inn            IJC
List    "NO.'_____                                                                       015 IS                                 .")
i   20   1luaIe5                       4 Sgia;aln              ..       .       .      .04        19 048     .    11       05        11.
2        25   lsabutni                            4fckf  osncin5,0                                    7.2        .      3        11      64.4
3        40    Am3a~Iii7    ra~st,Ing Sinl10,470                                                      0 1.005    .      22      741)     69. I
4    .   4                                        .aby20.100 .   i66.95                                                237      59.1      40.7
5  .     4 3    CunwoovaD'iOIU       ~         _Catkg         -        -                20.190       134.2a5            40      570      46.1
6        II     enIc nY.Kzae .n510.667                                                              -150.952            4       4141     317.2
7  "13   Musa- neg6l                       ..SgaI.ln                .52.301                      203.333'           85'    425        34.5
13                       14.Sign~~~~~~~~ ~ alzll'   'nan  '.13                    206.476             4      363       10.9
9    -~~~ 51    Samsun.llavza  ______7F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ishig ~~20.952   ~227.428  ...292                             22.1
_2 MrsnY_i              ____         JncinCism on61.905                                    0933270                            21.4
-D62          esnYnc                    5    Judncion Conslruiilon                                                  40-...  240       19.
11       60      ersi._enice                 SucoCflrUIfl52.381                                      341.714            4
12  __   10   Doltv-. --                           inaiznkn                            1412          44.704                     2'15      I19.7'
13       tO  -ilurs-a                                         ___e___4                  ifaiSaloli7057  525.047         78      243       1. 
1.1            Mc! e"IsIinIYencflIc     -,5   -iu,ndkcfllonCofn-lIiu-cUlo-n- -- -       57.143       582.190            40      205       10.1
15  Polatl-Ankaa                ~~~~~~~~~4 66as- nSi1aI                                        8--           20      109       14,4
16  4" omm-Stjno~rl!  7    Signalizatioii47.143                                655.523            iGiGO6            12.7
17  3- -oe Jntii 311be!      ~      ~       I       F      y    ~       L~~42O0                      069.809            83    110          8.7
lo'      60 !s!anbul.-Iznhl                 I ;SlqnaizaIion                           104.762. 1.014.571               Di      1011  _   113
21  l1oIu-~ankm    -      -      4   Slqnializalioll. 10.6                              1.119.333           55.-    ~1.
20  3-  Isla"nbulimil-           I    Dotublo Car.ConslS.. Signal.          104.762      i.284.095     _    25        10 .    5.0
'21.      28  lsinilImnl                  ..f   Slioulde                               130.9l5? -I.in  1.415.0,17       46.        76       5.6
67         GC   -ltiIl                        lan WI.. Signial.,.1_1C.os          209.524      1.624.571           37        71       5. 2
23 .'51    1lno3julI                 .            LfCIO   os.ilo                       47.143       1.071.714            0       6(1       4.7
2?.4'..3. .                                  .    igna"'lizal ClON  - - .. - ..        125.71       1.797.420                    6 2       4.7
25  9     k~~~m.Ki,,hkalf~~ 4                                                  fl1lolclsitcif  33.33  2.530.761  294      56     .1.26
26        3      Gte.rw    .I CnslCimIao  Illn                                         157.143. 2.607.004               49       5         4,0
21-       70     s;n11II'                        .J11cliofn Conistruclloit            261.905      2.949.009      -     46       55        4.1 
20'  2'-'-1-liaI'l)''l-if1 lOverpaSs. CoIIs.ol C0111.1ane .                 705.714     3.735.523.         .      .0  5         4.0
3  lywo:13ayal..                                          9~~~~~~~~~5.230  3.830.761      40        40       2.11
30             Alyoruflandik ..3                  Lane Widerding. Si nalizalion        36.667     3.067.420             9       35        2.2
Page  IIC



*1.               I3BLACK SPOT ANALYSIS EVALUATION 
CONSTRUCTION   CUmuLAIIVE  NUMBER, Or
PRIORITY  PAOJECT,    PROJECT NAME        I DIVSION        TYPE OF WORK   __        COST          COST       ACCIDENTS    Inn       DJC
LIST      NO.                                                                        US$            s                      (.%) 
31       34  ~Adapazare-llendek            -~F lyover Junc.                        261.905     4,129.333          go       33       2.3
32       72.lIstanbul-Izi 'I                          (atrcrs. Overpass  -314,286    4-443.619 -- 0                        32.
33       32   Gebzo.lzrnit                 I   Juncllon Cbn l.s Lighting           31428       4.5990                      30       2.1
34   44   "ama.iviisr4   'Flashlng Signal                                       260        4.784.095           2       30       1.9
35        56  -Aas                             lstlgSga                           20.952     4.8050147           8       27.      1.7
30  47   rmu-Sunguthi7   Gurral209.524   - 5.014.571                                                   16       26       1.0
37..27 Gebze-lzm'l                        I    Lane Widening, Lighling            523.810      5.538.381          59       21       1
38. 38   Afyn-.Sandikhi -                 3    Junclion Coslucio                  518.57 1     6056.952           2 3      1 711
.- .~~  *-bsman..y.      --Ba                                                 161-905     6.218.87g17                          1
39  6    Osan      ;.0he __            jVncFiLon Conislruclioni-         --   6.0         62887B                      1         .
4 4U    - V    Asaray.~erelhk6~hiSL..a.  3   Junction C'onstructiton       -20.4                6.831                        712
4.        B    Isabl-z                     I      Junction Construclionl-  -     - 7857        6.50   42         19         6 - .
42   -    1    An ara- Irikkale      --4    Flyover Junclion    -27610                         93.212 -16 -    1.0
43  -    30   Ge_b_ze-Izmrn' I-                Structure, Signalization     -     314.286  _9.597.428             46       16        .
44        4    Ank ari.Krka l4el2e Jucto                                       -3,195.238    12.792.666          209       16       1.0
45   40 ~Kulu-~ereffikIo~hisar        3   Junction_Construction                37.0        314515                      15      11,0
46        3    Ankara-Kirikkale  --  - 4    Flyover Junction        - --923.- -    0    1-08.8 4-                          14       0,
2 Ankara:KIrmkkale  -.       4    Flyovef Jujnction                 4 452.381    22.540.762         259       1 3      0.9
41 __    7    Ankara-Kirikkale            4    Flyover Juniclion --.  .          4,295.238    26.838.000,        246       12       0.8
18 _nkar.Kirkkale  --       4    Flyover Junclion .--    * 4M02105.-                                             -    o7
50       4l   Kulu.~ereffiko~hisar        3   Junclion Construction               3      -      66.667 -29.690.762    ---            .
51  69   islaribul-iZmi!      I  ~~~Lane Wide.. Junclion Consi.       523.810    30.214.572           113       1       0 ,6
37   Afyon-Saiididk!i                Coso3lmigLn                         46.9       30u6u0.76 9ut,
53  2   Ankara-Kmk~~~~~ali  4    F-lyovet Juriclion~~~~        3 195.238  -33.876.000           57        5       0'
53  12   Arnkaira.Kirikktaie         4 - .y-v4-JFlyoven                     2.750 000  -30.626.000           84'       J       0,4
55  17 -. Anka,a-Glba~I   -. -  -  4 _Flyover Junc.                  3.771.429,   40.397.429   ~      57    -2          0.3
56 .     _-  ' IsabillIS                  'junctlion Conslruclion         -1.257.143    41.654.572      -    552               04
57       36   Afyon-SandikIl     .          -.Srcue                               371.905  _42.026.477             3        0       0
58    . ~ ~- -.   - _-"--I7'obeCfigway Consl._   _ 628.57 1   42.655.048                                                a       0.0
TOTAL      42.655.048
Page 2                                                                       0 H



- 92 -
Annex 11
Page 1 of 1
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROIECT
LIST OF DOCUMEENTS IN PROJECT E
1.    Road User Cost and Road User Charges. KGM. February 1995
2.    Road Safety in Turkey and Comparison with Central European Countries. KGM.
October 1994.
3.    First Aid Emergency Care in Traffic Accidents. Gazi University, Institute of
Research and Prevention of Accidents. November 1994.
4.    Economic Evaluation of the Rehabilitation of the Ankara-Kirikale Road. KGM. June
1995.
5.    Economic Evaluation of the Modemization of the Ulukisla-Pozanti Road. KGM. June
1995.
6.    Black Spot Analysis. KGM. June 1995
7.    Procedures for Carrying Out Environmental Impact Assessments of Proposed
Investments in Infrastructure. Ministry of Environment. August 1993.



MAP SECTION






1P5RD 27396
^tiGARIA  ;'   r.r.\n>                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B I a c k  S e a
<q>>Ecfne .f K.r;Is-rl       ;_:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i   t~~ ,Fnop ~~~GEORGIA
4r. ~ ~    ~    ~     9                                          :*x  N 
_ = L n f / T u clo&emulpozoV;r rn i Hkk I f .-f * L t * C i 0,+ 1:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~H.p,- 
GR EC                        HSv nk  _g >_Ezr
f:9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
= - --- .. @.i <>^ - , 411 lA9nttkyz;A- & ROAD IMPROVEMENTAND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
-~.                                                Znmr 'smnP0ri lnlAlrrFRTYA   RGA
M  e di t er r    n e    n  S    a   tm g   SRIAN                OAD EL AEITAIIN     *'PROVICE CAITAL        t Ord,,T
*  r                                                           - -                          ARAB REP.                                f19 NATIONAL CAPITAL     .L POR15~~~~~~~~~~~~F.
7,                                                                                                                                                                                      K-10 10 20KLMIRSi-  AI OD       POIC  ONAIS
H ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~IE ROAD                                                                   ~-ITRARMENALEUDRS
rbe Lsundor <s kolols. denom ozoo/l; ond ony olher Informollon  \  CYPRUS                                                        RAILROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
sho_n on 1hls msp do noe mpsr on lbe pol ol rhe World E-co5 Grodp  s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~    ~    ? 
ont lQ~~~~~~~Bdme k  ea  fJr0 n nosmn 
I  r oetnea c on e                             r                   ~>3>}teom:etesm sponecpe









IMAGING
Report No:      15011 TU
Type: SAL



