                                         Document of
                                      The World Bank




                                                                  Report No: 25541

                         IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                             (CPL-40480; SCL-4048A; SCL-40490)

                                            ON A

                                            LOAN

                    IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 250 MILLION EQUIVALENT

                                           TO THE

                                    REPUBLIC OF TURKEY

                                           FOR A

                    ROAD IMPROVEMENT & TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT




                                       November 6, 2003




Infrastructure and Energy Services Department
Europe and Central Asia Region

                                     CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                (Exchange Rate Effective August 2003)

                                      Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)
                                      1,000,000 TL = US$
                                              US$ 1 = TL
              Jan 1992      Jan 1993    Jan 1994    Jan 1995   Nov 1995    May 1996
             5,113 TL      8,628 TL     14,000 TL    38,801 TL 50,000 TL    75,000 TL

       Jan 1997     Jan 1998      Jan 1999       Jan 2000    Jan 2001     Jan 2002     Jan 2003
    108,000 TL 206,000 TL 315,000 TL 540,000 TL            670,000 TL 1,445,000 TL   1,650,000 TL

                                            FISCAL YEAR
                                       January 1    December 31

                               ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

- AADT        Average Annual Daily Traffic
- CAS         Country Assistance Strategy
- EA          Environmental Analysis
- ERR         Economic Rate of Return
- GU          Gazi University
- HDM-3       Highway Design and Maintenance Model, Version III
- HIMP        Highway Investment and Maintenance Program
- ICB         International Competitive Bidding
- ICR         Implementation Completion Report
- KGM         General Directorate of Highways
- MOE         Ministry of Education
- MOEn        Ministry of Environment
- MOH         Ministry of Health
- MOPWS       Ministry of Public Works and Settlements
- MOT         Ministry of Transport
- NP          National Road Safety Program
- PMS         Pavement Management System
- PP          Pilot Road Safety Program
- PFPSAL      Programmatic Financial and Public Sector Adjustment Loan
- QAG         Quality Assurance Group
- RUC         Road User Charges
- SAR         Staff Appraisal Report
- SEE         State Economic Enterprises
- SPO         State Planning Organization
- TL          Turkish Lira
- TTP         Turkish Traffic Police


                                     Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu, ECAVP
                                  Country Director:     Andrew N. Vorkink, ECCU6
                                   Sector Director:     Hossein Razavi, ECSIE
                                   Sector Manager:      Eva Molnar, ECSIE
                                Task Team Leader:       Mirtha Pokorny, LCSFT

                                           TURKEY
                    ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              8
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22
Annex 8. Implementing Agencies Contribution and Comments                         23
Map IBRD 27396R

Project ID: P038091                                                      Project Name: Road Improvement and Traffic Safety
                                                                         Project
Team Leader: Olivier Le Ber                                              TL Unit: ECSIE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: November 6, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: Road Improvement and Traffic Safety Project              L/C/TF Number: CPL-40480; SCL-4048A;
                                                                                                     SCL-40490
   Country/Department: TURKEY                                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Roads and highways (94%); Central government administration
                            (5%); Health (1%)
                  Theme: Infrastructure services for private sector development (P); Rural
                            services and infrastructure (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    09/12/1994                                        Effective: 09/23/1996              10/10/1996
   Appraisal:    06/21/1995                                            MTR: 11/15/1998                11/15/1998
    Approval:    06/20/1996                                         Closing: 03/31/2003               03/31/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF TURKEY/KGM
                      Other Partners:      EGM (Traffic Police), Min. of Education, Min. of Health, Gazi University

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Wilfried Talwitz
Country Director:               Andrew N. Vorkink                              Kenneth G. Lay
Sector Manager:                 Eva Molnar                                     Ricardo Halperin
Team Leader at ICR:             Mirtha Pokorny                                 Mirtha Pokorny
ICR Primary Author:             Mirtha Pokorny
                                Robert H. Nooter
                                Olivier Le Ber


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No
There was no Quality at Entry (QAE) assessment of the project (the QAG did not exist at the time).

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The original project objectives were: (a) the reduction of road transport costs through infrastructure
improvements and the protection of past investments in the highway sector through rehabilitation and
strengthening of paved highways; (b) the improvement of traffic safety in state and provincial roads; (c) the
improvement of the operational efficiency of KGM through the implementation of management systems and
computerization; and (d) improvement in the consideration of environmental factors in project selection and
design.

The objectives were consistent with the 1993 CAS priority of providing support for infrastructure
development. The 1993 CAS was under review and revision at the time of project preparation. In any
event, improving transport by easing transport bottlenecks was an integral part of the Government's
development agenda to promote the growth of the private sector, and the project was a follow-up to a series
of projects supporting these objectives. The previous projects, however, while successful in funding civil
works and equipment, did not succeed in overcoming KGM's reluctance to implement the technical
assistance components for institutional development. This state of affairs was best summarized in OED's
comments on a previous ICR stating: "KGM perceives the Bank as a source of funding and not as a partner
in development". Based on the previous experience, the Bank decided that the project would only go ahead
if it would make inroads progress in achieving institutional improvements in the road sector. Because the
high level of accidents on Turkish roads was well known, both internally and abroad, the lack of traffic
safety was a potential threat to the increasingly important Turkish tourist industry. As public opinion was
starting to exert strong pressure for government action, it was decided to focus the institutional efforts on
traffic safety issues.

Two other major concerns were key in shaping the project: (i) because in past projects an important share
of the loan funds were dedicated to finalize works that, because of costs overruns, were left unfinished
under the previous project, the Bank decided that the proposed new operation under no circumstances
would finance cost overruns arising from continuous changes in project design; and (ii) past waivers to
KGM's full compliance with the Bank's procurement guidelines for ICB contracts, an outstanding issue
and the source of continuous friction between the Bank and KGM, would not be acceptable for this
operation.

The project's components were on the whole consistent with the project objectives. Seventy-eight percent of
the estimated project costs were devoted to road rehabilitation, supportive of the first objective. While this
was a small proportion of the total Turkish budget for State and rural roads, amounting to less than four
percent of the budget spent for this purpose in 1993, budget cutbacks in 1994 had lowered spending for
roads to little more than half of the 1993 figure. The traffic safety component, totaling about US$78.9
million, was sufficient to make a substantial impact on spending for traffic safety improvements. The
component for institutional strengthening was limited to upgrading of KGM's computer and management
systems and finalizing the design and installation of a Pavement and Bridge Management System started
under the previous project.

3.2 Revised Objective:
On August 17, 1999, an earthquake in Marmara seriously damaged the Istanbul-Ankara expressway, a
vital link in Turkey's road network. The Government requested that US$24 million of project funds be
diverted for the repair of the damage to this road. An amendment was approved on September 28, 1999,
adding the objective of repairing the earthquake-related damages suffered by the Federal road network to
the original objectives. Thanks to the extraordinary measures of KGM, roads damaged during the



                                                    - 2 -

earthquake became fully passable, albeit sometimes precariously, within a week from the event. Subsequent
to the reallocation of road funds, which were mainly directed to restoring the Istanbul-Ankara motorway to
its pre-earthquake condition, KGM decided to go beyond the original design and advance plans to upgrade
and modernize the link. Because of a sense of urgency to restore former levels of road serviceability, KGM
decided to finance the works with domestic resources following more expeditious local procurement
methods that could not be accepted under the Bank's procurement guidelines. Therefore, the Government
requested on September 27, 2000, that the Loan Agreement be further amended to restore the original
objectives of the project. The Bank approved the request and thus in the end no changes were made in the
original project objectives.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components of the project were:

     (a)    The Road Improvement Program, comprising strengthening or upgrading of about 600 km of
            high priority state roads, and about 300 km of rural (provincial) roads and town passages at a
            cost of US$304.6 million;

     (b)    The Road Traffic Safety Program that included:
            (i)   Civil works for the improvements of road sections identified as accident black spots.
            (ii) Provision of road safety materials for improved traffic management for installation by
                  KGM.
            (iii) Provision of equipment for the Turkish Traffic Police (TTP) for enforcement of traffic
                  regulations in a pilot network.
            (iv) Medical equipment to improve the emergency response of the University Hospital at Gazi
                  University (GU).
            (v) Education equipment and literature for carrying out road safety campaigns in selected
                  schools.
            (vi) Extension of TTP's accident data base to other users through the creation of an Accident
                  Data Bank.
            (vii) Technical assistance and training for the agencies involved in traffic safety covering the
                  design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the pilot and national programs at a
                  cost of US$78.9 million; and,

     (c)    The Institutional Development Program, consisting of the introduction of various management
            systems and computerization throughout the General Directorate of Highways (KGM) and
            training of the staff of KGM in the areas of environmental analysis, road planning, construction
            and maintenance at a cost of US$5.8 million.

3.4 Revised Components:
The components remained unchanged in their general outline during the life of the project except for the
amendment relating to the Marmara earthquake, as explained above.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
In general, the preparation of the project appears to have been adequate. The objectives of the project were
consistent with the objectives of the CAS and Government priorities. The project design, focusing mostly
on traffic safety and with a relatively limited institutional strengthening objectives for KGM, was
reasonable, considering that this was the fourth road project that the Bank had undertaken in Turkey and
there was a clear intention of making inroads on well selected institutional areas, thus reversing the trend of
previous projects which ended up financing almost exclusively civil works and equipment. The preparation



                                                     - 3 -

took the Bank's safeguard policies into account. While there was no Environmental Management Plan as
such, the environmental objective of the project gave added emphasis to this aspect of project
implementation. Efforts were made to limit the cost overruns that had been endemic in the previous project
by limiting the Bank's financing to justified cost increases not exceeding 15 percent over the original
contract cost. The Traffic Safety Program was very ambitious, but consistent with Turkey's poor traffic
safety record, and in retrospect was especially well conceived. Shortfalls in project preparation relate to the
degree of planning and preparation for the upgrading of state roads, where initial plans for the improvement
of two lane roads were changed to major works for their upgrading to four lanes in some cases. However,
on the whole the ICR finds the quality at entry to be Satisfactory. There was no Quality at Entry (QAE)
assessment of the project (the Quality Assurance Group did not exist at the time).

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The degree of achievement of the four objectives varied, as follows:

(a)     Approximately 356 km of two lane equivalent roads were improved out of a total main road
network (motorways, state and provincial roads) of 61,000 km in 1994. Thus, while the project produced a
significant improvement in the roads that were included in the project, it represents less than 1 percent of
the main road network. It might be claimed, however, that the project helped to divert already excessively
atomized funds to high priority projects. During negotiations, the Bank accepted to finance under the
project works the Ankara-Polatli-Srivihisar road, which had already been procured. This "retroactive
inclusion" was agreed because the long sought acceptance of complete adherence to the Bank's ICB
procurement guidelines by the Turkish Government was considered as a major breakthrough. These works
had been identified during appraisal as one of the top priorities in KGM's investment program, and out of
580 km of road sections so identified, 356 km were completed under the project.

(b)     The traffic safety improvements, which were sufficiently concentrated, and the consultant support,
which was sufficiently effective, have made a measurable improvement in the safety of Turkey's roads.
While statistics regarding traffic accidents are uncertain (the official statistics are significantly lower than
the figures shown in the final consultant report), the frequency of accidents per 10,000 vehicles has at least
leveled off over the last ten years and appears to be declining. While this improvement started before the
project was undertaken and other factors played a role in this result, the project no doubt made a
contribution to sustaining this trend by raising awareness among officials and helping to create a
multi-disciplinary body at the technical level with the potential to act as the Secretariat of the political body
responsible for traffic safety (i.e. the Traffic Safety Council). Even more impressive is the reduction in
accidents and fatalities occurring in the 317 areas identified as accident black spots, where physical
improvements were made. In these locations, accidents were reduced from a measured level of 7,389
accidents and 909 deaths in the year preceding the improvements to an average of 1,934 accidents and 54
deaths per year in the years following the improvements.

(c)     The improvement of the operational efficiency of KGM, which was from the outset expected to be
only marginal and limited to the completion of the design and implementation of a pavement and bridge
management system (started by an individual consultant during the previous project) did not take place as
expected. The main reason is that the scope of the component changed substantially with the decision of
KGM to design and implement a much more sophisticated Highway Information System including data
gathering from a Global Positioning System (GPS) also to be procured under the project. For reasons
discussed in the following section, this more ambitious component could not be completed within the life of
the project. KGM did continue its planned reduction of direct hire staff, which declined from 35,100 in



                                                     - 4 -

1994 (5,600 technical and administrative staff and 29,500 laborer) to 24,000 today (5,300 technical and
administrative staff and 18,700 laborers). But KGM's method of contracting remains less than optimal
despite four World Bank projects, as will be explained below, even though the physical results of the road
improvements remain of high quality.

(d)     Achievement of an improvement in the consideration of environmental factors in project selection
and design was limited to assuring that these factors were taken into account during the design of the
components financed by the Bank. This was done appropriately. It should be noted that project preparation
coincided with the consolidation of the normative and enforcement role of the Ministry of Environment in
the screening and approval of road investments. By loan effectiveness KGM's Environmental Directorate
was well established, fully staffed, and carrying out its duties in a satisfactory manner, thus reducing the
need for any further Bank involvement.

In summary, the reduction in road transport costs was satisfactory, as was the achievement of consideration
of environmental factors. The improvement of traffic safety conditions was extremely significant, while the
improvement in KGM's operational efficiency was minimal at best, and is considered as unsatisfactory.
Taken together, the overall achievement of the project objectives can be considered as satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(a)     The Road Improvement Program: State Roads: Nine major road segments were upgraded under the
project for a total length of 356 km in two lane equivalents at a cost of US$221.6 million. These works,
which were mainly upgrading of two lane roads to four lanes, cost an average of US$622,472 per two lane
km. Furthermore, three of the sections were not completed during the life of the project (while six sections
completed were started before the beginning of the project), and will require an estimated US$32.8 million
more to complete with KGM's own resources, which would bring the average cost per two lane km to
US$714,607 per km. This compares with the estimated 600 km of two lane equivalent upgrading planned
during project preparation at a cost of US$421,300 per km.

Efforts were made to limit the cost overruns that had been endemic in the previous project by limiting the
Bank's financing to justified cost increases not exceeding 15 percent over the original contract cost.
Another unusual and generally unsatisfactory standard procedure followed by KMG is the stretching out of
the implementation time for each contract over an excessive number of years by limiting the amount of
counterpart financing that was made available. In most cases, the major contracted works, which could
have been completed in two years, were implemented over a four or five year period and even eight years
for the section Usak-Kula. The Bank, to avoid participating in the financing of too many contracts with
limited counterpart funding, refused to include new works under the loan and kept the issue of poor
allocation efficiency high in the dialogue with the government. The allocation for the Rural Roads
component (100 percent financed by KGM) was reduced under the project as KGM gave the first priority
to the improvement of accident black spots and provision of traffic safety measures on the highways. One
hundred and forty one small works, mostly town passages, were carried out at a cost of US$10.2 million,
compared to an estimated cost of US$21.6 million. Road design and supervision costs were provided by
KGM and were not financed from the project funds as originally planned.

(b)     The Road Traffic Safety Program: Preparation of this component was the result of extensive Bank
discussions with KGM centering on difficulties to reconcile assumptions. While KGM officials felt that
foreign consultants would not add tangible value to their road safety programs, the Bank was of the idea
that only the presence of experts with an integrated multi-disciplinary view of the problem would curb a
potential bias towards solutions involving expensive civil works. This, coupled with the failure in previous
projects to implement those components involving international consultants, contributed to shaping a



                                                   - 5 -

component with strong safeguards to ensure a balance between both views.             Eventually, one of the
preparation missions was unexpectedly presented with a National Road Safety Program (NP) involving a
list of civil works for black spot improvements, police enforcement equipment, and emergency response
services from Gazi University Hospital. The Bank, taking into account that the NP had an unusual strong
ownership, agreed to finance its early stages of the black spot improvement program (up to a certain limit)
and conditioned the rest of the program on the provision of the multi-disciplinary international experts to be
financed under the project. In addition, it was agreed that a pilot project would be developed with the help
of the consultants to incorporate the state of the art knowledge and methods of road safety in the world.

The consultants (SweRoad) were engaged to work with the Government for the implementation of this
program. It was agreed that a Pilot Road Safety Project (PP) would be developed for a selected section of
the road network as a basis for testing what methodologies worked best, which could then be incorporated
into the larger National Road Safety Program (NP). All of the phases of the program were implemented
slowly, however, including the selection of the consultant, agreement on the PP, and the procurement
actions needed for its implementation. The alternative of preparing the PP and advancing in the process of
procuring consultant services prior to Board presentation was not considered, since there was strong
pressure to process the loan as soon as possible to start addressing the most dangerous black spots in the
country. The pressure was not only from KGM but from the Government generally, since the loan ended up
being the only Bank operation in Turkey in FY96. This led to a strong interest from the Government for the
Bank to process the loan at a rapid pace. As it became apparent that the implementation of the pilot phase
would take most of the time up to the Closing Date of the Loan, the Government proceeded to implement
the NP along the lines of the original agreements, but with screening by the consultants to ensure the cost
effectiveness of the proposed solutions. Implementation of a PP as originally envisaged turned out to be
extremely difficult to achieve. The rigidities of the Turkish system, both in terms of budgetary allocations
and in terms of making decisions, are not conducive to a trial and error exercise involving a high level of
discretion by KGM's technical staff. Therefore consultants assisted in the implementation of the entire
safety program, including preparing designs for the improvement of accident black spots, training the KGM
staff in design techniques, setting up and carrying out the training programs, and generally sharing their
expertise about traffic safety issues.

In summary, all aspects of the Traffic Safety Program were carried out effectively. Three hundred and
seventeen accident black spots were improved with the remarkable results reported above. Safety materials
were procured and installed on the highways; Gazi University Hospital's emergency response capability
was upgraded with the addition of equipment and training; the Traffic Police were trained in traffic
enforcement introducing a target approach; and, the Ministry of National Education prepared and installed
a safety training program for the national elementary school system, including the training of large numbers
of teachers and introducing traffic safety lectures in the elementary curriculum. A traffic Safety workshop
was organized in cooperation with the Turkish Parliament. A total of US$75.6 million was spent for this
program compared to the originally planned US$78.9 million.

The consultant also prepared a National Road Traffic Safety Strategy for extending Turkey's efforts to
reduce traffic accidents and fatalities. The proposed strategy was submitted for comments to government
and non-government institutions before finalizing it, and the Government has now approved it as the formal
guideline for road traffic safety in Turkey. The strategy proposes, inter alia, measures to make operational
what is now a theoretically sound institutional setting, i.e. the existence of a High Traffic Safety Council
under the Prime Minister's office.

(c)      The Institutional Development Component, as appraised, was of a modest scope and centered, as
explained above, in finalizing work on the design and implementation of a simple Pavement Management


                                                       - 6 -

System that was started by an individual consultant in the previous project. During project implementation,
KGM decided to expand the scope of the component and include a rather comprehensive Highway
Information System. The KGM staff made substantial efforts to design the component, but eventually the
task, which required coordination with the Turkish Mapping Agency under the Turkish Army and with the
Turkish Police and its own information system, proved to be too difficult to complete without specialized
assistance. Eventually, it was agreed that the Bank-financed training contract with the US Federal Highway
Administration would be expanded to finance two experts on information technology. The consultants
helped to disaggregate the component into manageable modules, concentrating the first phase in modules
related to road safety. From then on, progress on this complicated component continued to be slow, mainly
because of: (i) extensive discussions on the best way to procure the needed equipment/services (goods vs.
consulting procurement); (ii) scarce availability and excessive demand of qualified Bank support for a very
specialized field; and, (iii) complex procedures in KGM to move forward at an acceptable pace. In
conclusion, the project helped to define and dimension a state of the art tool for modernizing KGM, which
is going to be procured with their own resources. Its future impact will depend on the political will of the
Government to implement its plans for public sector reform, addressing problems of efficiency and
accountability, which transcends KGM and the transport sector. It should nevertheless be mentioned that
56 members of KGM's staff were trained in ten areas of expertise, including Environment and Design,
Bridges, Tolls, Highway Planning, Soil Rehabilitation Techniques, Information Management, Materials
Technologies, Pavement Technologies, Contract Administration, and Training Activities. A total of US$1.3
million was spent for these activities compared to the planned level of US$5.7 million.

The first two components were implemented satisfactorily, while the third one, which represented only
about 1.2 percent of the loan, was not fully implemented and can therefore be considered unsatisfactory.
Taken together, the outputs can be considered as satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Road Improvement Program: The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the improvement of the state
roads was calculated on the basis of the World Bank HDM-3 computer model by KGM. This methodology
bases the ERR on a comparison of costs and benefits, with the benefits mainly based on savings in vehicle
operating costs. The anticipated ERR in the SAR for the first year's work program (Ankara-Kirrikale road
improvement) was 25 percent, later modified to an estimated 18.61 percent on revised designs, while the
anticipated ERRs for all of the major works taken together after specific road sections and designs were
decided was an average of 25.6 percent. The actual average ERR for all of the road sections taken together
was 16.4 percent.

KGM explained that the principle reasons for the difference between the estimated and the actual ERRs
was the increased cost of the works compared to the original estimate and the decreased volume of traffic
compared to the forecast. The reduced traffic was the result of the economic crisis of 2001, which induced
a significant decline of traffic over 2001 and 2002 compared to a regular traffic growth the preceding
years. The results, while significantly lower than the anticipated results, are still on average greater than the
marginally acceptable rate of 12 percent that was given in the SAR as the minimum rate for inclusion of a
road section in the project.

KGM also evaluated 152 of the completed Accident Black Spot improvements and determined, on the basis
of results achieved in the years following the improvement, that 143 of these improvements were considered
"effective". Considering the reduction in accidents from 7389 to 1934 per year and of fatalities from 909 to
54 per year at a cost of US$29.4 million, there is little doubt that the program was very cost effective.




                                                      - 7 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable, as KGM's operations are financed from the Government's central budget.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The institutional development impact of the project was disappointing in several respects. While KGM was
already a competent functioning organization at the start of the project, there were a number of ways in
which its operations could have been improved and its efficiency raised. However, the delays in working
out the procurement of modern computer-based information and management system, which may have
represented a lack of interest on KGM's part, prevented this from going forward although there certainly
would have been time to do so during the six-and-one-half years that the project was under implementation.
Also, KGM's method of contracting for major works remains inefficient and defective, as outlined above,
and did not change during the life of project in spite of efforts by the World Bank staff to encourage
changes. On the other hand, the improved methodologies introduced for improved traffic safety, not only
within KGM but also in the Gazi University Hospital, the Traffic Police, and the Ministry of National
Education, appeared to be effective and well accepted.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Factors outside of the control of the Government or implementing agency that affected the outcome of the
project were the 1999 earthquake and the general depressed economic conditions in Turkey, which reduced
Government revenues and hence the availability of Government financing for the project and for KGM's
operations. Revision to the project because of the earthquake was indeed minor, as mentioned in para. 3.2.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was implemented during a period of political and financial instability, with frequent changes of
Government and of KGM's management. While it would be difficult to assess all of the factors affecting
the Government during this period, a stable environment could probably have led to a more meaningful
dialogue on the possible creation of an autonomous traffic safety agency or any alternative that would be
capable of securing the funding and creating an appropriate governance structure for road maintenance.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Implementation of the major cost element of the project, the civil works for the improvement of the State,
provincial and rural roads, was affected by the methodology that seems to be the standard operating
procedure for KMG in carrying out contracted works. This procedure starts with bidding for works on the
basis of preliminary (and sometimes obsolete) designs, followed after the selection of the bidder by a
preparation of the final design that usually significantly changes the cost of the project. The contract is then
re-costed on the basis of the new design using the unit costs (where applicable) that the bidder submitted as
part of his successful bid. In some cases, however, items may have been added, such as bridges, for which
no unit costs were included in the original bid, resulting in a negotiated price. In most cases, the re-costed
contract would have a significantly higher price than the bid price. Then during implementation, further
price increases may occur, as in all works where unit prices are applied to actual quantities. The Bank,
aware of this procedure and the upward effect on project costs from its experience with earlier road
projects in Turkey, tried to limit the cost increases by (i) requesting when possible to see final designs
before bidding; and, (ii) financing only fully justified changes amounting up to a 15 percent increase for the
cost of any contract. However, in cases exceeding the 15 percent limit, KMG simply financed the cost
increases above the Bank's limit with its own funds, while the final cost of the works was not affected.

Another unusual and generally unsatisfactory standard procedure followed by KMG is extending the
implementation time for each contract over an excessive number of years by limiting the amount of



                                                       - 8 -

counterpart financing that was made available. This extension is the result of poor prioritization of
operations leading to approval of an excessive number of projects, and results in distributing limited
allocations over too many projects. Under this Bank project, the major contracted works, each of which
could have been completed in two years, were implemented over a four or five year period (which is indeed
much better than the average completion time for highways projects in Turkey). This resulted in increased
contractor costs, since equipment can not be used efficiently, materials must be bought in smaller quantities
and sometimes held in storage, and the road deterioration during the implementation period further
increases the upward cost adjustments. The Bank, to avoid participating in the financing of too many
contracts with limited counterpart funding, refused to include new works under the loan and kept the issue
of poor allocation efficiency high in the dialogue with the government.

Alteration of both of these poor practices was finally addressed, at least partially, under covenants of the
PFPSAL II with a reduction in the size of the portfolio of approved projects (thus reducing the
implementation time of projects) and the preparation of a final design with a systematic audit of proposed
projects by independent experts for any new foreign funded projects. In 2001 and 2002, a major
downsizing of the highway and motorway projects within the Investment Program was carried out. Some
134 highway projects were removed from the Program, along with two motorways (182 km Aydin-Denizli
and 78 km Iskenderun-Antakya-Cilvegozu motorways) and the 348 km Ankara-Kemerhisar section of the
432 km Ankara-Pozanti Motorway. The total cost of the projects (actually the cost minus any money spent
for them) removed from the Program was roughly $2.5 billion for the motorways and $2.3 billion for the
highways, bringing the total to about $4.8 billion. This downsizing reflected itself in reduced average
project completion durations (estimated value of approved projects divided by the yearly allocation) from
22 years in 2001 to 13.5 years in 2002. Furthermore, the systematic audit of proposed road projects by
independent experts has been incorporated into the Guidelines for Preparation of the 2003 Investment
Program (Prime Ministry Circular No. 2002/4), along with the requirement that environmental impact
assessments need to be done. These stipulations for foreign funded projects have been extended to all new
projects, at least theoretically.

5.4 Costs and financing:
While the components remained unchanged in their general outline during the life of the project (except for
the amendment relating to the Marmara earthquake, as explained above), the level of actual expenditures in
individual categories varied as follows:

(a)   The Road Improvement Program spending, planned for US$304.6 million, actually financed a total
      of US$232.9 million of works by the time of project completion, US$221.6 million of which was for
      the improvement of state roads, US$1.1 million for provincial roads, and US$10.2 million for 141
      small contracts for improvements in town passages. A total of 356 km (two lane equivalent) of state
      roads were improved compared to the planned amount of 600 km. Most of the improved roads
      involved the upgrading of four lane motorways, as well as the inclusion of a major traffic
      interchange.
(b)   The Traffic Safety Program financed US$29.4 million for the improvement of accident black spots
      compared to US$42.1 million planned for this purpose, US$31.1 million for traffic safety equipment
      and materials compared to a planned amount of US$33.2 million, and US$2.9 million for consultant
      services related to traffic safety compared to a planned level of US$1.3 million.
(c)   The Institutional Development Program financed US$0.6 million for technical assistance and training
      for the institutional strengthening of the road administration compared to a planned level of US$2.6
      million and US$11.5 million for equipment and data collection services for KGM compared to
      US$3.1 million planned for this purpose.




                                                     - 9 -

The Turkish Government requested that the original Closing Date of March 31, 2003 be extended to
December 31, 2003 so that the remaining funds in Loan No. 4048A-TU could be utilized, but the World
Bank did not concur with this request as explained in paragraph 7.2. Consequently Euros 21.1 million were
cancelled at project closing as the works could not be finished before the project closed.

The original amount of the two loans financing the project was the equivalent of US$250 million. US$100
million of this amount was made available under Loan No. 4049-TU, denominated in dollars, and fully
disbursed. The Turkish Government requested that the remaining US$150 million be made available in
Deutschmarks, later converted to Euros. As of July 31, 2003, total disbursements under the two loans
totaled the equivalent of US$202,319,040. US$20,251,025 equivalent of the second loan was cancelled,
and the rest of the loan has been fully disbursed. The shortfall from the original US$250 million compared
to actual total disbursements plus the cancelled amount resulted from changes in currency values during the
implementation period.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Turkey places a high value on the upgrading of its road network, as seen from the relatively large budgets
(but poorly allocated) made available over the years for this purpose. Therefore, it is highly likely that the
improvements in the major roads, which accounts for most of the project costs, will be sustained. The
sustainability of the improvements in road traffic safety is very likely, since the project complemented and
enhanced Government efforts to respond to public pressures to reduce traffic accidents. Even within a
"second best" framework of little inter-agency coordination, the adoption of road safety audits in KGM and
the substantial improvements in police enforcement should have a lasting effect in traffic safety. Moreover,
accident black spot improvements are physical and of a permanent nature, and therefore will have a lasting
impact. The changes that were intended for the institutional strengthening component were not
implemented, and therefore are not sustainable. Summarizing the foregoing, most of the project
expenditures are expected to be sustained in the years ahead.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
KGM's operating procedures are well established and are not likely to change, especially as the
Bank-financed project represented a very small percentage of KGM's annual budget. Also, there is already
a keen interest on the part of the Government not only to sustain, but to upgrade its road network.
Therefore, no special transition arrangements were considered necessary.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance in identifying, preparing and appraising the project was satisfactory. The project
that was identified was intended to move the Bank­KGM dialogue to a new level of cooperation beyond the
financing of civil works and equipment. It selected road traffic safety as a focus of the project not only
because of its high priority, but also because the subject had strong local ownership and was not perceived
as a political liability. Its noncontroversial character made it an ideal candidate for the establishment of a
new Bank-KGM relationship. The project also included a further step to upgrade KGM's road planning
capability. The project team was aware of the tendency for the road civil works contracts to increase
sharply in cost during the contract period, and made provisions that it hoped would prevent, or at least slow
down, this practice. The preparation was carried out during the implementation of the previous project, and
so project preparation costs were minimal.




                                                      - 10 -

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision of the project was also satisfactory. Supervision was carried out by the same
Project Team Leader for the entire six years of the project implementation, providing continuity throughout
the life of the project. Supervision was timely, and included a mix of the skills needed for the specialized
tasks related to the project's requirements. An adequate amount of time appears to have been spent
supervising the project, both from the headquarters and in the field. The Bank staff was not successful,
however, in getting KGM to alter its long-standing practice of awarding contracts for which an inadequate
amount of counterpart funding was made available each year, with the result that contracts that should
have been completed in two years frequently took four or five years to complete. Also, KGM complained
many times about what it perceived as Bank slowness in acting on its requests for procurement approvals
and other actions necessary for implementing the project. The "Coordination Unit" felt that this supervision
team, and the Bank's tightening of procurement standards, brought requirements that they were not used to,
which they perceived as causing unjustified delays. However, it appears that in many cases, numerous
exchange of correspondences were necessary before all of the information was provided to the Bank by the
agencies, thus leading to a perception of excessive delays and bureaucracy from the Borrower side. It is
true that sometimes the Bank was slow in reaching consensus on key procurement decisions, but on the
other hand KGM too often presented the Bank with complicated decisions.

The Bank's decision not to extend the project beyond the original Closing Date led to cancellation of Euro
21.1 million of loan funds and lack of time to complete the procurement of a few contracts, including
equipment for the Traffic Police, consultancies for the Ministry of Education design, and installation of the
Highway Information System for KGM. While the Bank recognized the solid contribution that the
loan-financed activities under the project had made to traffic safety and other sector objectives, the Bank
felt that the incremental gains that might be made during a further implementation period were not great
enough to justify an extension, particularly in light of the agreed portfolio-wide approach of substantially
reducing the number and duration of such extensions. The entire country portfolio and extension requests
were jointly reviewed and agreed with the Treasury in October 2002.

While the Borrower (Treasury) considers the Bank's supervision of the project satisfactory, this opinion
was not shared by KGM, who resented the Bank's "bureaucratic management" of procurement issues as
well as the Bank's decision not to extend the project beyond the original Closing Date.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
While the Bank's performance apparently had some shortcomings, as mentioned above, it appears to have
been generally satisfactory in meeting the needs of the project. Therefore, the overall rating for the Bank
performance is rated as Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower worked closely with the Bank in the preparation of the project in all respects and carried out
its responsibilities for preparation in a timely and cooperative manner. Its capability to calculate economic
rates of return based on the use of the HDM computer model and its familiarity with Bank procurement
procedures facilitated the preparation process. The Treasury played an instrumental role in convoking the
different agencies responsible for traffic safety to discuss their needs and possible Bank support. This
participatory process provided the framework for the creation of the inter-agency traffic safety Task Force
that worked successfully to implement the traffic safety component. Therefore, the Borrower's performance
during preparation is rated as Highly Satisfactory.




                                                     - 11 -

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall Government performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory, with an
adequate level of financing for counterpart funds and for KGM's budget, despite difficult overall budget
problems during the implementation period.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
KGM's performance in the implementation of the project was generally satisfactory except for the
allocation of funding for the prompt completion of the project. KGM took the lead in the Task Force for
traffic safety, and throughout project implementation was the key player in maintaining a coordinated
approach for project execution. Because of its experience with the Bank, KGM also supported the other
executing agencies in the areas of procurement and financial management. In fact, the latter was undertaken
by KGM on behalf of the other agencies.

The nine major civil works contracts for upgrading state roads were carried out in a manner less than
optimal, however, in that contracts were awarded based on preliminary designs, after which major design
changes were made and the contract prices adjusted on the basis of the unit costs in the original contract.
While it is standard practice to use unit prices to make minor adjustments caused by road deterioration that
occurs prior to the start of the works, in these cases the adjustments sometimes included the addition of
major works including the addition of bridges and service roads that could not possibly be priced effectively
on a unit cost basis. Price increases for these nine Bank-financed contracts led to final contract costs that
were on average 71 percent higher than the bid prices, and in one case 300 percent higher. This practice,
which persists despite four World Bank projects with KGM, is not conducive to achieving the lowest cost
for these works, and KGM should be encouraged to provide a more complete design before the bidding
begins. While KGM argues that this would delay the works, it is standard practice everywhere and should
be achievable in Turkey also. Another anomaly in KGM's method of operations is that only a limited
amount of counterpart financing was made available to the contractors by KGM, even though its overall
budget was sufficient to provide larger amounts, which slowed down the civil works contracts
unnecessarily so that works that could have been completed in two years typically took four or five years to
complete. This no doubt led to increased costs for the contractors and KGM. In spite of the Bank staff's
attempts to get KGM to alter these practices, they continued throughout the life of the project.

The work on road safety was carried out vigorously, and KGM appears to have benefited from the
assistance of the consultant in learning and applying the latest knowledge regarding the design of
improvements for the elimination of accident black spots. In the process, it has acquired important skills
that can be applied to future KGM regular operations.

Also, the slow implementation of the technical support component of the project impeded the
implementation of the Highway Management System, which was consequently not implemented as planned
during project preparation in spite of the six-and-one-half year implementation period.

The performance of the other institutions involved in the implementation of the project can be considered
satisfactory. They appear to have taken good advantage of the presence of the traffic safety consultant in
learning and applying the latest knowledge regarding traffic safety issues, and the results show that this
was effective in making a significant impact.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance during the preparation and implementation of the project can be considered
as satisfactory.




                                                    - 12 -

8. Lessons Learned

In looking back at the experience gathered through this project, there are two major areas where lessons
emerge: (i) the successful implementation of a rather complex traffic safety component involving several
agencies; and, (ii) the approach taken by the project to influence governance issues in a sector prone to
capture by strong vested interests. In particular:

The Traffic Safety Experience. The design of this component was, from the outset, the result of a
participatory exercise in which each organization involved in the project brought its own perspective to the
traffic safety problem and proposed its own solutions. The individualistic approach to the issues at stake
slowly evolved into a collegial system structured under the Task Force that was the key player in the
implementation of the component. This accomplishment, not a minor feat in a country not known for
inter-agency coordination, can be attributed to the adoption of the "best fit" rather than "best practice"
approach. The concept of designing the project on the basis of "second best" solutions with strong
ownership, rather than imposing best practices unlikely to fit the Turkish cultural and institutional
environment, paid off. The Bank acceptance of including under the project the locally developed National
Plan weakened the reluctance of the Government to include international experts to the project, who, in
spite of the lack of implementation of the Pilot Project, were recognized by the different agencies as having
a positive contribution to make to their knowledge of best practices in the subject. Probably another
important lesson is that the Bank should unlink issues in which it can play an important catalytic role from
lending in that sector, to avoid abandoning areas of development in which it has a proven added value. Now
that Turkey is experiencing a more stable political climate, the Bank should further its impact on Traffic
Safety by encouraging the implementation of the National Traffic Safety Strategy through its normal
dialogue with the Government or its lending to other sectors such as health and environment.

The Governance Issue. The project was prepared at a time in which the structural issues of governance
were not as clearly recognized as today, maybe confusing capabilities (or lack thereof) with rent seeking
behavior, and proposing institutional development rather than major policy reforms. The Bank's position of
not participating in the financing, and therefore not condoning, the practice of continuous changes of design
and cost overruns, was a step in the right direction given the relationship with Turkey at the time. Today,
that would not have been enough because the Bank now recognizes that poor governance is one of the main
roadblocks to development, and has main-streamed the instruments to engage in institutional reforms that
take time and require an important level of political will.

A related question from which it might be possible to draw some useful lessons refers to the Bank's
decision to deny a Government request to extend the life of the loan. At that time substantial human and
financial costs had been sunk in the preparation of a fairly sophisticated Highway Information System. It is
not clear that the proposed extension would have been sufficient to fully implement the component, and it is
even less clear that, if implemented, the component would have had an impact on KGM's governance
problems. However, there is ample evidence that opportunistic approaches many times do have high
rewards. The increased transparency on the inefficiencies of KGM brought about by reliable information
might have been the trigger for the political will to modernize a now anachronistic institution.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following comments were received from the Borrower (Undersecretariat of the Treasury). In addition,
the implementing agencies provided extensive information for the ICR (see Annex 8), which is reflected in
the final ICR. The KGM also provided comments on the ICR which are attached in Annex 8.




                                                      - 13 -

Borrower's comments on the Draft ICR:

"The ICR provides a fair and well-balanced evaluation on the performance of the Bank, Borrower and
implementing agencies. Most of the criticisms directed at KGM especially the ones regarding the KGM's
operational inefficiency and insufficient counterpart funding that have resulted in cost overruns and delay in
project completion have also been recognized by KGM and by the related government authorities, and some
corrective measures have already been taken. On the other hand, as it has been reflected in almost all the
Joint Portfolio Performance Review Reports, the delays in Bank's response on major project issues and
providing no-objections have always been raised by the implementing agency as an important factor
retarding the project implementation. In view of the fact that similar complaints have also been expressed
by a number of agencies implementing other Bank financed projects, enough consideration should be given
to this issue during the implementation of both the current and future Bank projects.

Overall, the performance of the Bank, Borrower and implementing agencies was satisfactory in terms of
reaching the project and loan objectives."

(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.

10. Additional Information

None.




                                                    - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate
(a) satisfactory ex-post ERR in the            Satisfactory ERR                    Satisfactory
strengthening or upgrading of about 600 km
of state roads, and about 300 km of provincial
roads and town passages;
(b) Improvement in accident rates, fatality    NA                                  Highly Satisfactory
rates, controls, time of response to accidents,
and morbidity rates after assistance.
(c) implementation of a computerized           NA                                  Unsatisfactory
pavement management system and of a
bridge management system;
(d) training of about 20 staff in KGM          50 trained                          Satisfactory


Output Indicators:
                                                                              1
                Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR              Actual/Latest Estimate




1End of project

This project was prepared before the present practice of having separate Impact and Output indicators was
introduced, and the single set of indicators was used throughout the project implementation period.




                                                                - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate     Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                                 US$ million    US$ million
A. TRAFFIC SAFETY PROGRAM
1. Treatment of Accident Black Spots                                 42.14         29.35           69.6
2. Equipment (Safety Materials-KGM)                                  21.07         18.77           89.1
3. Police Equipment and Enforcement                                   9.38           9.13          97.5
4. Medical Equipment and Services                                     2.81           2.13          75.8
5. Accident Data Bank (see note below)                                1.04
6. Technical Assistance and Training for Monitoring                   1.25           2.91         232.8
Research (Consultancy)
7. Driver and Pedestrian Education (MEB Equipment)                    1.25           1.09          87.2

B. ROAD REHABILITATION
1. State Roads                                                      252.81        221.56           87.6
2. Provincial (rural) Roads                                          23.17           1.14           4.9
3. Road Design and EAs, including Training                            7.18           0.00             0
4. Town Passages                                                     21.55         10.21           47.4

C. INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
1. Technical Assistance and Training for Management                   2.57           0.59            23
Systems (Training)
2. Equipment and Data Collection Services (Automatic                  3.08         11.49            373
counting Ins.)

Total Baseline Cost                                                 389.30        308.37
                         Total Project Costs                        389.30        308.37
                  Total Financing Required                          389.30        308.37
The Accident Data Bank has been procured as part of item "3 Police equipment".

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                    Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category             ICB                NCB                   2       N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                        Other
1. Works                           243.60               55.00           18.00         23.20      339.80
                                   (154.50)            (34.70)          (11.40)       (0.00)    (200.60)
2. Goods                            34.60               0.00             2.80         0.00       37.40
                                   (34.60)              (0.00)          (2.80)        (0.00)    (37.40)
3. Services                         0.00                0.00            12.20         0.00       12.20
                                    (0.00)              (0.00)          (12.20)       (0.00)    (12.20)
   Total                           278.20               55.00           33.00         23.20      389.40
                                   (189.10)            (34.70)          (26.40)       (0.00)    (250.20)




                                                     - 16 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                    1
                                                          Procurement Method
         Expenditure Category               ICB               NCB                      2         N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                                Other
   1. Works                                222.05              9.35             27.70             1.14             260.24
                                          (139.47)            (5.89)           (17.45)            (0.00)          (162.81)
   2. Goods                                 36.74              4.47              2.33             0.00             43.54
                                           (31.16)            (2.71)            (1.71)            (0.00)           (35.58)
   3. Services                              0.00               0.00              4.59             0.00              4.59
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (3.93)            (0.00)           (3.93)
       Total                               258.79             13.82             34.62             1.14             308.37
                                          (170.63)            (8.60)           (23.09)            (0.00)          (202.32)

     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       Bank     Govt.     CoF.
A. TRAFFIC SAFETY
1. Treatment of Blackspots     26.64        15.50                    18.49         10.85                 69.4      70.0
2. Equipment (Safety           21.07         0.00                    15.64         3.13                  74.2      0.0
Materials-KGM)
3. Police Equipment &           9.36         0.00                     7.74         1.39                  82.7      0.0
Enforcement
4. Medical Equip &Serv          2.81         0.00                     1.54         0.59                  54.8      0.0
5. Accident Data Bank           1.04         0.00                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
6. TA & Train. for              1.25         0.00                     2.49         0.42                  199.2     0.0
Monitoring Research
7. Driver & Ped. Educ.          1.25         0.00                     0.94         0.15                  75.2      0.0
(MEB Equipment)

B. ROAD REHAB.
1. State Roads                 160.10       92.71                    139.58        81.98                 87.2      88.4
2. Prov (Rural) Roads           0.00        23.17                     0.00         1.14                   0.0      4.9
3. Road Design & EAs            7.18         0.00                     0.00         0.00                   0.0      0.0
4. Town Passages               13.67         7.88                     6.43         3.78                  47.0      48.0

C. INSTITUTIONAL DEV.
1. TA &Training for             2.57         0.00                     0.50         0.01                  19.5      0.0
Management Systems
2. Equipment & Data             3.08         0.00                     8.97         2.52                  291.2     0.0
Collection Services

   The Accident Data Bank has been procured as part of item "3 Police equipment".



                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the improvement of the state roads was calculated on the basis of
the World Bank HDM-3 computer model by KGM. This methodology bases the ERR on a comparison of
costs and benefits, with the benefits mainly based on savings in vehicle operating costs. The anticipated
ERR in the SAR for the first year's work program (Ankara-Kirrikale road improvement) was 25 percent,
later modified to 18.31 percent when further design changes were made. Comparisons of the ERRs forecast
by KGM after revised designs were completed compared to the ERRs calculated on the basis of actual
traffic volume, roughness, and cost of road improvements after completion of the works financed by the
project (but including the costs needed for final completion) are as follows:



                                            km              Estimated      Actual    %              %
              Road Section                  Length          Cost           Cost      Estimated      Actual
                                                            US$m           US$m*     ERR            ERR
Ankara-Polatli-Sivrihisar I                 10**            52.7           13.4      17.75          9.92
Ankara-Polatli-Sivrihisar II                44              37.1           47.8      26.92          13.29
Ankara-Polatli-Sivrihisar III               30              26.7           28.3      34.46          23.13
Ankara-Polatli-Sivrihisar IV and V          32              28.3           43.9      34.16          16.50
Ankara-Kirikkale                            74              36.2           49.5      18.31          16.45
Corum-Sungurlu                              54              29.9           32.5      21.28          17.03
Sungurlu-Delice-4th Div Border              52              32.9           66.3      17.29          14.82
Usak-Kula                                   60              32.0           23.0      42.61          21.87

*Includes the estimated cost to complete works not completed under the Project.
*Road length to be improved was reduced due to a transfer to part of this section to the Ankara
Municipality.

KGM explained that the principle reasons for the difference in the estimated and the actual ERRs was the
increased cost of the works compared to the original estimate, and the decreased volume of traffic
compared to the forecast. The reduced traffic was the result of the economic crisis of 2001 which induced a
significant decline of traffic over 2001 and 2002 compared to a regular traffic growth the preceding years.
The results, while significantly lower than the anticipated results, are still on average greater than the
marginally acceptable rate of 12 percent that was given in the SAR as the minimum rate for inclusion in the
project.

KGM also evaluated 152 of the completed Accident Black Spot improvements and determined, on the basis
of results achieved in the years following the improvement, that 143 of these improvements were considered
"effective". Considering the reduction in accidents of from 7389 to 1934 per year and of fatalities from 909
to 54 per year at a cost of US$29.4 million, there is little doubt that the program was very cost effective.




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                     No. of Persons and Specialty                 Performance Rating
                                         (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year    Count            Specialty                          Progress      Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               07/11/1994                   3    TM, HE, Tr. Economist
               11/07/1994                   3    TM, HE, Tr. Economist
               02/13/1995                   4    TM, HE, Tr. Economist, RSE

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               06/21/1995                   5    TM, HE, FS, Env,
                                                 Consultant
               03/25/1996                   6    TM, HE, FS, Env, PS,
                                                 Disbursement Specialist

 Supervision
               09/21/1996                   1    TM                                     HS               S
               04/17/1997                   2    TM; PS                                  S               S
               10/15/1997                   3    2 HE; TL                                S               S
               05/12/1998                   1    TM                                      S               S
               04/01/1999                   2    TL; HE                                  S               S
               07/15/1999                   1    Program TL                              S               S
               11/05/1999                   2    Program TL; TS                          S               S
               05/31/2000                   3    Program TL ; TS ; Senior PS             S               S
               12/01/2000                   2    Senior TS ; Program TL                  S               S
               03/02/2001                   1    Program TL                              S               S
               10/19/2001                   2    Senior TS ; Program TL                  S               S
               05/04/2002                   2    Senior TS ; Program TL                  S               S
               10/22/2002                   2    Senior TS ; Program TL                  S               S

 ICR
               06/05/2003                   2     Senior TS ; Program TL                 S               S

Abbreviations: TL = Team Leader, TM = Task Manager, TS = Transport Specialist, PS = Procurement Specialist,
RSE = Road Safety Engineer, HE = Highway Engineer, Env = Environmentalist, FS = Finance Specialist,
Tr. Economist = Transport Economist.

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                                      No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation         Not available                             104
  Appraisal/Negotiation              Not available                             232
  Supervision                        Not available                             744
  ICR                                Not available                              20
  Total                              Not available                           1100




                                                  - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M   N      NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M   N      NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M   N      NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M   N      NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M   N      NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M   N      NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M   N      NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M   N      NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M   N      NA
         Traffic Safety
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M   N      NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M   N      NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M   N      NA
The impact of the Traffic Safety component was high, and had a positive social benefit by the reduction in
traffic accidents.




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report No. 15011-TU

Missions' aide memoires


AMOct97.DOC AMNov98.DOC AMMarch99.DOCAM99Jul(scanned).docAM99Oct.DOC AM00May.doc



AM00Nov.doc AM01Feb.doc AM01Oct.doc AM02May.doc AM02October.doc

Borrower's contribution from:


Treasury ---> road_imp.pdf



KGM --->   KGM.ZIP KGM tables.ZIP



Traffic Police --->trafik_guvenligi_proje_raporu_ingilizce.doc



Min. of Education --->  KITGI kapan·s Raporu-ING.zip



Gazi University ---> gazi report.ppt appendix 1-8.doc




                                                   - 22 -

 Additional Annex 8. Implementing Agencies Contribution and Comments


                                GENERAL EVALUATION OF THE RISP
                            (ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND SAFETY PROJECT)
             I- DATA NECESSARY FOR THE BANK TO EVALUATE THE PERFORMANCE
                                        OF THE BANK BY ITSELF

The latest situation of the Project is as follows:

THE BANK HAS REFUSED THE PROPOSAL OF THE UNDERSECRETARIAT OF TREASURY AND OF
THE 4 IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES TO EXTEND THE CLOSING DATE OF THE LOAN 4048A-TU,
FROM 31.03.2003 TO 31.12.2003 AND THE AMOUNT OF EURO 19,5 MILLION (14,9 % OF THE LOAN
4048A-TU AMOUNT) WAS CANCELLED BY THE BANK, UPON THE FOLLOWING BANK'S FAX
SIGNED BY MR. AJAY CHHIBBER.

"DRAFTED BY: OLIVIER LE BER EXT: 87666
AUTHORIZED BY: AJAY CHHIBBER, COUNTRY DIRECTOR, (ECCU6)

DATED JANUARY 21, 2003

PURSUANT TO YOUR LETTER DATED NOVEMBER 18, 2002, REQUESTING THE BANK TO EXTEND
THE CLOSING DATE OF THE LOAN, I REGRET TO INFORM YOU THAT THE BANK IS NOT IN A
POSITION TO AGREE TO SUCH AN EXTENSION. WHILE WE RECOGNIZE THE SOLID
CONTRIBUTION THAT THE LOAN FINANCED ACTIVITIES UNDER THE PROJECT HAVE MADE
TO TRAFFIC SAFETY AND OTHER SECTOR OBJECTIVES, WE FEEL THAT THE INCREMENTAL
GAINS THAT MIGHT BE MADE DURING A FURTHER IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD ARE NOT
GREAT ENOUGH TO JUSTIFY AN EXTENSION...


            Signature
                                                                                 Ajay Chhibber
                                                                          Country Director for TURKEY"

Program Team consists of Ms. Mirtha Pokorny and Mr. Olivier Le Ber.

1.   There are 4 separate Implementing Agencies in these Loan Agreements and these are:

     (1)   General Directorate of Highways, could expend only USD193.813.044, 91 % of its allocation,
     (2)   Gazi University, could expend only USD1.543.151, 55 % of its allocation,
     (3)   General Directorate of Security (Police), could expend only USD 7.817.995, 83,6 % of its
           allocation,
     (4)   Ministry of National Education, could expend only USD942.409, 75,6 % of its allocation,
           and as the total amount, only USD204.116.599, 90 % of the total loan amount, could be
           expended, as the closing date of the loan wasn't extended by the Bank (EURO 19,5
           Million was cancelled.)

These implementing agencies were very eager to complete their ongoing projects and
contracts.

2.   The works and projects of 4 Agencies, were in the Investment Program, approved by the SPO (State



                                                    - 23 -

Planning Organization). These were the most important contracts of this Loan Agreement (as Road
Construction Works of Delice ­ Sungurlu and Sungurlu-Çorum, Purchase of Reflective Material, Purchase
of Road Side Delineators, Horizontal Road Markings, Preparation of Spot Films, Purchase of Weighing
Machines, Establishment of Traffic Information System etc.)

3.    These were the contracts defined in the Staff Appraisal Report of the Loan 4048A-TU and they
were completely in conformity with the content of "Description of the Project" Part of the Loan
4048A-TU.

4.    Bank's consents and approvals, in all phases of ongoing contracts, as preparation of bidding
documents, bidding, awarding etc., had been received from the Bank.

5.    Some first expenditures of these ongoing contracts, were already paid by the Bank. That is, these were
the ongoing contracts, but would not be completed by 31.03.2003 that is by the original closing date.

6.    As everybody will accept, signing and approving the mentioned related contracts implies that
implementing agency and/or the World Bank committed against Contractors that the expenditure amounts of
these contracts, would be paid. CWA-II, CWA-III, MS-05, Code Nu. 01-812-1c contracts, couldn't be
finished or didn't reach to the expenditure levels which were agreed before with the Bank at the closing date
of the Loan.

7.    There existed an undisbursed loan amount of EURO 25 Million, in the L.A. Nu.: 4048A-TU,
waiting to be disbursed at the date 2 months before the closing date, extension was necessary.

8.    In spite of good intention and desire of implementing agencies and strong will and very high
performance capacities of the contractors, because of heavy winter conditions, the amount of works
completed by the original closing date (31.03.2003) of the Loan, would be very small.

9.    Undersecretariat of Treasury, had already proposed to the Bank to extend the Loan Closing
Date.

10.   4 IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES SINCERELY BELIEVED THAT THE GAINS (as (1)
Very important ongoing contracts would not be stopped, they would be completed. (2) Commitments of the
Bank and the implementing agencies given to the contractors, would be realized (3) There would be no legal
problem due to uncompleted contracts, since all of these were necessary and described works according to
the Loan Agreement, (4) The objectives of the Loan Agreement would have been reached completely) THAT
WOULD BE REALIZED DURING EXTENDED PERIOD, WOULD BE GREAT ENOUGH TO
JUSTIFY AN EXTENSION, ON THE CONTRARY WHAT WAS SAID BY THE COUNTRY
DIRECTOR MR. AJAY CHHIBBER, IN HIS LETTER OF 21 ST JAN., 2003.

11.   We are sorry, but we have to express this that (a) refusal by the Bank, of some civil works (as
Mekece ­ Adapazarý and Aksaray ­ (Konya ­ Ereðli) Junction Roads ) proposed by KGM, to be
included in the Project and, (b) very late receipts of Bank's "no objections" and decisions of the
Program Team by the Implementing Agencies, were one of the important reasons of the delays in the
applications, and having an undisbursed amount of EURO 19,5 Million even at the closing date.

12.   Unfortunately, neither the existence of big amount of allocations, nor high work capacities of
contractors, would not be sufficient to expend the undisbursed amount of EURO 25 Million, unless the
Bank provided a "Workable Season" by giving a period extension (The period consisting of the months of


                                                      - 24 -

Dec. Jan., Feb. and March is determined as "Unworkable Season", because of heavy winter conditions in
Türkiye, according to the signed contracts between the contractors and the Administration).

13.   The letter of Undersecretariat of Treasury, proposing that the Closing Date of the Loan 4048A-TU, to
be extended from the date of 31.03.2003 to the date of 31.12.2003 for all contracts of 4 Implementing
Agencies (KGM, MEB, GÜ, EGM etc.) had been forwarded before, to the Ankara Resident Mission by the
Undersecretariat of Treasury and to the World Bank Headquarter by the Bank's Resident Mission in Ankara.

14.   Two Loan Agreements (4049-TU and 4048A-TU) whose completion dates were the same, had been
signed at the same time. The Loan 4049-TU was completed before the loan closing date.

15.   The bids couldn't be realized immediately, as the World Bank wanted KGM first to award a
consultancy contract for traffic safety matters and then receipt of consultant consent for types and amounts
of all kind of materials to be purchased and to obtain "no objection" for type of solution of black spot works,
and also for all other studies, as this loan was related to the traffic safety.

KGM awarded a consultancy contract, whose process and realization took a lot of time. The consultant firm
began to make its proposals and to examine and to approve the matters proposed by the KGM and the
Traffic Safety Task Force, after a certain period of time which was unavoidable and right.

Since the receipt of the consent of the consultant was the precondition, for the application to the Bank, for
"Bank's No objection" all bids were postponed unavoidably.

16.   KGM wanted to increase the civil works and therefore proposed to the Bank to finance civil works of
Aksaray-(Konya-Ereðli) Junction road (for whom the Bank had given no objection at the beginning, for the
pre-qualification of applicants) But the Bank then said "first of all satisfactory progress of ongoing works
under the Loan is necessary" and stopped the procedures.

17.   After the Marmara Earthquake, the World Bank made allocations for this purpose, from the
unallocated amounts and from the allocations of unimportant components of the ongoing all loans. KGM,
proposed to the Bank, financing of Mekece-Adapazarý road (which will serve to the Earthquake Area, and to
the new Industrial Sites to be constructed, after damage of industrial sites and campuses because of the
earthquake.)

But the Bank also refused it, though there was an allocated amount for Earthquake Works. It is a very
feasible project and now it will be constructed using EIB (European Investment Bank) Funds.

18.   Bank's staff relating to this loan agreement, couldn't be very helpful, as they didn't know what their
duties and positions would be, during the Bank's reorganization stage.

19.   After completion of the Bank's reorganization, receipt of the Bank's no objection, became very difficult
and took incredible long durations as;

      a) due to reduction in the number of experienced Bank's staff and
      b) due to very high increase in the number of projects, loans, and countries to be taken care by the
          same Bank's staff.(according to what the Bank's related Program Team staff say)

20.   As an example; Bank's no objection for feasibility studies of Black Spot works (though their solutions,
estimated costs, environmental reports, feasibility studies and other tables have been prepared and checked


                                                       - 25 -

by the KGM and the Consultant firm) could be obtained after numerous correspondence by the Bank and
after 64 days and 109 days passed.
In the same way, the Bank's no objection for the Traffic Police Training Program (proposed with the letter of
General Directorate of Security dated 19.12.2001) could be obtained with the fax of 21 October 2002 after
10 months passed (302 days). Similar delays occurred in the receipt of the Bank's no objection for the works
of the Ministry of National Education and Gazi University.

21.   The Implementing Agencies have completed approximately 400 contracts successfully.

22.   Only the following 8 contracts needed extension of loan closing date. An extension of even 6
months would be enough for the 1 to 6 contracts below either to be completed or to come to the agreed
levels. (Foreign allocation and local allocation amount for each contract is calculated considering the
financing ratio of the Bank and requested from SPO. Unless the local allocation amount is increased
(which is a very time consuming and difficult procedure) the contractor or manufacturer can not
continue to its contract and can not be paid, even if, there exists enough foreign allocation amount (this
corresponds to the amount to be disbursed by the Bank) and total allocation amount in the investment
program. Local expenditures can't be paid from the foreign allocation amounts in the Investment
program.) These contracts were;

1.    It had been agreed by the Bank that the civil contract of CWA-II, "Sungurlu-Delice-7/4 Regional
Directorate of Highway Border, would be financed by the Bank upto the level of 15 % additional works. But
it couldn't be financed upto this value, since the Bank didn't extend the closing date of the loan. But due to
the importance of this road, the contract continues and the expenditures after 31.03.2003 are being financed
only from Local Budget.

2.    It had been agreed by the Bank that the civil contract of CWA-III, "Çorum-Sungurlu Road" would be
financed by the Bank upto 15 % additional works. But it couldn't be financed upto this value, since the Bank
didn't extend the closing date of the loan. But due to the importance of this road the contract continues and
the expenditures after 31.03.2003 are being financed only from Local Budget.

3.    The contract of MS-05, Horizontal Road Markings with Thermoplastic Paint. The contract continues
and the expenditures after 31.03.2003 are being financed only from Local Budget.

4.    GU.2b.E.24 Contract Code Numbered "Purchase of Magnetic Resonance Equipment" executed by the
Gazi University, could only be completed by the end of the year 2003. It was cancelled.

5.    The contract of "Preparation of Spot Films" which was being executed by the Ministry of National
Education, would be signed in February 2003. Since the contract would be completed in 7 months, it was
also in need of an extension of loan closing date. That is, the contracts executed by the Other Institutions
(EGM, GU, MONE) were also in need of an extension of the Loan Closing Date.

(Though the tenders were received, the bid was to be cancelled by the Ministry of National Education
when it was understood that the Bank would not extend the Loan closing date.)

6.    Remaining payments of the contract of " Weighing Scales (2. Package)" will be made from the Local
budget.

7.    Purchase of various traffic safety materials as reflective sheetings, road side delineators etc. was given



                                                      - 26 -

up.

8.    The contract of CS-5, Highway Information System (Including Traffic Safety Common Data Bank) It
was hoped by KGM that due to the special importance given to this component of the Loan by the Bank, the
Bank could permit KGM to continue with this contract even the Bank doesn't permit the continuation of all
other ongoing contracts. Bid documents have been prepared with the contribution of the Bank's consultants
and Federal Highway Administration's consultants after a long common study. Announcement pertaining to
HIS was published also in UN Development Business on 30.06.2001. Though Prequalifications have been
realized and the Short List has been prepared and many tenderers hired consultants from abroad and
strengthened their firms; the process was stopped upon Bank's not extending the closing date of the Loan.

In order to have a rough idea about how the World Bank managed this Loan (from the beginning of
the Loan upto the end) one can consider the duration past between the dates of our application to the
Bank (for extension of closing date of the loan to 31.12.2003) and the Bank's reply date.

We learn from the 1999 JPPR which covers the period July 1, 1998 to Sept. 30, 1999 that a total of
US$103,6 Million equivalent, had been cancelled just during FY99 and another US$5,4 Million had been
cancelled during the first quarter of FY00. Of the US$103,6 Million had been cancelled during FY99,
US$88,7 Million had been cancelled from ongoing projects and US$14,9 Million had been cancelled from
undisbursed loan balances after project closure. As a result, cancellations were very high in the Loan
Agreements of Türkiye. It is also said "During the JPPR, many project managers voiced their frustration
with delays in obtaining the World Bank's response on procurement matters. They pointed out that it was
difficult to plan ahead without knowing by when a response on a particular procurement matter can be
expected by the Bank. It is therefore recommended that all World Bank TTLS acknowledge, receipt of
procurement documents within 3 days of receipt and provide an indication by when the Bank's response can
be expected."



   II. THE SUMMARY OF ICR FOR THE PART OF RISP (THE ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND
                                      TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT)
                                    (LOANS : 4048A-TU and 4049-TU)
             PERTAINING TO THE MINISTRY OF NATIONAL EDUCATION (MONE)

                                                PREFACE

This document is the ICR for the Road Improvement and Traffic Safety Project Agreement with the loan
number 4048A and 4049-TU, signed between the Government of Turkey and the World Bank on June 24,
1996 and became effective following its publication in the Official Gazette dated September 23, 1996 and
No. 22767.

Total revised allocation for the Project is approximately USD389.300.000 which comprised of the loan
contribution in the amount equivalent of USD226.344.215 (expended amount is about USD204.116.599 )
and of the Government contribution in the amount of USD185.183.401.

Total amount of the foreign resources allocated for the Ministry of National Education (MONE) was USD
1.247.000. Only 75,6 % of this allocation (USD942.409) could be expended upon the closure of the loan on
March 31, 2003. The total undisbursed amount of EURO 19,5 M at this original closing date, was cancelled.




                                                    - 27 -

                                              INTRODUCTION

In Turkey, the very first reasons of traffic accidents are the wrong behaviors of the drivers and the
pedestrians. Illiteracy, unconsciousness and lack of infrastructure lead to death, injury and disability of
thousands in each year. According to the data in 1998, due to the traffic accidents, Turkey went through a
huge socio-economical loss about 2,2 % of its GNP (Gross National Product). All governmental institutions,
private sectors and nongovernmental organizations are expected to give due importance in minimizing the
physical and moral losses caused by the accidents. Besides improving the roads and highways of Turkey,
minimizing damages of the humans due to accidents, increasing the level of knowledge of the society by
providing training and training materials, and implementing traffic safety education in schools more
effectively by providing technical support and training equipment to these schools, were also the main plans
included under the scope of the Road Improvement and Traffic Safety Project.

                                         PROJECT EVALUATION

A.    PROJECT DESIGN

This Report hereby, deals with only the Project components under the responsibility of the MONE. Within
this scope, the Government of Turkey requested from the World Bank to include following activities under
the National Traffic Safety Component of the Project: a) Improving the training of the drivers, b)
strengthening traffic education in the schools to be selected. As a result of this request by the MONE, a Staff
Appraisal Report (SAR) dated November 1995 and No. 15011-TU was prepared, in compliance with the
basic data for the year 1995, prepared by the Project Pre-Appraisal Mission.

                                         PROJECT MANAGEMENT

For the effective and efficient project management and implementation, a project Task Force Committee was
decided to be established and the secretarial work of this committee was given to the General Directorate of
Highways. The support required for the effective project implementation was planned to be ensured through
the establishment of this Committee.

B.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES

1.    GENERAL OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT

General objectives of this Project, for the Ministry of National Education can be summarized as follows:
     l Ensuring teachers be adequate about the traffic safety education,
     l Ensuring community acquire the consciousness of traffic safety,
     l Supporting the courses in schools with educational materials,


For the achievement of these objectives, the Ministry of National Education, planned some specific activities
under this Project, as mentioned in the following paragraphs:

2.    SPECIAL OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT

The only way to minimize the number of the accidents in Turkey with high intensity and level of accidents, is
to provide an effective traffic safety education to its people. Providing an effective traffic safety education
for the schools in Turkey, will assist in minimizing the number of the accidents causing bad damages for the
society by educating the most crucial factor of traffic "the human" (constructors, merchants, drivers,


                                                      - 28 -

passengers, pedestrians etc.) namely.

C.    ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES

      In order to determine whether the project has achieved its objective effectively, the following goals
should be evaluated:

      1) Teacher training,
      2) Adult training (drivers),
      3) Preparation of educational materials and equipment.

1.    Teacher Training

a)    In-service training
Providing traffic safety training for 479 teachers in 322 project schools, selected throughout the country. The
MONE, planned to complete inland and abroad trainings of teachers who were provided with formator
training and working in 50 central organizations of the Ministry and project schools before the start-up of the
Project. The main reason here was to plan and implement the future project activities with the help of more
qualified teachers with inland and abroad trainings.

b) Post Level Training
Post level seminar on Traffic Safety was provided for 40 Formators selected throughout the country. A
high-level seminar for 40 teachers, who were previously provided with in-service training, was planned under
this Project. The related in-service training was implemented with the assistance of Turkish Traffic Accident
Foundation and the SweRoads advisors.

c) Study Tours
Abroad training for Formators:
Providing abroad training for 10 high-level staff and a group of Provincial National Education Directors and
50 traffic education teachers in order to revise the traffic education programs; to increase the adequacy of the
traffic safety education programs; and to determine the needs through an in-place visit to a country with
better conditions from traffic safety point of view.

A group of 20 staff, have been sent to abroad for a period of 15 days, in order to make an in-place visit.
Under this Project, the related technical and financial evaluation of the bids for "The Abroad Training for 15
Traffic Education Teachers and 5 MONE Central Organization Staff" (Project staff) were completed and
this group of 20 staff, participated in related training in Finland between the dates of August 18-31, 2003.

d)    Continuous In-Service Training
Ensuring more teachers be reached through Formators, who successfully completed the related trainings and
who were awarded this title, by making them transfer all information and knowledge provided in these
trainings to the teachers in their own schools, and to those in other basic and secondary education, in their
sub-provinces and provinces.
Under this Project, formators were planned to be used in in-service training activities related with traffic
safety in their own provinces.

This activity could not be carried out effectively as planned, since the General Directorates did not own these
trainings as the way they should have done. Trained staffs are providing Traffic Safety courses in their



                                                        - 29 -

schools.

1.    Adult Education
Approximately 10,000 drivers, who received their driving licenses before 1987 and are working as a driver in
public, were planned to be provided with related training. Such lessons as Traffic and Environmental
Information, First Aid, Engine and Vehicle Techniques, were provided during these training activities.


Related trainings which were provided for those who received driving licenses before the year 1987, were
implemented by the General Directorate for Apprenticeship and Non-Formal Education under the MONE.
The related in-service trainings and participant lists were given within the Annex 5 of Annex I . The expected
objectives regarding this activity, have been achieved successfully.

1.    Equipment and Materials
Ensuring students to be provided with a better traffic safety education through the provision of following
traffic safety equipment and materials.
The contract with the total bid price of USD 731,917.94 was signed.


                            EQUIPMENT              QUANTITY
                       Computer                        390
                       Printer                          370
                       Scanner                          322
                       TV                               327
                       Video                            366
                       Projector                       650

Bidding on "Preparation of educational materials for "Teacher's Handbook for Traffic Safety Education"
which focuses on traffic risk issue; and supports existing curricula, in order to enhance teaching facilities and
to guide teachers with a supportive source from preschool education to the last grade of secondary education,
was carried out on May 15, 2003. Total bid price for this bidding was USD 69.000 in total. The bid process
for the "Preparation, duplication and delivery of short time films", which focuses on the traffic risks,
was finalized and the tenders were received but this activity was cancelled, since the World Bank did
not extend the duration of the Project.

                                               PROJECT COST

           Planned (USD)                        Actual (USD)                 Realization Percentage (%)

              1.247.000                             942.409                            %75,6


Although the MONE and other implementing line agencies requested extension of the project duration
officially, in order to disburse the remaining amount, the Bank refused this request. The bidding on
"Preparation, duplication and delivery of short time films", which focuses on the traffic risks, was
cancelled due to this reason, which led to the cancellation of 24,4 % of the total allocated amount for
the MONE.




                                                       - 30 -

D.    EVALUATION OF THE PROJECT GOALS

In this section, the special attention is given on the evaluation of the goals to be achieved by the MONE,
under the Project. The first goal of this Project, was to support teachers with the related information and
documents on traffic safety for a more effective and efficient training. For this aim, the formator trainings on
traffic safety in project schools, were achieved figuratively. However, some problems in providing effective
use of these trainings, were faced due to Norm Cadre implementations and existing regulations.

Second goal of the Project, was to provide training and information for the adults who received driving
licenses before the year 1987, without being subject to any traffic education, in which great steps were taken
during this training and stage.
Third goal of the Project, was to support the teachers and students with educational equipment and materials.
In that stage, equipment and material support, (except for spot film activity which was cancelled upon
Bank's not extending the closing date of the Loan) were provided for the teachers effectively.



                                             GAZI UNIVERSITY
     III. THE SUMMARY OF ICR FOR THE PART OF RISP (ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND
                      SAFETY PROJECT) PERTAINING TO GAZi UNIVERSITY
                            (EMERGENCY AID PILOT PROJECT REPORT)

Objectives of Emergency Aid Pilot Project

1.    General (Reducing the number of people killed or injured in traffic accidents.)

2.    Specific (Carrying on an Emergency Aid Pilot Project in a specific area)
      l To establish an effective, continual communication system.
      l To achieve an efficient rescue and emergency aid in due time by ambulances, rescue vehicles and
           educated staff.
      l To keep necessary vehicles and educated staff at properly located ambulance stations.
      l To transport accident victims to suitable hospitals when necessary.
      l To evaluate the causes, progression and results of accidents by continuous recording.


                  THE EXPENDITURES MADE FROM THE WORLD BANK LOAN

The budget of Gazi University was USD2.807.000 in Road Improvement and Traffic Safety Project. The
funds of the Loan, were first used in 1997, and only USD1.543.151 (which is 52 % of the amount allocated
to the Gazi University) could be expended upon Bank's not extending the closing date of the loan until the
closing date of the Loan. The loan funds have been spent for 3 different subjects in the Project.

1.    First Aid Training Center:
This center has been founded, to give the target groups the knowledge and skills about first aid. The
expenditure has been made for the training of trainers who will work at the 112 communication centers and
for the maquettes to be used for training, and for the other educational materials.

2.   Trauma Center:
It has been founded, to improve the knowledge and skills of the medical doctors, nurses, emergency aid
technicians and the trainers. The purchases are generally related to the equipment for monitoring, survey and
treatment of the patients.


                                                      - 31 -

3.   Emergency Aid Practicing Area:
It has been founded, under the trauma center, to use the knowledge and the skills at the time of accident,
under the observation of trainers. 5 ambulances with full equipment, 2 rescue vehicles and the
communication system, will be used for this aim, when the pilot project is completed.

               PROPERTIES OF THE GAZI UNIVERSITY PILOT PROJECT AREA

          The Pilot Project area, is the highway between Ankara and Kulu Intersection with a total distance
of 100 kms. In this road 3 ambulance stations were founded by the Ministry of Health.

1.    Gölbaþý Station; it is 15 km away from Ankara, inside the Central Primary Health Care Center of the
Gölbaþý District which has 30.000 population.
2. Ahiboz Station; it is 35 km away from Ankara. The station is inside the Primary Health Care Center of
Ahiboz Village.
3. Kulu Station; it is 80 km away from Ankara. It is inside the Facility of Turkish Drivers and Vehicle
Owners Federation.

All expenditures pertaining to fully equipped ambulances, ambulance workers, wirelesses and phones for
communication and expending materials of ambulances and all the other expenditures have been covered by
the Ministry of Health. 5 ambulances were bought with the World Bank Loan and were put into service in
August 2002, and 112 communication system unit was put into service in February 2003.

Ambulance stations serve for the calls pertaining to the traffic accidents and other urgent calls (including
work-related accidents, fire and other medical reasons).    In 1997, 437 traffic accidents occurred. In 2002
the number of accidents was 371.

According to 1997, the number of accidents decreased by 15 %.


                                                            Death

                                        1997                                2002

                             Number        Percentage(%)     Number            Percentage (%)

            Driver             10              35,7             8                  57,14


            Passenger          15              53,6             6                  42,86


            Pedestrian          3              10,7              -                   -



            Total              28              100,0            14                 100,0


Number of Fatalities

n In year 2002 there was a decrease of;
    15% in the number of traffic accidents;
    50% in fatalities caused by traffic accidents and



                                                      - 32 -

    9,5% in injuries caused by traffic accidents.
n In year 1997 the total number of fatalities and injuries was 386;
In year 2002 this number was 338.

THE FOLLOWING BYLAWS WERE PUT INTO EFFECT
n 1- Regulation on Emergency Medical Services
· Published in the Official Gazette and put into force in May 11th, 2000.
n 2- Regulation on Ambulances and Ambulance Services
· Published in the Official Gazette and put into force in June 8th, 2001.
n 3- Regulation on First Aid

Published in the Official Gazette and was put into force in May 22 nd, 2002.

IN YEAR 2002, TO MEET THE NEED FOR FIRST AID TRAINING OF TRAINERS, "TRAINING OF
TRAINERS PROGRAMS" WERE PLANNED                         BY THE MINISTRY OF HEALTH. IN THESE
PROGRAMS A TOTAL OF 126 MEDICAL STAFF WERE TRAINED, AND GAZI UNIVERSITY
TRAINED 36 OF THEM.
EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS PLANNED AND PERFORMED FOR THE TRAINING OF THE
STAFF WHO WILL WORK IN THE "FIRST AID AND EMERGENCY AID SERVICES" AND
NUMBER OF STUDENTS ATTENDING THESE PROGRAMS:

1.    Training of 7 residents ( M.D.) in the Emergency Department (Trauma Center) of Gazi University,
Medical Faculty,
2.    Training of 2 Ph.D (M.D.). and 7 M.Sc. students (Emergency Medical Technicians) in the Emergency
Medicine Program of Gazi University, Institute of Health Sciences,
3.    30 students in Emergency Medical Technician Licence Program (will begin at Autumn Semester in
2003) in Health Services, Occupational Academy of Gazi University.

              ACTIVITIES OF GAZI UNIVERSITY, INSTITUTE OF RESEARCH AND
                                      PREVENTION OF ACCIDENTS

1.    Coordinating training which was planned for staffing of "rescue and first aid services" (realized by the
World Bank Loan). Totally 78 persons participated in the one-week course which was repeated twice.
2.    First Aid Training of Trainees who will work in cities: Totally 36 persons participated in the one-week
course which was repeated twice. The course was certificated by the Ministry of Health.
3.    First Aid Training course of two days, was given to first grade medical faculty students in groups of 15
pupils (total 150 students attended the course).

                          LESSONS LEARNED FROM THE PILOT PROJECT
                                                 TRAINING

1.    The present situation of first aid in Turkey is normally at an acceptable level within each branch of the
Emergency Service (Medical Care/Ambulance Service, Police/Gendarme, Rescue/Fire Brigades in the big
cities), but they are not coordinated and have no training for cooperation, neither on the spot of an accident
nor at staff level.
2.    Due to the high number of injured people, it is important that many of the road users should be able to
perform some elementary first aid. For this reason, first aid training should be implemented widely.
3.    In combination with a Public Education of Traffic Safety and First Aid, there should also be a system
for evaluation of the results.


                                                      - 33 -

                          COORDINATION & EMERGENCY CALL SERVICE

It is known that there are more than 50 different telephone numbers to remember and to dial, if you are in
need of help in Turkey. It is very important to have one coordinating body for all the Emergency Services
and that this body, should have the capacity to coordinate all the Emergency Services (Police/Gendarme,
Hospitals/Ambulance Services, Rescue/Fire Departments, TSOF(NGO), Civil Defense and Military
Sources) during large catastrophes.

The potential for coordinated operations among all these organizations, has however not been utilized. From
an efficiency point of view, the present limited cooperation, needs to be improved in following topics:

    l Joint Training of Emergency personnel from different Emergency Services,
    l How to use and take advantages from a Joint Alarm Emergency System,
    l Implementation of new rules and regulations; - Evaluation of accidents; - Research;
    l Training programs and workshops should be held at all levels (ministry-, provincial- and city-level)
         in order to promote understanding and cooperation among the Emergency Services,
    l A system of Joint Alarm Emergency Centers for all of the Emergency Services should also be
         discussed and prepared.
    l Concerning the Turkish General Statistics Form, the row for Traffic Accidents should be specified.
         For instance, it should be possible to see easily how many of the victims died and after how long
         time. (Within 24 hours, within 30 days)




                                GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF SECURITY
     IV- THE SUMMARY OF ICR FOR THE PART OF RISP (ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND
        SAFETY PROJECT) PERTAINING TO GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF SECURITY
                                           (NATIONAL POLICE)

Achievement of Targets and Outcomes
The Outcome of Targets/ Achievement

It can be accepted that Road Safety Project has achieved its targets in general. Although the total amount of
the loan and the foreign allocation of General Directorate of Security, couldn't be utilized by the original
loan closing date and the amount of USD 22.227.616 was cancelled upon the Bank's not extending the
closing date of the loan. On the basis of (a) success reached in the good cooperation and coordination
among the implementing agencies which have diverse tasks about road safety, during the project life; (b)
progressive steps taken by these agencies on the organization and development, with respect to starting stage
and (c) beginning of the implementation of the "National Road Safety Report For Turkey", it can be said
that, the main initial goals of the Loan Agreement have been achieved.
As mentioned in the "Loan Agreement"; the main aim of the General Directorate of Turkish National Police,
is enforcing and implementing of the traffic legislation by providing the police with monitoring and control
equipment.
In this respect, there would be 3 important procurements of the Turkish National Police. The Police would
realize the following features:

1.     By procuring of 121 fully equipped Traffic Police Patrol Cars




                                                     - 34 -

This procurement would enable police, to enforce the laws in away that there would be 1 car approximately
at each 40 km, across the 4500 km road network, on which the 80 % of accidents are occurring. Also these
121 fully equipped cars would have a) GSM/GPRS tablet PC that enable people to obtain vehicle, driver and
accident information; b) GPS device that enable to determine the coordinates of accidents, also c) video
camera with radar, alcoholmeter, digital compact camera, professional type flash light etc. Modern
enforcement equipment installed cars would:
     -    keep drivers under continuous enforcement,
     -    provide less breaking the regulations,
     -    make the 100 fine point implementation more efficient.

But unfortunately, this procurement couldn't be realized and the Project is being carried with the existing
cars of the Traffic Units.

2.   By establishing of nonstop online communication from patrol cars and center units and also by saving
the data under healthy conditions (by purchase, installation and implementation of Traffic Information
System):
     -    collecting all the data by GPS device, shall enable the related officials to determine the place of
          black spots on the digital camera correctly,
     -    collecting all the data related to traffic in the same center, shall enable local units to patrol, in the
          view of this collected information,
     -    it shall enable to plan the optimum staff and equipment,
     -    to ensure the consistency of the data and quick- easy access,
     -    to obtain the traffic accident statistics momentarily,
     -    to control the local patrol cars from the center and monitor the activities,
     -    to be able to plan the rehabilitation of roads more effectively by having information basing on
          quicker and correct accident statistics,
     -    to give an end to the delays and manual errors when transferring the traffic fines to the system
          during the control activities,
     -    to provide easy access for the traffic researchers or agencies to data.
     -    to question the driver license, fine point and vehicle information momentarily, via tablet PC on the
          spot,
     -    to make the 100 fine point implementation more efficient,
     -    automatic mechanism for making decision,
     -    planning opportunity for future,
     -    expert solutions to the problems,
     -    3 dimensional examination for the black spots,
     -    to evaluate the accident information momentarily,
     -    to evaluate the accident, fine, and enforcement data with the Turkey's country coordinates,
     -    in the view of the new amendments of the traffic laws, it shall enable the police to catch the
          violators (speed, alcohol etc.) without any delay.

Traffic Information System, enables also the other traffic related agencies such as (General Directorate of
Highways, Gendarme, Ministry of Education, Ministry of Health, Statistics Institute of Turkey) to access to
the data related to themselves when they establish their own infrastructures.

3.   By training of traffic police on modern enforcement methods in the country and abroad;
It shall enable the Police to make the enforcement more efficient by transferring the latest enforcement
methods in developed countries to Turkey.




                                                         - 35 -

Achieved Goals and Outcomes

The routine training of traffic police is being carried on by national budget funds. In addition to this, tablet
PC user training is being provided for the staffs that are responsible for enforcement on the National Project
Alignment. Delivery and acceptance regarding the procurement of professional type flashlights have been
completed.The procurement of 121 alcohol test devices and digital compact cameras have been
completed.The equipment were delivered, and inspection and acceptance tests are still being carried on.

The contract signed on 10 September 2002 for the provision of the Traffic Information System, has been
successfully completed and currently at the acceptance stage. Traffic Information System has been designed
taking into account also the other agencies, responsible for road safety. The achieved activities of the project
so far are:

      -   2 classrooms in the Eskiºehir Traffic Police School, has been furnished and the technical equipment
          necessary for the training of the staff involved in the project, have been provided.
      -   Having been completed the technical infrastructure, furnishing and construction works, a system
          center has been established.
      -   744 Computers, 356 Printers and 19.250 meter cabling have been provided for 15 Traffic
          Enforcement Agents, 15 Traffic Register Agents, 66 Traffic Enforcement and Register Agents, 15
          Rural (Regional) Traffic Enforcement Agents, 48 Rural Traffic Enforcement Sub Agents across
          the Turkey. In addition to this, 56 traffic units have been connected to the central system by
          providing them with router, switch, modem, cabling etc. network investments.
      -   Software, hardware, system and test trainings have been provided for the Anýttepe staff that are
          involved in the test and acceptance processes of Traffic Information System.
      -   Software of Traffic Information System has been completed,
      -   The procurement of 4.000 GPS devices and 234 Tablet PC's for using in the Traffic Patrol Cars
          have been completed.
      -   An Internet website that introduces the Traffic Information System and Traffic Services
          Headquarters and enables all the people to reach all kinds of data and to online question has been
          completed. Turkish citizens can obtain information pertaining to the vehicle, fine point, accident
          and people involved in accidents, via above mentioned website.

Via the tablet computers and Traffic Police Patrol cars that were procured in the context of Traffic
Information System, the online questioning and fine inputs shall be done. In this respect; having provided the
required training to those staff, such implementations have been started in Ankara city. It has been
understood from those implementations experienced in Ankara, that the tablet computers affected the speed
of enforcement in positive way. So the effectiveness of enforcement has been increased. All the staff involved
in the National Project Alignment, shall be provided with required training so that the above mentioned
implementations, shall be started soon. By using the special allocation budget used for Traffic Services and
also the national budget, it is being considered to procure new tablet computers to be used in approximately
3.000 traffic police patrol cars, across the Turkey. In this context, it has been planned to procure 225 each
new tablet computers in 2003.

In the context of project, targeted program enforcement activities about speed, alcohol, seat belt were held on
the Pilot Project Alignment with the consultant firm, SweRoad. In light of this experience, new enforcement
strategies, have been established across the country.

The report titled "National Road Safety Program for Turkey" prepared by the consultant firm, SweRoad,
with the contribution of the related and authorized institutions has been issued to all the agencies, responsible


                                                       - 36 -

for road safety and to local police units. In light of this report, National Project has been started to reach the
goals emerged from the same report. In this context; implementations pertaining to goal based enforcement as
speed, alcohol and seat belt are being conducted. To give an example 25 % of activities of all the patrol
units' relates to speed enforcement. In addition to this, all the patrol units, are conducting their activities
based on the work plans prepared for daily, weekly and special intervals (holly days, holidays etc.). The
death numbers of accidents between "2002-2006" has been planned to be decreased about 20 %. And the
death rate in the first 3 months of 2002-2003 has been decreased nearly 9 %.

Implementations and the Main Factors That Affected the Outcomes

The bureaucratic obstacles of both General Directorate of Turkish National Police, other agencies and the
World Bank, have disaffected the project. Because of not having the sufficient information about the new
topics to be carried by the Police (as Traffic Information System is not a new topic only for our Institution
but new also for the most developed countries), change of the top managers very often, the project hasn't
been successful as far as foreseen in the beginning. In addition to this, because of the long durations for the
Bank's "no objection" process; it couldn't be possible to conduct the project in desired speed.

The Performance of the Bank and the Borrower

During the beginning years of the Project, the World Bank considerably delayed the release of it's no
objections for the bidding documents and the bid evaluation reports. Following the decentralization of the
procurement to the Country Unit, the Bank accelerated it's reviews and no objections and a continuous
procurement support was received from the Bank with respect to Bank's procurement procedures, during the
preparation of bidding documents and evaluation of bids. Despite the above mentioned negative impacts on
the implementation and minor delays experienced in Ankara Office due to heavy procurement load of other
projects, we have succeeded to maintain a good cooperation and coordination between our staff and the
Bank's Country Office staff, for the timely and perfect implementation of the procurements in our program.

Lessons Emerged from Project

It shall be better, if the following conditions are fulfilled in the future loans:

     -     the staff involved in the project shouldn't be replaced very often,
     -     technical consultants in adequate numbers, should be provided both in the World Bank and in the
           Treasury, to provide the agents technical support, when necessary.

V. THE SUMMARY OF ICR FOR THE PART OF RISP ( ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND SAFETY
            PROJECT) PERTAINING TO GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS

 Please be informed that some of data and evaluation have been given in the first 4 pages of the MAIN
                                 SUMMARY REPORT under the heading of I

      1. EVALUATION OF PURCHASED MACHINERY, EQUIPMENT AND SPARE PARTS

11.614 machines and equipment in the amount of US$465.373.264, exist in the machinery fleet of the
General Directorate of Highways as of 2003. In spite of the fact that the number of machinery and
equipment seems big, at first sight, 70 % of the machines have completed their economic lives. As a result of
aging of machinery fleet, the expenses of maintenance and repairs and operation costs of machinery have
been increasing, in addition to significant increases in fuel         consumption of machinery. So, we have to


                                                         - 37 -

renew our machinery fleet and also we have to optimize the model and number of machines. The machines
purchased under 4048 A-TU and 4049-TU loans, have great contribution to our machinery fleet. The
quality of services carried out, have also increased.

7 each road sweepers purchased, are being used for road cleaning services effectively. For traffic safety, it is
important to clean the wastes deposited on roads formed as a result of normal climatic conditions, vehicles
travelling on roads, road surface wearings or dust and mud coming from village or secondary roads.
Cleaning the roads regularly, provides traffic safety. However, the number of road sweepers in our
machinery fleet is not enough to carry out the road cleaning services on our 62.000 km length highways.

70 each tandem rollers purchased, are being used for pavement repairs. In Turkey, most of the goods and
people, are carried through highways. So, the roads which don't have enough standard, are damaged
seriously, and maintenance requirements of roads increase. Tandem Rollers are being used for local repairs
of pavements. Repairs of physical deformations and holes on roads, increase the resistance and lifetime of
pavement. The better road surfaces, provide also driving comfort.

6 each Asphalt Plants purchased, are being operated efficiently in Bursa - Bandýrma, Konya - Beyþehir,
Ankara - Beypazarý, Kayseri -Niðde, Diyarbakýr - Þanlýurfa and Erzurum. The roads in these areas, are
being    repaired by using bituminous material produced by these asphalt plants. Traffic safety on the
maintained and rehabilitated roads, can be achieved more effectively.

15 each field vehicles (4x4) purchased, are being generally used for road control services.           So, the
responsible administrative staff, using these vehicles inspect and control the roads, the maintenance and
snow removal services on roads, in any climatic conditions. So, these duties are being performed more
efficiently.

1 each chip spreader purchased for testing and experimenting the new self propelled type, is being used in
Bursa Division effectively and efficiently. Thanks to developed technology of chip spreader, so that we have
saved on chip and aggregate, the quality of paving have been increased       and the durability of pavements
have been prolonged. Therefore, we can have better road conditions by using new chip spreader. However,
we can not supply 32 each Self Propelled Chip spreaders required by the other 16 Regional Directorates of
Highways, because of lack of necessary allocations.

115 each Traffic Control Vehicles purchased, were allocated for District Chief Offices. These vehicles are
being used for both traffic markings and road maintenance services. The required materials and service
personnel, are being carried by these vehicles for road maintenance and traffic marking works. Besides, these
vehicles are being used also for urgent road and traffic conditions such as traffic accidents, landslides etc.
So, we can achieve traffic safety and road maintenance services more effectively. The operation costs of the
new vehicles are very lower than the older ones. Besides, 80 each worn out Inter TOE 330 E were put out of
service.

Procurement of spare parts also positively affected our machinery fleet on maintenance and repair works.
Training courses of purchased machines, introduced new and advanced technologies, and improved the
performance of the staff. As a result of the partial modernization of machinery fleet, road, maintenance and
traffic safety services can be performed more efficiently.

We appreciate the value of these new machines purchased through 4048 - A TU and 4049 - TU loans. Our
fleet were rehabilitated and modernized partially by these new machines. But, we have to express with
sorrow that, the Bank have not been willing to allocate enough funds for the machinery requirements of


                                                      - 38 -

the General Directorate of Highways. To obtain better road maintenance and traffic safety services, we have
to renew our machinery fleet urgently, most of which have completed their economic lives.

                          2. TREATMENT OF ACCIDENT BLACK SPOTS

There is only 87 Black Spots to be rehabilitated in Turkey since 317 Black Spots which were combined
under 210 small contracts, were rehabilitated using Local and Loan funds.
The Bank disbursed USD 18.464.000 for the rehabilitation of these black spots. Besides this, KGM, has
rehabilitated 256 Black Spots in the Year 2000 and 146 Black Spots in the Year 2001 using only Local
funds.
These rehabilitated Black Spots are now being observed for a period of 3 years.
There are 449 Black Spots, according to the evaluation of the General Directorate of Security. 255 of them,
have been already rehabilitated through force account works, local contracts and local funds and within
RISP, as mentioned above. 60 of them, are being checked with the speed enforcement of the Police. 107
Black Spots are on the alignments which will be rehabilitated in the road construction contracts which will be
bid.
So, for the moment, remaining 87 Black Spots are waiting solution.

                                            3. STATE ROADS

CWA ­ I,     Ankara ­ Kýrýkkale
CWA ­ II,    Sungurlu ­ Delice
CWA ­ III, Çorum ­ Sungurlu
CWA ­ 5      Uþak ­ Kula
CWY ­ 1      Ankara ­ Polatlý ­ Sivrihisar (I. Part) Code Numbered ICB contracts, have been awarded and
the Bank disbursed USD 65.573.000 for these contracts.

                                          4. TOWN PASSAGES

141 small contracts, were awarded and town passages were rehabilitated. The Bank disbursed USD
6.435.000 for these small contracts.




                                                     - 39 -

RATING OF THE IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES AND BORROWER BY THE KGM (HS: Highly
Satisfactory, S: Satisfactory, U: Unsatisfactory)

                                     Gazi       Gen.Dir. of Min. of Nat.  KGM        Overall
                                   University    Security   Education
Preparation                           HS           HS          HS         HS           HS
Government Implementation             HS           HS          HS          S            S
Performance
Implementation Agency                 HS           HS          HS          S            S
Performance
Overall                               HS           HS          HS          S            S

Rating of Bank performance by the KGM

Preparation and Appraisal                          S
Actions and Precautions to be taken               U
Responsibility for the Project                    U
The Results, Outputs Obtained                     U
Overall Rating                                   U (*)

(*)  Please see the detailed reasons for unsatisfactory evaluation given in the "Additional Annex 8,
Borrower Contribution" between pages 23-27 of the ICR.




                                                  - 40 -

- 41 -

