Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4048 TU
Loan Agreement
(Road Improvement and Traffic Safety Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated June 24, 1996
LOAN NUMBER 4048 TU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 24, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF TURKEY (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Page  2
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
"Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of 
any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) 
for the purpose of any payment to 
persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the 
knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a decision of the United 
Nations Security 
Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
(c)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)
An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further 
withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 
3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“HIMP” means the Highway Investment and Maintenance Program of the 
Borrower for the period 1996-2000;
(b)
“Road Traffic Safety Action Plan” means the road traffic safety action 
plan of the Borrower dated May 10, 1996, as such action plan may be amended from time 
to time as agreed with the Bank;
(c)
“KGM” means the General Directorate of Highways within the Ministry of 
Public Works and Settlement of the Borrower;
(d)
“Road Traffic Safety Task Force” means the intra-governmental task force 
on road safety consisting of representations of KGM, the Traffic Police Department of 
the Borrower’s Ministry of Interior, the Borrower’s Ministry of Environment, the 
Borrower’s Ministry of Health and Gazi University;
(e)
“Single Currency Loan” means the loan provided under the Loan Agreement 
of even date herewith between the Borrower and the Bank for the financing of the 
Project; and
(f)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agree\1fment, various currencies that 
shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred fifty million 
dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 2003 or such later date as the 
Page  3
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately 
preceding each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning 
with the Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the 
Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum, of the 
outstanding borrowings of 
the Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions 
thereof as the Bank has allocated 
to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) 
loans which may be made by 
the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates 
determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar 
year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows:
"(a)
The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn 
and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 
of 1%). On each of the dates specified 
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall 
pay interest accrued on 
the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
"(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify  the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of 
such Quarter."
"(c)
(iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 
1, April 1, 
July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
Page  4
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the 
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall 
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
(including those for the Special Account) for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information con\1fcerning said 
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from 
time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
Page  5
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Undersecretary of the Treasury of the Borrower is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Basbakanlik
Hazine Mustesarligi
  Inonu Bulvari
Emek - Ankara
Republic of Turkey
Cable address:
Telex:
MALIYE
821-42285 (MLYE-TR) or
Hazine, Ankara
821-42689 (ANK-TR)
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
  197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
  248423 (RCA),
   64145 (WUI) or
   82987 (FTCC)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF TURKEY
By /s/ Aydin Karaoz
Authorized Representative
Page  6
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Kenneth G. Lay
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the Loan
   % of
Allocated (Expressed
Expenditures
Category
in Dollar Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
63%
(a) Under Part A.1
91,200,000 
of the Project
(b) Under Part B
13,200,000
of the Project
(2)
Goods
100% of foreign
expenditures
(a) Under Parts A
 3,000,000
100% of local
and C of the Project
expenditures (ex-
factory cost)
(b) Under Part B
24,600,000
and 60% of local
of the Project 
expenditures for 
other items
procured locally
 (3)
Consultants'
100%
services
(a) Under Parts A
 2,880,000
and C of the Project
(b) Under Part B
   720,000
of the Project
(4)
Unallocated
14,400,000
      ___________
TOTAL
      150,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures under Part B of the Project unless 
the Borrower has furnished to the Bank satisfactory evidence of the establishment of 
Page  7
the Road Traffic Safety Task Force to coordinate the carrying out of the Road Traffic 
Safety Action Plan.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures (i) for goods and works under contracts 
costing less than $2,000,000 equivalent, (ii) for services provided by consulting 
firms under contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent, and (iii) for services 
provided by individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent, under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (i) reduce road transport costs through 
infrastructure improvements and the protection of past investments in the highway 
sector through rehabilitation and strengthening of paved highways; (ii) improve 
traffic safety on state and provincial roads; (iii) improve the operational efficiency 
of the management of highways through the implementation of management systems and 
enhanced computerization; and (iv) improve the assessment of environmental factors in 
project selection and design.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives.
Part A:
Road Improvement Program
(1)
State Road Rehabilitation
Rehabilitation or upgrading of about 600 km of high priority state roads and 
associated bridges, including asphalt paving and geometric or capacity improvements as 
needed, including the rehabilitation of the Ankara-Kirikkale road (about 78 km).
(2)
Improvement of Rural Roads
Rehabilitation or upgrading of about 300 km of rural (provincial) roads and town 
passages through the provision of all weather asphaltic surface.
Part B:
Road Traffic Safety Action Plan
Carrying out of the Road Traffic Safety Action Plan consisting of:
(1)
improvements (signing, marking, geometric improvements to intersections) to 
sections of state roads identified as accident black spots;
(2)
support for the routine maintenance of traffic safety measures through the 
provision of road safety materials (modern signing, marking and guardrailing 
materials);
(3)
support for the enforcement of traffic regulations through the provision of 
monitoring and control equipment;
(4)
support for the delivery of health services through the provision of equipment 
and medical supplies;
(5)
support for the campaign to increase public awareness of the Road Traffic Safety 
Action Plan through the provision of education equipment and information; and
(6)
support for the design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the  Road 
Traffic Safety Action Plan through the provision of technical assistance and training. 
Part C:
Institutional Development
(1)
Computer Network
Page  8
Upgrading of KGM’s client/server network, the computerization of functions and 
the introduction of  modern management systems.
(2)
Pavement Management System
(a) 
Strengthening of KGM’s capacity for collection of data on pavement 
surface conditions and road geometry through the provision of equipment and technical 
assistance.
(b) 
Introduction of a bridge management system by strengthening KGM’s 
existing computerized bridge inventory.
(3)
Environmental Assessment
Strengthening of KGM’s environmental impact assessment capability through the 
provision of training. 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
On each March 15 and September 15
beginning March 15, 2002
through September 15, 2013 
6,250,000
___________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective 
dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 
4.03.
Premiums on Prepayment
Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium payable on 
the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage 
specified for the applicable time of prepayment below:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
The interest rate (ex-pressed as a 
percentage per annum) applicable to 
Page  9
the Loan on the day of prepayment 
multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.18
before maturity
More than three years but
0.35
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.65
not more than eleven years
before maturity
More than eleven years but not
0.88
more than fifteen years
before maturity
More than fifteen years before
1.00
maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
 General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:
 International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods and works to be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
(a)
Prequalification
Bidders for works shall be prequalified in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
 Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Works estimated to cost less than $4,000,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount, when added to the aggregate amount of the cost of contracts to be 
procured under Part C.1 of Schedule 4 of the Single Currency Loan, not to exceed 
$55,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Traffic safety equipment and computers estimated to cost less than $250,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount, when added to the aggregate amount 
Page  10
of the cost of contracts to be procured under Part C.2 of Schedule 4 of the Single 
Currency Loan, not to exceed $2,100,000 equivalent, and items of a specialized nature 
made by a few manufacturers, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent or less per contract and up to an 
aggregate amount, when added to the aggregate amount of the cost of contracts to be 
procured under Part C.3 of Schedule 4 of the Single Currency Loan, not to exceed 
$700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national 
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $500,000 per contract and up to an aggregate 
amount, when added to the aggregate amount of the cost of contracts to be procured 
under Part C.4 of Schedule 4 of the Single Currency Loan, not to exceed $18,000,000 
equivalent, may be procured under unit rate or lump sum contracts awarded on the basis 
of bids obtained from at least three qualified domestic contractors in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.  The documents shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotations for the 
required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete the 
contract. 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and 
with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract awarded on the basis of the provisions of Part B 
of this Section, and the first two contracts awarded on the basis of the provisions of 
Parts C.1 and C.4 of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.
Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance 
with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts 
shall be based on the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by 
the Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where 
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the Bank, other standard 
forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the provisions of 
the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short 
lists, selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and 
contracts, shall not apply to: (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms 
Page  11
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for the 
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent 
each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms 
of reference for such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting firms; (c) 
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank; (d) amendments 
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to 
$100,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of 
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.
SCHEDULE 5
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out Parts A and C of the Project through KGM.
2.
The Borrower shall maintain, through KGM, the policy of ensuring an adequate 
balance between road improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance and ensuring that 
state roadworks included in the HIMP are economically viable and environmentally sound 
according to criteria satisfactory to the Bank.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure, through KGM, that state roadworks proposed to be 
carried out under Part A (1) of the Project and financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan are technically and environmentally sound, and that such state roadworks have an 
estimated rate of return of at least 12%.
4.
The Borrower shall obtain, through KGM, the prior approval of the Bank with 
respect to any roadworks to be carried out under Part A of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, such approval to be based, inter alia, on an 
environmental analysis prepared in accordance with criteria satisfactory to the Bank, 
together with an evaluation of such roadworks by the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Environment.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure, through KGM, that any roadworks to be carried out 
under Part A (2) of the Project with annual average daily traffic: (a) above 250 
vehicles, have an economic rate of return of at least 12%; (b) between 150 and 250 
vehicles, have an economic rate of return of at least 10%; and (c) below 150 vehicles, 
have an economic rate of return of at least 8%, all to be calculated in accordance 
with a methodology acceptable to the Bank.
6.
The Borrower shall carry out, through the Road Traffic Safety Task Force, the 
Road Traffic Safety Action Plan under Part B of the Project on the basis of a 
timetable and targets included in said Action Plan, as agreed with the Bank.
7.
The Borrower shall carry out, through KGM and the Road Traffic Safety Task 
Force, by May 31 and November 30 of each year, together with the Bank, a review of the 
following:
(a)
the progress achieved in the execution of the HIMP, as said HIMP is 
revised annually; the physical and financial condition of said HIMP for the previous 
year based on aggregated project data; and the proposed activities under said HIMP for 
the forthcoming year, including budgetary allocations;
(b)
the progress achieved in carrying out Part B of the Project during the 
preceding six-month period, said progress to be reviewed on the basis of the timetable 
and targets included in the Road Traffic Safety Action Plan;
(c)
the progress made towards achieving the objectives of Part C of the 
Project during the preceding six-month period; and
(d)
the experience of the Borrower in the execution of contracts financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan.
8.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Bank, 
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
Page  12
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about November 30, 1998, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 1998, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Bank’siews on the matter.
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), and (3) set 
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to 
$12,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $6,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Loan Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed the equivalent of $20,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the 
Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant 
to para\1fgraph 4 of 
this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect 
of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and 
other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for 
eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
Page  13
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the 
Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions.
