                                   Documentof
                                The World Bank




                                                         ReportNo.: 31520




             PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                     TURKEY

          ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND TRAFFIC SAFETY PROJECT


                  (LOANS CPL-40480; SCL-4048A; SCL-40490)


                                 February 7,2005




Sector, Thematic,and Global Evaluation Group
OperationsEvaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = Turkish Lira (TL)

1994                      US$l.oo                  TL 14,000
1995                      US$l-00                  TL 39,000
1996                      US$1.oo                  TL 50,000
1997                      US$l.OO                  TL 75,000
1998                      US$1.oo                  TL 108,000
1999                      US$l.oo                  TL 206,000
2000                      US$1.oo
                          US$l.oo                  TL 315,000
2001                                               TL 540,000
2002                      US$1.oo                  TL 670,000
2003                      US$l.oo                  TL1,445,000
2004                      US$l.oo                  TL1,510,000


Abbreviations and Acronyms

CAS               Country Assistance Strategy
ERR               economic rate o f return
EU                European Union
ICR               ImplementationCompletion Report
KGM               General Directorate o f Highways
NRSP              National Road Safety Program
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
PFPSAL            Programmatic Financial and Public Sector Adjustment Loan I1
TTP               TurkishTraffic Police

Fiscal Year

Government:               January 1-December 31




Director-General, OperationsEvaluation                   : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department               :  Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector ,Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group   :  Mr.Alain Barbu
Task Manager                                             : Mr.PeterFreeman

                                                              i


   OED Mission: Enhancing development effectiveness through excellence and independence in evaluation.


 About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensure the integrityof the Banks self-evaluation processand to verify that the Banks work is
 producingthe expected results,and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and procedures through
 the disseminationof lessons drawn from experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lending operations. Inselectingoperations for assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative,large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectors or Bank management have requestedassessments;and those that are likely to generate
 important lessons. The projects,topics, and analytical approaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluation
 studies.
      A Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED management approval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oedleta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objectives: The extent to which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, CountryAssistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Sostainabilify: The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnstitutional Development Impact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements andlor (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                        ...
                                                                       111



Contents

Principal Ratings          ................................................................................................................         v

Key Staff Responsible               ........................................................................................................        v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................            ..
                                                                                                                                                  vi1

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................           i x

1 Background
  .                      ..................................................................................................................         1

2 Objectives and Overview
  .      . .                                    .............................................................................................       2

3 Preparation and Implementation
  .                                                            ...............................................................................      3

4.   Ratings    ..........................................................................................................................          5

5.   Conclusions and Lessons                    ...........................................................................................       12

Annex A L i s t of Country Officials Consulted
            .                                                                  ..............................................................     15

Annex B     .Basic     Data Sheet           ..............................................................................................        16

Annex C     .Borrower           Comments             ......................................................................................       19


Box 1: Project Objectives and Components                                   ...................................................................     2

Table 1  .Decreases in            Traffic Accidents within 3 years. after Rehabilitation of the
      Black Spots improved in 1997 in the Road Improvement and Safety Project                                                                   ....6
Figure 1 Effect o f Improvements to Black Spots (1996-2000)
           .                                                                                               .....................................   7




This report was preparedby PeterFreeman.who assessedthe project inJuly 2004 The report was edited
by William Hurlbut. andRomaynePereiraprovidedadministrativesupport                                    .          .


                                                         V



 PrincipalRatings
                                         ICR*                   ICR Review*                         PPAR
"_^____               --
          _l_l_____l
                   _I   ""         ___^1111_1                1^_11--1~-___1__" - - - - 1 - ~ ^ 1 1 - _ _ " ~
 Outcome                            Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory         Moderately Satisfactory
 Sustainability                          Likely                      Likely                          Likely
 Institutional Development             Modest                       Modest                          Modest
 Impact
 Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                 Satisfactory                    Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance               Satisfactory                Unsatisfactory                   Satisfactory
 * The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) a self-evaluation by the responsibleoperational division of the Bank.
                                             IS
 The ICR Review is an intermediateOperations Evaluation Department (OED) productthat seeks to independentlyverify
 the findings of the ICR.


 Key Staff Responsible
 Project                          Task Manager/Leader                Division Chief/           Country Director
                                                                     Sector Director
  Appraisal                            Mirtha Pokorny               Ricardo Halperin               Kenneth Lay
  Completion                           Mirtha Pokorny                   Eva Molnar              Andrew Vorkink


                                              vii


Preface

        This is a ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR), onthe Road
Improvement and Traflc Safety Project (Loans CPL-40480; SCL-4048A; SCL-40490).
The original amount for US$250 millionequivalent was approved on June 20, 1996. At
the request o f the Government o f Turkey US$150 milliono f this amount was later made
available inDeutschmarks, which were later converted to Euros, hence additional loan
agreements were concluded. The total project amount was estimated to be US$389.30
millionat appraisal. Taking into account the implicationso f the financial crisis inTurkey
during2001/02, it was decided not to extend the project closure date ofMarch 31,2003,
even though the project hadnot beenfully completed. At closure some US$202.32
million o fthe loans hadbeendisbursedand US$308.37 million o f the total project cost
had beenexpended. US$20.25 million was cancelled, whilst a further US$27.43 million
was accounted for by changes incurrency values during implementation.

        The project was selected for assessmentbecausethere was a difference of opinion
between the implementing agency and the Bank on project implementation issues and to
review the impact of the traffic safety component, which was both innovative and
effective. It was considered likely that an assessment also would provide a major learning
opportunity for others contemplating similar projects. The PPAR will further OED's
overall knowledge base on road safety programs, as well as governance and institutional
issues inthe transport sector. And finally, it will serve as an input into a forthcoming
country assistance evaluation (CAE) o f Turkey.

        OED preparedthis report based on an examinationo f the relevant Staff Appraisal
Report, ImplementationCompletionReport, legal agreements, project files and archives,
as well as other relevant reports, memoranda, andworking papers. Discussions were also
heldwitha number o f Bank staff. An OED missionvisited Turkey inJuly 2004,
conducted site visits, and discussed both the project andthe effectiveness o f Bank
assistance with government officials and stakeholders. Their kindassistance i s gratefully
acknowledged.

        Following standard OED procedures, copies o f the draft PPAR were sent to
government officials and agencies for their review and comments. Comments have been
taken into account inthe text and are included as Annex C.


                                                i x


 Summary

          Transport currently has a highpriority inTurkey, partly because o f the country's
 strategic positionbetweenEurope and Asia making it a major transit route, especially for
 freighttraffic, andpartly because good communications support economic development,
 includingtrade and tourism. However, the recent sustained growth inroad traffic, much
 o f it consisting o f heavy trucks, has proved costly, because Turkey's roadtraffic safety
 recordhas become a major cause for concern. With this inmind, the Bank agreed to
 support the Road Improvement and TrafJicSafety Project, reviewedinthis PPAR by
 OED. This project was designed to reduce roadtransport costs through improvements to
 state and provincial pavedhighways, improve traffic safety, and to a lesser extent,
 improve operational efficiency o f the Roads Directorate as well as to ensure that
 environmental factors were adequately addressed.

          An additional factor o f increasing importance to Turkey was its application for
 accession to the European Union. BecauseTurkey's road accident record i s considerably
worse than the European average, it became a further reason for the government to try to
improve the situation.

          The outcome ofthe project is rated moderately satisfactory. Although the traffic
safety component was successful and a number o f important road improvementswere
completed, the higher than expected costs, long delays, and the decisionnot to extend the
closing date, leading to unfinishedconstruction andprocurement arrangements, counted
against a fully satisfactory outcome.

          Institutionaldevelopment impact is rated as modest because o f continuing
deficiencies inthe operational practices o f the General Directorate o f Highways (KGM),
including calling for constructiontendersbased only on preliminary designs and
implementingtoo many projects simultaneously due to poor prioritization, leadingto
slow progress on individual projects. An ambitious Highway Information System was
unfinishedat project closure. Sustainability onthe other handis regarded as likely
becausethe KGMi s a mature organization with adequate maintenance budgets and
proventechnical capability. The traffic safety component i s beingmonitored as part o f a
National Traffic Safety Strategy. Its highprofile at the upper echelons o f government
leave no doubt as to its continuity and assuredfunding.

         Bank and borrower performance are both rated satisfactory, but with some
caveats. The greatest area o f contentionis the Bank's decisionto close the project
without an extension o f time to complete unfinishedconstructionworks and procurement
activities. This was based on the need, following the financial crisis in2000/2001, to
reduce the number o fprojects inthe portfolio and the matter was subject to ajoint review
with Treasury inOctober 2002. The equivalent ofUS$20.25 million(10 percent ofthe
project cost) was cancelled, leaving the implementingagency with a number o f signed
contracts, but no external funding source. The ramifications o f this decision are still being
sorted out. On the other hand, the traffic safety component broke new ground and the
implementingagency didwell to coordinate a complex initiative satisfactorilywith other
government departments, agencies, and academia. The program to eliminate black spots

                                             X



(hazardous road locations) was particularly effective inlowering the accident rate inthe
road sections that were improved.

        The implementingagency (KGM)for this project saw the Bank as a financial
rather than a development partner. Real changes to address KGM's inefficiencies were
only achieved as a result of Turkey's financial crisis, which helpedfocus the central
authorities on the elimination of long-standing poor practices. This illustrates that
improvements ininstitutional governance may at times be difficult to achieve through
project-level interventions.

Three important lessonsmay be drawn from this project:

    P Improvementsingovernance canbestbe achieved whenthere is aholistic
        program o f institutional reform mandated at the highestlevels o f government,
        withinteractivecommunicationwith operational staffto ensurethat the changes
        take place inthe field as envisioned.

   P TrafJic safetyprojects canbeparticularlysuccessful wherethere is strong
        government commitment and support and where a participatory approach is
        pursuedto ensure the support of all the diversestakeholders. The key to success is
        to show what can be done and to have the right information, monitoring and
        evaluation systems inplace so that a nationalprogram can be rolled out and its
        success measured.

   P The elimination of road accident black spots can beahighly cost effectiveway to
        reduce both the accident rate and the degree o f severity o f the accidents occurring.




                                                                       Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                       Director-General
                                                                       Operations Evaluation

                                                 1


 1.      Background

 1.1     Turkey has a unique geopolitical position strategically located betweenEurope
andthe MiddleEast, which makes the transport sector crucial not only for its own
economic development but also for the development o f the region. The country has
important east-west transport links, making it a major transit route especially for freight
traffic. Recent developments with regard to the growing role o f Turkey intrade with
Central Asia and the South Caucasus make the focus on transport even more important.

 1.2     Overall transport demand has been growing for many years at an average annual
rate o f eight percent, but railtraffic has lost a substantial market share to road, declining
from 55 percent o f the marketin 1950 to only four percent now; slightly larger than the
combined aidsea share o f three percent. Little newtraffic can be expected to be attracted
back to rail without significant new investment.Roadtransport on the other handnow
accounts for 93 percent o f freight transport, so appropriate road investment i s critical to
the effective fimctioning o f the economy.

1.3      The growth inroadtraffic and the highproportionofheavy vehicles has
contributedto a burgeoning road safety problem, with accident rates betweenthree and
six times the EUaverage. About 7,000 fatalities occur annually on Turkey's road system
and the losses because o f injuries and property damage are estimated to be inthe order of
2 percent of gross domestic product.' To putthis inperspective this means that every two
years the death toll from road accidents i s equivalent to that inthe tragic Marmara
earthquake o f 1999.

1.4      To achieve successful accession to the EU, Turkey would have to meet a number
o f requirements.Inthe transport sector these would include that the Government separate
social from commercial services (with special implicationsfor ports and railways) and
that it become more responsive to market needs. This also means that the road agency,
known as the General Directorate o f Highways (KGM), with an annual budget exceeding
US$l billion, would have to progress to become a more commercial, accountable, and
transparent organization to meet EUexpectations.

1.5     Against this background, the Road Improvement and Traffic Safety Project was
designed to contribute to reducing roadtransport costs, systemically improving the
approach to traffic safety, and helping KGMto improve its operations. This PPAR
explores the impact and effectiveness o f the project as well as the consequences o f
closingthe project before implementation was completed. The decisionnot to extend the
closing date was made inthe context of the serious financial crisis that overtook the
country in2001. As with all tough decisions, it also had some adverse consequences,
which are examined inthis report.




1. Blomberg, Sven-Ake.RoadTraffic Safety inthe Europe and Central Asia Region. World Bank ,Europe
and CentralAsia Region, WorkingPaper, No 1. Washington DC, March, 1999.

                                                  2


2.       Objectives and Overview

2.1      The objectives and components ofthe project are shown inBox 1.

Box 1: ProjectObjectives and Components

Objectives

0   The reduction o f road transport costs through infrastructure improvements and the protection
    o f,past investments in the highway sector through rehabilitation and strengthening o f paved
    highways;
0   The improvement oftraffic safety instate and provincial roads;
0   The improvement of the operational efficiency of KGM through the implementation of
    management systems and computerization; and,
0   Improvement inthe consideration of environmental factors in project selection and design.

Components

0   The Road Improvement Program, comprising the strengthening or upgrading o f about 600
    kilometers o f high-priority state roads, and about 300 kilometers o f roads and town passages.
    (US$304.6 million; 78.2 percent o f project cost)
0   The Traffic Safety Program (US$78.9million; 20.3 percent o f project cost), which included:
         - Civil works for the improvements o f road sections identifiedas accident black spots;
         - Provision o f road safety materials for improved traffic management for installation by
        the KGM;
         - Provision o f equipment for the Turkish Traffic Police (TTP) for the enforcement of
        traffic regulations in a pilot network;
        - Medical equipment to improve the emergency response o f the University Hospital at
        Gazi University;
        - Educational equipment and literature for carrying out road safety campaigns   inselected
        -schools;
          Extension o f TTP's accident database to other users through the creation o f an
        -Accident Data Bank; and
          Technical assistance and training for the agencies involved intraffic safety covering the
        design, implementation, monitoring, and evaluation o fthe pilot and national programs.

    The Institutional Development Program, consisting o f the introduction o f various
    management systems and computerization throughout KGM and training o f KGM staff inthe
    areas o f environmental analysis, road planning, construction and maintenance. (US$5.8
    million; 1.5 percent o f project cost)


2.2     On September 28, 1999, an amendment to the objectives was approved by Bank
management to cover some o f the repairs for the damage to federal roads resultingfrom
the Marmaraearthquake. However, KGMdecided that the urgencyofthe needto restore
former levels o f road serviceability was such that it would finance the necessary works
from domestic resources, usingaccelerated localprocurement methods that would not
have conformedwith the Bank's procurement guidelines. One year later, on September
27,2000, a further amendment restoredthe original objectives o f the project unchanged.

                                                3


 2.3     The road improvements comprised the rehabilitation o f important sections o f state
 roads carrying highvolumes of truck traffic and selected sections o f the provincial road
 network including town passages, the latter being prioritized on the basis o f a multi-
 criteria analysis that included social factors such as all-weather access, social integration,
 and improvedmarket access. The envisaged upgradingwas expected to contribute
 directly to the alleviation o f poverty inthe areas served.

 2.4     The Government ofTurkey identifiedroad accidents as one ofthe more serious
 problems facing the nation. The fatality and injury rates were extremely high compared to
 the average figures for boththe EUand central and easternEurope and concern was
 expressed that with road traffic growing at nearly 8 percent annually a Road Traffic
 Safety Action Planwas necessary.A Traffic Safety Task Force was consequently
 established to coordinate traffic safety work and oversee the implementation o f the
 proposed Bank-financedTraffic Safety project.



 3.      Preparationand Implementation

 3.1     There was no Quality at Entryassessment ofthe project by the Bank's Quality
Assurance Group, but project preparation on balance was satisfactory. Although the
 degree o f planningandpreparation for the upgrading o f state roads was inadequate and
resultedininitial plans for modest upgradingto be changed insome cases to major works
involving four-lane highways, the ambitious traffic safety programwas especially well
conceived. Preparationtook account o fthe Bank's safeguard policies and made efforts to
limit cost overruns that hadbeenendemic inpreviousprojects. The objectives ofthe
project were consistent with the objectives o f both the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) and government priorities. The CAS stressedthe importance o f infrastructure
development, while the Government o f Turkey emphasized the need to ease transport
bottlenecks and especially the needto reverse the poor road safety record, which had
become a concern to the general public and was a potential threat to the important
Turkishtourist industry.Project designwas focused largely onthe traffic safety
component with relatively limitedinstitutional strengtheningobjectives for KGM.

3.2     InpreviousBank-fundedroadprojectsinTurkey cost overruns were
commonplace. Moreover, the implementingagency (KGM) managed project
implementation schedules through rationing the amount o f counterpart financing made
available. This meant that projects took much longer to implement than they should. The
Bank was concerned about the very poor allocation efficiency o f this practice and had
frequent discussions with KGMon the issue, advising that it didnot want to participate in
an excessive number o f projects due to such poor prioritizationprocedures and refusing
to include additional new works under the loan. Any cost increases were to be limitedto
less than 15 percent over the original contract cost and the Bank insisted upon seeing the
final designs before bidding. Because the bidding was often based on preliminary (and
sometimes obsolete) designs, financial provisions were often inadequate to meet the
project objectives and the whole process put upward pressure on project costs. KGM
included too many projects inits program (almost certainly due to political pressures that
encouraged it to report that the projects inquestion were inimplementation). This

                                              4


 resultedinincreased contractor costs, since equipment couldnot beusedefficiently,
 while materials hadto be purchased insmaller quantities and sometimes heldinstorage.
 Road deterioration duringlengthy implementationperiods also pushedup costs.

 3.3     The Bank's stipulationthat cost increasesbe keptunder 15 percent o f the original
 contract cost was ineffectual because KGM simply financed higher cost increases above
 the Bank's limit from its own resources. Price increaseson nineBank-financedcontracts
 for the upgradingo f state roads inthis project ledto final contract costs that averaged 71
 percent higherthan the bidprices based on preliminary designs. While it i s standard
 practice to use unit prices to make minor adjustments, inthese cases the adjustments
 sometimes included the addition o f bridgesand service roads. This custom had persisted
 through the previous four Bank-supported roadprojects inTurkey and the agency's
 operating procedures were firmly entrenched, notwithstandingdialogue with the Bank on
 such matters. Bank-financedprojects represented a very small percentage (less than 1
 percent) o f KGM's annual budget and KGMhadpreviously beennoted as perceivingthe
 Bankmore as a source of fundingthanapartner indevelopment.

 3.4     This situationwas finally addressednot through the project, but by the Prime
 Ministryunderthe Programmatic FinancialandPublic Sector Adjustment Loan I1
 (PFPSAL), which was introduced after the national financial crisis o f 1999,resulting
 during2001 and 2002 ina reductioninthe size ofthe portfolio of approved projects and
the introductionof a requirementthat any new foreign-funded projectswould have to be
basedon a final designaudited by independentexperts. This also had the effect of
reducingthe implementationtime o fprojects. Furthermore, the systematic audit o f
proposed roadprojects was incorporated into the Guidelines for Preparation o f the 2003
InvestmentProgram,2alongwith a requirementthat environmental impact assessments
needto beundertaken. The stipulations for foreign-fundedprojects have now (at least in
theory) also been extended to all new projects.

3.5      With regardto the RoadTraffic Safety Program, the Bankinitially hadprotracted
discussions with KGMover the wisdom of appointing an international consultant with an
integrated multi-disciplinary view. KGMwas reluctant to do this as they believed this
would not add sufficient tangible value to the program. They had a history inprevious
projects o f failing to implement components involving foreign consultants. The Bank, for
its part, wished to avoid a bias toward solutions requiringexpensive civil works. It was
therefore a credit to the Bank task team andto KGMthat they successfully negotiated the
appointment o f an appropriate internationalconsultant with strong safeguards to ensure a
balance between both views. The Bank also committedto finance the early stages
involving black spot (hazardous road accident location) improvements o fthe newly
drawn upNational Road Safety Program (NRSP). Itwas also initially agreed that a pilot
project would be developed with the help of the consultants to incorporate state-of-the-art
worldwide knowledge and methods o f road safety. However, because o f great political
pressure to make urgent progress with black spot elimination, which had become a major
public issue, thepilot scheme was dropped and the consultants assisted inthe
implementationo f the entire safety program. This outcome, though probably second best,


2. Prime MinistryCircular No. 2002/4

                                                5


was a satisfactory and pragmatic solution because there was a highdegree o f ownership
by the borrower at all levels and appreciation for the Bank's support ofthe NRSP.

 3.6     Bank supervision was coordinated by the same project leader throughout the six
years o f project implementation. This person ensuredthat the procurement standards
were tightened up and fully complied with Bankprocedures, bringingrequirementsthat
KGMwas unusedto. This was not welcomed by KGMand ledto a perceptionof
bureaucratic delays by the Bank.While it is clear that insome cases the Bank was tardy
inreactingto arequest for "no objection," onmost occasions investigated bythe
assessment mission, the borrower contributed substantially to the delays by not
responding ina timely manner with the submission to the Bank of informationneededto
make the approval inquestion. The Bank's decisionnot to extendthe project beyond the
closing date also caused resentment as a number of project components were left
unfinished; some US$20.25 millionof loanfunds were cancelled. The Bank basedthis
resolution on the extent o f the incremental gains anticipated through the extension
measured against the need, agreedwith the Treasury, to substantially reduce the number
and duration o fprojects inthe overall portfolio inlight o f the serious financial crisis
gripping the country.



4.       Ratings

Relevance

4.1     Projectrelevance i s rated highbasedon the close alignment with the country's
development priorities. The importance to general economic development, including
trade and tourism, o f efficient highway connections is crucial and the needto tackle the
roadtraffic safety problemi s a very high priority for the government, reflecting concern
from the general public at Turkey's extremely poor road accident record. Improved
access to, from, and through small rural towns aimed at alleviatingpoverty i s also inline
with boththe CAS and government policy. The lesser objectives on the environment and
improving the institutional strengtho f KGMare also fully inaccord with overall
priorities. The project i s also inline with the overview o f the transport sector produced by
the Bank's residentmission.


Efficacy

4.2     The efficacy o f the project i s rated substantial,but with qualifications inthe
context o fthe original objectives. The objective framed for the road component consisted
of a mainroadportion o f about 600 kilometers and a rural roadportion o f about 300
kilometers. Inthe event, some 356 kilometers intwo-lune equivalents o f mainroad were
successfully rehabilitated including the important sections for Ankara-Kirikkale, U9ak-
Kula, and Ankara-Polatli-Sivrihisar. Although some works were not completed due to
the earlier than expected project closure included sections o fthe Delice-Sungurlu-Corum
road, only ninepercent o f KGM's share of the loan allocationwas unexpended when the
project closed. Urgently neededmachinery, equipment, and spare parts to supplement

                                              6


KGM's existingequipment inventory were successfully procured, but development o fthe
proposed Highway Information Systemsuffereda serious setback. However, the
environmental objective was fully achieved, because KGMestablished a fully staffed
EnvironmentalDirectorate which carried out its duties ina satisfactory manner. All
environmental matters inthe project were handledappropriately. Measurement o f the
KGMoperational efficiency objective was limitedto howmany staffwere trained(50
against a target o f 20).

4.3       Rural road improvements under the project were to have been 100percent
financed by KGM, but due to changing priorities, including greater focus on black spots,
only 5 percent o f the amount agreed at appraisal o f US$23.17 millionwas formally set
aside by KGM. Constructiono f town passageswas much less affected and 141 small
works were successfully completed with a large impact ontraffic safety. Overall, it i s
concluded that useful savings were made inroadtransport costs, but not to the full extent
originally envisaged.

4.4      The equipment purchases and consultancy services underthe traffic safety
component were mostly completed. By project closure 317 accident black spots were
upgraded under 210 small contracts, usingboth loan and local funds, leaving only 87 still
to be attendedto. Some safety-related materials and services were not purchased and the
production of an educational video hadto be cancelled. Regarding traffic law
enforcement services, a state-of-the-art Traffic InformationCenter i s now fully
operational and appropriate training inmodern enforcement methods has been carried
out, 4,000 global positioning devices and 234 laptop computers have beenfitted into
existingpatrol cars, 744 computers and 356 printershave beenprocuredfor traffic
enforcement agencies, but 121new fully equippedtraffic patrol cars could not be
procured intime before project closure.

4.5      The extent ofthe improvements intraffic safety, despite the partial completiono f
the safety component ofthe project, were substantial. KGMevaluated a sample of 152
road accident black spots at hazardous road sections and recorded that 143 (94 percent) o f
these improvements were successful inpractice. Monitoring o f these hazardous locations
showed that accidents fell by 74 percent and fatalities by a remarkable 94 percent. Table
1 and Figure 1 below show the dramatic impact o f the black spot improvement program
on a sample of sites monitored by Gazi University. Incomparison with similar
investmentsinternationallythis investmentis considered a cost effective way of
achieving the desired outcome.

Table 1.Decreases in Traffic Accidents 1996-2000
79 Black Spot Improvement               Number of      Number of   Number of    Number of
Projects                       Years     Accidents      Deaths      Injuries     Damaged
                                                                                  Vehicles
Before Rehabilitation          1996        3635          270         2905           5585
During Rehabilitation          1998        1156          45           742           1949
After Rehabilitation (yrl)     1999        1012          40           643           1718
After Rehabilitation (yr 2)    2000        921           28           554           1613
Source: Gazi University

                                                   7


 Figure 1.Effect of Improvements to Black Spots (1996-2000)



                 6,000

                 5,000

                 4,000

                 3,000

                 2,000

                 1,000

                      0
                            Number of    Number of Deaths    Number of        Numberof
                             Accidents                        Injuries         Property
                                                                           DamagedVehicles

                                      I H1996 E3 1998       1999

Source: Gazi University

4.6      The Gazi Universitypilot project at three hospitals demonstrated that emergency
response services could substantially improve the time taken to get accident victims to
hospital, with better treatment at the scene by paramedic^.^ While it i s still too early to
say with conviction that the national road accident picture i s showing a sustained
improvement, it has beenreported that there i s a leveling off inthe number o f reported
accidents and a decline infatal injury accident^,^ but this could be due to a number o f
factors. According to Aydin6the NTSP i s to be applied countrywide between2002 and
2012, with the first detailed interim evaluation o f results scheduled for 2006. The project
was accorded a highprofile and the Turkish Parliament had a special session to debate
the matter inwhich the Bank Country Director was invitedto participate. Itnoteworthy
that the project succeeded inimproving road safety education by upgrading school
curricula content. A study tour to Finlandwas also organized for a group o f educators
who were introducedto the latest concepts inadult traffic education and guidelines for
target groups such as elderly drivers.

Efficiency

4.7     The efficiency o fthe project is rated modest. Bank staffwere, for example,
unsuccessful inpersuading KGMto alter its long-standing practice o f awarding contracts
for which an inadequate amount o f counterpart funding was available and didnot manage


4. GaziUniversityEmergencyandPilotProjectReport,Ankara, 2003.
5. NationalTraffic Safety Programfor Turkey, Executive Summary, Sweroad, December2001.
6. Aydin Cumhur. Turkey's Traffic Safety Project andthe NationalTraffic SafetyProgram.Dept of Civil
Engineering,Atlim University, 1O* Conferenceon Transport Research,Istanbul,Turkey, 2004.

                                                 8


 to change the custom of basing costing on preliminary designestimates. These
 inefficiencies ledto the project falling short o f its objectives, taking longer to implement
 than planned. Higher than anticipated construction costs and lower thanexpected traffic
 volumes following the economic crisis o f 2001 reduced the ERRfrom 25.6 percent
 (expected) to a still acceptable, but disappointing, 16.4 percent (act~al).~    Inthe view of
 the assessmentmissionthe revisedassumptions were realistic.

 4.8     The traffic safety component was reasonably efficient inmeetingits intended
 objectives consideringthat not all items could be financed by project closure.
 Cooperationbetweenthe various agencies was also fairly well coordinated by KGM,
 giventhat there hadbeenlittle precedent for this kindof collaborationbefore. However,
 there were nevertheless some disjunctions causedby the non availability of key team
 members(Gazi University), difficulties with synchronizingbudgetarysystemsand
 problems inensuring proper documentation was submitted on time. The latter ledto the
 failure to procure traffic patrol cars before project closure.


 Outcome

4.9      Overall, the outcome o f the project i s rated moderatelysatisfactory. Although
the traffic safety component was evidentlysuccessful and a numberofimportantroad
improvementswere completed, the higher than expected costs, long delays and the
decisionnot to extend the closing date, leadingto unfinishedconstruction and
procurement arrangements, counted against a fully satisfactory outcome.


InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

4.10     Institutional development impact i s rated modest. The institutional development
impact o f the project was disappointing inseveral respects. While KGMhad a record as a
competent organization, there were a number o f ways inwhich its operations could have
been improved and its efficiency level raised (see Chapter 3). KGM's method of
contracting for major works remained defective, despite the discussions with the project
team, until interventions by the Prime Ministry forced a review, following the financial
crisis o f 2001.

4.11     The institutionaldevelopment component, as appraised, was relatively modest in
scope and focused on finalizing designwork and the implementation o f a simple
Pavement Management System.Duringproject implementation KGMdecided to expand
the scope ofthe component andinclude a comprehensive Highway InformationSystem.
Although KGMstaff made substantial efforts to designthe system, which required
coordination with the TurkishMapping Agency (under the Army) with both the Police
and its own informationsystems, the task provedto be considerably more difficult than
expected and the Bank agreedto finance two experts from the U.S.Federal Highway
Administration to provide specialized assistance. The consultants helpedto disaggregate
the component into manageable modules, but progress continuedto be slow. Following


3. Feasibility Studies ofRoadImprovementandTraffic Safety Projects (Loans 4048/9-TU), General
DirectorateofHighwaysPlanningDivision, June 2003.

                                               9


 the decision not to extendthe closingdate oftheproject, implementationwas left to be
 fundedfrom KGM's ownresources, butthe assessmentmissionconfirmed that the
 process had beenstopped at least for the short to mediumterm as KGMnow has different
 priorities. It must be concluded that since the project was in implementation for six and a
 halfyears there was little real commitment to finalize the work, which is unfortunate
 becausethe information yielded from such a systemcould have helpedto further
 modernize the organization.

 4.12    On the more positive side, some 56 memberso f KGM's staff were trained in 10
 areas o f expertise ranging from environment and designto contract administration and
 materials technology at a cost o f US$l.3 million. KGMalso deserves credit for its role in
 coordinatinga number o f different government departments as well as university staff,
 unusedto working together as ateam. Ittook the lead inthe task force for road safety and
 supported the other executing agencies inthe areas o f procurement and financial
 management. The result o f the participatory approach was that each organization brought
 its own perspective to the traffic safety problem and there was strong "buy-in" and
 ownership o fthe strategy that evolved.

 4.13    The road safety team approach successfully provided a model for future
 cooperation, but was not without problems. Inparticular the harmonization o f financial
 arrangements, departmental bureaucratic problems, and lack o f continuity o f staffposed
 some serious difficulties that contributed, for example, to the under-spending o f the
 emergency aid pilot project and the failure to make a timely purchase o f the specified
traffic patrol cars.


 Sustainability

4.14     Sustainability i s ratedlikely. KGM is a mature organization with a good technical
record and an annual budget exceeding US$1 billion. Turkey places a highvalue on the
effectiveness o f its road system and relatively largebudgetsare made available to sustain
and upgrade the network. The recent moves by the Prime Ministryto ensure greater
efficiency inresource allocation will strengthenthis position. For example, KGMhas
continued to streamline its workforce through a plannedreduction o f direct-hire staff,
which declined from 35,100 in 1994 to 24,000 today. The decision to call for bids in
futureto bebasedon fullrather than onpreliminarydesigns andthe reductioninthe size
o f the project portfolio to be managed are significant steps forward.

4.15     The traffic safety initiative has beenstrengthenedby the government through the
NTSP since the project closed and i s to be monitored at the highest level over the next 10
years. Because it is important to the general public andto Turkey's bidfor EUaccession,
ithasahighpoliticalpriority andthere is no doubt as to its continuity and assured
funding.

Bank Performance

4.16     Bankperformance is ratedsatisfactory, butwith somereservations.
Identification, preparation, and appraisal were all performed adequately and the intention
to move the Bank-KGM dialogue to a new level o f cooperation was well-intentioned.

                                              10


Withregard to the roadcomponents this new level of understandingwas not achieved,
however, and the Borrower was resistant to the perceived (though clearlyjustified)
tighteningof Bank procedures. Onthe other hand, progress incooperation was made in
the traffic safety component anddifferences were resolved inaproactiveway. Bank
supervision was generally sound, but there i s no doubt that both the Bank and Borrower
contributedto the delays at important decision points during implementation. The Bank
could have moved with more urgency on some occasions to speed up its responsesto the
"no objection" requests. This matter was also raised by the Under-secretariat o f the
Treasury and the Bank has inthe meantime taken steps to streamline its procurement
a~tivities.~

4.17     Bank's decision to close theproject without anextension oftime to complete
unfinishedconstruction works andprocurement activities was obviously taken badly by
KGMandthe Traffic Safety CoordinationUnitas they hadentered into anumber of
contracts on the assumption that the financing stream would continue, despite warnings
to the contrary. However, this difficult decision was a direct result o f the financial crisis
in2000/2001, which ledto areductioninthe numberofprojects inthe portfolio a              -
resolutionthat emanated from ajoint review by the Bank and Treasury inOctober 2002.
The decision was made taking into account the expected incrementalgains that would be
achieved during a further implementationperiod, set against the urgent need to
downscale the portfolio size andto impress uponthe government the gravity o f KGM's
costly practices.

4.18     Although the Treasury officials did subsequently request an extension o fthe loan
byninemonths, this was turneddownby the Bank inJanuary 2003 onthe grounds that
the overall benefits continuedto outweighthe costs o f closure before project completion
as only ten per cent o f the loanhadnot been disbursed. Inaddition, KGMdid have other
resources and would be able to complete the project albeit over a longer time-span. As far
as the construction works were concerned, however, it was realizedthat little further
progress would be possible betweenthe decisiondate and the date o f closure (March 31
2003) because constructionwork inthe interior o f Turkey i s suspendedduringthe harsh
winter season (December through March). The items outstanding at project closure were :

         Some highway sections were not completed. This mainly affected the Delice-
         Sungurlu-Corum contracts that had already beenawarded. Whenthe assessment
        mission inspected the contract some 16months after loan closure, work was
        nevertheless inprogress using own funds, but at a much slower rate than before.
         Thermoplasticpaint road markings and weighing scales which were financed
        from the local budget.
        Magnetic resonance equipment and traflc safety videos contracts which were
        cancelled, while purchases o f various road safety materials and roadside
        delineators were not carried out.
        Work on the Highway Information System (including a traffic safety data bank)
        was stopped.


7. Procurementinthe World Bank, FY03 Annual Report, Operations Policy and Country Services. April.
2004.

                                               11


      0  121traflc patrol vehicles were not procuredunder the project.
      0 A number ofblack spots and townpassage improvements were deferred.

4.19    Inaddition ameasureofirritationandfrustrationwas generatedwhich set back
the improving relationship betweenKGMandthe Bank.The prospect of furtherprogress
inimproving the efficiency ofKGM's operations throughmakingthe Highway
Information Systemoperational also sharply receded. However, there was no certainty
that had the loan continued for a further ninemonths this particular assignment would
have been completed either within the budgetor the timeframe.

4.20    Insummary, Turkey was inthemidstofavery serious macro economic and
financial crisis. Inline with the latest government policy directive, the loanportfolio was
reduced in size. Since the objectives o f this project had by this time largely, though not
entirely, been achieved, with 90 percent o f the loan disbursed, and since there was a
reasonable probability that KGMwould be able to complete the project using its own
resources over time, the decision to close the project without an extension o f time was
rational, even ifpainful.


Borrower Performance

4.21    Borrower performance i s also rated satisfactory, but with certain caveats. The
implementingagency, KGM, is a substantial and technically competent organization.
This was a large project involving loans to the value ofUS$250 million. At closure, some
US$202.32 millionhad been disbursed, while US$20.25 million equivalent (10 percent)
was cancelled. The remaining shortfall o f US$27.43 millionresultedfrom changes in
currency values duringimplementation. Fromthe Borrower's side there was also a
shortfall incounterpart funds. Inthis case, some funds were diverted to other priorities
(especially from rural roads), but there was also a significant impact from currency
fluctuations. Overall, however, most o f the project was accomplished, and given another
ninemonthsitmayhave beenvirtually completed. Itis clear that the refusalto extendthe
loan periodwas unexpected to KGM (although this had beencommunicated on several
occasions), as it was a departure from their previous experience with the Bank.

4.22    The Borrower's mainproblem areas were tardiness insubmitting informationto
the Bank on time, some internal inefficiencies, and the relatively new experience for
many o fthe parties concerned, to work ina complex interdepartmental team
environment. There was also an attitude, certainly with regard to the road component,
that the loanwas akinto a commercial source o f funds and that KGM's internalpractices
were outside o fthe Bank's purview.Inother words, there was little development
partnershipunderstanding.

4.23    On the other hand, the traffic safety component broke new ground inTurkey and
the Borrower andthe Bank worked muchbetter together. KGMdid well to coordinate
satisfactorily with other government departments and agencies, and with academia. The
performance o fthese partners varied, but was satisfactory on the whole; they also took
good advantage o f the presence o f the international consultants especially inlearning and
applyingthe latest knowledge regardingthe designo f improvements for the elimination
o f black spots.

                                               12


 5.      Conclusions and Lessons

 The Governance Issue

 5.1     Achieving a satisfactory and genuine development partner relationship i s a major
challenge, especially at the operational level. This i s the classic case where the
implementing agency exhibitedrent-seekingbehavior and saw the Bank as a commercial
rather than a development partner. Real change to address KGM's inefficiencies came
about only after matters were brought to a head by a financial crisis, which helped focus
the Treasury andPrime Ministryonthe eliminationofpoor practices that hadbecome
accepted over the years. It illustrates that improvements ingovernance cannot always be
achieved at project level and often requires a holistic approach. Today, the Bank gives
greater prominence to poor governance issues andthese are increasinglybeingtackled
through institutionalreformprojects that do not go forward unless backed by political
will.

The Request for a Loan Extension

5.2     Itwas a difficult decision to denythe loanextension and it is understandable that
this call hadto bemade urgentlyduringa financial crisis. The decisionto reduce the size
of the loan portfolio was jointly taken betweenthe Bank andthe Treasury and a clear
message was also signaled that the problems and poor practices encountered at the
operational level had to be eliminated. One could question whether the matter hadto be
addressed insuch a radical way, since it created muchbitterness with KGMand its
partners, but clearly a strong stance i s sometimes necessaryto bring about change and
decisions o f this nature are always ajudgment call.


The Traffic Safety Component

5.3     This component had some interestingfeatures. Iti s unusual for a road safety
projectto have such a high level o fpolitical support and, even though the project was not
completed as designed, it did achieve a great deal. The task team and the implementing
agency showed great flexibility intailoring itto the NTSP andto ensuring there was
strong local ownership. While the approach followed may not have been ideal intheory,
the fact that aparticipatory opportunity existedfor all stakeholders to contribute ideas,
more than compensated for this. It should also be mentionedthat KGMshowed strong
leadership inensuringthat the diverse traffic safety team worked together successfully.
The learningfrom this project could beuseful inother roadtraffic safety initiatives
elsewhere and inparticular it is noted that very significant benefits can be derived from
low-cost black spot improvements.

5.4     The following lessonsmay be drawn from the experience ofthis project:

    P Improvements ingovernance can best be achievedwhenthere is a holistic
        program o f institutional reform mandated at the highest levels o f government,
        with interactive communication with operational staffto ensure that the changes
        take place inthe field as envisioned.

                                      13

> Trafic safety projects can be particularly successful where there i s strong
  government commitment and support and where a participatory approach i s
  pursuedto ensurethe support of all the diverse stakeholders. The key to successi s
 to show what can be done and to have the right information, monitoring and
  evaluation systems inplace so that a nationalprogram can be rolled out and its
  success measured.

& The elimination of road accident black spots can be a highly cost effective way to
 reduce both the accident rate and the degree o f severity o f the accidents occurring.


                                        15


Annex A. List of Country Officials Consulted

Prime Ministry: Under-secretariat of Treasury
Nurse1Durucakoglu                Division Chief
Ozgur Pehlivan                   Head o f Department
Osman Gundopdu                   Associate

KGM: GeneralDirectorateof Highways
Ismail Tumay                     DeputyDirector General
Yasar Yilmaz                     Director, External Loans CoordinationDiv.
Hansan Piskin                    Director & Deputy Head of Construction
Mircahit Arman                   Director, Planning Div.
Yusuf Koger                      Director
MustafaKizilkaya                 Director, Road Project
Mustafa Karademir                Head o f Survey & DesignDept.
Ahmet Bulut                      Head o f Maintenance Dept.
Ayse Kurt                        DeputyDirector, External Loans Coordination Div.
ElifSoykan                       Economist, PlanningDiv.

Ministry of NationalEducation,RoadSafety Program
Yuksel Polat                     Director, Road Safety Program
Osman Yildirim                   Section Manager
KerimInal                        Specialist, Road Safety

Gazi University,Ankara
ProfDr Mehmet Ali Bumin          Head o f Research & Prevention Inst. on Accidents

EGM: GeneralDirectorateof Security
Ali Bilkay                       Head o f Traffic Research Center
Yilmaz Bostrip                   Specialist, Traffic Research

World Bank, Ankara
ElifYonca Yukseker               Administrative Support

Atilim University, Incek-Ankara
                                 Conference on Transport Research, Istanbul).
Dr.Cumhur Aydin
(Paper presentedat the lofhWorldAssistant  Professor, Dept.o f Civil Engineering

                                       16


Annex B. Basic Data Sheet

ROAD        IMPROVEMENT      & TRAFFICSAFETYPROJECT

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)

                                                   Appraisal                 Actual or
                                                   estimate               current estimate
Total project costs                                 389.30                     308.37
Loan amount                                         250.20                     250.20
Cofinancing                                           N/A                        N/A
Cancellation                                          N/A                       20.25
Economic rate of return (YO)                         25.6                       16.4




                                            Original                        Actual
Appraisal Mission                          06/21/1995                     06121/I991
Board approval                             06/20/1996                     06/20/1996
Effectiveness                              09/23/1996                     10110/1996
Closing date                               03/31/2003                     03/31/2003


Staff Inmts
                                                    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. staff weeks                   US$POOOJ
IdentificationlPreparation                    N/A                             104
Appraisal/Negotiation                         N/A                            232
Supervision                                   N/A                            744
ICR                                           N/A                             20
Total                                         N/A                            1100

                                                     17


Mission Data
                                Date        No. of       Specializations represented        Performance rating
                            (month/year)   persons                                             Rating trend
Identification/ Preparation  07111/1994       3              TM, HE, Tr. Economist
                             11/07/1994       3              TM, HE, Tr. Economist
                             02/13/1995       4           TM, HE,Tr. Economist, RSE
AppraisallNegotiation        06/21/1995       5          TM, HE, FS, Env. Consultant
                             03/25/1996       6       TM, HE, FS, Env. PS, Disbursement
                                                                   Specialist
Supervision                  09/21/1996       1                       TM                      HS         S
                             04117/1997       2                     TM: PS                     S         S
                             10115/1997       3                     2 HE;TL                    S         S
                             05/12/1998       1                       TM                       S         S
                             04/01/1999       2                      TL; HE                    S         S
                             07/15/1999       1                   ProgramTL                    S         S
                             11/05/1999       2                 Program TL; TS                 S         S
                             06/31/2000       3           ProgramTL; TS; Senior PS             S         S
                             12/01/2000       2              Senior TS; ProgramTL              S         S
                             03/02/2001       1                   Program TL                   S         S
                             10119/2001       2              Senior TS; ProgramTL              S         S
                             05/04/2002       2              Senior TS; ProgramTL              S         S
                             10/22/2002       2              Senior TS; ProgramTL              S         S
ICR                          06/05/2003       2              Senior TS; ProgramTL              S         S
Abbreviations:
TL = Team Leader, T M = Task Manager, TS = Transport Specialist,PS = ProcurementSpecialist, RSE= Road Safety
Engineer, HE = Highway Engineer,Env = Environmentalist,         FS=FinanceSpecialist,TE= Transport
Economist


                                         19


Annex C.Borrower Comments



                              HEt'UBLIC OF TURKEY
                                 PRIME MINISTRY
                          The Undersecretariat of Treasury
                                                             26,11.04*  72482
Ref: B 02 1 !-tM O.DEI.01 03.192                   Ankara, November 25,2004




                                                                i
                                                                1
       DE3r Mr. Vorkink,

       RE Raad Improvement and Traffjc Safety Project (Loan No. 4048A)

       With reference to the Bank's letter of October 28, 2004 regarding the draft
Project Performance Assessment Report for the above' mentioned project, please
find attached herewith the Borrower's comments on.the draft PPAR provided by
Ministry of National Educationand KGM.

       Besi regards,




                                                             Head of Department




Enci



Cc. Ms. &!ark Helene Bricknel, Country Manager
    hlr. Peter Freeman Task Manager and Lead EvaluationOfficer, OED

                                         20


VIEWS OF MINISTRY OF PUBLICWORKS AND SETTLEMENT GENERAL
DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYSTO BE PUBLISHED IN THE "Annex C,
Borrower Comments" OF THE PPAR

       We believe that PPAR. should reflect only the truth, without hiding the realities or
diminishing the importance of the facts, if PPAR is intended to be useful for all sides.


       The following two comments A and B have been given, just to serve the purpose
of our Bank. wishing to evaluate the general effectiveness of the Bank's actions and to
develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the dissemination of
lessons drawn from experience.


       A) The ICR forwarded to the Bank, explained the most important reasons of delay
in completion of the Project in the pages 1-4 of this Report.

       Our views are as follows.

        Bank's authorized person and staff relatingto this loan agreement, couldn't be very
helpful, as they didn't know what their duties and positionswould be, during the Bank's
reorganization.

       After completion of the Bank's reorganization, receipt of the Bank's no objection.
became very difficult and took incredible long durations as;

   a) due to reduction in the number of experienced Bank's staff and
    b) due to very high increase in the number of projects, loans, and countries to be
       taken care by the same Bank's staff. (according to what the Bank's related
       ProgramTeam staff say)
   c) they couldn't give necessary attention and importance to this Project it deserves
       As an example;

       Bank's no objection for feasibility studies of Black Spot works (though their
solutions, estimated costs, environmental reports, feasibility studies and other tables have
been prepared and checked by the KGM and the Consultant firm) could be obtained after
numerous correspondence by the Bank and after 64 days and 109 days passed.

       In the same way. the Bank's no objection for the Traffic Police Training Program
(proposed with the letter of General Directorate of Security dated 19.12.2001) could be
obtained with the fax of 21 October 2002 after 10 months passed (302 days).

       Similar delays occurred in the receipt of the Bank's no objection, for the works of
the Ministry of National Education and Gazi University

                                               21


        In order to have a rough idea about how the World Bank managed this Loan
 (from the beginning of the Loan upto the end) one can consider the duration past between
the dates of our Treasury's application which is November 18, 2002 to the Bank (for
extension of closing date of the loan to 31.12.2003) and the Bank's reply date which is
21.Jan.2003.

        Bank's Official written message informing the Borrower that the closing date of the
 Loan would not be extended has been forwarded after 63 days from the date of
Treasury's letter and only 70 days before the closing date of the Loan. There was no
time to take necessary precautions (making changes in the investment program,
 providing local funds, warning contractors etc.) for the ongoing contracts, bids,
contractswhose tenders had been received.(Please see Clause Ill).

        The Bank has given its consent (no objection) for a contract whose completion
duration was 36 months, on 19 June 2002, just 7 months before the fax refusing to
extendthe completiondate of the Loan by 9 months.

     THE FOLLOWING PARAGRAPH HAS BEEN TAKEN FROM A BANK'S REPORT
                                            JJPPR)

        During the Joint Meeting Pealized among the officials of Undersecretariat of
Treasury, World Bank and the Implementing Agencies manv proiect manaqers voiced
their frustration with delavs in obtaininq the World Bank's response on procurement
matters. Thev pointed out that it was difficult to Dlan ahead without knowina bv when a
response on a particular procurement matter can be expected bv the Bank. It is therefore
recommended that all World Bank TTLS acknowledqe, receipt of procurement documents
within 3 davs of receipt and provide an indication bv when the Bank's response can be
expected."

        This rule hasn't been applied in our RlSP Project. As a result of this, we have
received the messages saying "We haven't received the documents" or "Some
documents are missing" after 3, 4, 5 months and upon our 3-4 reminding and
warning faxes to the Bank to receive reply, while we are expecting to receive Bank's
messages for "Consent of Bank" or "No objection messages of Bank" as it was already
stated in the paragraphs 18, 19., 20 of the page 3 and Clause 8 of the page 4 of the ICR.-
KGM

        If the Bank wishes, it can continue to understand and express this very important
criticism above, taking lightly as "it is clear that in some cases the Bank was tardy in
reacting to a request for "no objection" on most occasions investigated by the
assessment mission" or "There is no doubt that both the Bank and Borrower
contributed to the delays at important decision points during implementation. The Bank
could have moved with more urgency on some occasions to speed up its responses
to the "no objection" requests." as was expressed by the Bank in PPAR.

        B) Fax of 21st Jan. 2003 said "We feel that the incremental qains that miqht be
extension..."
made durina a further implementation period are not areat enouqh to iustifv an

                                             22


         Considering the circumstances * (given in pages 5-6 of this letter) determined by
 the Bank itself and views** of the Borrower in ICR (has been given in pages 7-9 of
 this letter given below, we leave a) The judgement of the correctness of thisstatement
 above and b) Correctness of the Bank's performance evaluation by it self as
 "satisfactory"to the Bank's experiencedpersonsand all other readers:

         1, The Officials of Borrower (Undersecretariat of Treasury) did subsequently
             request an extension of the loan by nine months, this was turned down by the
             Bank in January 2003 as it was also stated in Clause I of this letter.

        2 There was money (an undisbursed loan amount) of US$ 23.249.140.26 whose
             commitment charges had been paid to the Bank for a period of 7 years. to be
             expended in the Loan . (Please see Clause 11).

        3. There were many items outstanding at project closure (Please see Clauses Ill
             and IV)

             Implementing Agencies were left to the position of canceling the bids whose
             tenders had been received, upon not extending the closing date . Please see
             Clause V)

        5 In order to have a rough idea about how the World Bank managed this Loan
             (from the beginning of the Loan upto the end) one can consider the duration
             past between the dates of our Treasury's application which is November 18,
             2002 to the Bank (for extension of closing date of the loan to 31.12.2003) and
             the Bank's reply date which is 21.Jan.2003.

             Bank's Official written message informing the Borrower that the closing date of
        the Loan would not be extended has been forwarded after 63 days from the date
        of Treasury's letter and only 70 days before the closing date of the Loan. There
        was no time to take necessary precautions (making changes in the investment
        program, providing local funds, warning contractors etc) for the ongoing
        contracts, bids, contracts whose tenders had been received. (Please see
        Clause Ill).

            The Bank has given its consent (no objection) for the contract whose
        completion duration was 36 months, on 19June 2002, just 7 months before the fax
        refusing to extend the completion date of the Loan by 9 months

        Sincerely speaking, we had thought that the Bank would evaluate itself as
"Unsatisfactory" if not "Very Unsatisfactory" considering the reasons explained in "Data
Necessary for the Bank to Evaluate the Performance of the Bank by Itself" Part of the
ICR.

        We had evaluated the Bank "as successful" and thanked to all Bank's Staff working for
the loans we have received before. We thanked also the Bank's staff working in the
Residential Office of the Bank and Disbursement Division of the Bank related to our Loans of
4048A-TU and 4049-TU. We wish, we could evaluate the

                                            23


performance of other staff involved in this project also as Successful, as the other
Banks Staff instead of Unsuccessful.

      From the contents and assessments made in the Draft PPAR, it is understood that
ICR and its attachments (788 pages) couldn't be evaluated well. We believe that
Evaluation of ICR Review for the Borrower should be done once more.

        Your enclosing these 9 pages to PPAR will be highly appreciated.

           THE FOLLOWING DETERMINATIONS, FIXATIONS AND OBSERVATIONS
      REALIZED BY THE BANK ITSELF, HAVE BEEN TAKEN FROM M E PPAR
      (PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT) PREPARED BY THE
      BANK.

      Clause 1. (PPAR 4.18) ALTHOUGH THE TREASURY                        OFFICIALS DID
             SUBSEQUENTLY REQUEST AN EXTENSION OF THE LOAN BY
             NINE MONTHS, THIS WAS TURNED DOWN BY THE BANK IN
             JANUARY 2003.
      Clause II. (PREFACE, 4.21) US$20.25 (Please chanqe this fiqure with the correct
             value of US$ 23.249.140,26 or EURO 21.111.257.47 as was informed bv
             our letter in reference "a" above.-KGM) MILLION WAS CANCELLED,
             WHILST A FURTHER US$27.43 ( Please chanqe this fiqure with the correct
             value of US$ 24.431.819.28 -KGM) MILLION WAS ACCOUNTED FOR BY
             CHANGES IN CURRENCY VALUES DURING IMPLEMENTATION.
      Clause Ill. (4.18) The items outstandinq at Droiectclosure were:
                Some highway sections were not completed. This mainly affected the
              Delice-Sungurlu-forum contracts that had already been awarded. When the
              assessment mission inspected the contracts some 16 months after loan
              closure, work was nevertheless in progress using own funds, but at a much
              slower rate than before.

              (4.11) Following the decision not to extend the closing date of the
              project, implementation was left to be funded from KGM's own resources,
              but the assessment mission confirmed that the process had been stopped at
              least for the short to medium term as KGM now has different priorities.

              (1.3) ABOUT 7,000 FATALITIES OCCUR ANNUALLY ON TURKEY'S ROAD
              SYSTEM AND THE LOSSES BECAUSE OF INJURIES AND PROPERTY
              DAMAGE ARE ESTIMATED TO BE IN THE ORDER OF 2 PERCENT OF
              GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT. TO PUT THIS IN PERSPECTIVE,THIS
              MEANS THAT EVERY TWO YEARS THE DEATH TOLL FROM ROAD
             ACCIDENTS IS EQUIVALENT TO THAT IN THE TRAGIC MARMARA
              EARTHQUAKEOF 1999.

             (4.4) BY PROJECT CLOSURE,317 ACCIDENT BLACK SPOTS WERE
             UPGRADED UNDER210 SMALL CONTRACTS.USING BOTH LOAN AND
             LOCAL FUNDS, LEAVING ONLY 87 STILL TO BE ATTENDED TO. SOME
             SAFETY-RELATEDMATERIALSAND SERVICES WERE NOT PURCHASED
             AND THE PRODUCTION OF AN EDUCATIONAL VIDEO HAD TO BE
             CANCELLED.

                                                24



       (4.5) THE EXTENT OF THE IMPROVEMENTS IN TRAFFIC SAFETY.
       DESPITE THE PARTIAL COMPLETION OF THE SAFETY COMPONENT
       OF THE PROJECT, WERE SUBSTANTIAL. KGM EVALUATEDA SAMPLE
       OF 152 ROAD ACCIDENT BLACK SPOTS AT HAZARDOUS ROAD
       SECTIONS AND RECORDED THAT 143 (94 PERCENT) OF THESE
       IMPROVEMENTS WERE SUCCESSFUL IN PRACTICE. MONITORING
       OF THESE HAZARDOUS LOCATIONS SHOWED THAT ACCIDENTS FELL
       BY 74 PERCENT AND FATALITIESBY A REMARKABLE 94 PERCENT.

       (4.18) The other items outstandinq at project closure were:

            Thermoplastic paint road markings and weighing scales which were
       financed from the local budget.
         Maanetic resonance equbment and traffic safetv videos contracts which were
       cancelled, while purchases of various road safety materials and roadside
       delineators were not carried out.
           Work ontheHiuhwav lnformafion Svstem (includinaa traffic safetv data bank)
       was stowed.
           121 traffic patrol vehicles were not procured under the project.
           A numberof black spots and town passaue improvements were
       deferred.

Clause IV. (4.19) The prospect of further progress in improving the efficiency of
       KGM's operations through making the Highway Information System
       operational also shamlv receded.
              (Bid documents have been prepared with the contribution of the
       Bank's consultants and Federal Highway Administration's consultants after
       a long common study. Announcement pertaining to HIS was
       published also in UN Development Business on 30.06.2001.Though
       Prequalifications have been realized and the Short List has been
       prepared and many tenderers hired consultants from abroad and
      strengthened their firms to give their tenders: and the Bank has given its no

      extending the closing date of the Loan. - KGM)
      objection on 19 June, 2002 the process was stopped upon Bank's not


Clause V. (4.17) Bank's decision to close the project without an extension of time
      to complete unfinished construction works and procurement activities was
      obviously taken badly by KGM and the Traffic Safety Coordination Unit as
      thev had entered into a number of contracts on the assumption that the
      financinq stream would continue.

;lause Vi. (4.9) Overall. the outcome of the project is rated moderately
       satisfactory. Although the traffic safety component was evidently
       successful and a number of important road improvements were
       completed. the higher than expected costs, long delays and the
       decision not to extend the closing date leadinq to unfinished construction
       and procurement arranqements, counted aaainst a fullv satisfactorv
       outcome.

                                          25



  Clause VII. (4.8) Cooperation between the various agencies was also fairly well
          coordinated by KGM. given that there had been little precedent for this kind
          of collaboration before.

          (412) KGM also deserves credit for its role in coordinating a number of
          different government departments as well as university staff, unused to
          working together as a team. It took the lead in the task force for road
          safety and supported the other executing agencies in the areas of
          procurement and financial management.

          (4.23) KGM did well to coordinate satisfactorily with other government
          departments and agencies, and with academia. The performance of these
          partners varied, but was satisfactory on the whole.

   Clause VIII. (4.16) Bank performance is rated satisfactory. but with some
          reservations.There is no doubt that both the Bank and Borrower contributed to
          the delays at important decision points during implementation.The Bank could
          have moved with more urgency on some occasions to speed up its
          responses to the "no objection" requests. This matter was also raised by the
          Under-secretariatof the Treasury, and the Bank has in the meantime taken
          steps to streamline its procurementactivities.




**SOME PARAGRAPHS FROM THE VIEWS OF THE BORROWER EXPRESSED
                                         IN ICR


                   GENERAL EVALUATION OF THE RlSP BY
                 THE COORDINATOR IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
                (ROAD IMPROVEMENT AND SAFETY PROJECT)

I- DATA NECESSARY FOR THE BANK TO EVALUATE THE PERFORMANCE
                            OF THE BANK BY ITSELF.

  The latest situation of the Project is as follows:
   THE BANK HAS REFUSED THE PROPOSAL OF THE NDERSECRETARIAT
  OF TREASURY AND OF THE 4 IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES TO EXTEND
  THE CLOSING DATE OF THE LOAN 4048A-TU, FROM 31.03.2003 TO
  31.12.2003 AND THE AMOUNT OF EURO 21.I11.257,47 ( US $ 23.249.140,26,
  that Is 18,52 % OF THE LOAN 4048A-TU AMOUNT) WAS CANCELLED BY
  THE BANK, UPON THE FOLLOWING BANK'S FAX

                                      26




      DATED JANUARY 21,2003

         PURSUANT TO         YOUR     LETTER    DATED     NOVEMBER          18, 2002,
       REQUESTING THE BANK TO EXTEND THE CLOSING DATE OF THE
       LOAN, I REGRET TO INFORM YOU THAT THE BANK IS NOT IN A
       POSITION TO AGREE TO SUCH AN EXTENSION. WHILE WE RECOGNIZE
      THE SOLID CONTRIBUTION THAT THE LOAN FINANCED ACTIVITIES
      UNDER THE PROJECT HAVE MADE TO TRAFFIC SAFETY AND OTHER
      SECTOR OBJECTIVES, WE FEEL THAT THE INCREMENTAL GAINS THAT
      MIGHT BE MADE DURING A FURTHER IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD ARE NOT
      GREAT ENOUGH TO JUSTIFY AN EXTENSION...


      6- As, everybody will accept. signing and approving the mentioned related
contracts implies that implementing agency and/or the World Bank committed against
Contractors that the expenditure amounts of these contracts, would be paid. CWA-II.
CWA-Ill. MS-05, 01-812-IC Code Numbered contracts, couldn't be finished or didn't
reach to the expenditure levels which were agreed before with the Bank at the
closing date of the Loan.

       10- 4 IMPLEMENTING AGENCIES SINCERELY BELIEVED THAT THE GAINS
(as (1) Very important ongoing contracts would not be stopped, they would be
completed. (2) Commitments of the Bank and the implementing agencies given to the
contractors, would be realized (3) There would be no legal problem due to
uncompleted contracts, since the works in all of these contracts were necessary and
described works according to the Loan Agreement, (4) The objectives of the Loan
Agreement would have been reached completely) THAT WOULD BE REALIZED
DURING EXTENDED PERIOD, WOULD BE GREAT ENOUGH TO JUSTIFY AN
EXTENSION, ON THE CONTRARY WHAT WAS SAID BY THE COUNTRY
DIRECTOR,IN HIS LElTER OF 21 ST JAN.,2003.

                                            27



         19- After completion of the Bank's reorganization. receipt of the Bank's no
objection. became very difficult and took incredible long durations as;

    a) due to reduction in the number of experienced Bank's staff and
    b) due to very high increase in the number of projects, loans, and countries to be
        taken care by the same Bank's staff. (according to what the Bank's related
        Program Team staff say)

        20- As an example;

        Bank's no objection for feasibility studies of Black Spot works (though their
solutions, estimated costs, environmental reports, feasibility studies and other tables have
been prepared and checked by the KGM and the Consultant firm) could be obtained after
numerous correspondence by the Bank and after 64 days and 109 days passed.

        In the same way, the Bank's no objection for the Traffic Police Training Program
(proposed with the letter of General Directorate of Security dated 19.12.2001) could be
obtained with the fax of 21 October 2002 after 10 months passed (302 days).

        Similar delays occurred in the receipt of the Bank's no objection, for the works of
the Ministry of National Education and Gazi University.

(Though the tenders were received, the bid was to be cancelled by the Ministry of
National Education when it was understood that the Bank would not extend the
Loan closing date.)

        8- This contract of CS-5, Highway Information System (Including Traffic
Safety Common Data Bank) It was hoped by KGM that due to the special importance
given to this component of the Loan by the Bank, the Bank could permit KGM to
continue with this contract even the Bank doesn't permit the continuation of all other
ongoing contracts.

        Bid documents have been prepared with the contribution of the Bank's consultants
and Federal Highway Administration's consultants after a long common study.
Announcement pertaining to HIS was published also in UN Development Business
on 30.06.2001.

        Though Prequalifications have been realized and the Short List has been prepared
and many tenderers hired consultants from abroad and strengthened their firms to give
their tenders; and the Bank has given its no objection on June 19, 2002, the process was
stopped upon Bank's not extending the closing date of the Loan.


        In order to have a rough idea about how the World Bank managed this Loan
(from the beginning of the Loan upto the end) one can consider the duration
past between the dates of our Treasury's application which is November 18.
2002 to the Bank (for extension of closing date of the loan to 31.12.2003) and the
Bank's reply date which is 21.Jan.2003.

                                                 28

                                                                              f
                                                                             EK-J


     VISION OFPROJEXTCOORDlNATIONCENTERONDRAFI'F'ROJKT
                     PEXFORMANCEEVALUATIONREPORT

The budge?of GeneralDircctoratcofW w a p was vay high,buttbt activkiesoftheproject
Were allrelatedwiththe Highwaysthey shouldhavebeendeliveredbuwbtathe reletadUnits.
ActivitieswhichW a c relatedwith tbeM n b y of Educarionnecdcdto bemwioned.

         700tcachcrswaetxainedinteachertrainiipro~a
         40 thousandtruck drivers who took thcir driving-liceasbefore 1996wap.trained
         thtsrminars.
         `TeacherguidciineonTd5c" was pubIisbcdilnddeliveredfor thesakeofthe
         sNdew, b m pr6sCboal to the&     ofththigbschool&cat@         to make tbe
         edrrcationmat*    ricer bysnpportingthcu"aclpcrtiwprogrs"~
         Educationnsataialssuchas; compata,           s"er,   tdevislon, video, overhead-
         projectorwme      to 362 sclmok,




                                                                                             r.




                                                                                             I
                                                                                             IiI:

