                                          Document of
                                   The World Bank
                                 FOR. OFDCIAL USE ONLY.




                                                                                         Report No. P-2378-BR




                               REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
                                             OF THE.

                                      PRESIDENT OF THE

             INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT

                                             TO THE

                                    EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

                                               ON A

                                        PROPOSED LOAN

                                                TO

                          THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                             FOR A

                  SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL         POLLU~ION    CONTROL PROJECT




                                        March 10, 1980




This document has a restricted djstribution and may be used by recipients· only in the performance of
their official duties. · Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank autborlmtion.
                           \
                               \
                       )
                  /


                                      CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS };_/


                                                 Calendar 1919         February 11, 1980

       Currency Unit                             Cruzeiro (Cr$)           Cr$
       US$1                                      Cr$26.85                 45.11
       Cr$1                                      US$0.037                  0.022


                                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS                              I


       BNDE       -    Banco Nacional da Desenvolviuento Economico.
       BNH        =    Banco Nacional da Habitacao
       BADE SP    =    Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo
       CE TE SB   =    CETESB-Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento Ambiental
       BANE SP    =    Banco do Estado de Sao Paulo
       DAEE       =    Departamento de Aguas e Esgotas
       FESB       =    Fundo Estadual de Saneamento Basico
       PROCOP     =    The Project Account in FESB
       PLANASA    =    Plano Nacional de Saneamento
       SABE SP    =    SABESP-Companhia-de Saneamento Basico ·do Estado de
                         Sao P~ulo
       SEMA       =    Secretaria Especial do Meio Ambiente


                                          FISCAL YEAR


                                   January 1 to December 31




                                                                  i
                                                                  ·-




1/   The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$29.075)
     corresponds to the cruzeiro buying rate as of September 30, 1979.
                                                                         FOR. OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                 BRAZIL

                     SAO.PAULO     INDUSTRI~       POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

                                   LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY


Borrower:                       Federative Republic of Brazil

Intermediaries:                 Banco Nacional ·~o ,Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE)
                                for the Federative Republic of Brazil, Banco do
                                Desenvolvimento do Estado d~ sao·Paulo (BADESP)
                                for the State of Sao ~aulo

.Beneficiafies:                  Private and public· enterprises in· the· State of
                                "Sao Paulo'

Amount:                         US$58 million eqUivalent·

Terms:                          Repayment in 15-years, including.three years                      o~   grace,
                                at 8.25% per annum

Relending Terms:                 Repayment in not less than 10 years including a grace
                                 period of not less than th~ee years at 2% p.a. plus
                                 monetary correction at 100%.of the National Treasury
                               ·-Bond index (ORTN) for firms with more than US$4         .
                                 million annual sales and at 2% p.a. plus 65% of such
                                 index for smaller firms·. . Releriding to be expressed in
                                 cruzeiros.

Project Description:            The project would be the first concerted effort to
                                reduce air and water pollution in the· Greater Sao
                                Paulo area. It would provide financing for-existing
                                 industries ·to carry out air· pollution control sub-
                                projec ts to reduce particulate matter emissions and
                                water pollu~ion contr.ol _subprojects to pretreat Qr
                                fully treat their l~quid effluents. The project would
                                primarily improve air quality in the Greater Sao Paulo
                                area and reduce the discharge of toxic substances and·
                                organic materials into water bodieso The project also
                                includes technical assistance· to strengthen the
                                technical ·and operational capability of the. environ~.
                                mentai protection agency of the state of Sao Paulo,
                                which would be responsible for technical appraisal and
                                supervisio.n of subprojects. The pr~ject would contrib-
                                ute to improve the health and living conditions of the
                                population, particularly of the urban poor. ~~ main.
                                risk faced by the project relates- to the negative
                               ·internal financial rates of r.eturn of most pollution
                                control investments. Opposition by industrialists to·
                                such investments could slow down project execution.
                                The financial .inc.ent:i:ves included as part .of the .
                                project and the penalties included in the-iegislation
                                would reduce this risk to an acceptable level.          ·
  This document hu a restricted distribution and may be U!!ed by recipients only in the performance
  or.their
        . oftk:ial duties. Its contents may
                                         .                         . .without World Bank
                                            net otherwile be disclosed
                                                    .                                .   11uthorimtion.
                                    - ii -


Estimated Cost:                                    ----~----- US$ Million ~------­
                                                  Local      Foreign     Total       %
                    Air Pollution Control
                      Project Design and
                        Preparation                  7.3        1.2        8.5      4.5
                      Civil Works and
                        Installation                26.0       . 8. 5     34.5     18.4
                      Machinery and Equipment       30.6      '21. 2      51.8     27.8
                      Spare Parts                    6.4         2.8       9.2      4.9

                         Total                      70. 2.     33.8      104.0
                                                                                  ·55.6
                                                                                   --
                    Water Pollution Control
                     Project Design and·
                        Preparation                  5.0        1.3        6.l      3.4
                     Civi 1 Works and
                        Installation                23.4        5.8       29.2     15.6
                     Machinery and
                      . Equipment                   22. 6
                     Permanent Working Capital
                        and Spare Parts              3.8        1.5        5.3      2.8

                         Total                      54.8       21.2       76.0     40.6·

                      Technical Assistance           4.0        3.0        7.0      3.7

                         Total Project Cost        129.0       58.0      187.0    100.0

Financing Plan:                                    Pollution Control     Technical
                                                    Air       Water      Assistance . Total

                      P.roposed IBRD Loan          33.8         21.2        3.0            58.0
                      State Government Budge~      54.3         16.9                       71.2
                      BNH                                       25.8                       25.8
                      CETESB                                                4.0             4.0
                      Ultimate Benefi~iaries       15.9         12.l                       28.0
                                                                --
                         Total                    104.0         76.0        7.0           187.0

·Estimated                                    -------------- US$ Million -------------
   Disbursements:                             Bank FY 1981     1982    1983    1984

                      Annual                       10.75        21.00    22.00     4.25
                      Cumulative                   10.75        31. 75   53.75    58.00

Rate of Return:       The most important project benefits are not readily
                      transferable.into economic rates of return since they
                     .relate to improvements in the health and living condi-
                      tions of the population.

Appraisal Report:     Report· No. ·2158b-BR, dated February 15, 1980.
           INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                              .            ·.
                  REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
                          TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
           ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
            FOR A SAO PAULO INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT


I.          I submit the following report and recommendation ·on a proposed loan
to the Federative Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$58.0 million to
help finance the. Sao· Paulo Industrial Pollution Control Project·.. The loan wquld
have a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 8. 25%
per annum. US$55 million equivalent of the loan would be relent to existing
large scaie industries at 2% per annum plus mone~ary correction at 100% of the
National Treasury Bond index (ORTN) and to existing small and medium scale
industries at the same interest rate but with monetary correction at 65% of
ORTN. Relending would· be for not less than.10 years, including a minimum grace
period of r 3 years. US$3 .O million equivalent would be passed ·on to the State·
Environme*tal Protection Agency, CETESB-Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento
Ambiental (CETESB) as a grant.· The subsidies implicit in this operation and
the foreign exchange risk would be borne by the State. of Sao Paulo.



                                  PART· I - THE ECONOMY


2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR).,
dated March 19, i979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and. relate4 annex tables are based on that
report and on subsequent information. ·

3.        The present Government, hea.ded by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira.
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979, for a six-year term. During its
first year it has had to grapple ~ith accelerating inflation and a deterior-
ating balance-of~payments situation. Major economic priorities of the new
government include the accelerated growth of agriculture, reduced dependence
on imported petroleum, and continued expansion of manufactured exports.
Success on these fronts is crucial both to the solution of the inflation and
balance-of-payments problems, as well as to the sustained improvement of
living·standards anft a better income.distribution.

Recent Economic Performance

4.          From 1967 to 19'73, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth. GDP
rose at a· real rate of about 11% per year, with indu~trial value-added rising
13% per annum and· agriculture 5%. Income per capita increased at more than 7%
per year •. This growth was achieved·with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, de·spite considerable trade libe~alization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rat.e of domestic inflation. Although
income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that most
Brazilians did share in the absolute imp~ovement of living standards that
was 'taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth
of public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
                                      - 2 -


the inflow of foreign capital and technology; and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from·US$3.3 billion to_ US$12.6 pillion,
but much of.th:Ls accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0._2 billion .to US$6.4 billion.

 S.          One by-product of this process was -a growing dep~ndence of Brazil's
 industry and transport sys·tem on imported petroleum .. - Few large nations are
 apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
 explo_ratory' effort; over· 80% of its petroleum nee.ds must be imported. Thus, .
 ~s a con~equence of the oil price increase, the c~st of petr~leum imports rose
 from US$711 million in 1973 to· US$2.8 billion in --1974.- With imports also
 swelled oy speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's curr~nt
 account deficit- rose. in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 b~llion, or
·7% -o·f GDP. Coping· with the -trade-off between continued high. growth and the
 suddenly tightened external resource c·onstraint- has been one of· the basic
 problems o~ ·Brazilian economic management- since 1974.

6.           Brazil's' capacity to manage the. 1973-74 oil crisis was--enhaµced
by its strong international ·reserve position; the continued rapid growth o-f
its manufactured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets,
combined with widespread confidence in the.nation's creditworthiness; and
the opportunities which its large. domestic market offered for efficient import.
substitution. Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high
national growth expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the autho-
rities' were reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted
instead toward increasing control° over imports, which were h.el.d appro~mately
constant in nominal terms between 1974 and. 1977. As a result of this effort,
accomplished through a variety of tariff and non-tariff t~ad~ barriers, a
positive merchandise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current
account deficit w~s reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GD~ growth averaged
7. 6% ·p.er year between 1973 and 1977·, although with wid_e year-to-year variation.
            -                                                      .
7.         By 1976; however, the· continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted• impoi::ts and increased protection of domestic industry had .
res~lted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the authq- ·-
ri ties acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to -
tighten credit.· This effort intensified in 1977, and_ the overall GDP growth
rate fell· below 5% for the first time since 1966. Ne~ertheless", inflatiot;t.
remained around 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional inter-
national reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976-77.

8.         The rate of GDP growth rebounded to almost 6% in 1978, notwithstanding
a 2% decline in agricultural output caused by a serious drought in southern -
Brazil. The -loss of food production cost. the .economy an estim~ted. US$1.5
billion-in foreign exchange. Hence, despite a 36% nominal increase in man~­
factured ·and semi-processed exports, total.merchandise exports rose only 3.5%,
compa'redto a 7.7% increase in merchandise imports. ·The contraction of
agricultural output and rapid buildup ·of international reserves contributed to
price pressures, maintaining inflation at about 40% for the.third conse~utive
year.
                                                                                -- -- --   ---   "   -   ----



                                       - 3 -


     9.        Aggregate demand continued to grow in 1979, fueled by rapid monetary
     expansion, a large public sector deficit, large wage settlements in the
     unionized sectors, and the continued_ expansion of manufactured exports.' Indus-
     trial production was up about 9% over the previous year. Agricultural output
     was again severe.ly affected .by a combination of droughts, ·floods, and frost
     but showed· some recovery from the depressed levels of 1978. .>erall, ·GDP
     growth was 5.6%, somewhat below that of the preceding year. High demand, the
     poor harvest, and increased fuel costs resulted in a rapid acceleration of
     inflation in 1979. Inflation for the year exceeded 75%·, the highest rate
     since 1964.

     10.        Increased 'petroleum prices, the two'consecutive bad harvests, and
     a sharp rise in external borrowing costs· also contributed to the progressive
     deterioration of Brazil's balance of payments in 1978and·1979. Despite the
     continued rapid growth of manufactured exports, the merchandise·trade balance
     fell from a small -surplus in.1977 to a US$0.4 billion deficit in 1978 and an
     estimated US$2.3 billion deficit in 1979. The cost of fuel imports alone
     increased almost US$2 billion, or 40%, from 1978 to 1979. The jump in LIBOR
     costs, to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied, contributed to
     raising gross interest payments abroad from US$3.3 billion in 1978 to nearly
     US$5 billion in 1979. Consequently, the deficit on current account grew from
     US$5.9 billion to US$8.5 billion, or from 3.0 to 3.7% of GDP.

     11.       With amortization payments totalling about US$5. 8 billion, external
     capital requirements in 1979 amounted to US$14.3 billion. Of this amount,
     approximately US$3.0 billion was covered by reserve drawdowns, ·and another
     US$1.0 billion was provided by net direct foreign investments. Gross and
     net foreign borrowings in 1979, including bond issues, therefore totaled about
     US$10.3 billion and US$4.5 billion, respectively, compared to US$13.7 billion
     and US$8.5 billion in 1978. No difficulties were encountered in ~ttracting
     the necessary credits, and the improvement noted in 1978 in spreads and
     maturities available to Brazil was sustained in 1979. The drawdown brought
     international reserves to about US$8.9 billion at the end of 1979, or equiv-
     alent to about 5-1/2 months of goods and nonfactor service imports. Gross
     medium~ and long~term debt ~ose to around US$48 billion, or 21% of GDP.

     12.       Measures introduced in April 1979 to slow the inflation and reduce
     balance-of-payments pressures met with only temporary success, and a new
     package of measures was decreed in December. The most important of these
     were a 30% devaluation of the cruzeiro, accompanied by the elimination of
     export subsidies and the prior deposit requirement on imports and the imposi-
     tion of a temporary export tax on primary products; increased restrictions
     on public enterprise investments, imports and borrowing; and a modification
     of administered credit programs which is intended to reduce subsidies.

     Poverty Programs
I.
     13.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
     inequality, the Government has in recent years made se.rious efforts towards
     the relief of poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of
     areas. Coverage of the social security program, for example, has been expanded
     and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of th~ urban population
                                   - 4 -


is now covered by the social security health care system, and a cash·transfer
program has been established for the rural elderlr poor. Under this latter
system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age are eligible
to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an amount which is
almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural Northeast. ·The·
urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar programo Almost 2 million
loans have been made by the National Housing Bank.since 1964 for housing.
A sites and services program was established in 1975 to benefit the urban poor
more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a program to finance home
improvement and building materials. High priority has· also.been given to the
extension and improvement of urban water supply. Consequentlyj some 6 million
households comprising about 30 million people have been connected to public
water supply systems since 1971, increasing the· proportion of urban dwellers
who receive such services from 60% to.75%. Efforts have also been made to
attack the poverty-related problems of adult illiteracy and malnutrition. ]:!

Future Prospects

14.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to red9~~ the drain
on the economy of petroleum imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated, and foreign oil companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with· PETROBRAS, the state oil monopoly. Investments have also been
undertaken to develop the nation's extensive hydroelectric potential, to
initiate nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for
automotive use, and efforts are being made tq induce energy conservation.
The results, however, have thus far been limited. With oil expected to
constitute US$9-10 billion (nearly half of Brazil's merchandise imports) in
1980, as compared to US$700 million (11%) in 1973, the trade-off between
growth and balance-of-payments viability will· continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.

15.       In view of the balance-of-payments constraint, Brazil must undergo
a period of careful demand management. In addition to the measures noted
above, a number of important institutional reforms were set in motion in 1979
to improve fiscal and monetary policy design and implementation. These include:
the improvement of information flows and administrative control in the public
sector, including the expenditures of the many semi-autonomous agencies and
public enterprises, incorporation into the fiscal budget of several of the
subsidized credit programs· formerly handled outside the budget through the
Central Bank, and reduced earmarking of publi.c revenues. Currently under
consideration are the elimination of the development banking responsibilities
of the Central Bank, the abolition of the Bank of Brazil's money-creating
power, and a far-reaching reduction of fiscal incentives.

16.       The December devaluation of the cruzeiro and the accompanying trade
liberalization are intended to promote more efficient resource allocation,
favorable to both export growth-and efficient import substitutiono Toward
this end also, the domestic prices of agricultural corilmodities have been freed,
and a general reduction and liberalization of the tariff structure is under


     For a more detailed account of these efforts see "The Distribution of
     Income in Brazil" (Staff Working Paper No. 356, dated September 1979)
     and "Brazil - Human Resources Special Report", dated October 1979.
                                                              ;- '   ' ~- '· !:' '




                                                      - 5 -


f.;;rev:lew.Although public investuient"s may be.·d>ris.trained by reduced .resource ..
.\:availal:iilities over the next ·s.ev·eral years, -priority attentio~ will con~-inue.·.
·'t·o be"given t'o the development of --domestic energy. sources, ·.agriculture and ·
··       import-substitut~ori projects.         ·           ·

               Growth is expeeted to -aver-age about 6% ··per year in 1980-85 as
   '·compared to 11% in 1967-:-73 ·and 7% in.1973-78. ·. Such a ·growth rate ·should be
  :; compatible with a declining curreri.t account deficit .in ·relation to GDP ~nc:l
  ._an approximately constant· debt service· ·ratio • .-These ·projections -are._highly_.
  ;. sensitive, however, to petroleum prices·, ·LIBOR· rates, an:d the continu~d growth .
 ·'of ·manufactured exports. The combination of· high debt service and a high
 : share of petroleum in total impo~j:~ l~~ve:s ·t:he .economy ·more vulnerable to
.: external: events than it has been for many years·; and this situation may be
 ·expected to persist for the·next:::·~everail.yea~s . . .
                                                - ···.:
                   Assistance and C~editworthiness

 18.       With tl_l~ forecast ~ptrend -of real petroleum ·prices; Br~zil 's · ,:-esourc~·-·
 balance is expected to remain_ negative -though improving through ·1985. ··Interest
 payments on its ·1ar·ge debt wil'l ri·se' rapidly 'throughout - the period resulting
 in a continuing current account deficit.on the order of US$11-1) billion. ~s
 a proportion of GDP the cur~ent account deficit is projected to, peak at 4 •. 3%
 in 1980, falling gradually 'to ·about 2.4% -by 1985. .      ·     ·
               '                        '   .             .




                      - .... !   -~::
                                                                                              ;         .
21.         In summary, after a pe·riod of very rapid growth. in the late 1960s
and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of petroleum imports has forced
the nati<;>n· to moderate ·its growth expec:tations and.to· adapt· its economic
structure to the 'changed terms· of 'trade~·' This adjustment=prQ~ess ·h~s· been      . ·
eased by a strong·_ reserve position, a solid. image of nati..op.al,:_c~ed~t~orthiness, .
the aggressive·· expansion of manti.factured export.a, and the atnpl~.~oppor~uni~ies
                                                                                     . ..   : .:   .'

1/     Including both public and private debt.
                                    - 6 -

for efficient import substitution offered by its large .domestic market .. Nev~r­
theless, continued heavy dependence on petroleum-imports, ·the resurgence of
domestic inflation, and the rapid accumulation of external debt indicate that
the adjustment process is not yet complete. The Government_ recognizes the
need for careful demand management and for selectivity in its investment ·
policies emphasizing efficiency in export expansion, import substitution,
employment creation, and poverty_ alleviation. The task of economic management
will not be easy, but policy makers have demonstrated their ability to adjust
to changing circumstances. Thus, despite the deterioration noted in 1979,
Brazil remains creditworthy for new borrowing.

                     PART II    BANK OPERATIONS lN BRAZIL

22.       By January 31, 1980 the Bank had made 91 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,496.4 million (net of cancellations), of which 46 were not yet
fully disbursed. During FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per
year, reaching US$202 million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77, US$252 million
in FY78, and US$294.9 million in FY79. Disbursements for the first.half of
FYBO amounted to US$170 million and are expected to increase during the next
few years. Annex II contains a· .sunnnary statemei;it of Bank loans. as of January
31, 1980 and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.

23.       Over. the FY75-FY78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from
US$425 to over US$700 million per year. In FY75~ five loans were mad·e
totalling US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten .loans totalling US$498 million; in
FY77, seven loans totalling US$425 million. In FY78, nine loans totalling
US$705 million were made. In FY79, nine loans totalling US$674 million
were made. The documents for a US$130 million loan for a water supply and
sewerage project in the Southern States and for a US$114 million loan for a
power distribution project in Rio Grande do Sul _have been recently (or are about
to be) distributed 'to the Executive Directors. Work is relatively advanced
on the preparation of a suburban rail transport project in Porto Alegre, a·
rural education project for the Northeast, a systems coordination and control
center project for ELETROBRAS, an expansion project for ELETROSUL 1 s. ~raqs­
mission system, a second rural development project in Minas Gerais and a third
water supply and sewerage project in Minas Gerais. We expect to propo~e loans
for these projects in t~e near future.

24.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed ~t .t.he
end of 1978, amounting to nearly US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3% ..
The Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's
total (public and private) external debt is co~sidered, the Bank's share in
the total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Br~d.l's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
~utstanding debt is expected to rise very slightly, while its share in totaJ
debt service falls to about 1.7%.

25.       As of January 31, .1980 IFC connnitments to Brazil, totalled U~$482
million, of which US$329.7 million had been sold, repaid or cancelled.
Of the balance of US$152.3 million, US$115.1 million represent loans and
US$37.2 million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of January 31,
1980 is given in Annex II.                                        ··
                                    - 7


Lending Strategy

 26.        Xn its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
 achieve a number of important development objectives w~ich are interdependent
 and complementary. One. important.lending objective in Brazil is to help
 intensify the efforts of the Government to identify and develo~ pr.ojects that
 will inc~ease productivity and income of the lowest income segments of the
1population; to broaden the economic opportunities qpen to those groups, and to
 improve their living conditions. To reach these objectives loans.have been
 made for: nutrition research and development, vocat.ional training, agricultural
 research, agricultural.extension and polder construction in :the Lower Sao
 Francisco as well as for integrated rural development in th~ S~ates of Rio
 Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Ba~ia, Sergipe and Pernambuco•
 Additional projects.designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas are in
 p·reparation, including a rural education project and several integrated rural
 development projects in the Northeast. The loans for water supply and sewerage
 in the State· of Minas_ Gera:is, Greater Sao Paqlo the Northeast. and the three
 southern states, for urban transport in five major cities, for sites and
 services and low-cost housing; and for medium-sized cities development are
 assisting to improve the living conditions ·of the urban population, particu-
 larly of. the urban poor. Several projects to reach low-income groups in urban
 areas are in preparation: a second urban transpC?rt project_, a~. integrated
 urban development project in Minas Gerais and a rural education project. The
 proposed pollution control project would improve the living.conditions of the
 population of Greater Sao Paulo, particularly of_ the lower income groups which
 have been proven to suffer more intensely the .effects of air ftnd water pol-
 lution a

27.        Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Bra~il is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through ra~!pnal selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the trans-
portation sector where there has been emphasis on the selection of invest-
ments, the strengthening of railway' operations, and the·improvement of the
railways' financial performance. Loans for electric power, water supply and
sewerage, industrial finance,·agricultural research and extension, and urban
development also have i~portant institution-building objectives. The proposed
project would assist the State of Sao Paulo to execute a pioneer effo.rt to
control environmental pollution. We expect _tµat the experience gaine_d from
the proposed project will help the development of similar projects in other
areas of· Brazil and abroad o                                             ··




28.        Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petroleum prices, by suppor~ing projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to supstitute domestic production for
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
                                      - 8 -


balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy.crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Lending for the electric power sector supports this objective, since it is
based· primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the need
for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemicals projects
is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic
production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending for agro-
industries in ~he Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this objective
and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the ~ransport sector -- railways,
ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economic flow
of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
effici~ntly in Brazil in view of the country's ample .supply of high-grade iron
ore and the. scale of its internal markets. A similar objective is.being
achieved through the VALESUL Aluminum Project which uses Brazil's abun~an~
hydroelectric resources for power and Brazil's ample bauxite reserves.

29.        A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large·volume of medium- and long-term.~apital inflow~_
that Brazil has needed and will continue to need for some time in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its .employment creation and regional develo'p-
ment objectiv~s. .Continued substantial· lending by· the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there.
In some sectors, especially· in electric power and industry, Bank participation
is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on
more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and commercial financial
institutions. Since 1976, ten co-financing operations totalling more than
US$365 millio-,:i have been concluded with private financial institutions and
several others are in preparation. ·


                 PART III - THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT ·


Industrial Growth' and Urbanization

30~       Since the end of World War II, Brazil has experienced a'profoun~
socio-economic transformation from a predominantly agricultural export economy
into an integrated industrial society. Reflecting this change, the industrial
sector's share in GDP grew from 17% in 1945 to about 40% in 1978, and the
labor force in manufacturing industry rose from 7% to 15% of the economically
active population. Since the mid-1960s, a very fast expansion of the manufac-
turing sector has led the economic growth of the country. Brazil's current
strategy is to emphasize heavy industry to red~ce dependence on imports. .
Large investments have been carried out in recent years in steel, petrochemi-
cals, fertilizers, pulp and.paper, ferrous metals and cement. At the same
time, Brazil is building up its capability in the machinery and· equipment
sectors, moving into the· production of heavy and more sophisticated equipment,
and equipment made to order. Also, Brazil's current strategy emphasizes
manufactured exports which are rising rap.idly.
                                    - 9 -


31.       Brazil's industrialization coincided with a period of rapi.d popula-
tion growth and contributed to accelerated urban migration and ·development.
Between 1940-77 the country's total population rose from 41 million to 113
million, of which 62% 1/ were urban by 1977 compared with only 25% in 1940~
Regional and sub-regional specialization increased and industrial· develo.pment
became concen~rated around the major urban centers, particularly in the State··
of Sao Paulo and its capital city, which, from the early days of industrial
development, has shown greater economic potential than other regions ~~d urban
areas. Despite government effcfrts to redress regional imbalances through
large-scale incentive programs for industrial development in other regions,··
the state of Sao Paulo still accounts for nearly 60% of Brazil's manufacturing:
value added.

Environmental Impact

32.       This rapid industrial growth was not accomplished without consider=-
able cost to the environment in t~rms of air and water pollution. In.the early
phases of the industrialization process, the wast.e.s genez:ated by the industries
and population were small enough .to be absorbed by the .environment with little
effect. As growth continued without sufficient metropolitan planning and       ··
infrastructure services, the environment was increasingly used as a waste
disposal medium •. Where sustained industrializati~n and urb~nization occurred
in great concentrations, growth has been accompanied by a parallel ipcrease
in pollution to the point where in some metropolitan areas, such as Sao Paulo,
Rio de Janeiro and Belo Horizonte, waste discharges exceed the natuJ;"al.,
self-cleansing capacity of·the environment. As a result, the envirollUlent of
such areas has become harmf~l to the public health resulting in a~ increase in
the incidence of respiratory, cardio-vascular· and water-borne diseases.

The State of Sao Paulo and Greater Sao Paulo

33.        The balance of payments problems of the 1930s and the shqrtage of
imports durtng World War II contributed to make industry a leading sector of
the state of Sao Paulo's· economy and irrevocably al~ered rural-urban ~elation­
ships. The sustained industrialization brought about a polarization a-nd
concentration of economic activities around the state's major cities. By
1970, urbanization had encompassed more than 80% of t;he State •·s· poP.ulation.
The Greater Sao Paulo metropolitan area (the city of Sao Paulo and.3q adjoining
municip~lities) has played the central role in the state's rural·-t,irb.an tl;'ans-
formation. Greater Sao Paulo's population has been·growing over the pas~ few
decades at an average ·annual rate of 5-6%, more than double that ·of the
country as a whole. .Betw~en 1935 and the time of the last census in 1970, the
population grew from 600,000 to 8.1 million inhabitants and.· according to
current· estimates it has now reached. the 11 million mark.



1/   According to the Brazilian definition, urban areas are· those with more
     than 5,000 inhabitants.
                                                                                 ---.- -- -




                                             - 10


        34.        The State of Sao Paulo's contribution to the national economy has
        been impressive. In 1970, 1/ it accounted for about 36% of Brazil's net·
        domestic product, and had only 19% of the country's population. Among the
        51,516 industrial enterprises located in the state, food products accounted
        for, 23% of those enterprises, non-metallic minerals for 13%, metallurgical for
        8.5%, apparel and footwear for 8%, furniture for 7%, and metal working,
        textiles and various others for the rest. Greater Sao Paulo has been the
        driving f.orce behind the state'·s economic and industrial prosperity. In 1970,
        it provided about 70% of the state's d.omestic product, generated 80% of all
        ~mployment opportunities, and employed 74% of the industrial manpower~    ·
        Industrial activitie~, which contributed about 51% of Greater Sao Paulo's net
        domesti~ product, accounted for about 50% and 75%,-respectively, of the
        state's industrial establishments and industrial value added. ·

        Greater Sao Paulo's Environmental Problems
                  .                 .
        35.       The rapid economic development in Greater Sao Paulo has· given rise to
        environmental problems _similar to those experienced by most other fast-growing
        metropolitan areas around the world. Growth in industrial produc~ion and
        qther economic activities has been accompanied 'by a parallel increase in pollu-
        tion to the point that in Greater Sao Paulo's· most densely populated and
        industrialized areas the quantity of some effluents and ·discharges far exceeds
        the natural, self-cleansing capacity of the environment. Compounded by the
        area's special climatic and topographic conditions, this ecoiogical phenomenon
        is rapidly spreading, ·and air and water pollution in much of the area has
        reached a level harmful to public health. In additon to these environmental
        problems, over the past decade; Greater Sao Paulo's urban development has been
        increasingly hampered by the failure to expand public services in line with
        population growth. The environmental problems on the one hand, and the
        disorderly urbanization on the other, have led to a steady deterioration of
        some important aspects of the living conditions of the population, particularly
        the urban poor.

        Air Pollution and Its Consequences

        36.        The extent and .characteristics of the air pollution problem in
        Greater S.ao ~aulo are well documented and technically well' understood. Based
        on the 1976-77 cadastral survey of sources of air pollution, CETESB estimates
        that pollutant emissions in'the region amount to 7,203 tons/day. Carbon
        monoxide is the most important contributing 65% of total emissions, followed
        by sulfur oxides with 13%,. hydrocarbons with 10%, particulate matter with 7%
        and nitrogen oxides with 5%. As 'indicated by the large share of carbon
        monoxide in total· pollutant emissions, automotive traffic. is the single ·
        largest source (74%) of air pollution. The industrial sector, including
        captive power generation, is the second most important source (22%) of air
        pollution, with industrial processes accounting for 65% of particulate matter
        and 18% of hydrocarbon emissions. The metallurgical, non-metallic minerals,


             Analysis of the state economy is based on the latest available industrial
   ,.        census of 1970. Economic trends have not altered substantially since
il;:         then.
                                  - ·11 -


textile-and food industries, which account for about 50% of the 14,200 indus-
trial polluters, are estimated to be responsible for 80% of air pollutant
emissions by industry. ·Industrial particulate matter polluters, who would be
the target of the proposed project, involve about 1,150 enterprises, of which
about 280 ~ccount for 97. 5% of industrial particulate matter pollution.

37.       Most of the air pollution standards adopted by the State are
periodically not met for extended periods of time, particularly in the most
heavily industrialized and populated district~. In 1978 "attentfon" levels
occurred for carbon monoxide on 121 occasions as compared to 51 for partic-
ulate matter and sulfur dioxide. The daily air-quality standards were
exceeded 299 times for carbon monoxide, and 121 times and 17 ttmes respec-
tively, for particulate matter and sulfur dioxid~. For these pollutants,
the highest concentration recorded in 1978 surpassed the maximum daily
air quality standard by 282%; 1.90%, ·and 129%, respectively. These severe
air pollution leve·ts are further compounded by the peculiar atmospheric -and
climatic characteristics of Greater Sao Paulo, which often cause thermal
inversions and smog.

38.       The medical evidence accumulated world wide leaves little doubt
that poor air quality affects human health severely. In ~razil, studies have
demonstrated the adverse effect of sulfur dioxide and particulate matter in
the atmosphere on the health of the population. The degree of that effect
is related to the degree and duration of pollution .. In Greater Sao Paulo,
episode~ of thermal inversions involving high .concentrations of sulfur :·
dioxide and particulate matter have been associated with increases in morbid-
ity and mortality. In addition, local medical and hospital records evidence
increased frequency and severity of respirator;y diseases and pulmonary compli-
cations, along with cardiovascular problems,.during periods of. heavy air
pollution. Chronic bronchitis, bronch.iestasis, pneumonitis, .pneumonia, asthma
and emphysema are prevalent in Grea~er Sao Paulo 1 s population--particularly
among the elderly and the children--because of repeated exposure to heavy con-
centrations of air pollutants. Air pollution also ~ffects the human body in
other ways. -High levels of carbon dioxide, for example, slow up the response
time of the nervous system and reduce coordination ability and alertness, and
thereby contribute to increase.the·number ·of accidents and result in loss of
efficiency and abnormally high absenteeism among worker~ . . Air pollution.is
also responsible for extensive damage to property.

Water Pollution and Its Consequences

39.        Over the last 30 years, Sao Paulo's authorities have considered
several solutions to control water pollution and meet the growing demand for
water supply and sewage collection services in Gr~ater Sao Paulo. However, be-
cause of budgetary and institutional constraints the provision.of those_services
has not· kept pace with the growing domestic and industrial demand •. In relative
terms, only sligh_tly more of Greater Sao Paulb Is pppula.tion is served today by
sewage collection than in 1950. In 1978, sewage collection senred about four
million people, or 36% of the population, leaving 6.5 miliion without service.
Only 5% of the total sewage undergoes primary treatment, while 95% is released
untreated into storm water canals and nearby rivers and reservoirs. Ground
                                   - 12 -


water supply is exposed to contamination from open· discharges and septic
tanks, and most water bodies have exceeded their self-purification capacity.
In tons of biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), pollution loads in water bodies
amount to about 610 tons/day, of which 41% originate from domestic sewage, 44%
~rom industrial sewage and 5% from urban run-off.


40.       Water pollution in Greater Sao Paulo.has reached a level which has
serious implications for the health of the population. The inadequacy of
the water supply network and sewage treatment facilities is conducive to the
transmission of water-borne diseases. Principally in the peripheral areas,
where shallow. wells .are frequently used to· compensate for the lack of. a water
supply network, there is. a high· incidence of typhoid fever and paratyphoid,"
bacillary dysentery and other diseases such as amoebic dysentery, infectious
hepatitis and meningitis. While cholera fortunately has not appeared in
Greater Sao Paulo, it would find a favorable environment in the area. Studies
by the University of Sao Paulo have confirmed the interrelation between the
lack of basic sanitation in Greater Sao Paulo and the occurrence of trans-
mittable diseases. In particular,' those studies found that inadequate
water supply and sewage disposal was the primary factor for the increase in
infant mor.tality between .1961-70 in contrast to the declines registered in
the 1940s and 1950s. Also, they found that the absence of basic sanitation
was largely r~sponsible for the high incidence of acute diarrhea among infants
which in 1968-70 accounted for 81% of all infectious diseases occuring in ·
children of less than one year. Further, the studies disclosed that low
income groups living in areas without sewerage services and alongside polluted
water courses were most affected by the contamination of water. Also, recent
research shows that the population is exposed to the risk of absorbing carcino-
genic and.mutagenic compounds from water polluted by industrial wastes. By
providing financing for the installation of pretreatment facilities for the
removal of toxic elements from-industrial discharges, the proposed project
would make a significant contribution towards reducing bealth hazards posed by
the contamination of Greater Sao Paulo's water courses and reservoirs.

Federal Pollution Control"Legislation

41.       As in most countries, specific legislation to protect the environ-
ment was enacted in' Brazi.l only recently. In 1973, the, first relevant federal
act created a special secretariat of the environment - Secretaria Especial
do Meio Ambiente (SEMA), in the Ministry of the Interior for the purpose of
rationalizing the utilization of the country's natural resources and environ-
ment, elaborating pollution control norms and standards, coordinating federal
pollution control activities; and assisti~g state pollution control agencies.
Federal environmental control legislation was enacted in 1975. It introduced
a general policy with the objective of preventing and correcting environmental
pollution and established means such as restr~ctions on fiscal incentives
to carry out the new policy. It also provided<£or minimum standards based
on classification of water bodies and air pollution loads. In addition, it
divided pollution control responsibilities between the federal and state
governments and exp~icitly recognized the powers of the states to set tighter
pollution control standards or issue supplemental control legislation. Most
                                           - 13 -


of the supervisory and enforcement ful!ctions· (inclu4ing the ~i;~ablis.hment .of ....
a more comprehensive set of sanctions against violat·or·s t as-·oiily a few. are
included'at the federal level) were left to the states •. However, th~ federal
authorities have· reserved- for tJle~selves th~ right to .k~_ep open. tP.ose in~u~-; ·.
tries which the. state .authorities may Wa.nt .to shut down. pn pollution .. g'lrounds· · · ·
but which the federal authorities· consider to be .of. imp.ort.ance t.o the de~el~p- ~
ment and security of the country •. · +o provide. a basis for a - policy db.logu~            .. ·
with the _Bank. on this question,. the ·federal a1:1thorities· would convey. to' tQ.e       ...
Bank. all. relevant information conce:L'ning. those .i.ndustrial plant;:~ in Greater . -~­
Sao Paulo which· they decide to maintain open, .n.o,twit_hstanding C_ETES~'s. views·· .. ·~·
to the contrary. In addition, after·. the_ commitment of. U:S$27 .O mill;lon: .of the...
loan (a·bout one-half of the loan· amou~t allocated t;o·. the. credit por~ion. o:t; __ th~·~·, .
project) or by September 30, 1981, whichev.~-~- is earlier, the Bank. woµlc:l h~ve · ..
the right to suspend commitments f,or .subprojects or technical' assistaiice"' . .
grants if· it determines. that the. actions ta~e.U: by. ·tl>.e · f_ederal governmen_t . :
regarding the . closing of. plants have advers.ely aff.ected the ability: of tJle ~ao
Paulo State Go~ernment to achieve .. the objecti:ves of its air and water P<?l,.lutioµ._
control strategy. Furth~rmore, wheneyer the f.e5leral authorities overn?-le ·-..
CETESB' s decision to close a plant, the .feder~~ govepiinent_.. will provia·e .tp~
Bank with all relevant inforination in support of its decision (Sections
2.03(b), amd 4.03 of the draft Loa,Q. Agreeme~t ~nd. 3.04 and 5.06(b)..of the
draft Project .Agreement). Finally, ..(n ea:i::ly 197_~ .the. Cons·elho. ·de. D.esenvolvi-
mento Economico (CDE) banned federal incentives fo_r·.most ne~ indust-rial ··.
projects in Greater Sao P.a~lo. This measure· int, end~, a~ong. oth~r ·t:hi:~g~ , . t~
alleviate- the problems caused. _by _ind'!stri~l, concentr~F.~on in. the. ·area •. _· :
                       •I
                                                                                       .   :
Sao Paulo State Pollution Control Legislation
                                     ...
42.       . In 197 5 ;- the state governm,ent made .CETES;B responsibl~··. f o~ all ~nvir·on-
mental protection efforts whi'ch · seve·i:'al entities were :ca,rrying out •...Shortly .:
thereafter, two state laws provided a legal framework for preserving ·watei: .....
resources, classified water bodies according to their potential use, regulated .
land uses affect"ing·protected water bodies, and define4 trea~~enta~d..,pretreat-:
ment requirements fotr ·all ·industrial discharges. The_ dec;.isive steP. :.in d,evelop....:_
ing an effective: legal. framework. for ~correcting and preventing enyiroxµnent;al. ...
pollution took place in··l.976.. The legislation .ena:-ct~d then enabled .th;~ state' -
government to tackle air .as well as all other forms.. of environmental P.QllutiPD:•
It provided .specific sanctions against violators ii:: established ·a ,licem~ixj.g ~n4"~
registration-system for all:produc·tive enterprises, d~fined :state ·a.ir and - ·" -
water quality standards_, ·and approved regulations' for pollution cO'ntrc,>_l and . " -
sanctions. Since the execution .of the_ p~oj~ct·would .depend_qeavily on "th.e                 ._
enforceability of the· legi~lation ·.the. state law· ·d~aling with saI).ctions ag~~nst.
polluters ·was recently amended. As a condition· of: ~f.fectiveness... of ~he :~..
proposed loan, the state government ·would also regul,~te such· amendmeii.~s. :· ·
(Section 6.0l(f) of. the draft. Loan Agreement). In-addition,. the. state.g<)v~ ·
ernment would clarify or improve· othe.r. aspects.. of th~ 3:-egislation;. in a _man~er '.
satisfactocy to the Bank (se~ paras.· 45 and.: 49) •.. . .. ..
                                                             ·_ '. . · ·· . . · · ·-· _-·. _" ·
                                                              ;,·




                                                                              ...
                                                                               '•
                                   - 14 -


Water ·Pollution Control Strategy and Programs

43.       On a national basis, SEMA has defined four categories of water bodies
according to their intended use. CETESB has classified all 'of the state Is
water bodies in accordance with t~ose four categories. The general strategy
of the.~tate government is to bring the conditions of all water bodies up to
the standards required by their respective categories. For Greater Sao Paulo,
the strategy of the state government for controlling water pollution is
contained in a master plan for providing sewage collection and treatment
services to the area. In accordance with the plan, by the end of the century,
88% of Greater Sao Paulo's population will receive sewage collection and treat-
ment services. A key feature of the plan is the joint treatment of industrial
and domestic wastes. This joint treatment provides the least cost solution
for the treatment of 'industrial wastes. It further provides for the cross-
subsidization between industrial and domestic consumers thus making sewerage
services affordable to the lower-income population within an overali framework
of financial discipline. The master plan will be executed in stages. The
Bank is assisting.in the financing of the first stage under the recentiy
approved Sao Paulo Sewage Collec_tion and Treatment Project (Loan . .1525-BR).

44.       Since industrial discharges of toxic and hazardous materials· into
the general sewerage system would jeopardize the sewerage network and the
9perating effectiveness of the sewage· treatment plants, the local authorities
have embarked on a complementary water pollution control program to pretreat
industrial effluents. CETESB and SABESP have surveyed 1,033-industries
out of which 393 were found to be significant polluters in need of immediate
water pollution control action. Though this survey represents an adequate
base for initiating a corrective industrial water pollution control program,
under the proposed project, CETESB would carry out a systematic identification
of industrial water· polluters which is needed for long-term enforcement
purposes (Section 5.05 of t~e draft Project Agreement).

45.       Some of the industrial polluters that require pretreatment are
already connected to tpe ~neral sewerage system, others will be .in the
future, and others not at all. Their industrial ·effluents offer different
degrees of risk to the environment-depending on their production activities,
thei~ location, and the water quality standards to be attained in the adjoining
rivers and water bodies. Because of these complex factors, the.state govern-
ment has informed the Bank that it would execute its water pollution control .
program in accordance with a specific plan of action to deal with industrial_.
water polluters in a rational and efficient manner. CETESB would exercise its
powers and fulfill its' responsibilities in accordance with the government's
plan of action, wl:i.ich attaches first priority to those polluters who are
either connected or will soon be connected to the city's sewerage system and
whose effluents could interfere with the operation of the sewerage system
(Section 5.06(a) of the draft Project Agreement). In addition, the state
government would (i) correct certain inconsistencies in the existing effluent
standards before starting disbursements for water pollution control subprojects
and (ii) amend the classification of water bodies to ensure its compatibility
with the master plan for _sewerage collection and treatment in the Greater Sao
Paulo area (Section 2.02(f)(iii)(B) of the draft Loan Agreement).
                                      - 15 -··


    Air Pollution Control Strategy and Programs

    46.       After the enactment of the pollution control legislation in mid-1976,
    the state authorities started to carry out air pollution control measures. Up
    to now, th~se measures have .been mostly preventive in nature, and have centered
    on the establishment of a licensing system for new economic activities.
    Measures to control existing.sources of air pollution have been limited in
    scope and taken mostly in response to citizen complaints. CETESB. has designed
    a number of .corrective enforcement programs but their execution remains
    contingent upon the definition of basic control strategies for air pollutants
    in line with the air quality standards specified in the legislation. CETESB
    is now designi~g the required strategies for application throughout the state,
    taking into account the characteristics of the sources of air pollution, the
    speed of implementa:tion of pollution cont·rol programs,. and the availability of
    pollution control ~.echnology.

    47.      · .Aiiiong Sao Paulo's air basins, Greater Sao Paulo has been assigned
    top priority by the state authorities on the basis of its air quality and
    other indi~ators such as number of public complaints, industrial concentration
    and degree of urbanization. CETESB has determined that, to meet the state's
    air quality standards in Greater Sao Paulo, the government would have to
    control (i) gasoline po~ered vehicles for carbon monoxide; (ii) stationary
    combustion units for sulfur dioxide; and (iii) industrial processes and
    activities for particulate matter.
~

 48.       With automobiles contributing 94% 0£° carbon monoxide emissions in
 Greater Sao Paul~>, the only long rt,in solution to this problem is the enforce-
ment of emission standards for new vehicles. Negotiations between the auto-
mobile industry and the state and federal governments are taking place with
the aim of having new cars equipped with appropriate emission control devices
 after 1982. In the meantime, a program for the mandatory use of "balanced"
gasoline cont·aining 15% ethyl alcohol· was introduced in 1977. Air quality
data for 191~ ~ndicate that this action has led to some improvement in maxi-
mum carbon monoxide concentrations compared to 1976. · Further progress along
these lines should also.be forthcoming as a result of the automobile industry's
decision to manufacture annually 250,000 automobiles burning 100% ethyl
alcohol starting in 1980. The problem of sulfur dioxide is related to the
combustion by stationary sources of high sulfur fuels. CETESB's control plan
calls for the mandatory use of low-sulfur oil for certain industries all year
round and its use by as many industries as possible during the winter months
when pollution levels are highest.· At present the state has no specific air
emission control standards· for toxic heayy metals from industrial sources. To
the extent that these metals are emitted as particles, they are controlled by
particulate· emission standards.. CETESB feels that more. specific standards are
not required since there.appears to be no significant source of heavy metals
in the area.

49.       Of all the air pollution control programs being developed by CETESB,
the one for particulate matter is the most advanced because (i) the related
policy and institutional issues are within ·the control of the state government;
(ii) CETESB has accumulated adequate data in this field in recent years; and
(iii) appropriate technology is available to deal efficiently with the problem.
                                  - 16 -


Execution of this program, for which financing·would be provided under the
proposed loan, would focus on the 284 firms which-CETESB has found to be
responsible for most of the 376 metric. tons of particulate matter emitted
daily by the industrial sector. To en~ure a long lasting improvement in .
the Greater Sao Paulo environment, CETESB intends to implement a strategy
wh{ch would (i) call for both new and existing industrial enterprises to
control their particulate matter emissions by·at least 90% and 80%, respec-
tively; and (ii) involve complementary corrective actions to reduce other
sources of particulate matter pollution. so a.s to comply with the state's air
quality standards for particulate matter for about 10 years starting in
1983. Largest polluters would be required to comply with the existing legis-
lation first. The smallest ones would be required to comply with s_tate' s
legislation only where the use of simple, cost efficient systems is proven to
be feasible •. CETESB would issue particulate ~atter emission and conditioning
standards, satisfactory to the Bank, and agree with the Bank on an air pollu-
tion control strategy, before any disbursements of the loan are made for air
pollution control subprojects (Section 2.02(f)(iv) of the draft Loan Agreement).


                           PART IV - THE PROJECT


B~ckground


50.       The proposed loan would be the first for industrial pollution
control in Latin America. Initial project discussions took place in Brazil,
in late 1976, when it became evident during preparation of the Greater Sao
Paulo-sewage collection and treatment project (Loan 1525-BR) that pretreatment
of industrial effluents was necessary for the.successful operation of.the
general sewerage system. The scope of the project was subsequently expanded,
in 1~77, to include air pollution control, since it was felt that a broader
project approach was required to deal more effectively with the deterioration
of the environment in Greater Sao Paulo. Project appraisal was first carried
out in February/March 1978 and initial negotiations took place in Washington
in October 1978 with the State of Sao Paulo, as the borrower and the Federative
Republic of Brazil, as the guara~tor. However, because of political activity
immediately before and after the state and federal election that took place
in November 1978 the bill authorizing the state to borrow from the Bank was
not considered by the state assembly before it went into recess in December
1978. The new. state government which took office in M;irch 1979 could not
muster enough support in the opposition-led assembly so early in its tenure
in office to have the bill approved. The federal government, therefore,
decided to borrow directly from the. Bank and agreement on the new financial
and institutional contractual arrangements was reached in October 1979.
Final negotiations took place in February 1980 in Brasilia with a delegation
headed by Joalice Azevedo from the Federal Ministry of Finance. A supple-
mental project data sheet, including a timetable of key events and a summary
of special conditions, is presented in Annex III~ A staff appraisal report
(No. 2158b-BR, dated February 15, 1980) is being circulated to the Executive
Directors separately.
                                  - 17 -


Project Concept

51.       The proposed project would assist industries to.reduce emissions
of particulate matter so that air quality standards for particulate matter
concentrations in Greater Sao Paulo could be reached in the near fut~re: It
would also assist industries to reduce significantly their discharges of
toxic substances in Greater Sao Paulo's rivers and achieve gradually by 1983
some of the water quality standards defined in the existing st'ate. and federal
pollution control legislation. The project would help to reduce the health
hazards caused by en,vironmental pollution with its proportionately 'greater
effect on the urban poor by avoiding the recurrence of 'episodic pollution and
minimizing the incidence of chronic water or air:-borne diseas·es. Also, it
would complement the Greater Spo Paulo sewage collection and treatment project
by permitting the discharge of pretreated industrial e~fluents into the planned
general ~ewerage system. · Moreover, it would build up ·cETESB's operational
and technical capabilities for designing and executing integrated long-term
pollution control strategie,s ..

52.       The proposed loan would finpnce the foreign exchange content of
particulate matter emission and wat,e;r pollµtion control subprojects within
Greater Sao Pauto, and in special cases, air and water pollution control .
sub-projects in other areas of the 'state (see para 59) •. The proposed loail.
would also finance the foreign exchange cqntent .of a technical assis~ance'
program to build up the capabilities of CETESB. Based on industry's needs
and the expected subproject processing capacity of the participating agencies,
it is expected that some .600 subloans for pollution control financing would be
granted, of which about 250 (US·$34 mfllion) would be for particulate matter .
pollution control and about 350 (US$21 million) for water pollution control.
Metallurgical; non-metallic mineral, chemical, and food indµstries would
account for the bulk of the forecast air pollution control financing~ Benefi-
ciaries of water pollution control subloans would be mqre varied, With metal-
lurgical, metal-working, electrical, chemical, petrochemical, pharmaceutical:
textiles and food indus.tries accounting for about half.

Project Organization

53,       The Bank loan would be channelled to the State of Sao P~ulo and
Banco de Desenvolvimento do Estado de Sao Paulo (BADESP) through Banco Jlacional
da Desenvolvimento Economico (BNDE) acting as the fiscal agent of the federal
government. '.pie signing of a subsidiary loan agreement between the state,
BADESP and BNDE acceptable to the Bank would be a condition of effectiv~ness
(Section 6.0l(g) of the draft Loan Agreement). A special project account
(PROCOP) will be established within the state's basic sanitation fund-Fundo
Estadual de Saneamento Basico (FESB). This accoun~which will be located in
the Banco do Estado de Sao :Paulo (BANE;SP), will be used to channel both the
proceeds from the proposed Bank loan and the local counterpart· resour·ces to·
the ultimate beneficia~ies. ·To secure a coordinated approach to environmental
protection in the Greater Sao Paulo area, a steering. committee,. compos·e4 of the
state secretaries of ·public works and environm~nt (chairman), planning, finance,
industry and commerce, and metropolitan affairs; and representativ~s of the ·
Departamento .de Aguas e Esgotos (DAEE), BANES~, BADESP, CETESB and SABESP,
would direct PROCOP. Primary responsibilities of the Committee would ihclude
approval of PROCOP 's annual budget and resource mobilization program, peri,odic
                                         - 18 -


 review of PROCOP's operational activities and policies and procedures, and
 approval of technical assistance grants and pollution control programs to
 be financed under ~R9COP. The Committee would be assisted by BADESP and
 CETESB. - Issuance by FESB 1 s committee of .the by-laws ·in respect of the opera-
 tion of PROCOP would be     a condition  ·for
                                            loan effeetiveness (Section 6-. Ol(d) of
 the draft I:.oan A~reement) ._.     ·       .     ·                   .

 .54. ,      .As PROCOJ_> 1 s adirii.nis_tra:tor, BADE SP ·woulc;I not bear any financial risk.
  It would be primarily responsible for ~he financial management of_PROCOP's
  assets, the finan~il:ll evaluation of sub-pr·ojects and the as_sessment of the·
  creditworthiness tjf the ultimate. borrowers. Given the highiy technical nature
  of the projec.t and the fact that the demand for PROCOP 10s financing would depend
  largely. on the- enforc~me·n~. ·of the pollution contro·l leg~sl~tion, CETESB ·would be
  entrusted :with the ·technical appraisal and supervision·of sub-projects. SABESP· ·
  would be respondble for<the establishment of water effluent standards for
  industries _to b~ connectea to the' se~age collection and treatment" ·system in
  the Greater Sao Paulo area. Coordination· among these· state agencies would
  be secured through inter-agency cooperative agreements acceptable to the Bank
  between CETESB and BADESP and between CETESB and SABESP. The siglJ.ing of the
  agreement between CE.TESB an_d BADESP wruld be' a condition for lo~n--effectiveness,
  and between ·cETE.SB and _SABESP for disbursement against water pollution control ·
  subproje_cts. (Se<;:tions 6.0l(b) an.d 2.02(fHiii)(A) of the draft_ Loan ·Agr·e·ement ·
  and 2. 09 of the. dr"iift ProJect Agreement). The state would pay ·BNDE selni....:annual'ly
  a fee of 0. 5% per .an_num on the principal amount of BNDE· 1 ·s S'ubsidiary loan out-
  stand;ing on a prorata basis. It would pay CETESB. a quarterly_ ·fee· equiv·alent to
  0.125% -~nd BADESP ·o. 375% of the ·aggregate outstanding ·pr:inci'pal amount· o'f sub-
  loans at the end of each qu·arter (Sectiori: 3. 02 _of the draft Project Agreement).
                                                                          , ..

 Project Size and Financing

 55.       CETESB, with assistance from BADESP and SABESP, lias ·estimated that
 subproject investments unqe'r. the project would total.-US$18'0 -millicm'-equivalent.
 This-estimate is based on a: survey of 1,:500 pollut.ers with indivtdual cost
 calculations prepared· for about one-third of the industries· surveyed. _.·The. cost
 of the technical assistance program is estimated at US$7 million equivalent.
 Air pollution control investments are expected to account for 55._6%_ ·of _total
 project costs a~ compared to 40.6%_£or water pollution control; 3.7% would be
 allocated for technical assistance. On the average, the foreign·exchange
 content of air pollution control subprojects' would amount to '32.5% as against·
 28% for water pollutio~ control~ ·Given· the expected distribution· of subprojects,
 the estima~ed.overall foreign'exchange content of the project is 31%. ·

   56.        with ~~pected ~vetage contributions by the SpQ~SOrs'of'individu~l
 ·subprojects of VS$~8.0.mitlion, US$159.0 million equivalent in other financial
   resources wquld be required to execute the project. The'proposed Bank loan of
__ US$58 million ,.,oui4 finance to .total foreign exchange cost ·of the project. Of
   the remaining US$101.0 millio~ equivalent, the state government would-make an
   initial contribution of US$5 million into PROCOP as a_condition of effective-·
   ness and thereafter contribute US$66.2 million through annual budgetary appro-
   priat~ons (Sections 6.01(~") of the draft Loan Agreement-and 2.03(b) and 3.02
   of the. drS:ft:· Pr.oject ~greem~nt). · T~e state would also _provide CETESB wi'th ·not
   less .than US$4. nii,llion · f9r technical 'assistance subprojed:s (Section 2.04 of
   the draft Proj~~~ Agreeme_nt') •. The· balance· of US$25 .• 8 million .would be covered
                                   - 19 -


through a loan from Banco Nacional de Habitacao (BNH) •· The execution of the
contract' for this loan would be a condition for effectiveness of the proposed
Bank loan (Section 6.0l(e) of the draft Loan Agreement).

57.       In accordance with existing legislation, financial assistance by
PROCOP will be limited to individuals residing in Brazil; private corporate
bodies based in Brazil and controlled directly or indirectly by individuals
domiciled in Brazil; and corporate bodies in the public sector, or entities
directly or indirectly instit~ted by them.

Terms and Conditions of Subloans

58.         All subloan~ would be made in cruzeiros with the foreign exchange
r~sk  being borne by· the State. In view of the highly negative financial rate
 of return of pollution control investments, the state government would onlend
 PROCOP's resources to ultimate beneficiaries at rates below local market
 rates for productive industrial investment. The state government feels that
 the proposed interest rate incentive policy is a necessary complement to the
 penalties included in the pollution control legislation to induce industrial
 polluters to undertake these financially unattractive investments. The
 state government also feels that this approach is acceptable because: (i) the
 proposed pollution control program is widely supported by all segments of the
 population and the benefits are expected to accrue primarily to the lower
 income groups (ii) the subsidized interest rates are unlikely to distort
 the allocation of resources in tJ:ie economy and influence investment decisions
 in favor of unnecessarily expensive capital equipment because of the non-
 productive nature of pollution control investments and CETESB's monitoring of
 subproject design (iii) countries that give high priority to pollution control
 provide industrialists with significant incentives such as_ accelerated depre-
 ciation', grants, tax credits, and government guarantee for purchasing control
systems, which are not available in Brazil and (iv) existing industries should
not be expected to assume the full cost of pollution control investments, ·
since zoning and pollution control legislation were non-ex~stent when their
plants were constructed. In addition, the state government proposes to
differentiate between large scale industry.with annual sales in excess of .
US$4.0 million equivalent and smali and medium scale industry with sales below
this level. Large scale industry would receive financing from PROCOP at 2%
p.a. plus monetary cdrrection equivalent to 100% of the National Treasury Bond
index (ORTN), while small and medium scale industry would receive such financ-
ing at 2% p.a. plus monetary correction equivalent to 65% of ORTN (Section
2.06(a) of the draft Project Agreement). These rates compare to 9% p.a. plus
monetary correction equivalent to 100% of ORTN offered by BNDE and its subsid-
iaries to large-scale industries for productive investments in Sao Paulo and
to 7% plus 70% of ORTN to small- and medium-scale industries for similar
purpose.

59.       Not later than March 31, 1981 or·upon commitment of US$21 mil,lion of
the loan (which is equivalent to about one third of the amount of the loan
allocated to the credit component of the proj.ect), whichever is earlier, the
state government would review jointly with the Bank the adequacy of the on-
lending conditions for small and.medium scale industry. This review would
permit the state government and the Bank to assess the need to modify the
proposed method used to calculate the monetary correction in light of the
progress of the project and the economic conditions prevailing at that time,
                                    20 -


to determine the period during which the method so agreed will be applied and
the date on which the next such review will take place. Should a disagreement
occur between the Bank and the state goverriment as a result of this review, or
after any subsequent such reviews, occurring at least once a year, the Bank
would have the right not to approve subloans, or in the case of free limit
subloans, not to authorize withdrawals from the loan account, for small and
medium scale industry subprojects after June 30, 1981 or after the commitment
of US$22.5 million of the loan, whichever is earlier (Section 2.03(a) of
the draft Loan Agreement and Sections 2.06(b) and (c) of the draft Project
Agreement). To ensure that the debt service position and borrowing capacity
of the ultimate beneficiaries will not be unduly affected by the required
pollution control investments the sub-loan term~ would be a minimum repayment
period of 10 years, including a minimum grace period of 3 years. The limit
for subloans not requiring prior Bank approval would be US$400,000 (Sections
2.02(d) and 2.04 of the draft Loan Agreement and Sections 2.02 and 2.06(a) of
the draft Project Agreement).

Subproject Eligibility Criteria

 60.        Because of the various technological alternatives available for
 air and water pollution control, the· Bank would not limit its assistance to
 direct pollution control treatment but would encourage industrial firms and
 participating local agencies to consider alternative approaches to ensure
·optimum ·solutions for each individual subproject. Pollution control financing
 would be extended to existing private and public concerns that (i) decide     ·
 to comply with the established pollution control standards by, individually or
 jointly with other firms, treating or pretreating their effluents and emission
 discharges; (ii) are required by CETESB to relocate; and (iii) decide to
.comply with the established pollution control standards by altering or changing
 their technological or production processes. In the case of polluters who are
 required by CETESB to relocate and the relocation subproject also involves an
 increase in production capacity, Bank financing would be limited to the hypo-
 thetical least cost of r~locating a plant of the same size and char.acteristics
 as the plant being vacated, and the pollution control equipment to meet the
 pertinent control requirements at the new location (Section 2.02(c) of the
 draft Loan Agreement and Section 2.02(d) of the draft Project Agreement).
 In the case of polluters· who decide to comply with the established pollution
 control standards by· altering or changing their technological or production
 processes, Bank financing of individual subprojects would be limited to the
 cost that would be required to attain the pollution control targets through
 a least-cost 'direct treatment or pretreatment solution (Section 2.02(b) of the
 draft Loan Agreement). Subloans would be made to finance particulate matter
 and water pollution control investments undertaken by existing industries
 mainly in Greater Sao Paulo. However, to assist in extending corrective
 industrial ·pollution control activities in other major air and water basins
 of the state, financing could be made available to industrial pollution
 control sub-projects located outside greater Sao Paulo provided that (i)
 the pollution control programs encompassing these sub-projects have been
 approved ex-ante by the Bank (sub-loans then would be approved within the
 regular "free-limit" procedure; or (ii) sub-projects outside an approved
 program would require Bank approval (Section ~.02(d) of the draft· Loan
 Agreement). As much as 15% of the proposed loan may eventually be utilized
 for pollution control investments outside greater Sao Paulo.
"
,.

                                           21 -


      Procurement and Disbursement

     61.         Procurement under the proposed loan would involve equipment purchases,
     civil wor~s and installation contracting, and consulting services, including
     technical assistance. Based on the current capability and capacity of the
     Brazilian manufacturers of pollution control equipment, as much as 85% of· the
     goods to·be ±inanced under the project are expected to be produced locally.
     As under other IDF-type operations, international competitive bidding would
     not be suitable.     However, as technical agent for the administration of PROCOP,
     CETESB would satisfy itself that goods and services procured for· individual
     subprojects are competitive in price and quality and have. the technical.
     characteristics required to.meet the state's air and water quality standards.
     The major part (US$2.5 million) of the technical assistance component to be
     financed•by the Bank would consi~t of purchases by CETESB of imported laboratory
     and monitoring equipment not manufactured in Brazil. Because of their small size
     and proprietary nature, this equipment wouid be procured by_ obtaining competitive
     quotations from recognized international manufacturers. Disbursements of Barik
     funds would vary depending on the nature of the subprojects. For air pollu-
     tion control investments the Bank loan would finance 33% and. for water pollu-
     tion control investments 28.% of total expenditurei;; for individual subprojects.
     Howeve:;:, in no case would Bank disbursements exceed disbursements from PROCOP.
     Expenditures would include: control and monitoring equipment, civil works,
     permanent working capital (spare parts, and, in the case of water pollution
     control, a minimum stock of chemicals required to operate water pollution
     control systems), consulting services for project design ~nd execution, and,
     as appropriate, change in technology and relocation expenditures... For techni-
     cal assistance subprojects, the Bank loan would finance up to 100% of such
     amounts as shall have. been disbursed from PROCOP to CETESB to finance the
     foreign exchange cost of consulting services, studies, research, training
     material, and laboratory and pollution monitoring equipment. All technical
     assistance subprojects financed out of the loan would be extended to CETESB
     in the form of grants and would require prior Bank approval (Section
     2.02(a)(i)(aa) of the draft Loan Agreement). In order· to build up e~viron­
     mental pollution control capabilities outside the State of Sao Paulo, CETESB
     will invite the staff of other state environmental agencies to ·participate
     in the training programs financed under the project (Sect~on 5.08 of the
     draft Project Agreement).

     Project Monitoring

      62.       Achievement of the project objectives would depend as much on
      CETESB's enforcement of the state and federal pollution control legislation
     .as on the industrialists' effective use. and maintenance of their pollution
      control systems. ·To· assess the impact of the project and its water poll:-ution
      control :Programs, CETESB would carry out a study of the adequacy of its
      current river monitoring network and assess its needs for riyer pollution
      monitoring equipment. Moreover, wheneve~ appropriat~·to assess the pollution
      control performance of the final beneficiaries, water pollution control sub-
      projects would include tamper-proof monitoring equipment to permanently
      register the flow o:F liquid discharges and at least one key water pollutio·n
      parameter; and all air pollution.control subprojects would be subject to
      annual tests of emmisions of par·ticulate matter (Sections 5.02 and 5.03 of
      the draft Project Agreement).                   ·
                                    - 22 -


Project Benefi~s

63.        .Although relatively modest in size and scope when compared to the·
magnitude of the problem, the proposed project would provide a response to the
increasingly .felt need for actions to reduce air and water pollution levels .
and revers·e the process of environmental deterioration in Greater Sao Paulo.
While the project's social and economic benefits ar'e not readily quantifiable,
they should be substantial. Most importantly, the project would improve the
health and living conditions of the population, notably of the low income
group~ living near industrialized areas and contaminated water bodies.        The
water pollution control component would complement the first phase of the
Greater Sao Paulo sewage collection and treatment program. By assisting
industries to treat their effluents and connect to the general sewerage
system, this project component would decrease the negative impact of water
pollution on the local economy. The air pollution control. component would
significantly reduce the emissions of particulate matter in Greater Sao Paulo.
By reducing emissions, this project component would significantly improve air
quali'ty in the area and positively affect the health of the population.
Institution building would also "be an important project benefi.t •.... Through the
technical assis.tance component, CETESB would acquire the additional laboratory
and monitoring equipment and contract the necessary consultancy services
to further build up·its capability in·pollution control technology, project
design and analysis, pollution monitoring and emission source testing, and.
engineering and environmental economics. Finally, the transfer of foreign
expertise and technology through these technical assistance programs and
activities should help to improve the local manufacturing capacity for pollu-
tion control equipment.

Project Risks

64.        The main risk of the proposed project is possible opposition by
industrialists~    Since most pollution control subprojects have negative
 internal financial rates of return and given Brazil's current slow-down in
 industrial investments,· opposition by industrialists could delay project
 execution. The mea"sures taken to minimize this risk.include (i) strengthening
 of existing pollution control "legis·lation to ensure that the state authorities
 would have the necessary legal power to enforce pollution control programs;
  (ii) provision of a financi~l incentive through the proposed preferential    .
 onlending terms; and (iii) review, which the local authorities conducted with
 representatives of the industrial community during project preparation, of the
 technical and financial characteristics of the project. Also, GETESB would
 organize special programs, including traini~g and promotional campaigns, to
 inform industrialists about the costs, benefits and operational implications
 of industri~l pollution control. Another risk is that project execution wru ld
 depend on the ability of the participating agencies to coope~ate smoothly
'and efficiently. To ensure the required cooperation, PROGOP's activities
 would be directed by a high level committee involving rep~esentatives of
 all the state secreta~iats and agencies relevant.to .pro]ect execution and
 detailed interagency cooperative agreements acceptable to the Bank would be
 signed between CETESB and BADESP'and between CETESB and SABESP.
                                    - 23..:.


                    PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY


65.       The draft Loan_ Agreement between Federative Republic of Brazil,
the Bank and the Banco Nacional Desenvolvimento Economico; the draft Project
Agreement between the Bank and the State of Sao Paulo., Banco de Desenvolvimento
do Estado de Sao Paulo - BADESP, Companhia de Tecnologia de Saneamento .Ambiental
- CETESB and Companhia de Saneamento Basico do Estado de Sao Paulo - SABESP;
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Sectio·n 4 (iii)
of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.

 66.       Special conditions .of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III.   As noted previously, special conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
loan would be that: the State of Sao Paulo, BADESP and BNDE have entered into
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement satisfactory to the Bank for the channelling of
Bank funds; BADESP and CETESB .have entered into contractual arrangements satis-
factory to the Bank for purposes of the project; the state has paid into
PROCOP not less than US$5 million equivalent; BNH has made a loan of US$25o8
million equivalent for the project; the state has regulated the law and its
recent amendments that penalizes polluters; and FESB's steering committee has
approved the by-laws which will make possible the operation' of PROCOP.
Special conditions for disbursement would. be, for water pollution control
subprojects, that CETESB and SABESP have entered into contractual arrangements
satisfactory to the bank for purposes of the project and that the state has
amended the decree which sets forth the effluent standards, and for air
pollution control subprojects that the state has · issued particulate matter
emission standards satisfactory to.the Bank and has adopted an air pollution
control strategy in ag'reement with the Ba.nk.

67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.


                           PART VI - RECOMMENDATION


68.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.




                                                 Robert S. ~Namara
                                                      President


Attachments
March· 10~ 1980
Washington, Do C.
                                                                                           24
                                                                                                                                                    ANNEX I
                                                                                                                                                          .... 1
                                                                           •Wl:ti •        ~oc~     C!ilCAI!ZY llAjA   sun                                             '
                                                                           .l&l.tD.                               llUUDCE C:-llCUH-CAIUustC        "lfew
W:!!!     UL\      f!!!01!S.urD sg.
                                5,U.O
                                           l!f. J                                                                    - !l!II
                                                                                                                   SAii&
                                                                                                                               mm
                                                                                                                                3.\11&
                                                                                                                                       l!&L..ca:il a
                                                                                                                                              :u;a JUC:ilD
   'mt4l.
   """1CllL.~                   21116.l                                                     aT lllCUr             ~=              tlc:lll&           l:llC:Dll!
                                                                   IMO 4..       1t10      a UfIMt'&          a     ucr:os J:.     allll'    .Li      CJDll_r     u.
mm~~                     i::zss2                                  moo           5111.11         LJ10.0             111'·•        ltu.I             "Jll15ol

IS!lc:t CC!fmtPnlllf PD CA1'tT4
  (~S :If. ca.L tQllI"l~J                                         m.o           474.0            1.u.o              IQ.I         1'66.7            zs11.1
IORU.noir A.!ID          '"!!&:        r..ATtST:C!
                                                                                 ,,.;a                                     .           .                    .
                                                                                 "·' "'·'
   IO~lCll, lll:>-flA&-~OllSI                                    ' 11.5
   1111.ur l'011n.4ttcll CP!llCZll!r                or :ouu        4'. 1                           IQ.~              Jt.l           n.z               n.1
              .          .
   MllllUrtCll        no.ncncu
        ll'llm.i.:Iatl m t1:A.I. .2000 Clm.UOllS I                                             · a.o
        SbncllAat POl"!n..\r.011 run!.tollS I                                                    J6lo0
        DAI. ftUIOU&t IOP.lUnOll IS W.cDll                                                     . 3117'
   tofllU:'tCS · xnm·
        n:a    SQ. QI,
        1"!11. sq~ ~- .aateut'141.                   LAI!)
                                                                    LO
                                                                   u.o
                                                                                 u.o
                                                                                 41.0
                                                                                                  14.0
                                                                                                  sr.o               .,.,
                                                                                                                     Zlo.5          za.2
                                                                                                                                  100.s
                                                                                                                                                      n.s
                                                                                                                                                      n.J
   ll'DllllU%IClll ~ sBllCVll CJ'!ICDrl
        Cl-L6 ?JS~                                                 u .•          u ••             ,,_,
                                                                                                   41.7
                                                                                                                     '°"'           js,4
                                                                                                                                     ,.,
                                                                                                                                                      U.l
     15-16 ns.
     15 m. jJill AIOft
                                                                   SJ.I
                                                                    LI
                                                                                 .56.l
                                                                                  J.L               J.1              "·'
                                                                                                                      J.t
                                                                                                                                   51.J               57 • .:1
                                                                                                                                                       S.7

   IGl'llU%IOll mMll IW% (Pllll:Dr)
        mur.
     ·11111.1
                                                                    ,_,
                                                                    ~o
                                                                                  ...
                                                                                  LI
                                                                                                    ..,
                                                                                                    z.t             .. z.4.
                                                                                                                       J.7
                                                                                                                                 -·· 1;;7--
                                                                                                                                     J.O
                                                                                                                                                      ··L1


   Cllml ltl?ll 14.-,. CJ'O. ftllt!So\llll)
   Clmll Dl,L.,'"ll 11.n CJ'!I. 3USAD)
   c:lllSS UPIDDllc::Ulll U':Z
                                                              .
                                                                   6000
                                                                   u.o
                                                                    1.1
                                                                                 31.o
                                                                                  1.0
                                                                                  Z.6
                                                                                                  ll.O
                                                                                                    ,.o
                                                                                                    L4
                                                                                                                       .,.
                                                                                                                     JLI
                                                                                                                       Z.4'
                                                                                                                                   17,5

                                                                                                                                     '·'
                                                                                                                                     1..1
                                                                                                                                                      llo4
                                                                                                                                                       a.z
                                                                                                                                                        lot
   r.a.in:i:.r P'-'lllllYG
      M:CZPmlS, A.'0111A.t. ('mOUSoUlllS)
        a:sas cracmr or                 ~t!ll Ya1aS          >       ..
                                                                     .~·        u1.o
                                                                                 1.1
                                                                                                 Zlllo6
                                                                                                         ..          17.7
11!!!!!
   mu:

   rm
          A1'll ~l:"!":Otl
               or ;coo i'llllDUc:IO!I
        fll. Wl""...1. (196,..71•100)
         cut?.A SUPPt.1.' er
                                                                   8'·•.        mz.o             ua.o                ,, ..        m.o
                                                                                                                                                      "·'
        C&Ull.tr:s CP!l!C!ft or·
           ll~S)                                                  w.o           104.0          • 10.5·0             10J.o         120.1             uz.1
        nanus cc:u."IS                P!I. DA.fl                   51.o          54.0             u.1                G0.4          ail.9             10.l
           al' 11111a .umw.             AllD ?!IUI!:               38-0          J9o0             JJ.G               :z:e.J        Jlol
   aIIJI       (~       1-4) ia:.tUn llArz:                        lloO          ~o.o
                                                                                                     -
                                                                                                    t.O                1.7           5.1               z.s
~
   ~          anx:-...uc-r u uIll%ll            CP..Al.S >         n.o           11.0             az.o               IJ.A          15.G              61.7
   CIPAm:       -=::-r :un                 (P!:I.
                                                                     ..               ..             ..              ,..,                             ZO.I
   moGSAllD}

   .&CC!SS :0 5.LR lrutl. (!!:II.CD? OT
                                                                                                                                   "·'
   !OPUUnDll)
      'D1UI.                                                         ..
                                                                     ..          51.1             11.1               U.4           H.4                73.t
        lll54JI
        llllAt.                                                      ..          11.1
                                                                                 n.o              •••
                                                                                                  '6·1
                                                                                                                     7'o5
                                                                                                                     Jl.6
                                                                                                                                   a.1.
                                                                                                                                   u.o               .....
                                                                                                                                                     94-6

   ACCICSS :0 C:CU-.A DI3l'OS.µ. CJ'!IC!lll'
   ta     l'OIPCLAr.Dll)
                                                                     ..
                                                                     ..                                              ,..,
        U7rA1.
        llU4l!l
        111141:.
                                                             .
                                                                     ...         "·'
                                                                                 m.1
                                                                                 Zi.S
                                                                                                  6'ol
                                                                                                  ll.7
                                                                                                  n.1
                                                                                                                     n.a
                                                                                                                     14• .5.
                                                                                                                                   111.1
                                                                                                                                   aa.J
                                                                                                                                   JJ.2.
   l'Ot'!IUT".C()l( P!1 l"!?SIC::..US
   l'Ol'Ut.\::cs ~!i '11UillC: r.z.sou
   IO~IOI:! ll!i !!DllPL':U. sm
                                                                     ..
                                                                 J&ao,o       1'10.0
                                                                              JUO.O                  ..
                                                                                               16'4).Q             lllo'1o9
                                                                                                                     tll.7
                                                                                                                                 1.3'3.:t
                                                                                                                                  7U.o
                                                                                                                                                    981.1
                                                                                                                                                    197.1
      '!DUL
        CUA.,
        lllllAl.
                                                                     ..
                                                                  z1s.o
                                                                     ..
                                                                                Z60o0
                                                                                      ..
                                                                                      ..             ..
                                                                                                 zao.o

                                                                                                     ..
                                                                                                                    SIJ,,
                                                                                                                    211.,
                                                                                                                   ll60~t
                                                                                                                                  117.6
                                                                                                                                  260.2 .
                                                                                                                                 L05'.o
                                                                                                                                                    140.1


   mass1an ra BDSfIUJ. m                                             ..          lLC                 ..              is.·~         17.J              tt.Z
llOl!!i:te
   4\'D.l.c:E SI:!
      mtAt.
      Cl&l.'f
      m:UL
                         or     IOCSDOl.ll                   . ..
                                                               ..
                                                                    5.1           ...
                                                                                  &..•·
                                                                                  5.2.
                                                                                                    ..,
                                                                                                    .. 7
                                                                                                    S.l
                                                                                                                       .lloO
                                                                                                                       4.I
                                                                                                                       Sol
                                                                                                                                    ..,
                                                                                                                                    6.7

                                                                                                                                    s.1
   4V'E!.\Cl
        'l'OT.U.
                   '1."lGD.   Ill'.   ~             PEI llOOK
                                                                     ..
                                                                     ..           lol               1· lll.            ,,,          1.1
     -~L
        CU.All
                                                                     ..           1.0
                                                                                  1·1
                                                                                                    lo2L.,l
                                                                                                    l·lll              ,,,
                                                                                                                       1.1          lo2.
                                                                                                                                    1.2
   .:C:JS :0 !UC':l.1C':l"r CP!XD?
   Gr DWC.!.:llc:S l
        ?Ot.U.
        ;uu
        IWIAL
                                                                     ..
                                                                   Ja.1
                                                                     ..        · u.1
                                                                                 "·'
                                                                                  •• 4
                                                                                                  ... ,
                                                                                                  ti.o
                                                                                                  Lt.:.
                                                                                                                     J.1:l
                                                                                                                     l~Z
                                                                                                                                   tt·D
                                                                                                                                      ol
                                                                                                                                                         ANNEX I
                                                                                                                                                             ,... 1
                                                                                                                                                                        . ,(   ·. ...           ..
                                                                                                                                                                                                 .~
                                                                         111AZtt - SOCL\L MIColTOllS llATA S11!n

                                                                                                                    ur..ll.'la: caouPS      <~iste         AVii!.lliU
                                                                                                                         - !!OST UCZ!r.' !Sn!'.An:' -
                                                                                                                      'SNtl:            SME     Hur ;m::..
                                                                                                                                                         '!ta.
                                                                                        •    tlDS'1' !IECD'T        IZCCJAP!IIC         DICOHE    L'ICO!at
                                                                                 1910 ~        mn<.An           ~     .. UGIOlf f.:.     caOUP ~   Gltl!I? ~
!IXICAT?Oll
  ..i1JUsn:>    UBOU.~                v.nos
    ftl..'IAll:           ?OT.Al.                          '3.0                  113.0            90.Q                 107.3            101.1             107.li
                          llAU                             97.0                  83.0             89.0                 109.l            uo.o
                          r!IW.l                           93.0                  u.o.             so.o                 107 ...           n.11
     SICDllllAU:          mtAL                             11.0.                  2.7.0        ·. ra.o                   .q., .          51.1              39.7
                          !l&IZ                            u.o                   ·2.1.a           17"'.o                 40.4            56.4
                          raw.&                            10·.o                  2.7.o.          20.0                   39,0            43.7
                                                                                                                                                                                        .. \ .
  1'0C.ltlOIW. !ll'IQL. (%             or   S!Cl!lllA&T)   lt.O                  J;7.0            •7 .o.!J.     '        11.s·           111.3.                                          ..::   .
  !UfU•'\:!.AGD          u.no
    ftDIAll                                                n.o·                '::za.o            21.0                   37.1                                                           ·-· ,·
     SICDlllWtr                                            u.o                 . 13.0             u.o                    11.9
  ADU?.t L1?DAct          um C!na:rt>                      61~0                 . 66.1            75.7                   n.4
COHSm'J'T!O!f
  r.a.ssaco. c.us         Pll tl!Ol1SMll
     l'Ol.'llLA?!Clr                                       . 7 .0               ·1.5.0            4J.O                                                     61.~
  JWJto     !!:C!I7""..iS Hll         mous.um
       l'OPUt.ATIOll                                       66.0 •               121.0            1.51.0                                 ZZ:S·•            210.3
  ?V UC!IVUS en 'mOUSAllD
      l'OPUt.ATIO!f       :                                   lt.O               66.0            100.0                                 ·.102.6            11? .7.
  lllllS1'AP!1 (""DAit.Y· CEnUZ.
  nr?DEST') ~.XC!."L.ATIOll PU.
  SUSAllD l'OPat.Ar.011                                    54.0                . 37.0             39.0                                 . 78.5
  C%1m!A A!lllD.U. A~                        ?.n. CA!t:'A . 5.0                    l.t             2.6                                    3.6
UllOll FOllC! .
  Wt.AL WOR FOita (?llOUSA!nlS)
    J:!!IAL! (l:'!.llaNT) -
                                                       2%700.Q
                                                          17 • .5         •
                                                                           29400.0
                                                                              20.A
                                                                                              34100.0·
                                                                                                 21.6
                                                                                                                                              .
                                                                                                                                         24·• .5                                        ..
                                                                                                                                                                                        .
     '"1C11.tllll ( P!lla:s'r)
     llltlUSnt (P!P.CDt)
                                                           .51.t
                                                              14.8
                                                                               .. 1.s.6
                                                                                  18.3
                                                                                                  42.o
                                                                                                  20.0
                                                                                                                                         2.11.9
                                                                                                                                         30.6                 ..
HlnCil'AtlOll IA1'! (l'DC!!lt)
 tor.Al.
  llAL!
                                                           n.o
                                                              SZ.7
                                                                                 ~l.6
                                                                                 .50.J          . .,..,
                                                                                                . 31.5                  ·30.9
                                                                                                                         ''·l
                                                                                                                                         :D.8
                                                                                                                                         51.l
                                                                                                                                                           40.l
                                                                                                                                                           ·35.7'
  !'!l!.AL!                                                   11.1               12.11            13.6                   U.3           . 16.l               ~,~7

!COlllltltC D!l'!!IDOC!'. L\l'ID ·                            .l.6                 lJ                                      l..5           1.l
:CCCXI~    DIST!.!!llJ"'l:!Oll
  P!ICE.'lt OF 111.IYA,I!: ~
  uarroi at                                                                                                               .· .·.·.
     HICllESt S ptaczyr or ilCOS!llOUJS
     RICH£ST :o 1!3.aY? IJF !!CUSl!llO~S                      60:0·.             63.3                                                                         ••
     l.Oto"EST .20 ~nc:z..v: or l!Ot:SiKOLDS               ·. J.a ·              -1.2
                                                                                                                                         57.6
                                                                                                                                          l.4                 ••
     LOW!ST 40 PUCZ.'n' OF l!OOS!llOLDS.                     io.a                 9.0                                                    u.o
'P!lV"..rit !A..~c:::4 ~OU?S .                                                                         .'
   ~Tt.'IAT:::l .USllL:rtS: POVD.Tt 'OICOH!                                                                              .:•:
   t.!VEL (t:SS P!i c.\PtU)
     uaW
     ~
                               .                                                    '   ..           ..
                                                                                                 150-~     ..
                                                                                                                                                              ..
  !SfnrATC !L.'"L.ATIVP! 10V!lln IYCCH!•.
  ~
  Ul!Alf
      mur. ...
              toss   1u c.\1tn>
                                 .                                             ·-                465•0
                                                                                                 nz.o
                                                                                                                        396.l
                                                                                                                        308.l
  is'rn'..a.:?:> ?OPtrt.AnoM            s~· Aisotm!:
  l'OVUTt t.'ICOtm :.zv!L               ~l'nczm">
     au.ur.
     1ll1iAL


     Soc avaUabl•
     lloc applic:abl•.


          ':II• adjwiud ·,;oup a... ra, .. ·!or u.c:!1 bcitc.ator an populacto•.,.11llc•d 1•0..tric: :iieau • .itclud1n1 th• .-i:r..•
          •due• ot ;n• tndlc:acar aod                 :!le·
                                                aoac il"'Pul&cad .:o.ia.c':T 1:1 each ·,rou11. «o.•n•111 of :own;r1u uoq ~ll•
          lDcUcatora .:!•s-ad• oa. Hai.t&llU1:y of :!aca. aad u :ioc :m1!or.a,

          Uol•11.ocll•~•• .;.,,~, daca ~ r•f•r ta ....;·,...r 'bel:V9.a 1959 ·~d 1961; !or 1970, b•tvoo•a 1969
          Cid t971: aad for !o!Csc l•eellC !H~ace. !Mcv..a 197' u4 1977, ·    ·

          tAc~~ Aau-tc~              ' C..r1'!tbua;    fj__ -:11pcir !Uddl• toe: .... (!ll:i6-Z,00 ·?U' c&p1ca, 191~):                              ~ !11•11 tac:,,_
          (O"'.!I~. S:~90 ·~r capi:a, 1''76);                  f!      ~97:;       1"
                                                                              !e1i,111u.a1 1973, duracioa ot 1•csara1·                             ••uc:auoa nduc:..S
          "troa 7 .C.O   :i.   run,•        C!le_ntore ~•Ca say ooc 'be .c:.,.parabl• :o ~MH !If ·.earlhr 7ura.
          lbn: laclllc.. int.mac• o~ ~l' per ea111u                      u     tor 1971.
                                                                                              :.-26--=-· --
                                                                                                                                                                     ANNEX I
                                                                               Dm'IlllTIOlllB   or   !OCUL DDlCA'l'OUS                                                 Pase ·3


latl!: Tha Adjuated aroup averaaea for each i.Dd:lc•tor. ue populatiou--vaiabtol .,,a..tric linnet acludiq tha mr:ae.o valuan af the" indicator and the most
populated country in each group. Covaraaci of countriu asoq the indicotor• depeDll• on availability of data and 1a not uniform. ~· to laek of data•

aillple popuJ.atioo'1raighted geomtric - · mthout rile acluaiOll of a r u .                      -y•:                             ·
group averagao for Capital Surplus Oil bpoctua u::d ind1caeor~ of a.cc:aaa to vater and. ucrata diapaasl, hauina 1 :lncOM diatribution and povBrty are
                                                                                                                                                                  . ··
~           (thouaaud oq. J:>:i)                                                                         POJ!!!].!riDD per·bo•piral W - total, urban, aild rural - Popul.4tion (total,
I!!!!!:. - Total surface axea compri•iDa land aru and inland vatara.                                       urban, and nsral) divided by chair reapective number of bocipital beds
A!ericultural - Kost recent eDtiaate of qricultu'l'al area uaed tapornily                                  avail.able iD public and private general and specialized hoapital and re-
   or permane.r:itly for C.ropn, past.urea, mt:bc and 1dCchea gardens 'or tq                               babilitat:lou centara. Hoapitals are establi•tml:ats permanant.ly staffed by
   lie ,fallw.                                                                                             ar l ...r ooe phynician. Earablialunents providing principally custodial
                                                                                                           car• are not included. Rural hospitals. bovevor, inc1ude health and medi-
GNP PER CAPITA (OSS) - GNP per capita ••t:imat•a at current. marbc. pricas,.                               ~ centere not p11runctly atoffed by a pbyeici1m (but by a medical aa-
   calculated by •&me converaion method              Gii   World Bank Atlaa   (197S~77   b . .i•);         D1ct.anc, uurBe, .tdvif•, etc.) which offer in-patient ac:ccmaod:ation and
   1960, 1970, and 1977 d11ta.                                                                             provide a l:IJlited range of mdical facilities.
                                                                                                         Adall•ion• nr ho•pitlll. bed - Total. mmher of admissions to or diecharse.a
l!NERGY COl!S!l!!PTlON FER CAl'ITA - Annual COUBUllJltion of .,_rcial -rgy                                 from boapitala divided by rbe number of bods.
    (coal end lignite, petroleum, natural pe and hydro-, nuclear and geo-
    theraal elect.riclt.y) in kilograms of co~ equivalent per capita.                                 BODSillG                                       .
                                                                                                        Averye ai1e af hou1ehold (per:!lloas per bouaehold) - totaJ.• urban. end rural -
                                                                                                          A hou••hold con_,Piat• of a group of indiv~ale who ehare living quart.ere
                                                                                                          and th~ir main mu.la. A boarder or lodger may or Qay aot be included in
                                                                                                          the houuehold for et:atieticnt purposes. Statistical definitions of house-
                                                                                                          hold VGry.        .                                      •
                                                                                                        Averge number of peraong pei: room - total, urbon. and rural - Average n~
                                                                                                          her of peraons per room in all, urban. a.nd rurel occupied conventional ·
                                                                                                          dwellings, respectively. Dvellings exclude non-peiwment structures and
                      'id-year population per square kilometer (100' hect!lras)                           unoccupied psrte.
                ea.                                                                                     Acce•o to electricity (percent of dvellings) - t:otal. urban, and rural -
   Pe.r sq. km. asric:ulture land - CoiDputed BB above for agTicultural land                              Convoutional dvellinge Vith electr~ity in li.ving quart:.ere as percentage
    only.                                                                                                 of total, urban, ond rural dwellings reepectively.
 Population aae structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years) 1 vorkiug-ase
     (lS-64 yearo) 1 and retired (65 yeaxa and ovar) a• paTcentageo of mid-                           EDUCATION
    yur popul&tioD.                                     · ' ·                                         ~ !!!f!!llmnt r&UDa                   '                         .
 P..,..i.atiau !l!l!th rate (perc..,.t) - toral. !!!!!!       url!le -
                                                              ~ ..,.,...1                                 i"i8lii 1el!ool - total, ad f-10 - Total mid f<IMle aroU-t 0£ 41ll qes
  · graoot:h rar• of totol lllld urban m~ -1&rioDa far 1950-60·,                                           at: tbe •rimnrr lnal U perccmtq9• of n1pec.ti"ftl.y priaary •chool-Qe
    lff0-70, aSl.1970-75.                                                 .                                ~tiou; nanially io.cludH childrn· qed 6-ll yura bur adjuared far.
 Crmla birth rarm (per t - ) - Annual live btrrhe per thouaaacl of                                        41iffor""t l811&tha of pr1-ry educatiOD; far counrr:lcl9 vlth uni•or•al odu-
    ..U-yur pap;;iation: ron-yur art~r:lc av.rap• ..,.ina 1D 1960 and                                      ~tion arollaent. -1 escaecl l~ parent. aince •CJll!ll pupil• 're below or
    1970 .U Un-year avorqa lltldiua 1D 1975 for - n recmt o•rimata.                                        a'bovo rbe official achool ·qe.                       ·               .
 crup !lffrh rara (per rhol!A!!!I) - Annual daatha per rboueam of 1114-                                 SacoD!lary achool - total, !p4 fmale - C0111PUtad AB above; oecoadary .iuca-
    yur populatiOll; tm-yur arirbaatic aver- andin& ·in.1960 imd 1970                                      tioa. rmqu:Lru at lcaat four yur1 of appraved priMry inat.ruction; pr~
    ....S fi.....,.ur avar111• aadilll 1D 1975 for - t recent animate.                                    vid•• 1enaral vocatioa.al., or t•acbar t:r&inina inatruct1oo.e for pupil.a
 Gro"aa rqproc!ucctcm 1:ata - Averqa IUll6e:r of Uucht•• a voun will bear                                 •usually of 12 to 17 yeara. of •&e; .corraapondence cour••• are 1enerally
    in bar nozmal s:•productivo p•ri.od if •ha aperianc:aa prea~t                •1•-                      ucludad.                                     ,                       • .
    apoc.ific .fmr'tility ratel!I; uaually fiv....,aar avarqaa oudiDa iD 1960,                          VocatioM.J. eprol.lmant (percent of eecon4an) - Vocational iuat.itution. in-
    1970, ""' 1975 •.                                                                                      clud.a tec'hD.ic&l• .indu•trial, .or otbtt proar... vbich opera.ta indapnd.mtly
 Pail       lcmti     - ace tot'& mm.ual t                                                                oT u depart9ent• of socoiulary id8titutiono.              ·
    atcaptora of birth-control devicem                                                                 Pupil-tucHr ratio - prillary, and HCOndArJ - Total students en1'alled in
   Plamlilll   prasra.      ·                                                                              primary ad •econdary laVcla divided by nu:abera of teachers in the corre-
 P-1.11 p' •m,fng - \I.liar• (pcrc.ont of~aarried vcm.a) - Percentage. of                                 opoiulios levol•,
   110rriad -     of child-ba&r~lll! -     (15-44 yura) vbo UH birth-control                           Adule literacy rate Cpercea.t) - Lit"erate adults (able to read aud vrite) as
   d.vicaa to ~ m:irried·       \.'"OS&n   in eams   •S• aroup.                                           a parcant:age of total ad.ult population a.ged 15 years mid over.

J100D A!!!! 111mt.m0ll                                                                                COllS1llll'TIOll
  Iail• of food production P"r capita (l97Qrrl00) - ludox mm!>er of per                                Pa11emar care (per thoueand population) - Pasalmger care Coapriae mctor cars
     capita annual production of all food cowditia•. ·                                                   1aat1Dg leao than eight persons; excludes ambulances •. he&raea and military
 Per capita. aupj»ly of caloriu C.,.rcaut of T!!J!d.r..nt1d .- co.puted from                             vehicles.                              .     .
     enargy equivalat of not rood 1uppliea available in. country pmr capita                            Rlldio Teceivere (per thoua:and populat.ion) - A!l tYPes of receivers for radio
     par day. Available auppl:ies coap~iae· doaaet.ic prod.Ucticm, iaporte leal!I                        broad.caste to general public per thousand of population; excludeo unlicensed
     espoTta, and chan&en ia. •tock. Net euppli•• exclude. ant.al feed, oeEda,                           receive.re in coUntriea nnd in yeare when registration of radio set& was in
     quantitiaa uaed in food p-rocenaiq, and lo••e11 in di•tr:ibution. Ile-                              effect; data for recent years may" aot be comparable eince most countries
   . quire91!Dta were antiutad by FAO baaed on physiological uCads for nor-                              abolished .licensing.
     asl activity and haalth canuiderina envircnmantal t~erature. body                                 'IV receive.ra ·(per thousand eopuletion) - TV re.ceivere for broodcast to genera.
     vei9hte, qe and au diatributiou of population, and. alloving 10 per-                                   public per thousand popul&tion; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coun-
     cent for vaate •-C hou11ebo1d level.                                                                   trien and in years when regietration of TY sets was in effect.
 For capita OUP!lly Of prreiD (Jr- per day) - ProtaiD content of per                                   Nev•p•par circulation (par ttiousand population) - Shovs the average ciTcula-
     capita nat oupply of ood per day. Net supply of food 1a defined as                                     tion of 11daily general interee,t newspaper'', defined as a periodical publi-
     abova. B.aquirll!*lt.e for all codDtriea 11atabli11hed. by USDA provlde for                            cation devoted prh:mrily- to recording general news. It. is coneidered to
     4 minimm allowance of 60 grama of total protein per day and 20 gxliltlll                             · be "daily" if it appears at least four times a week.
     of am.al and puloa protein. of which 10 arao 1hould ba an1-J. protein.                            Cinema annual attendance per capita per year - Based on the number· of tickets
     Theae atllJ1.de.rde arc lover than thooe of 75 gr1119 of total pi-otein. and                           1old during the year, inCluding ad.missione ta drive-in cinemas and mobile
     ~3 gr.ms of atWmJ. protein BB an sverage f~r ~ world, pTopoeed by                                      units.
     Pr\O in rh" third World Food Survey.
 "Per capi.t:a procain aupply frcm a.1-1 and pulae - Prote'1D supply of food                          EllPLO'IHENT
     derived froa animala )111<1 pulaea in gt:Clla per d11y,                                           Tot.al labor force (thouamuis)·- Economically active persona, 1ucluding armed
 Child Cyu l-4) mortality rate (per thou•-) - Annual d. . tha per thoua-                                  . . forces and unemployed but excluding houeewivee:, studente, etc. Defini-
     ad in ap aroup 1-4 yaara, t.o children :La. thU qe grou}'.                                               t.iono 1n various countries ere not comperable·.                 .
                                                                                                       Pmmle (parent) - Female l•bor force aa percent:as:e of total labor force.
~                                                                                                      Aa£1culture (percent) - Labor force ~n faming, forestry,, hunting and fishing
Life ezpectucy at birth (yur1) - Average mmber of years of life                                               as percentage· of t:oto.l labor force.            ,
   ·r"""'1ning at birrh; uaually fivo-year avarqea eruling 1D 1960, 1970,                              Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining,, conetruction 1 manufacturing end
   and 1975.                                   .   .                                                   · electricity, water and 848. ae percentqe of total· labor force.
 Infant ...,rralitz rata (par rhouund) - Annual dutha of infants under                                 f&rticipation rate (p!rc111.t) - total, male. end fd.ale - Total, male, and
   one year of •a• per t.bau1and ·live birhta.                                                                female labor force as percentages of their. respective populations.
Ac:cealil to u.f• vat.er (percau.t of popul.a.tion) - total, urban.. and rural -                              Theae are ILO 'a adjueted Participation rates reflecting atte-sex
   Ntmlu:r of poople: (total, urban, and rural) vit.b Te&aDD&ble accea11 to                                   structure of the population. nnd iong time trend.              .
   safe water mv.pply (includes treated ourface vater11 01" untreated but                              Economic dependency .ratio - Ratio of population under .15 and 65 and over to
   uncontaminatad vatar auc.h as that froa protacted borehole&, 1pringat                                      the. labor force in age group of 15-64 yearS.
   end. Nnitary vello) aa perccntqea of their rupective pOpUlatiOU8.
    Ia. an urban aru a. public fotm.tain or et&mdpo•t lOcatad not 11Drei                              IllCOl!E DIS1'RIBDT10N
   than 200 -t•r• from a hoUlle MY be con.at.dared •• beiaa vithin ru- ·                               Parcentae of privat~ income (both in cash and kind) re.ceived by richest 5
   Boa.able accu1 of that hou.e. In rural •rea• raa1onable acce11a vould                                  percaa.t, richaat 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and pooreec 40 percent
   !nply that the houaowife or mnhors of the houHhold do not have to                                      of bauneholde.
   ope:n.d. a diaproportlcmate pa.rt of the day in fetching tb~ fazd;lY 1 e
   vate.r aaed.• ..
Acct:a• to acrat11. diapoaal. ~caat of population) - total, ur'ban. and
                                                                                                      l'OVEll.TY TARGET GllODl'S                                            •
                                                                                                       lat:iastiad. abeoluta. povarty incor.ae level (USS per capita) - urban aud rural -
.!!!!!! - Nmil>ar of pooplo (total, urban, and rural) aarvod by ucrata                                     Absolute poverty incou level ia that income level below which a minimal
   diapoual All parcm:atqe• of their raapactive populationa. bcreta
                                                                                                           nutritioa.nlly adequate diat plus essential non-food requiremeuts 1$.not
   dioponal. . .y includa the collccrion mid diapoAl, vith or virbout                                      affordab1-e.                                         '-    •
   treat:aeut, ef buaan ncret• and vuta-wotar by vater-bonae •Y•t-
   or the uae of pit priviQ• and 1blilar ill&Jrallationa,               ·                              Eat:blated relative mertY incou level (US$ per capita) - urban end rural -
                                                                                                           Rclativ.-· povarty incqae: level is that income level lees than one-third
Population per pby•icilm - Population dividad, by hllbar of practicing                                     p•r capita peraonal iacou. of the country •
 . phya1cian1 qwilifiad froa a lledic:al. acbool ar univaraity l.val.
Population per nur11nl Hraoa. - Population d.ivided by nu.bar of ..                                    E•t.iaatad pofulatioa. belov pov•rtx iucotW level (percent) - urban- and rural -
                                                                                                           P•r~enc of popul•tion (urban and rural) who are. either "absolute poor" or
   practicing aale ud. famlo gTcu!uate uuraee, prectic&l nuraae 1 and
   aaeistant a.urea•.                                                                                    ' "rcal~tive poo;" vhichaver :I.ii greater.                                 .

                                                                                                                                              Economic and Social I>ata Division
                                                                                                                                         Economic Analysis and P-roj ect~one Department
                                                                                                                                         I
                                             - -- -        - -------- ---              - - --------- - - -                --- --   - --




                                                                                                                                              -z1 ..
                                                                                                                           ECONOMIC DEVRl.Ol'KEN'? DA'TA SHEET                                                                                                  ANm1X l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                page 4




                                                                                                                                                           P   a0    J .EC t ED                                         Annua 1 R•u• l Crow th Rote
                                                                          ,1974       1975       1976      1977        1978          \979              , 1980               1985               1990        1975-18         19'9-eo 1981-85 \986-90          1974       1978      1980       198,          \1190




      .                       NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
                              {Hllliona of US$ at 1970 pd.cas)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ,..                A11 P11rcent of C:DY
                1.
                              ~!:~!~:!:\~rlce1)
                                                                         72,570     76,829     83,883     87,836     93,000        98,?41         104,309               140,826            1!10,!12S         6.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '·'         6.8                 101.7     100,3 101,3         101..2         101.1

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ...
                2.                                                       -1,179        -590      ·218         240      -319          -709          -1,318                -1,674              -2,118                                                         -\.1       -0.3      -t.3      •1.2           -1.1
                                                                         71,391     76,239     83,665     811,076    92,681        97,$32         102,991                                                   • 6:4
                 '·           Cro11s Domesti~ Income.                                                                                                                   139,152            188,807,                         6:0        6:2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    '"     100.0      100.0     100.Q     100.0          100,0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          ... '·'
                                                                          6,673      6,381       6,282.    S,S2S      S,531         5,977           5,611                 7,000             10,460           -4.6           0.7        4.S                   9.]        6.0       l.4
                 4.

                 '·
                              llllports
                              'B;qxn:t.e .. Volume                        4,338
                                                                          l,167
                                                                                     li,734
                                                                                     4,149
                                                                                                 4,861·
                                                                                                 4,630
                                                                                                           4,875
                                                                                                           5,110
                                                                                                                      S,2!14
                                                                                                                      4,976·'
                                                                                                                                    5 1 586
                                                                                                                                    4,877
                                                                                                                                                    S,701
                                                                                                                                                    4,383
                                                                                                                                                                          8,649
                                                                                                                                                                          6,974
                                                                                                                                                                                            13,174
                                                                                                                                                                                            11 1 056
                                                                                                                                                                                                              S.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                            12.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            J.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ·6.t
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       8,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             •.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4.4          '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             J.O
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             •.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             s.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           7.0
                 6.

                 '·
                              Exporto • TT AdJuoted
                              RHourco Gap (4-6)                           3,'16.     2,228       l,660        4ts       SS6         1.,100          1,227                    25                -596
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,..                                             4,9        o.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4.J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  1.2                      '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         -0,3
                8.
                9,
                              ConaumpUon
                              Inveoanant
                                                                         ~6,082
                                                                         18,825
                                                                                    57,873
                                                                                    20,594
                                                                                                62,153
                                                                                               '23,149
                                                                                                20 12ea
                                                                                                          66,477
                                                                                                          21,773
                                                                                                                     70,970
                                                                                                                     22.,030
                                                                                                                     20,00S
                                                                                                                                   74,999
                                                                                                                                   23, 733
                                                                                                                                                   78,587
                                                                                                                                                   2S,6J2
                                                                                                                                                                         98,45'
                                                                                                                                                                         40,719
                                                                                                                                                                                           122,634
                                                                                                                                                                                            65,578           ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                             ,.,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            s:1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            8.S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4:6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        t.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4:s
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            79,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       76,8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       23,&
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 76.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2G.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            70.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            29.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         65.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         34.7
               10.            Rational. Soving11                         141763     17,449                10,026                   21,044          22,516                38,125              63,l!il5                       •.1       11.l        10.ti     20.7       21.8      21,9      27.4          3J,:S
                                                                         15,309     18,366      21,489    21,358     21,218        21,633          24,404                40,693              66,174          8.3                       10.a

          .    11.            Dolll8atic So.vinga                                                                                                                                                                           7.2                   10.2      2.1.4      Z:J.2     23.7 .. ,29.2           lS.O
                              MmCJf.ANDISE @V.                 •
                              {Hill:Lons of u~~ !'t current pric:1111)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       .., ...
                 1.            ~Ol"tll                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Aa Percent   af Total   t111.22rc•
                                    Con11umer 'coodo                      t,598      1,357      1,392      1,117      1,693         2,296              2,178             • 3,840             6,341          -9.4           ·0.3        4.2          4.!     "12.6      13.1      10.7        to.a         8.9
                                                                                                                      4,423.                                                Ho
                                                                                                                                                                         u, 1
                                    Petrolet:fll and Darivative11
                                    Other Iatorm•d1ato. Coods
                                                                          2,962
                                                                          4,962
                                                                          3,119
                                                                                     3,100
                                                                                     3 1 819
                                                                                     3,934
                                                                                                3,845
                                                                                                3,552
                                                                                                3,556
                                                                                                           4,069
                                                                                                           3,636
                                                                                                           3,074
                                                                                                                      3 1 660
                                                                                                                      3,157
                                                                                                                                    6,200
                                                                                                                                    S,004
                                                                                                                                                       9,384
                                                                                                                                                       4,686
                                                                                                                                                       4,139
                                                                                                                                                                          8,629
                                                                                                                                                                          !il,266
                                                                                                                                                                                            26,668
                                                                                                                                                                                            18,520
                                                                                                                                                                                            19,969
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                            -4.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           -0.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      •117
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  10.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            23.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            39.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       34.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       28.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 46.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 23.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            39,l
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            24.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         37,3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         25.9


                          \
                                    CoP.ltal Goodo
                                          Totnl (FOB)                    12,641     12,210     12,?45     12,023     12,953
                                                                                                                                    3,500

                                                                                                                                   17,000          20,387                35,705             71,498
                                                                                                                                                                                                           .-12.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                            -s •.1-..
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        9.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        5.1         B.4•
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            24.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           100.Q
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       24.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 20,3

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 100.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            16,0

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            100.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         27.9

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         100.0

                 2.            h:porta                                                 ,,.      2,398      2 1 642    2,288,        2.,220             2,007              2,758              4,694          -1.s           -5.l         J.O                 U.J Ao n~~eftt       t{. ;out Br.3rt•          s.a
                                 CO!Cec
                                 Othar Agrtcultural. Goode
                                                                            980
                                                                          3,384      3,407      2 1 993    3,873      3,I'.10       J,llS              G,042              8,150             16,131           0.7            o.4         6.2         '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    •.1     42.6   24,9    23.1              21.5         20.0
... ·::
     ·.                          Hinairalll                                 ,,.
                                                                            671      1,096      1, 118         171      892         1,075              1,302              2,918              5,396          •1.4            7.2         4.7         4.8      8.4    7.1    ..7.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           u.a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1.1          6.7
. ~
                                 SM11.. Proce111cd Cood:I
                                 HanuCa.ctured Goad~                      Z,086
                                                                            m
                                                                                       645
                                                                                     2,J79
                                                                                                    789
                                                                                                Z,449
                                                                                                               t88
                                                                                                           3,383
                                                                                                                      l,llJ
                                                                                                                      4,809
                                                                                                                                    1,795
                                                                                                                                    6,020
                                                                                                                                                       2.,060
                                                                                                                                                       7,778
                                                                                                                                                               m
                                                                                                                                                                          4,332
                                                                                                                                                                         19,317
                                                                                                                                                                                             81216
                                                                                                                                                                                            45,556
                                                                                                                                                                                                            18.6
                                                                                                                                                                                                            15,6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           25.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           15,0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       12.0         '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   u.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             a.o
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            26.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    8.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   38.l    44,S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            11.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SD.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          56.4

rF.
                                                                                                                                                                            470                712         -14.0          -14.l
                                 Other Gaoda                                           209          381        278
                                                                                                                        "'            263                                                                                               2.5         2.S      2.4    2.6      1.7             1.2           o.9

                                          Tatal (TOB)                     7,951      8,670     10,128     u.1J9      12.,559       14,694          17,486                :n,945             80,706
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '·"            '·'         8.3        8.8     ·100.0     100.0      100.0      100.0        100.0




1~
                               !l&CTOR OOTPtJT                 •
                        (Share of NOi' at Factor Co"t at L970 prlcea)
                     1. Agriculture
                     '· tiidustry
                                                                            8.4
                                                                           37,7
                                                                                        8.2
                                                                                      38.0
                                                                                                   7.1
                                                                                                  38,5
                                                                                                             8.2
                                                                                                            38.2
                                                                                                                        7.9
                                                                                                                       38.4
                                                                                                                                      8.2
                                                                                                                                     37.9
                                                                                                                                                            8.1
                                                                                                                                                           l7.8             '·'
                                                                                                                                                                           37.!I                '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                               37.0          '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            7.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            6.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       4.7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        •.1        s.1 ,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   •.o
                     3, Sc"tV1ces
                               PRICES (l970•l00)
                                                                           53,8       53.8        SJ,6      S3,S       53,7          S3.9                  54.0            54.9                SS.a
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '·'            7.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        '·'         '·'
                                                                                                             ,,.        ,,.
:t~Ji.·: ~~
                     1.        Export Price Index
                               Import 11r1co Index
                               'Carma. af Trada Index
                               General Price Indet
                                                                            19!
                                                                            216

                                                                             "
                                                                            215
                                                                                        m
                                                                                        220
                                                                                         88
                                                                                        278
                                                                                                   ZlB
                                                                                                   226

                                                                                                    "
                                                                                                   407
                                                                                                             '"
                                                                                                             lOS
                                                                                                             564
                                                                                                                        "'..
                                                                                                                        ,.,
                                                                                                                        ,,.
                                                                                                                                       "'
                                                                                                                                       JZS

                                                                                                                                        "
                                                                                                                                     1414
                                                                                                                                                               "'
                                                                                                                                                               410
                                                                                                                                                                77
                                                                                                                                                                            459
                                                                                                                                                                             570
                                                                                                                                                                              81
                                                                                                                                                                                                1140.

                                                                                                                                                                                                "'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 84
                                                                                                                                                                                                             '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                             6.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10,7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           22,J
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        7.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        6.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.9
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   6.0


                               Avera811. !Xch4nse Rato
                                   SEL?.CTED lNDICA'tORS
                                                                            148

                                                                         .!2.ll:R
                                                                                        177

                                                                                    1979-80
                                                                                                   "'
                                                                                               1981-.85
                                                                                                             '"
                                                                                                          1!186-90                                                            o.            EMl'LO'tH!NT                     ~          ill!
              ·'"·                                                                                                                                                                       La.bar force (N.lllon)              29,4        34,l
                .I.                ICOR                                   lt.512     J.984       4.673     5.458                                                                      1.
                                                                                                                                                                                      '·
i~t
                                   l!Dport Bla11 tic:Lty                 -0.642      0.107       0,707     1.389                                                                         Unemployc.cint
                                   Average &tlonal Savtns11 Rate
                                   l'.arginal Na.tlonnl Saving• &Ito
                                   tmports/GDP
                                                                          0.213
                                                                          0.259
                                                                          0~076.
                                                                                     0.211
                                                                                     o>.220
                                                                                     0.057
                                                                                               • 0.246
                                                                                                0.4~2
                                                                                                0,052
                                                                                                           0,304
                                                                                                           a.sos
                                                                                                           0,05Z                                                                      '·
                                                                                                                                                                                           ('Z of c.t,)
                                                                                                                                                                                         Employm111nt (mltlion)
                                                                                                                                                                                           ('L •ks.res)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              '·'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             27.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         32,4
                                   Invest111•nt/GDP                       0,248      0,241      0,267      0.316                                                                    3.1. Agr1cultur•                         43,8        39,5
                                   Re;ource Gap/GDP                       0.027      0.009      0,006     -0.002                                                                    J.2  Industry                            18,0        l!l.8
                                                                                                                                                                                    :i:3 S11rvlce1                           38,2        40,7
                                   MLte FI!U.NCE!/                         l.lli     1fil       !ill       !ill
                                                                                      ,..
                           (As percent of CDP)
                          Current ltnvenue                                 10.7        9.S       10,7.     10,3
                          'l'ax Re.ve.nue
                          Ct1treQt Expendi tures'2/
                          OJ.rrant Savtn30
                                                                           tO,l
                                                                            9.5
                                                                            1.2
                                                                                      8.7
                                                                                      o.8
                                                                                                 10.2.
                                                                                                  9.6
                                                                                                  I.I
                                                                                                            '·'
                                                                                                            t.I
                                                                                                            1.2
                          C0.1>:1.tal Expenditures                          0.6       0.8         1.0       1.2
                      1 Cavcitnmenf Fixed Capital Fot'lll4tion              o.4       0.4         o.•       0.4
                     :~~~



                          td1n:a1 Covei:nrueat. ---
                          actudtng cnp1tol•cron1fon,
                                                                                                                                                       -     leaa tban hd! the smalle11t unit ehcw
                                                                                                                                                           • not appll~ble.
                          ... ·.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Jan~ary   14, 1980
                                                                                                                                                                              ANNEX l
                                                                                                               - 28 -                                                         ~

                                                                                         BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
                                                                                                           (Million US$)          ·




                                                                                               A·CTUAL                                                      PROJECTED
                                                                  1974            1975            1976            1977,         1978            1979            1980           1985        1990


        A.   Summarx of Bala.nee of Pa:f!!!en°ts

              l.         Exports (incl. NFS)                        8,471         9,376          10,797          12,808          LJ, 7S4.     16,-145         18,322.        40,483      .a5,913 ·
              2.         Imports (incl. NFS)                     14,678          14,308          14,475          14,020          16,133:.     191787 ..       23.,453 .      40,629       a1;294
              3:.        Resource Bal~nce                        .. 6,207        -4,932          -3,678          -1,212          -2,339 .     -3,642 ..       -5,130· .        -146        4,629

              4.         Net Factor Service Income,                 - 916        -1-,770        -2 ,339          -:2,825'        -3,624       ·-4·,ee3. ·     -6;353 .      -12,-171    -18;8a6
                    1. Net Interelit Payments                       - 652        ·l,498         -1,809           ·2,104          -2,695 .     -3,625          -4,990        -10,oos.    -15,442
                    0. Direct Investment Incqme                     - 248         .- 235         - 380            - 455                         .-542           .-590 ..

              s.
                    c. Other Factor Service Income
                       Current Transfers (Net)
                                                                  -    16
                                                                        1
                                                                                  -   37
                                                                                       2
                                                                                                 - 150
                                                                                                      4
                                                                                                                  - 266
                                                                                                                                •• -564
                                                                                                                                   -365
                                                                                                                                      72.
                                                                                                                                                 -716
                                                                                                                                                    7
                                                                                                                                                                 .773 ..
                                                                                                                                                                   7
                                                                                                                                                                            ·-1,030'
                                                                                                                                                                             -1,136'
                                                                                                                                                                                  7
                                                                                                                                                                                         -1,.775·
                                                                                                                                                                                         -1,670
                                                                                                                                                                                               7
              6,       Balance on Current Account                .. 1,122        .-6,700        -6,013·          -4,037          -s,a!ii..    -B,518         -11,477        -12,310     -14,250
              7.       Net Private 'Direct Investmt\nt'               887             892           962             810                906.    1,000           1,000 .        1,000          750
              8.       Medium- and Long-Term Loans
                    a, Traditional Sources!/
                          (1) Disbursement:s                      1,956           1,612            2,054          2,553           2,391.        3,661         . 4,075"        6,908,     11,2~
                         (ii) A111orth:ation                      - 739           - 992         .. 1,350         -l,701          -1. 762      -1,646·         -1,936"        -4,296:     -6,961.
                       (iii) Net Disburseinents                   1,217             620              703             852              . 629    2,014 ..         2,139" •.     2,612       4,302 ..
                    b. 'Financial Credits
                          (i) Disbursements                       s,103           4,524          5,978            5,940,        . 11,312       6,654 .        14,786·        19,659      31;669
                         (U) Amortization                        -1,181          -L,194         -l,669           ·2,426           -3,408      -4,150         .-s, 604       -10,097.    -20,·142
                       (UL) Net Disbursements                     3,922           3,330          4,309            3,514            7,904       2,504           9;182          9,562      11,526
              9.       Use of· IMF Resources ·                                        7
             10.         Short-term Capital and Capital n.e.L.        138             789·       2,294            - 440                332                                                   ~
             11,
                    a.   ::::~=~A!;:!~=~~::!)                       958           1,062.        -2,255            - 699          -3,880        3,ao~             -847          -864      -2,329
                    b, Dohar Valu;:itlon Adjustnumt
                    c. Changes in Reserve Level.:/
                                                                    185
                                                                  1,143
                                                                                    176
                                                                                  1,238
                                                                                                 - 252
                                                                                                -2,507
                                                                                                                  -  16
                                                                                                                  • 7LS •
                                                                                                                                      ~1J9
                                                                                                                                  4,619       • 3,ootr          '"847 ...     ""864'.    :-2;329"
             12,       Foreign Exchange Reserves                  5,272           4,034          6,541            7,256          11,875''       B,875          9,722,       13,'551      22",~99


        ..               (Ed of Period)

              Grant ~nd Loan Cotmittmcnts

              1.         Total M&:LT Loans                        7,094           6,602          9,536            B,949
                                                                                                                              {2i:elim~D'l
                                                                                                                                -15,249
              1.l        IBRD                                        242            426            498              425             688
              t.2        IDB                                         203            167            186              270             283
              1.3        ·Governments                               ,433            109          1,305               395            169
              1.4         Suppliers                               1,088           1,376          1,300            l,100           1,857
              1.5         Bonds                                       25                           269              819 .           940
              l.6         Financial Credits                       S,103           4,524          5,978            5,940         11,312 .

        c.    l,!emorandlltll. Items

              l.         Grant Element of Tot.9.1 Commitments            2.5             2.s             2.5            Z.8
              2.         Average Interest ('Percent)                     9.5             9:5             9,4            9.3          8.2
              3.         Average Maturity (Years)                        9·.o.           9.9             8.3            8.9       ··10.6




•I Includes multUatet'al agencies, bilateral lenders, suppl1ers' ct'odits ~nd bond issues.
b/ IFS Line 79d.
~ IFS Ltne ld.                                                                                                                                                                          January 9,,1980
...   not available
                                                                                         - 29 -
                                                                                                                                        ANNEX 1
                                                                                                                                        page 6


 ~-
 ;: ..                                                                      D~BT   AND CREDITWORTHINESS




 !:'.                                                                                                               Actual
                                                                                           1974           1975       1976              1977              1978
 j~




bA·
 [
                      Medium- and Long-Term Debt
                      (Disbursed onlyj

                      1.      Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                     17,166         21,171      25,985            32,037            43,511
 \
 ,_
                              a. By type of Debt
                                  (1) Financial Credits                                  11,211         14,561      18,194            21,528            29,500
 0:
 :.;                              (2) Traditiohal Lenders!/                               5,955          6,610       7,791            10,509            14,011
 ~:
                              b. By type of Borrower
                                  (l) Public- and Publicly Guaranteed                     8,533         11,461      14,852            19,309            27,223
         ~                        (2) Private                                             8,633          9,710      11,133            12, 729.          16·,288
r· 1.                 _2,     Net Debt Service
                              a. Total Interest
                                                                                          2,572
                                                                                          1,370
                                                                                                        -3,683
                                                                                                         1,863
                                                                                                                     4,825
                                                                                                                     2,091
                                                                                                                                      ·-6,231
                                                                                                                                       2,462
                                                                                                                                                         7',865
                                                                                                                                                         3,342
1:" ~-                        b. Net Interest.                                              652          1,498      .1,810             2,103             2,695
t·                    3.      Public Debt Service                                         1,287          1,550       1,982             2,505             3·,933

\ i             Ii. Debt Burden
 ~-      ·o •.;· - 1.         Net Debt Service RatiOE/                                     30.4           -39.3       44.7              48.6            . 57.0
 ~-                   1.      Total Net Debt Service Ratio!;:/                             33.3            41.8       48.2              52.2              63.8
 ~-       r     ;     3.      Public Debt Service Ratio                                    15.2            1_6.5      18.4              19.6              28.5
I•.      4- •         4.      Liquidity Ratio~                                             23.0            33;3      .,43.0             39.2              46.2
 ~       r            5       Net Debt Service/GDP                                          2.3            3.o          3.3               3.8              4.1
 ~ \ •t               6:      Public Debt Service/GDP                                       1.2            1.3          1.4              .1.5              2.1
r·       ~,     .'!- _- 7.    Total DOD/GDP                                                15.6           17.1
                                                                                                             -
                                                                                                                      17.8              19.3              22.0
-'·
.. t.(:.·,~
~- l • ~ · 1. Interest                 on Total DOD/Total     DO~                          10.9           10.9         9.9               9.5             10.4
(· ( . : ;.·· 2.              Net Debt Service/Total DOD!_/                                20.5           21·.5       22.8              24.0             24.5

r        8 · ~-,;_
:;: 0' r ...
                      Dependency Ratios

                      1.
                                            fo~ M&LT Debt
                              Gross Disburse~nts/Imports (incl. ID'S)·                     48.i.          42.9 •                        60.6
                                                                                                                      55.5                                84.9
ii -8. 0 .'           2.      Net Transfer/Imports (incl.· NFS)!/                          25.7           14.6       ·20.2              13.6              32.2
~-- 0. ':-            3.      Net Transfer/Gross Disbursements                             53.4           34.0        36.4              22.4              37.9

~:       a•~'~        E..'S'OSUre

f"°l.
~ r ~
      f't             1.
                      2.
                              IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.
                              IBRD DOD/Total DOD
                                                                                             3.5
                                                                                             4.9
                                                                                                           4.1
                                                                                                           5.2
                                                                                                                       2.2
                                                                                                                       5.0
                                                                                                                                         3.5
                                                                                                                                         4.8
                                                                                                                                                           2.0
                                                                                                                                                           3.7
.. ~ • ··             3.      IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service · '                         3.0           2.5         2.4              ·2.9               2.6
t
/~.    c.
r.              F.    External Debt .(Disbursed Only)                                                  Outstanding December   .:31,   1978
''·                                                                                                                                       ~
                                                                                            •Amount
                                                                                               1,974                                             4.5
                      1.      IBRD                                                                                                               2.l.
                                                                                                 911
                      2.      Other Multilateral                                                                                                 7.2
                                                                                               3,153
                      3.      Govemmencs                                                                                                      12.3
                      4.      Suppliers
                                                                                               5,343
                                                                                               2,360                                           5.5
                      S.      Bonds                                                                                                           67.8
                      6.      Financial Credits
                                                                                              29,500
                                                                                                 250                                           0.6
                      7.      Other                                                                                                          100.0
                      8.      Total M&LT Debt                                                 43,511
                                                                                              27,223                                          62.6
                      9.      Total Public M&LT Debt




              a/ Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT Loans n.e.i.
              b/ Net Debt Service as percent of exports of goods and. NFS.
              ;1 Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
              If Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
                 of 3 months imports.
              e/ As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
              Tl Net transfer is equal to total net disbursements minus gross interest.

                       not available

              Note:          Debt service ratios have been calculated on the b~sis of net rather than gross interest payments in
                             order to take into account interest earned upon Brazil's international reserves.


                                                                                                                                      January 9, 1980


t
                                       - 30 -
                                                                     ANNEX II
                                                                     Page 1


                THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL

                       A.     SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
                               (As of January 31, 1980)


                                                            Amount less
Loan ffo Year               Borrower             Purpose   Cancellations   Undisbursi
                                                           {US$ Million)

Forty-five loans fully disbursed                                1,485.0

 756    1971  Brazil                         Ports              45.0             5.7
 853    1972  Brazil                         Land Settlement     6.7              .1
 923    1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -    Power             125.0            17.2
                Itumbiara
 924    1973 Brazil                          Agro-In_dustry     42.3            15.1
1008    1974 Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao      Power              81.0            24.0
                Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009    1974 Banco Nacional da Habitacao     Water Supply       36.0             1.1
1067    1974 Brazil                          Education          23.5            13.7
1074    1975 Rede Ferroviaria Federal        Railways          175.0            18.4
1075    1975 Brazil                          Roads             110.0            27.2
1151    1975 Companhia Siderurgica Nacional Industry            95.0            54.1
1152    1975 Companhia Siderurgica Paulista Industry            60.0            51.3
1153    1975. Brazil                       . Agriculture ·      23.0            11.8
1171    1975 FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista      Railways           75.0            27.0
1195    1976 Brazil                          Rural Development 12.0             10.8
1206    1976 Brazil                          Development Bank   35.0             7.0
1207   "1976 Brazil                          Feeder Roads       55.0            47.6
1249    1976 Brazil                          Agriculture        40.0            30.5
1256    1976 Petro bras Ferti 1i z antes     Fertilizer         50.0             2.2
1257    1976 Companhia Paranaense de         Power              49.0            12.6
                Energia Eletrica - COPEL
f
t
                                                             - 31

                                                                      ···.•
                                                                                                                 ANNEX II
                                                                                                                 Page 2

f;--. A.           SUMMARY- STATEMENT_OF LOANS.        (Co~tinued)
                   (As of January.31, 1980.)
~--.ig·~·                                                                                                                                ..
-
'
~   ::                                                                                      .. Amount. l~ss· -- ·
                                                                                                                                         ·


    c.
       Loan ffa Year                          Borrower                        Purpose.       -cancellations Undisbursed
                                                                                              (US$ Milli·on)
    l ...

            1300        1976    Eletrobras                              Power          .. ·.      50.0                              23.9
    ~-
            1302        1976·   Brazil                                  Nutrition            . ··.19~0
                                                                                            ··°)                                   .17.-0
            1309        1976     Banco Nacion~i da Habitacao            Water Supply         -·. 40. 0                              25.4
            1317        1976    Brazil                                  Agro-Industry             83.0                              83·.. o
            1343        1977    ELETROSUL                               Power                     82.0                              42.5.
            1362        1977     State of Minas. Gerais                 Rural Development         42."0                 ·i·· 21.6
            1406        1977    Pet~obras Fertilizantes                 Fertilizer                64.0                              54~~3
            1411        1977     Fertilizantes Vale do                  Fertilizer                82 .• 0                           ~9 .• 9
                                                                                                                        .'· ... .!.  •••
                                   Rio Grande S.A.-VALEFERTIL
            1452      1977.      Brazil                                 Education    .            32·~ 0                     "'29'.~·1
            1488    . 1977      Brazil       .                          Rural Development         17~·0                      14.5
            1525      1978      Banco Nacional.da Habitacao             Sewerage       -, ·' 110.0                          102.0
            1537      1978      Brazil ·                            ··Rural Development           24,0                       22:~ 3
            1538      1978      ELETROBRAS .                            Po~er                   130.Q                       1~9.9
            1557      1978       Brazil                                 Roads ·                 114 •. 0                    112.·7
            1562      1978°      COPE SUL                               Petrochemicals._       . 8.,?._0 ·                   74.8
            1563      1978      Brazil                                . urban Transport·       ..~8. 0                      :·7?·8
            1568      1978·     Brazil                       ..... -, Agric. Ext~nsion          ~QO.O                         97.6
            1589      1978      Brazil                                  Rural Development         37 .Q                     ··'35.4
            1654      1979       Banco Nacional. da Habitacao· ·sites & Services· · · 93.0                                    93.0
            1656      1979       Banco Nacional .da Habitacao .·.Water· & .$eweJ:age            ~00.Q                       100.0
            1660      1979      ·valesul Aluminio S.A.                  Aluminum'                ·98.0                        92.0
            1714 /1 °1979       Brazil                                  Rural De~elop~nt· 26.Q                                26~.0
            1720 ./2 1979        Brazil                                 Urban Development         7Q.Q                       10:0
            1721 - 19-79         COPEL                                  Power·                '109.0                        109.0
            1728 /1 1979         Brazil                                 Rur-al Development        40.;0                 . '· 40.0
            1729 - 1979         Brazil                                  Irrigatioll              .28,. 0                     28.0
            1730-     1979      Brazil                                  Road.s                 ·110. 0                      110.0
                                Total                                                     . '
                                                                                         -·-    . .4,49~.4    /3
                                                                                                       ··- . _-
                                                                                                              ..  -
                                Of whi~h has b~en repaid to the Bank                                 599.4
                               Total now outstiihding                                              3,897.0
                                         .· . :··                                                                               ....
                   ·~         ·Amount sold
                                 of which has been repaid                                               4.0
                                                                                                       ..
                                Total now   he~d   by Bank                                         3,893.0.

                                Total undi·sbursed                                                                     1, 961:. 0

         "fl       Became effective on February 5,. 198()
         72        Not yet effective.           · . - .
         73        No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.
                                                                                                        -   ,;
                                                                           32 ::-                                             ANNEX II
                                                                                                                              Page 3

                                            B,       STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS   (as of ·January 31, 1980)




Fiscal -Year                           Obliger                                             Type of Business
                                                                                                                .. ·     Amount in.US$ million
                                                                                                                        Loans    Equity    Total

  1957             Siemens do Bra~il Cia. de Eletricidad~                              Electr~cal   Equipment            2.00                            2.00
 ·1958             Ol;i.~raft, S;A;: Celulol!.e e·Papel                                Pulp and Paper                    1.20                            1.20
 .1958             D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                                   Automotive Parts                   0.45                            0.45
  1958            ·Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
                   · Industria e Comercio'                                            Motor Vehicles                     2.45.                           2.45
 1959·             Companhia Mineir~ ~e Cim~nto Portland, S.A:                        Cement "                           1.20                           ·1.20
                                                                                                                                     I
 · 1959            9hampion Celulose, S.A.                                           . Pulp                              4.q·o:: .                      4.00
 .1966/1968/
: 1972             Acos Villares, S.A.                                                -Steel                             8.00              l.93         9.93
 1966/1969         Papel · e Celulose Catarinense, S .A:· ·                           Pulp and Paper                     3.78.             3.41         7.19
 1967(1972        Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
                  · · de· Fertiliz~ntes · ·      ·· " ·                               Fertilizers                      . ~·!~,;            3.03        11.25
 1969             Pe,t~o<):?imica   Uniao, S .A:                                      Petrochemicals                    5,50·              2.88·        8.38
: 1970            Poliolefinas, S.A •. Industria.e Comercio                           Petrochemicals                    5.50·              2.88         8,38
 1971             Oxitep?, S.A. Industria e Come,rcio                                 PetrochemicalS                    4.60               1.44         6,04
 1971             Rio Grande - COl!lpanhia de Celulose do Sul                         Pulp                              4.90                            4.90
 1972/1975        Companhia de ~imento Naci~nal de Minas                              Cement                           29.• 14            ·3.20
 1973/1974/1977   Companhia Si~erurg~~a da Guari~bara ~ COSI~UA                       Steel                            76.97·.             7.50.
 1973             Cap~tal Market.~evel~~ment,Fund - FUMCAP                            Capital Market
                                                                                       Development                      5.oo: ·.                     . . 5,00
~1973/i978        Empresa de Desenvolviniento de Recurses                             Nickel Mining and
                  : Miilerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                          Ref;!Jiing•                     85.0Q               8.34       93.34
 1974             Industrias Villa'res, S.A.                                          Elevators and Indus-
                                                                                       trial Equipment .                 6.00                          6.00
 1974             ~abr~ca de Tectdos Tatuape, S.A.                                    Textiles                         "31.00                         31.00
 1975/1979        .Capuava Carbones Industr:!as Lt;d.                                 Carbon Black .                    6.18               ~.j!Q'      7,37
 1975 .           OX:f:te~?   Nordeste, S.A.                                         Petrochemicals                    10.00                          10.00
   •.·   ..
 1976             Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                      Textiles                           6.45              l.00         7.45
 1976/ll!BO       Tecanor S:A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                      Textiles                          16,20                         16.20

 1977             n_IB S·..~.. Productos   Metalurg~~<,>s                            Iron and Alum1num
                                                                                      castings                         20.00                         20.00
 1977             Min~racao    ?io do Norte S.A.                                     Mining .                          15.00                         15.00
                                                                                      ••   1,


 1978             Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                            Iron and Steel                     7.0               3.0        J,.O.O.
                                                 0


 1979             Volvo do Brasil Motores e. Veicules           s.   A.              Motor Vehicles                    60.00              5.00       65.00
                                                                                      .·· ·.
                  Hering do Nordeste ·s. A. - Malhas                                 Ready-made Garments                2.00                           2.00

                  Bend~do Para. S/A - Benpasa - Agricultura,
                    Industria e Comercio de Oelaginosas                              Palm Oil                          3,50               1.00         4.50

 1980             Villares Industrias de Base S. A. - VIBASA                         .Iron .an,d Steel            ~                                    5.00

                  Total Gross Commitments                                                                          436.24                45.BO      482.04

                  Less Cancellations, Terminations, Repayments and ·sales·                                         321.15                -6.....5..2.. 329.67

                  Total Commitments Now Held by IFC                                                                115.09                37.28 . 152.37

                  Total Undisbursed                                                                                135.75                10.05 - 145.BO
                                       - 33 ...:.
                                                                 ANNEX II
                                                                  Page 4


                         C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION   J:../

           ·As of Janua.ry 31, 1980, there were 43 effective Bank loans under
disbursement:

Loan No.

756          Santos Port Project: US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971;
             Effective Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: September 30, 1.9800
           . After long delays, project _execution is proceeding satisfactorily
           . Project completion is now expected by e114-1980. The financial
           ·condition of the port of Santos has improvedo .Price escalation for
             civil wor~s continues to increase the project cost. All of the
           . increase is in local cu~rency and is expected to be covere~ by addi-
             tional allocations from Brazil's federal ·port authority, PORTOBRAs.·

853          Alto Turi Land Settlement Project: US$6.7 million loan of
             July 24; 1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date:
           • December 31, 1980. The now completed road component of the project
           • was reduced from the original 306 to 238 km. Other aspects of the
             project are also nearing compietion and 8,000 families have settled
             in the project .area, more·than half already. receiving full project.
             services. However, the project has taken longer than expected to
             complete, having been.subject to administrative delays in. the
             release of public funds, unforeseen legal complications in transfer-
             ring land titles_ to settlers, and. cost overruns presently amounting
             io about 240%. The Closir:ig Date for this loan has been postponed
             to December 31, · 1980 to aliow the Borrower· sufficient time to meet
             final payments on equipment contracts.

923        Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project: US$125 million loan of August 1,
           1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
           1982. The project is about-75% completedo Major procurement has
           been completed. However;·.commissioning of the units is expected to
           be delayed abotlt 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
           geological problems and very.heavy_ rains which delayed construction
           of the earthfill dam. The present cost· estimate is about 54% over
           the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to the need for
           increased physical quantities due to ge.ological problems. The. rest
           of the . increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
           of the tr~nsmission works and to an increase ~n the cost of civil
                                                i
           workso                               I



y     These. notes are designed to inf~rm .t.he Executive Directors regarding the
      _progress.of projects in execution, and ini particular to.report any prob-
      lems which are being encountered, and thef action b_eing taken to remedy
      them. They should be read in this .sense,, and with the understanding
      that they do not purport to present a balanced evaltiation of s~rengths
      and weaknesses in project executiono ..
                                      - 34 -
                                                                ANNEX II
                                                                 Page 5


Loan No.

924        Agro-Industries Credit Project: US$54 million loan of August 1,
           1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing ·Date~ June 30, 1979.
           Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million.were made ·
I          during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
           the Loan .Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
           ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
           ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
           competing credit lines at subsidized r~tes and a general slow-down
           in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
           are more t?an 2 years behind schedule. The original Closing Date
           was postponed once--from December 31, 1978 to June 30, 1979. In
           view of the slow disbursement, and the fact that commitments under
           Loan No. 1317-BR had not yet startedj the Bank has.decided to allow
           the Closing Date to lapse, and has cancelled the amount of
           US$11,737,035.97, corresponding to the uncommitted balance of
           Loan No. 924-BR as of June 30, 1979. The Borrower will be permitted
           to draw down until June 30, ·1980. up to the amount of US$16i>537,353.30,
           corresponding to the amount of Loan No. 924-BR committed as of June 30,
           1979 against approved sub-projects but not yet disbursed as of that
           date.

1008         Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project: US$81 million loan of
             June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
             December 31, 1980. Re~ettlement.of the 9,700 families displaced by
             the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
           ·.towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
             structed. The construction of the underground power station and
           · Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
             transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind .
             schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
             postponed to December 31, 1980.

1009       Minas Gerais Water Supply Project: US$36 million loan of June 17,
           1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15, 19.80
           This project is substantially completed. As of November 30, 1979,
           97% of the loan proceeds had been disbursed. The project has financed
           41 subprojects in the capital city, Belo Horizonte, and in other
           cities and towns. The Closing Date for this loan was postponed to
           August 15, 1980 so that the borrower can meet final payments on
           eq~pment contracts·.


1067       Second Education Project: US$23~5 million loan of December 27,
           1974; Effective Date:· April 17, 1975; Closing Date·: June 30, ·J..981
           Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because of delays
           by the government in providing counterpart financing. Project im.ple-.
           mentation units in all eight project states and these, together with
           the main project unit, PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment
           studies in the Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed
           and have yielded use~ul information for future sector investment .
           planning. The original closing date of December 31, 1979 has been
           postponed to June 30, 1981.
                                     - 35 -
                                                                ANNEX II
                                                                Page 6


Loan No.

1074       Seccdd Railway Project: US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
           Effective Date: June 17, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
           Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the.project is a
           part, have increased substantially on sever.al items._ Therefore,
           the.Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
           postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
           the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
           situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement .is
           necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
           program~


1075       Fifth Highway Project: US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
           Effective Date: May 15, 1975; Clos·ing Date: December·31, 1981.
           Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
           progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
           struction and road rehabilitatiori are. completed. Implementation
           of the road weighing station program and the maintenance component is
           making progress after some initial delays. The closing date originally
           December 31, 1979 has been. postponed to December 31, 1981.

1151       CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III: US$95 .O million loan of
           August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
           December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 miilion, an
           increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
           than expec;ted start of project implementation, higher than expected
           construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
           to its essentials, some pr"oblems in the management of .the expan-
           sion program, an~· funding shortfalls from the federal governmento
           The new Governm~nt has reassigned priority·to the steel secto~,
           and no further financial difficulties. are envisaged. S~bstantial
           changes were made resulting in better management and control of
           the project. The proj~ct·remains eco~omically justified.

1152       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III: US$60.0 million loan
           of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
           June.30, 1980.• Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
           Stage III project was re;visedwith .tne assistance of consulta,nts.
           Stage III has been proceeding at a reduced pace in part because
           of uncertainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds
           to fully finance the project. However, with the assurance that
           sufficient feciertl. funding will be av!ailable beginning in 1980,
           no further delays are envisaged. The revised project cost is
           US$1. 7 billion which is 44% above the' appraisal estimate.
           However,· the project remains economic'ally justified.
                                      - 36 -
                                                                ANNEX II
                                                                Page 7


Loan No.

1153       Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project: US$23.0 million loan of
           August 4, 1975; E·ffective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
           December 31, 1982. Construct1on on this project was delayed .
           because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
           in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
           Current cost estimates show an increase
                                               .    of at . least 80% over the
           appraisal estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have
           resulted from design changes, rapid increases_ in the costs of
           civil works and equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation.
           Further adjustment in project composition is being considered in
           view of the 1979 floods. The closing date has been postp~ned to
           December. 31, ·19~4.

1171       Third Railway Project (FEPASA): US$75.0 million ·loan of November 12,
           1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing .Date·: December 31, 1981.
           Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
           Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
           assistance program which is ~ntended to improve FEPASA's operations,
           marketing, and.data processing systems is showing ~esults. FEPASA's
           financial position, however, continues to remain extremely weak •.
           Active consideration is being given to ways in which this· situation
           can be corrected. The ciosing date for this loan was pbstponed to
           December 31, 1981 to allow the borrower the time needed to meet
           final.payments on equipment contracts.

1195       Rio Grande do Norte.Rural Development Project: US$12.Q million loan
            of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date:            i
           September 30, 1982. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily
            in the areas of extension,. credit,. applied research,. and health,.
           although one year beh~nd the original schedule. Phase II, now
            just beginning, would sharpen the project's focu& ori the lowest
            income farmers a~d would .include new co_mponents in the ~reas of
           marketing, storage, and support to cooperatives, land services; seed
           production; and inland fisheries. The new state administration has
           -indicated its strong support of the project, particularly of Phase
           II_implementatiori.· During 1979 a drought occurred· which has
           affected first-year project implementation for Phase II. . The
           closing date for this loan was postponed to September 30, 1982 to
           allow disbursements to coordinate effectively with Phase ·ir·.

1206       Development Banking Project: US$85.0 million loan of .March 1, 1976;
           Effective Date: August 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
           Due to the availability of competing credit lines at subsidized
           interest rates, there wa.s little demand. for loan funds; and as of
           year-end 1979, about ·US$52.5 mill.ion of the Bank loan remained
           uncommitted. Since this situation was expected to ·persist, the
           Government requested cancellation of the uncommitted balance of
           the loan, and US$50 million of the loan was cancelled as of
                                      - 37
                                                                  ANNEX II
                                                                  P~ge   8


Loan No.

            January 28, 1980. It is expected that the Governme'.:1•.: will request
            cancellation of an additional US$2o5 million. The Closing Date
            of the loan has been extended to December 31, 1980 to eriable
           ;completion of disbursements against approved subprojects which were
            committed for financing under the loan but against which disburse-
            ments have not been completed.

1207       Secondary and Feeder Roads Project: US$55.0 million loan of
           March 1 9 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
           December 31, 1981. Ten sub-projects involving ten different
           states have been approved. Construction is underway in three
           states, Bahia, Minas Gerais, and Goiaso

1249       Agricultural Research I Project: US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
           197'6; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; ·Closing Date:
           December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
           ca~t slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
           ·positions at EMBRAPA in early 1979. ·Imposed hiring constraints
           also significantly affected the civil works, consultant services,
           and training components of this project. The outlook for 1980 is
           more favorable with a recent resumption of normal hiring procedures
           and an expanded program of civil works to rec.uperate previous
           shortfalls.

1256        Araucaria Fertilizer Project: US$52.;0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
           ·Effective.Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
            Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
            to aelays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
           -suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
            which is US$49 mi~lion over the appraisal estimate of US$272
            million. .All the increase is in local currency and with the
            planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
            has no financing gap.      ·
                                                 I
                                                 I
1257       COPEL Power Distribution Project: US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
           1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
           Major project works were completed o~ schedule bu~ overall project
           completion is about 1 year behind schedule and about 98% completed.
           Procurement under the loan has also. oeen completed. Disbursements
           lag about 10% behind appraisal forecast. The Closing Date has been
           postponed by six months, to June 30, i1980.
                                      - 38 -
                                                                 ANNEX II
                                                                 Page 9


Loan No.

1300       Northeast Power Distribution: US$SO.O million loan of August 2,7,
           1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
           1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
           because of inirial difficulties in obtaining a Government defini-
           ~ion regarding participatio~ by Brazilian suppliers.  Procurement          . i
           is now progressing· satisfactorily. However, the Bank has post-
           poned the closing date to December 31, 1980. The agreed targets for
           connection of low income households have been widely exceeded.
           Substantial improvements ~n the management of the project companies
           have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial control
           and planning of COELBA and CELPE.

1302       Nutrition Research and Development: US$19.0 million loan of
           October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
           Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit.is inadequately
           staffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the _project.
           The nutrition delivery syst~m's field tests are proceeding
           reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial credit
           comp0Iient have not started primarily because of competitive
           programs at subsidized rates. We have been informed that the
           Government is planning to give INAN ~oundation status. This measure
           would allow INAN.to offer competitive salaries and thus attract and
           retain adequate staff. Me.asure.s to deal with the inactive ind.us trial
           credit are currently under review by the Government.

1309       Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$40o0
           million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
           Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully
           committed for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan
           area of Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in
           the interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in
           rural areas o-f the state.

1317       Second Agro-Industries Credit Project: US$83.0 million loan of
           September 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
           December 31, 1982. Because of commitment delays under the First
           Agro-Industries Credit Project, commitments for the second loan
           began only in 1979. However, the existence of competing credit
           lines at subsidized rates may well render the balance of this loan
           unusable. Active consideration is now being given to the future
           of this loan.

1343       ELETROSUL Transmission Project: US$82.0 millrqn loan of February
           23, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
           31, 1981. The project is about 60% complete and 100% of the
           contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
           under the loan have been awarded. Project ex~c\tf~on is o~ schedule.
           Loan disbursements are progressing aecording t<;>'appraisal forecast.
f
~
r.                                              - 39 -                      ANNEX II
                                                                            Page 10
I
t     Loan No.
I
I     1362        Mi~as Gerais Rural Development Project: US$42:0 million ioan of
                  February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977;'.Closing Date:
                  December 31·, -1981. Thi.s project is progressing satit?factorily
                  and close to schedule after initial delays.·· Mainly as a result of
                  administrative difficulties, participation in. this project by
                  landless producers was initially significantly lower th~n originally
                  envisaged, but concerted efforts by the state government and the
                  participating banks have 'improved this- situation recently.

     . 1406       Sergipe Fertilizer Project: US$64.0.million loan of April 29, 1977;
                  Effective Date: August 31," 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
                  Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
                  but some delays have been experienced ~n procurement of imported
                  equipment which may delay the project completio~ date by about
                  nine months. Commercial production is now expected to b~gin in
                  September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
                  currently running about_8% b~low the budget estimate.

      1411         -VALEFERTIL-- Phosphate Fertilizer Project: US.$82 .O million loan of
                 · . April 29, 1977; Effective Date: . July 29, 1977; "Closi-ng D~te:
                     May 31, 1980. The project }las been progressing satisfactorily
                     within the original budget es·t;:t.mate, and the plant start-l,lp will
                     experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
                     to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
                     affecting project execution.

      1452         Vocational Training Project: US$32.0 miilion loan of September 7,
                   1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; .Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
                   Construction of training centers and' procurement of equi"pment are
                   proceeding according to schedule. ~e technical assistance program
                  ·is underway at the training centers. ·

      1488          Ceara Rural Development Project: US$17.0 million loan of
                  .November 17, 1977; ~ffective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
                    December 31, 1982. The.project in g~neral is proceeding satisfac~
                    torily although local funding delays" have been a recurring problem.
                    Agricultural extension and experimentation services, agricultural
                    credit, input supply, marketing and storage 'services are making   .
                    good progress, while the parts of the project relating to land
                    purchase credit, agricultural mechanization and cooperative
                  · societi~s .?rganization are progressing at a slower than expected
                    rate.

      1525         Greater Sao :i;>aulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project·: US$110.0
                 · million loan of March 10, 1978; Effe~tive Date: August. 7, 1978;
                   Closing Date: Se_ptember 30, 1984. ·This project is pro_ceeding
                   according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction
                   of three sewage treatment plants· hav~ been signed·and work is
                   progressing well. Equipment contracts have been signed for these
                   plants, c~mmitting approximately US$60 million of the loan.
                                         40
                                                                  ANNEX II
                                                                  Page 11


Loan No.

1537        Paraiba Rural Development Project: "US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
            Effective. Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September.30, 1983.
           ·The pr~ject is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on ·schedule,
            although local fllllding delays have been a recurring pro"!>lem. Civil .
            works are und.erway and progressing well, and the non-farm development
            component is showing encouraging initial results. However, adminis-
            trative problems are causing difficulties in making credit available
            to the smaller farmers and tenants.·

1538       South-Southeast Power Distribution Project: US$130.0 million loan of
           May 8, 1978; Effective Date:· September 14, 1978; Closing- Date:
           December 31, 1982. ··rnitial disbursements have.been delayed by about
           one year due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
           tion programs caused by changes in the power market, reluctance by
           two of the beneficiaries to contract consultants as agreed, and
           procurement delays.

1557       Sixth Highway Project: US$114.0·million loan of May 8, 1978;
           Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
           Reconstruction of ·highways for_es·een llllder the project is proceeding
           satisfactorily • . There have been.delays in the delegation of
           highway maintenance responsibilities to the states, because of
           staffing problems in the state highway departments resulting from
           1ow sa~ary scales·, and because the states will not accept respon-
           sibility for federal highways lllltil they have been rehabilitated.

1562        COPESUL Petrochemical Project: US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
           Effect~ve  Date: . October 30, 1978; Closing ·Date: June 30, 1982.
            Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
            cial operat1ons is now expected in June 1982, about six months
           "behind schedule; £eflecting the slow start of some of the down-
            stream projects. The anticipated cost to ·complete the project is
            presently running about 2% above the original estimate.

1563       Urban Transport Project: US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
           Effective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 198i.
           This project is progressing satisfactorily although progress has
           varied·widely among the five cities involved.· The.Curitiba sub-
           project is the furthest advanced.

1568       Agr"icultural Extension Project: US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
           Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
           The executing agency, EMBRATER, has initiated work with state/territory
           agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
           has been effectively organized, ·and· project execution proceeded satis-
           factorily during FY 1979. Early local fllllding delays· appear to have
           been resolved in late 1979~ Means.. to r.e.solve current problems. in
           achieving planned levels of incremental staffing are under discussion.
                                       - 41 -
                                                                     ANNE-X II
                                                                     Page 12


Loan No.

1589        Bahia Rural Development Project: US$37o0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
            Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: Dec~mber 31g 1983.
            First year implementation of the·project advance4 satisfactorily
            after initial funding delays. Substantial progress was made in
            majority of the components, and targets for the number ·of farmers
            to be assisted with extension and credit were exceeded. However,
            pt;'oject activities were disrupted in March 1979 with the change
            in state administrations and dismissal o~ a large ·number of
            project-funded staff.· Funding delays in year two have compounded
            difficulties associated with the rehiring of staff, now underway,
            and the restoration of appropriate coordination and. integration of
            project ~ctivities.

1654        Sites and Services and Low-Cost Housing Project: US$93.0 million
            loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date: July 9, 1979;
            Closing Date: December 31, 1983. Project execution is proceeding
            ahead of schedule in Sao Paulo and Recife. Some initial delays have
            been experienced in Salvador.

1656        Northeast Water Supply and Sewerage Project: US$100.0 million
            loan of February 8, 1979; Effective Date.: July.10, 1979, Closing Date:
            June 30, 1983. The National Housing Bank has approved the five year
            investment program of the project water companies for the period
            1980-1.984. The first subprojects for the capital cities have also been
            approved and construction is underway.                   ·

1660        Valesul Aluminum Project: US$48.0 million-loan of March 7, 1979;
            Effective Date: August 6, 1979; Closing Date: July 31, 1982.
            TI!~ project is proceeding satisfactorily with some minor delays.


1721        Copel Second Power Distribution Project: · US$109 .million loan of
            June 20, 1979; Effective Date: November 21, 1979; Closing Date:
            June 30, 1983. The project is proceeding satisfactQrily.

1729        Sao Francisco Second Irrigation Project: US$28.0 million loan of
            June 20, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980; Closing Date:
            June 30, 1986. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.

1730         Second Feeder Roads Project: US$110~0 million loan of June 20, 1979;
           . Effective Date: December 17, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1986.
             The project is proceeding satisfactorily.

                                                                ·'
                                        - 42 -

                                                                            ANNEX III
                                                                            Page 1

                                      BRAZIL.

                          POLLUTION CONTROL PROJECT

                      .SUPPLEMENTARY. PROJECT DATA SHEET


Section I - Timetable of Key,Events

     (a)   Time taken to prepare project:        'approximately 12 months
                                                  (from January 1977 to
                                                 January 1978)

     (h)   Project prepared by:     BADESP, CETESB and SABESP

     (c)   First presentation to the Bank:        January 1977

     {d)   Departure of Appraisal   Miss~on:      February 1978

     (e)   Initial Negotiations:    October 13·, 1978 ·

     (f)   Updating Appraisal Mission:     October 1979

     (g)   Final Negotiation:     February 8, 1980

     (h)   Planned Deadline for Effectiveness:        July 1980


Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions

           None.


Section III - Special Conditions

     (a)   The federal government to inform the Bank on actions regarding
           closing of plants. The Bank to review effect of federal
           government's ·actions on air and water pollution control
           strategies by September 30, 1981 or after the commitment
           of US$27.0 million of the Bank loan (para. 41).

     (b)   The.state government to issue the regulations needed to implement
           the state pollution control ·law (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 42).

     (c)   CETESB to carry· out a systematic      identific~tion   of industrial
           water polluters (para. 44).

     (d)   The state government to amend by January 31, 1981 its
           classification of water bodies' and to change its effluents
           standards (Condition of Disbursement for water pollution
           control sub-projects, para. 45).
                                  - 43

                                                                         ANNEX III
                                                                         Page 2


(e)   CETESB to issue particulate matter emission and conditioning
      sta~dards and to adopt an air pollution control str~tegy
      (Condition of Disbursement for air pollution control sub-
      projects, para. 49).

(f)   The state government, BADESP & BNDE to enter into a
      subsidiary loan agreement (Condition of Effectiveness,
      para. 53).

(g)   The Steering Committee of PK>COP to approve its
      by laws (Condition of Effectiveness (para 53).

(h)   CETESB and BADESP to si'gn inter-agency cooperative a~i::~ement
      (Condition of Effectiveness, para. 54).

(i)   CETESB and SABESP to sign inter-agency cooperative     agreeme~t
      (Condition of Disbursement, para. 54).

(j)   The. state government to pay into PROCOP not less than
      US$5 million equivalent (Condition of Effectiveness, pa~~·         5.~).

(k)   BNH to make a US$25.8 million loan for the project (CongitiQn
      of Effectiveness, para. 56).

(1)     The state government and the Bank to review the adequacy af
      · the proposed financial charges at least once a year star~ing
        on March 31, 1981 or after the commitment of US$18 milliq~ 9f
        the Ban~ loan, whichever is earlier (para. 59).

(m)   F-inancing to be extended to certain eligible   sub-project~
      outside of Greater Sao Paulo (para. 60).

(n)   CETESB to carry out a study of its current river monitq~i~g
      network and assess its needs for river polluti'on monitc;ir:i,n~
      equipment (para. 62).

(o), CETESB ~o ensure that whenever appropriate subprojects      ~q~sist~pg
     of control of water pollution include.the installation      o~
     monitoring equipment (para. 62).

(p)   CETESB to test, annually, sources of particulate matter     fg~
      all air pollution control subprojects· (para. 62).
                                                                                                                          -STATE. oF:sAo·i:>Aoi;
                                                                                                                          ·- Regional"Departments;_'::,,:~ :~ ·,.,
                                                                                                                           .           .              : .. ~:·                ,•

                                                                                                                       .. - · · - State h~undories
                                                                                                                       ···-···-Regional Deportment boundaries
                                                                                                                       flt~~ Greater SC.a Paulo
                                                                                                                       ~Rivers




                                                                                                  r··-···
                                                                                    ,,J ...........

                                                                            r-·'            L ITORAL
                                                                           ,)



                                                                                                                                                      ·::•:•
                                                                                                                                                      ·"'   .~   ".i: • .,,




""···
        --··--- ...
                   )-··
                        ,                                                                                                  VALE DO
                                                                                                                              PARAiBA

                  !      II
                  I
                                                                                                                                       ... /""·-···'\..
SOROCADA

                  . ) a r·
                 /--··--'
                                                                                                                                               28           i...'-.,
             (                                                                        I
                                                                                                                            22                                t
                                                                                                                                          ..--··-, ____,...--··
             \

                 ···1
                          13
                                                                 . ·};J .
                                                     sou:z:;_~ffJY \,r-···
                                                                                                                 r ·-···-··:-···
                   \_·
                                                     35          --y. rGRE~TER SAO PAULO METROPOLITAN AREA
                                                                 .··                                    Sub-regions and Municipalities·
                                                             /                                              Schematic drawing-scale opproJ1imale

                                                     ..·/                                               ... - ••·-Regional Deportment boundaries
                                                                                                        --·--··Sub-region boundaries
                                                            LITORAL"                                    ---Municipal boundories
                                                                                                         ~Sao Paulo Center
                                                                                                                                    2 8 Salesopolis
                               CENTER                 Bltapevl                                        NORTHEAST                     29Suzano
                                 SCo PauloClty        9Jondira                                        19Aruja                        SOUTHEAST
                               NORTH                  IOOsasco                                        20Guarulhos                   30Dademo
                                ICaleiros             11 Piroporo do Born JcsUs                       21 Santoisobel                31Mauil
                               2 Francisco Moroto     12Sontano do Pornaibo                            EAST                         32Ri'belr0o Pires
                               ?i Franco da Roetta    SOUTHWEST                                       22Biritlba Miriam             33Rio Gtonde do Serra
                               4Malripora             13Colia                                         23Ferraz de Vasconcelos       34Santo Andre      •
                                                      14Embu                                          24Guararemo                   35500 Bernarda do Campo
                               NORTHWEST              15Embu Guo~u              •                     2s1taquoquecetubo             36Slto Caetano do Sul
                               5Boru~ri '
                                                      161tapecerico do Serro                          26Mojidaes Crutes
                               sCaJamor
                               7 r.nrnniculbo         !r~u,u~tib~      _                              27Po0
                                                                                                                                IBRO t:i887
                                                                                                                           :5EPl£M8Ell 197S
                                                                                               BRA!IL
                                                                         Soc Paulo Industrial p0 M ion Cantrel Project
                                                                         Behavior of W~ter Resc!Jfces to Pollution Loads
                                                                                     %~~-Pteien1$W:Jtion                    •
                                                                                     2000· Wilh blobQlc:crl sowage lteatmenl
                                                                                    '2000· With ad"f0!1ted 1ewa9e lreottt1ent
                                                                                     BOO - Bioch•cnical O•ygen Domand'
                                                                                      DO- Dissoiv~0111;1gen
                                                                                     --Rivon


                                       Y•"' aoo ..   /1   oo       11.
                                                          0.00
                                                           ~   .....



                                                                                                                          Sole1opolis
                                                                                                                                     0
      2000    40.ll
      2000    10.45




                                                                                                 •t
                                                                                                 ~ .
                                                                                                  ·
                                                                                                  ....



                                                                                                                          • ·.:·•',~~·~.I




10
      t
 lll.OMUCU
              "        "   "
                               197.S
                               l9BS
                               2000


                  10
     .MILfS
                           "
