Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11766-SL
PROJECT REDESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
MARCH 31, 1993
MAIN REPORT
AGRICULTURE OPERATIONS
WESTERN AFRICA DEPARTMENT
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
(October 1992)
Currency Unit             =                 Leone (Le)
Le 1.00                   =                 USSO.0019
USS 1.00                  =                 Leones 520
SDR 1.00                  =                 USS 0.71
uSS 1.00                  =                 SDR 1.40687
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric                                      BritishfUS
I kilogram  (kg)          =                 2.21 pounds
I metric ton( t)          =                 2,205 pounds
I hectare  (ha)           =                 2.47 acres
I meter   ( m)            =                 3.28 feet
I kilometer (kIm)         =                 0.625 miles
27 kilograms              =                 I bushel
Other
I bag of paddy rice       =                 50 kilogram
I bushel of paddy rice    =                 60 pounds
1 "three-pence pan'                         3 pounds
I bushel                                    3 'three pence pans'
I kerosene tin            =                0.5 bushels
FISCAL YEAR
July I - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AAGP                     Annual Agricultural Growth Plan
ACRE                     Adaptive Crop Research and Extension
ADB                      African Development Bank
ADP                      Agricultural Development Project
Al                        Agricultural Instructor
ASSP                      Agriculture Sector Support Project
BSL                      Bank of Sierra Leone
CA                        Chief Agriculturist
CAPI                      Committee on Agriculture Producer Incentives
CIF                       Cost, Insurance, Freight
CRO                       Chief Regional Officer
CSO                       Central Statistical Office
CTC                       Chief Technical Coordinator
CU                        Coordinating Comnittee
DAF                      Department of Agriculture and Forestry
DAFF                      Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries
DFDEP                    Departrnent of Finance, Development and Economic
Planning
DFD                       Development Finance Department
DFR                       Department of Feeder Roads
DG                        Director General
DOW                       Department of Works
EEC                       European Economic Community
EIADP                    Eastem Integrated Agricultural Development Project
FAO                      Food and Agricultural Organization
FC                        Financial Controller
FD                       Forestry Department
FOB                       Free on Board
GOSL                      Govemment of Sierra Leone
GTZ                       Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit (German
Technical Cooperation)
IADP                      Integrated Agricultural Development Project
ICPC                      Integrated Crop-Processing Center
IDA                      International Development Association
IFAD                      Intemational Fund for Agricultural
Development
ILO                      International Labour Organization
IMF                      Intemational Monetary Fund
IPAM                      Institute for Public Administration Management
LAWDD                     Land and Water Development Division
MAF                       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MANR                      Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources
MANR&F                    Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Forestry
MESD                      Monitoring, Evaluation and Statistics Division
MOW                      Ministry of Works
MPP                      Model Production Village
MTR                       Mid-Term Review
NARCC                     National Agricultural Research Coordinating Council
NARP                     National Agricultural Research Plan
NDB                       National Development Bank
NEC                      National Extension Coordinator
NGO                      Non-Govenmmental Organization
NIADP                    Northern Integrated Agricultural Development Project
NPRC                      National Provisional Ruling Council
NRC                      National Research Coordinator
NUC/CTC                  Njala University CoUege/Certificate Training Colege
OFAR                      On Farm Adaptive Research
This documenit has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS (contd.)
PAO                       Principal Agricultural Officer
PCR                       Project Completion Report
RIC                       Reconstruction Import Credit
RRRS                     Rokupr Rice Research Station
SAO                      Senior Agricultural Officer
SDR                      Special Drawing Right
SLPMB                    Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
SLRA                     Sierra Leone Roads Authority
SMP                      Seed Multiplication Project
SMS                      Subject Matter Specialist
TFAP                     Tropical Forestry Action Plan
UNDP                      United Nations Development Progran
UNV                       United Nations Volunteer
USAID                     United States Agency for International
Development
WFP                       World Food Program



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
PROJECT REDESIGN AND IMPLEMENTATION REPORT
Table of Contents
I. INTRODUCTION .......................................  1
I. MACRO ECONOMIC SETTING  . ...............................   2
III. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR ..................................  4
A. Overview .......................................  4
B. Sector Strategy and Performance  .                   ...........................                       7
C. Agricultural Potential ....................................  8
D.  Constraints to Higher Output  .                .............................                          9
E.  Donor Contribution   ....................................   20
F. NGOs ....................................... 21
G.  Bank Group Operations .              .................................    22
H. Short-Term  Options  ....................................   23
IV. THE REVISED PROJECT  ....................................  24
A. Project Objectives  .....................................    24
B. Summary Description .................................... 25
C.  Detailed Features .....................................    26
D. Project Costs and Financing  ............... ................   31
E.  Procurement ......................................                                                  33
F.  Disbursement  ......................................                                                34
G. Project and Special Accounts   .............. ................   35
H. Audit and Reporting  ....................................   35
I. Project Implementation .................................... 35
J.  Technical Assistance, Studies and Training   ......................   44
This report is based on the finding of a joint World Bank/IFAD reappraisl mission comprising Ms. Kirnn G. B. Singb (Mirsion Leader and
Economist), Mr. Shifenaw Demsie (Highuays Engineer), Mr. K.N. Sreekantiah (Agriculuist) and Mr. A Schiffman (IFAD consultant) tbat
visited Sierna Leone in AprilUMay 1991 and a minion by Ms. Singh in December 1991 during wich agreement was reached with the
Govnment of Sierm Leone on the new project design. The Government's agreement on the Amendments to the Development Credit
Agreement wa obtained by a mision comprising Ms. Singh and Mr. KG.. Awunyo (Lawyer) in )uy/August 1992. Mesr. John Joyce,
Sufwnda ApSAI. Gotz Scbreiber and Surjit Sigb have reviewed the redesign of the project, Messr. Asif Faiz, Thampil Panlij and AnD
Bblahi the new feeder reads compont, and Mesrs. Sakwe Bunyaui. Lewis Campbell, Tek Haile-Marism, Biwroop Rambocus and Shiv
Sinrg bve commented on other components and terms of reference. Ms. Olinda Vel reviewed te procurement arrugem    and togeher
with Mr. Sunil K. Bhattacbhary and Mr. R. Gopal;rishnan offered useful sugestionw. Mr. GbOzali Raheem and Ms. Marie Laoise Ab-Kee
advied on the technical aspects of the cost tables and Ms. Azn Ahmed and Ms. Qarmel McKer assisted vith the presentation aspcs and
screra support. Te report ha been cleared by the Regional Procurement Advisor, the Environmet Depatmet nd the Disburmements
Division. Mr. John Jyoye and Mr. Edwin Lim, respectively, are tie managing Division Cbief and Department Director repoible for ths
operation.



V. PROFITABILITY, ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS, BENEFITS AND RISKS    .... 46
A. Profitability .........................................  46
B. Environmental Factors  ..................................  50
C.  Benefits ............................................    51
D. Risks ..................................   51
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED  .................................   52
ANNEXES
Annex A - Matrix of Policy and Institutional Actions
Annex B - Letter of Sector Policy
Annex C - List of Input Stores, Feeder Roads, Rural Banks and Farmers' Associations
Annex D - Methodology for Pricing Inputs
Annex E - Crop-Processing Equipment - Capitalization Schedule and Sample
Agreement
Annex F - Implementation Timetable - Annual
Annex G - Summary Implementation Schedule - Monthly
Annex H - Terms of Reference
Annex I - Organization Chart for Project Implementation
Annex J - Summary Cost Tables
VOLUME 1I    Detailed Cost Tables



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.1   Since the late 1970s, Sierra Leone has endured severe economic hardship. During the five
year suspension in IDA disbursements, several attempts were made to improve economic
management. These attempts, however, proved to be futile because of the country's inability to
achieve fiscal and monetary discipline. The subsequent economic deterioration has had serious
consequences for per capita income and levels of nutrition. Over the eleven year period 1979-89, per
capita income is reported to be have declined from US$250 to US$240. In recent years, however, the
economic environment has improved considerably. The Government of Sierra Leone (GOSL) has
demonstrated serious commitment to maintaining a market-determined exchange rate and liberalized
trade regime, and to fostering competition in the marketing of rice, the primary staple, and coffee and
cocoa, the main export crops. With macro economic distortions greatly reduced, the policy
framework is now more conducive to economic efficiency and the country is better placed to resume
growth led by private sector investment and determined by market forces. The prospects for
economic recovery are strong provided complementary progress is made in reducing sector distortions
and strengthening sector institutions and infrastructure. Recovery may be slowed by security
concerns in the eastern and southern regions along the border with Liberia and the continued caution
displayed by the private sector in undertaking new investment.
1.2    On April 15, 1992, Sierra Leone was restored to accrual status after almost five years of
suspension of disbursements imposed on August 15, 1987. The Agriculture Sector Support Project
(ASSP), appraised in June 1983, became effective in December 1984. The amount of the Credit was
SDR 25.6 million, with SDR 20.3 million financed by IDA and SDR 5.1 million cofinanced by
IFAD. 1/ The primary objectives of the ASSP were institutional reforms in the then Ministry of
Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) recently renamed the Department of Agriculture and Forestry
(DAF). Besides seeking the integration into the MAF of staff and activities that had earlier been
associated with Integrated Agricultural Development Projects (lADPs), the project provided funds for
the import of key sector inputs, investments in tree crops, swamp development and the Daru (Palm)
Oil Mill, extension of the IFAD-funded Magbosi project, and additional sub-projects that were to be
subsequently identified. It also initiated the development of a rural banking system, action to phase
out the fertilizer subsidy and reduce over staffing and daily wage expenditures in the MAF. 2/
These objectives were at the time considered to be the most urgent. Implementation of the ASSP was
interrupted in May 1987 by the suspension of disbursements by IDA and also by cofinancier IFAD.
During ASSP's brief implementation, the Development Credit Agreement was amended once, in
1986, and later that year a Mid-Term Review of the project was undertaken. 31 As disbursements
1/    IDA Credit No. 1501-SL and IFAD Loan No. 152-SL.
2/    Sierra Leone. Agriculture Sector Support Project, Staff Appraisal Report No. 4833-SL
dated May 25, 1984.
3/    Amendment to the Development Credit Agreement dated June 16, 1986 sought a
change for the percentage of expenditures to be financed under Category (2) Schedule
1, that is, vehicles and equipment, from " 100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80
percent of local expenditures" to " 100 percent."



- 2 -
to the ASSP resume, the total undisbursed balances in the project SDR 13.9 million for IDA and SDR
3.6 million for IFAD. On account of retrospective disbursements by IFAD, the amount of its
cofinancing would be reduced to SDR 2.1 million.
1.3   Since the ASSP was first appraised, two contrasting, but significant developments have taken
place, namely, the positive change in the macro economic environment and progressive deterioration
of sector institutions and infrastructure. Three additional factors have necessitated a reordering of the
development objectives of the ASSP: a stronger Bank policy toward competitive free market pricing
and full cost recovery, more formal demarcation of the roles of the private and public sectors, and a
shift from the IADP approach toward focussed and simple projects which are cost-effective and which
can be sustained. Given the serious economic management and budgetary problems experienced by
Sierra Leone in the past, the overriding concern now is to ensure that, within the liberalized macro
economic environment, transparency and the efficiency of resource use govern resource allocation.
1.4    While it would take far more than the limited undisbursed balance in the ASSP to achieve full
sector recovery and high growth, the project will make a modest start by helping to address the
immediate priority needs of the sector. Through the fuller use of existing technology, increased
availability of essential inputs and crop-processing equipment, and rehabilitation of critical feeder
roads, the revised ASSP would promote an enabling environment for increases in marketed output and
incomes in the near term. Production and marketing decisions would be taken entirely by the private
sector and close attention would be paid to reducing economic distortions and fostering a competitive
environment based on market efficiency.
II. MACRO ECONOMIC SETTING
2.1    With an area of 72,000 square kilometers and a population of 4 million growing at about 2.5
percent per annum, Sierra Leone is bordered on the north north-west and north-east by Guinea and on
the south-east by Liberia. The country is well endowed with mineral resources such as diamonds,
bauxite and rutile, resources for marine fishing, and soils and climate favourable for food and cash
crop cultivation. The economy is highly dualistic with an enclave modem mining sector that
accounts for about 10 percent of GDP and 60-70 percent of export earnings, and the agriculture
sector, predominantly traditional and employer of about 65 percent of the population, that accounts
for about 30 percent of GDP and 30 to 40 percent of export earnings.
2.2    Prolonged Economic Decline. After exactly three decades of independence, much of Sierra
Leone's economic potential remains untapped. Its exploitation so far, largely unplanned and poorly
managed, has contributed to the widening of income inequalities with few economic and nutritional
benefits for the majority of the nation's inhabitants. In 1979, compared to the nation-wide average of
US$250 per capita, the average levels of rural per capita incomes ranged between US$100-200 and
are now reported to have declined further to the absolute poverty level of US$75. Real GDP growth
which averaged almost five percent in the first decade after independence in 1961 has been unmatched
since. During this initial period, successful diamond mining had provided substantial foreign
exchange and budgetary revenues. With the passage of the 1970s, however, as alluvial mineral
deposits became rapidly depleted and the country's only iron-ore mine at Marampa closed, economic
growth slowed considerably. By 1978, overall mineral production had declined by more than 70
percent in real terms and diamond production had fallen to one-third of the 1970 level. Population
growth continued to grow at over two percent per annum while real GDP averaged only one percent
per year. This had dire consequences for standards of living which were already low. Meanwhile,



- 3 -
exogenous factors, too, had begun to surface in the form of weakened export prices for primary
export commodities, the peak levels of which began to level off in 1978, and in the major oil price
shocks of the 1970s. As recession deepened in the developed economies, starting around 1973,
bilateral concessionary assistance showed signs of contraction. The economy, and the government
budget in particular, was unable to come to grips with the decline in mineral output, exports and
foreign aid. To counter shrinking per capita incomes, and reduced resource flows and budgetary
revenues, the Governrment resorted to expansionary fiscal and monetary policies without adequate
safeguards to contain inflation. Most damaging was the lack of expenditure control in the face of
sharply declining net revenue.
2.3   From 1975 onwards, the pressure on both the budget deficit and the balance of payments
heightened as did domestic inflationary pressure. Deficit financing on a substantial scale and heavy
reliance on external borrowing at high rates of interest became the norm. The country's dependance
on suppliers' credit increased and the debt service burden assumed serious proportions. By the late
1970s, the prospects for growth, particularly in the short-term, had become exceedingly slim. The
debt service ratio which had then reached 30 percent surpassed itself subsequently touching 94.9
percent (including IMF and excluding arrears) in 1987/88. Sierra Leone's creditworthiness had
become seriously eroded. With no comprehensive policy agenda to stem the sharp financial and
economic decline, the economy, entangled in a highly overvalued exchange rate and economic
distortions continued to forfeit economic efficiency and growth. The government's inability to
maintain the agreed to fiscal and monetary targets led to the suspension in March 1987 of the IMF
stand-by arrangement of November 1986 and, with it, the Structural Adjustment Facility which had
supplemented the stand-by.
2.4   Stabilization. The downward spiral caused by mounting payments arrears and macro
economic imbalances continued in varying degree of severity until about three years ago when the
Government implemented a series of far-reaching macro economic reforms. _/ Most prominent
among these were the introduction of a market-determined exchange rate in April 1990 and external
trade liberalization. Other important reforms included the privatization of coffee and cocoa
marketing, and of the import of rice, both of which had been a monopoly of the Sierra Leone
Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB), the dismantling of price and licensing controls, progress toward
clearing arrears, and greater discipline in budgetary expenditures complemented by improved
monetary management. _/ Over the four year period 1986/87 through 1990/91, average annual real
GDP growth is estimated to have grown at about 2.8 percent. This was accompanied by a more than
five-fold devaluation of the Leone from Le 34.92 to the US dollar to Le 197.85, a decrease in
domestic inflation from 220 percent to 96.1 percent, a fall in the debt service ratio (inclusive of the
IMF and exclusive of arrears) from 79.5 percent to 54.1 percent, and an increase in official foreign
exchange reserves from 0.1 to 0.5 as measured in the equivalent of months imports. §/7/
4/    Prior to 1989, the Government's attempts at economic reform were inadequate and
lacked serious commitment.
5/    See Country Strategy Note, World Bank, March 1992.
See Macroeconomic Framework, World Bank, March 1992.



-4 -
2.5    Adjustment Continued. With good progress on the structural adjustment reforms implemented
so far, Sierra Leone's prospects for renewed economic growth appear encouraging except for the
continued threat of economic disruption along the border with Liberia and its consequent adverse
impact in the country's prime coffee and cocoa growing areas. The adjustment programme,
monitored by the IMF, is being supported by quick disbursing assistance from the Bank through the
Reconstruction Import Credit (RIC) in the amount of US$43.4 million. This is being accompanied by
a resumption of project lending by IDA and, it is envisaged, also by larger donor support. Macro
economic projections point to a growth in real GDP of about 4.6 percent per annum between 1991/92
and 1993/94, average annual increases in public and private investment of the orders of 13.3 and 19.3
percent respectively, and a decline in payments arrears from US$200.8 million in 1991/92 to a
surplus of US$11.9 million by 1993/94.
III. THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
A. Overview
3.1    Soils and Climate. Sierra Leone has soils and climate conducive to sustained agricultural
output and higher farm incomes. Topography and precipitation vary considerably. There are four
distinct agro-climatic zones: the coastal plains, the rain forest, the transitional rain forest, and the
savannah woodlands. Levels of precipitation decrease from an average of 5,500 mm in the Freetown
Peninsula to about 2,000 mm along the northern frontier. Mean monthly temperatures range from
30-40 degrees in the coastal areas to 34-36 degrees inland. About 75 percent or 5.4 million ha of
Sierra Leone's geographical area is arable. Of this, spread across the country, 80 percent comprises
the relatively less fertile uplands and 20 percent fertile swamps. In the eastern and southern parts of
the country, the rainfall, climate and soils favour the cultivation of coffee, cocoa, rubber and oil
palm; and in the north, the long dry season and the practice of shifting cultivation are more conducive
to the cultivation of grains, legumes and vegetables. Other important crops are tobacco and sugar the
cultivation of which is undertaken through smallholder and outgrower schemes.
3.2   Incentives. Until recently, the policy framework, tolerant of a highly overvalued currency
and trade protection, did little to promote economic efficiency. Efforts are now being made to rectify
this situation at the sector level. In the case of coffee and cocoa, producer prices linked to the
respective FOB price have theoretically been in force for more than two years, but these have not
been realized because of the security disruption in coffee and cocoa growing areas and the aggravation
of SLPMB's financial viability already compromised by over staffing and high overhead costs. In the
initial period of adjustment, following realignment of the exchange rate, output is, however, reported
to have recovered mainly through better tree husbandry and farm practices. This notwithstanding,
technical and economic efficiency in the coffee and cocoa sub-sector remains low. The same may be
said of the rice sub-sector where, historically, technical and economic inefficiency have been major
factors in its poor performance. High protection, through quantitative import restrictions, had
sheltered the domestic rice producer from foreign competition. With no urgency, therefore, on the
7/     Between 1985 and February 1991, while the nominal effective exchange rate index
fell by 97.9 percent, the real effective exchange rate index declined by only 56.5
percent. Source: IMF, Department of External Trade Relations.



- 5 -
part of farmers to improve productivity, the sector lagged well behind its potential. 8/ Trade
liberalization has, for the first time, placed domestic rice producers in competition with international
producers. This is clearly in the interest of economic efficiency and will call for large efficiency
gains from those rice ecologies in Sierra Leone which can potentially compete on the world market.
These gains will inevitably take time to materialize and will require concerted policy action and
institutional support. In particular, sub-sector policy will need to eliminate economic distortions
arising from three sources: (i) the protection to the consumer, and the exception to trade
liberalization, from the waiver of the 10 percent import tariff on rice (lifting the waiver is a condition
of Third Tranche Release); (ii) the large rice consumer subsidy to the security forces; and (iii) any
food aid that is not fully monetized.
3.3    Over the years, no sustainable productivity and output increases have resulted from the
considerable protection afforded to the sub-sector by a sector policy based, not only on quantitative
import restrictions, but on parastatal domination and input and credit subsidies. Instead, since
independence, the level of rice imports has progressively risen - the 1991 estimate of 150,000 tons,
about 30 percent of total consumption requirements and is double the average of the years 1987
through 1991. If rice imports under PL480, under refugee support programmes and under war effort
assistance from bilateral governments are included, the quantity of rice imported in 1991 is reported
at 1.1 million tons. 2/10/ An exception was the year 1975 when no rice was imported. This
was not a sign of self-sufficiency as has sometimes been argued but, reportedly, an inaccurate
assessment of rice stocks and availability in the preceding year. 11/ A sharp increase in the
international price of rice, triggered by a world wide crop failure, and anticipation of further price
increases, had led to the import by Sierra Leone of large quantities of rice - 45,000 tons at Le 390
per ton, that is, at almost three times the 1973 price. Meanwhile, in response to higher prices,
demand, as was to be expected, fell sharply. It was more the apparent surplus stock situation and
depressed demand rather than increased production or productivity which created the perception, in
1975, of Sierra Leone's self-sufficiency in rice.
8/     The doubling of output which occurred between 1961 and about the mid 1970s was
due almost entirely to area expansion and little, if any, to efficiency and yield
increase.
9/     The economic decline has led to significant reductions in levels of real income and
nutrition. Per capita consumption of rice has fallen by 25 percent to less than 100 kg
per capita. This is much lower than the per capita consumption of rice in
neighbouring countries where the average is around 135 kg per capita - in
Madagascar, as far back as 1984, the per capita consumption of rice was 175 kg in
urban areas and 142 kg in rural areas.
10/    The prospects for the food situation in 1992 are bleak given the poor harvest and
Sierra Leone's reduced capacity to finance imports because of foreign exchange
difficulties. It is not likely at this point that the situation will improve measurably in
1993.
11/    The lack of a strong data base for rice production and stocks made it difficult for
SLPMB to conduct its rice operations in a logistically sound manner.



- 6 -
3.4   Institutional Capacity. The key institution for providing agricultural support services to
farmers is the Department of Agriculture and Forestry (DAF) which, until recently, was called the
Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF); for many years prior to this, it was
known as the Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and Forestry (MANR&F). The national
agricultural research and training institutes, as well as the National Research Coordinating Council
(NARCC), are an integral part of the DAF. The Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB),
the predominant parastatal in the agriculture sector, however, is institutionally under the purview of
the Ministry of Trade. Several core professional staff in the agriculture sector institutions are
technically well-trained and experienced, many of them having held responsibility or having had close
association with either Bank-funded IADPs or other donor-funded agricultural development projects
(ADPs). Over the years, the rest of the staff have benefitted in some degree from training
programmes, in spite of these having been poorly funded, but do now require refresher and advanced
training. At present, the main problem in sector institutions is weak planning capacity, poor staff
morale on account of abysmally low salaries, and a dearth of budgetary funds for items other than
wages and salaries. Lack of financial and logistical support has severely curtailed even the most
critical field operations of extension staff and, at research and training institutes, poor laboratory and
classroom facilities have brought training programmes to a near stand-still.
3.5    Planning capacity at DAF Headquarters has remained weak, especially with regard to policy
and strategy formulation. This has proved to be a major setback for strengthening the quality of basic
agricultural support services, designed to assist farmers to upgrade their technology, such as
extension, research, and monitoring and evaluation. In the past, DAF was also faced with unclear
demarcation of responsibility and terms of reference for senior DAF staff that led to further
bureaucratic inefficiencies. The terms of reference for individual DAF divisions and units are
becoming increasingly outdated as its institutional role evolves toward providing greater focus on
providing basic agricultural support services and away from direct involvement in production and
marketing. With the revision in the terms of reference of DAF, instances of DAF involvement in
commercial activity, more appropriate for the private sector, would have little rationale. Recent
examples of such involvement, now appropriately being dealt with, include contractual agreements by
the Forestry Department with the private sector tobacco company to plant fuel wood trees for tobacco
curing and the surveillance by the Fisheries Department of Sierra Leone's territorial waters for fishing
violations. In the case of the former, the agreement has been declared null and void, and in the case
of fishing, the Government is in the process of renegotiating a joint venture agreement with a private
company for professional surveillance and a new Department of Marine Fishing has been established
to handle the management of the commercial fisheries sub-sector.
3.6    As regards SLPMB, until the recent suspension of its operations stemming from Government
investigations into its management, steps had been underway to restructure and streamline the
parastatal. In the past, the SLPMB had not only dominated the export of coffee and cocoa and the
import of rice but also engaged in their production and processing. Under the adjustment reforms, its
role in price-fixing, and as the sole marketeer of coffee, cocoa and rice, had been relinquished. The
overriding objective, if and when the suspension on SLPMB operations is lifted, is to enable it to
compete effectively with the private sector in the marketing of coffee and cocoa - its operations in rice
would be limited to the procurement of rice for the security force and for essential public health and
education institutions. Once the private sector becomes firmly established in the internal and external
marketing of coffee and cocoa, it is envisaged that SLPMB's role would be further narrowed and
confined to providing good inspection and quality control for Sierra Leone's agricultural exports. In
the meantime, to strengthen its competitive stance, it would be in the interest of SLPMB to hasten the
divestiture of its food and tree crop plantations, and processing and storage capacity, rather than



- 7 -
looking to their expansion. 12/ In the case of the DAF agricultural plantations and estates, efforts
would be made by it to divest these or arrange for their professional management.
3.7   Institutional reforms were the predominant objective of the original ASSP. The initial
problems encountered in the implementation of these reforms have largely been resolved. One major
problem concerned the integration of the IADPs into the line ministry and the reported conflicts
between staff who had been affiliated with IADPs and received better remuneration and training, and
their colleagues who, having remained in the Ministry, had not so benefitted. Through appropriate
training and personnel policies, these conflicts have been successfully dealt with. The DAF has also
suffered in the past from weak demarcation of areas of responsibility and personality clashes at
decision-making levels. This problem, too, is being given priority attention in the context of the
newly designed ASSP. As regards, overall institutional reform, while some organizational
streamlining is necessary, no major overhaul of the DAF's organizational structure is necessary at this
juncture. In fact the streamlining would help to consolidate the reforms that were initiated under the
original ASSP.
3.8   Infrastructure. Since feeder roads were built in Sierra Leone, lack of funding for maintenance
has been a serious problem. The Ministry of Works (MOW), recently renamed the Department of
Works (DOW), constrained by budgetary resources, has been unable to provide the necessary
maintenance funds not only when the roads were first built but well before GOSL's financial situation
assumed the serious proportions that it did. As has been the case with the civil service at large, poor
funding has weakened performance of the sizeable staff in the DOW most of whom are poorly
remunerated and motivated. As of the beginning of this year, the responsibility for roads, including
feeder roads, has been transferred from the DOW to the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) -
feeder roads would be the responsibility of the Department of Feeder Roads within the SLRA.
Meanwhile, the private sector's capacity for road rehabilitation is inadequate, although some
capability exists with it for carrying out feasibility studies and engineering design. There has been
little tradition and precedent in Sierra Leone for the upkeep of the road network. Almost all of the
1,900 mile feeder road network was constructed during the 1970s with substantial donor funding.
Geographically, 75 percent of the feeder road network was concentrated in the southern and eastern
regions of the country with the primary aim of enabling the evacuation of coffee and cocoa the
production of which was then aggressively being pursued. Construction of the feeder road network
was not as well-planned as it might have been since the location of the feeder roads was a part of the
design of larger multi-purpose and complex agricultural development projects. Nevertheless, the
development of crop extraction roads/tracks did much to open up agriculturally productive areas and
spread awareness of the advantages to farmers of improved technology. This is no longer the case.
The dilapidated state of the network has isolated many areas of rich agricultural potential and has
become a serious setback to increases in marketed output.
B. Sector Strategy and Performance
3.9    The Government's sector objectives, as stated in the First National Development Plan,
1974/75-78/79, and reiterated in the draft National Development Plan of 1983/84-85/86 and the three
year Green Revolution Plan, remain in full force. These objectives are: (i) higher agricultural
12/   The SLPMB, prior to the on-going investigation of its activities, had prepared a
US$25 million Agricultural Development Plan for which it had actively sought donor
funding.



- 8 -
productivity; (ii) self-sufficiency in staples and other products; (iii) diversified production; (iv)
increased incomes and standards of living; (v) maximization of foreign exchange through export
promotion and import substitution; (vi) increased rural employment; and (vii) improved nutrition and
soil fertility. 11/ Over the years, for the most part, the sector has performed at well below its
potential. In the first half of the 1970s, agricultural growth averaged about 1.1 percent per year in
real terms; this was followed in the second half by about by 2.2 percent per year on average. It is
estimated that during the 1980s, agricultural production declined by 3.7 percent per year. This
progressive decline has had serious consequences for rural per capita incomes which, even in 1979,
were far below the national average. As much as 65 percent of the rural population (or about 49
percent of the total population) is reported, at that time, to have existed below the absolute poverty
level of US$75. Since then, levels of real income and nutrition have fallen sharply. The index of
inflation-adjusted average farm incomes, with 1973/74 as base year, had dropped to 85 by 1985/86,
20 percent lower than 103 in 1963/64. In 1987, Sierra Leone ranked 29 in the index of human
suffering, a statistical measurement of differences in living conditions between countries - with an
index of 76, the country was classified in the "extreme human suffering" group of countries. 14/
3.10   Agricultural performance, disappointing as it turned out, had done little to further the
objectives in the sector. The futility of pursuing the Plan objectives within a distorted macro and
sector framework, circumscribed by a grossly overvalued exchange rate, was not recognized until
recently. The result of the distorted agricultural trade and price policy was a moving away from,
rather than closer to, each of the Government's objectives. Thus, firs, agricultural productivity
remains at more or less subsistence levels; second, in spite of considerable trade and price protection,
rice imports have increased more than six fold from Le 496.3 million in 1986 to over Le 3,000
million by the start of the new decade of the nineties, leaving the self-sufficiency objective un-attained
and aggravating the already serious malnutrition; third, even with some extent of built-in crop
diversification and food security in the subsistence farming systems that currently prevail,
diversification has not developed to the degree where substitution in production and consumption can,
with relative ease, respond to market signals; and finally, in terms of the sector's contribution to
foreign exchange earnings, the export of coffee and cocoa declined by 40 percent and 5 percent,
respectively, between 1979/80 and 1980/81. Subsequently, SLPMB's average procurement for 1983-
86, totalling 5,912 tons of coffee and 9,381 tons of cocoa, is estimated for the first nine months of
the financial year 1990/91 to have fallen to 3,600 tons and 5,500 tons, respectively - for cocoa, this
export figure points to a drastic decline (in fact, a halving), from a peak of 11,364 tons in 1984.
C. Agricultural Potential
3.11   With its rich agricultural resource base, Sierra Leone has good potential for providing
sustained increases in employment, rural incomes and food to a rapidly growing population and strong
support to foreign exchange earnings. However, after two decades of external assistance, Sierra
13/    At the time, the IADPs were considered by the authorities as the primary vehicle for
achieving the objectives. This view was supported by the Bank and the donor
community at large.
14/   The International Human Suffering Index, published in 1987 by a United States-based
NGO. Heading the world listing was Mozamnbique with an index of 95 - comparable
indices for selected West African countries were: Ghana 87, Nigeria 80 and Liberia
71. For Cote d'lvoire and Guinea the indices were 73 and 82, respectively.



- 9 -
Leone's agriculture is characterized by low yields and productivity. Farming is primarily rain-fed
with little use of fertilizer. 15/ Losses before and after harvest are significant and can exceed 35
percent. About 40 percent of agricultural production is marketed which from all indications is
reported now to have been further reduced. Approximately 40 percent of the rural economy is
monetized, that too, primarily on account of the export crop sub-sector that is concentrated in the
southern and eastern parts of the country. Rice, the primary and preferred staple, is central to Sierra
Leone's economy and integral to the economic and social order within the rural economy. The rice
sub-sector is highly sensitive to movements in the exchange rate and has strong balance of payments
implications. Generally accepted as a medium of exchange, rice drives the barter economy and is
often used to procure coffee and cocoa, hire labour, and purchase farm inputs and wage goods.
Technical packages for substantially higher yields are available for rice and other food and cash crops
but few subsistence farmers are able to adopt these and sustain their use because of their poor cash
flow and an agricultural extension service that needs to be revived.
3.12    So far, a mere one-fifth of close to 2 million hectares favourable for rice, and less than 50
percent of the area suitable for coffee and cocoa, has been cultivated. Yet to be exploited, by rice
ecology, is 65 percent of upland rice, 85 percent of inland valley swamps (IVS), over 90 percent of
riverain grasslands, over 95 percent of mangrove swamps, and about 97 percent of the bolilands.
While yields vary by ecological zone, and within each zone, the average yield per hectare under
subsistence cultivation on upland farms is about 700 kg compared to over 1100 kg which could be
attained with available improved technical packages, and on the swamps 1500 kg compared to about
2100 kg. Cassava, a substitute for rice, is a good 'insurance' crop that can be stored in the ground,
unharvested, for at least two years; its yield under improved technology can increase more than three-
fold from the average traditional yield of three tons per hectare. In the case of sweet potato, fast
gaining in popularity, a three-fold increase in yield over the average traditional yield of two tons per
hectare is attainable under recommended farm practices. The yield of groundnut, also a rice
substitute (though to a lesser extent than cassava), can increase at least three-fold from an average
traditional yield of about 400 kg per hectare (shelled) and, for cow pea, as much as ten-fold from its
traditional average of 100 kg per hectare. In the case of tree crops, the average traditional yield for
coffee of about 200 kg per hectare can be more than doubled to about 500 kg, and for cocoa, the
traditional yield of about 200 kg per hectare can increase almost four-fold to as much as 1000 kg.
The area under (naturally-growing) mangrove palm, the oil of which is preferred for cooking ethnic
food, is not known, but there is general recognition that its yield and quality are rapidly deteriorating,
and that there is a need, therefore, for cultivated oil palm. The present yield of about two tons fresh
fruit bunch (FFB) for cultivated oil palm can, with improved practices, be increased to almost four
tons per hectare. Tapping this agronomic potential through the use of improved seed and adoption of
better farm practices can double the output of rice, coffee and cocoa.
D. Constraints to Higher Output
3.13   Prior to the adjustment reforms, weak agricultural performance was attributed mainly to the
overvalued exchange rate, distortions in macro economic and sector policy and weak planning and
implementation capacity. While macro economic management has improved considerably in recent
years, planning and implementation capacity continue to be weak overall and at the sector levels.
15/   Under donor-funded projects, however, cultivation is based on high input/high output
technology requiring high management intensity, heavy operational costs and input
and credit subsidies.



- 10 -
Years of progressive economic decline have culminated in a vehement surfacing of the agriculture
sector's incentive, institutional and infrastructure constraints as strong impediments to an early and
sustainable supply response. To indicate areas in urgent need of funding which can offer the best
hope for short term impact, which can also serve as a basis for further building and consolidation,
and which can be assisted through the remaining funds in the ASSP, briefly assessed below are the
constraints to the realization of Sierra Leone's considerable agricultural potential. Given their macro
economic implications, where appropriate, coffee, cocoa and rice will be singled out for discussion.
3.14   Both price and non-price factors mitigate against the substantial increases in marketed
production attainable in the short-run. Intensive and extensive cultivation are both possible but each
at high cost relative to financial returns at current input/output coefficients. The cost of production
associated with improved technology is beyond the means of the subsistence farm household. 16/
At the farm level, the unremunerative farm-gate price of rice, inadequate and irregular extension
advice and weak links with research, the scarcity and high cost of labour, insecurity of tenure, and a
technological base rendered increasingly outdated by the labour shortage, are strong impediments to
crop development, especially in the swamps. 17/18/ Ex-farm gate, the main disincentives to
the uptake of improved technology are difficult access to credit, high rates of interest (which have
recently become positive), shortages of essential inputs and agro-processing facilities, and a collapsed
rural road network. Of these constraints, singled out for discussion are: (i) the price incentive; (ii)
technology transfer and weak links with research; (iii) farm inputs and agro-processing facilities; and
(iv) feeder roads. All of these constraints, in contrast with the other more long term issues which are
outside the purview of the ASSP, lend themselves to some solution for easing the production,
marketing and nutrition constraints in the short-term.
(i) Price Incentive
3.15   Weak producer prices have constituted a major obstacle to increases in the output of coffee,
cocoa and rice. 19/ Until the adjustment reform process was initiated, the SLPMB was
responsible for setting prices for coffee and cocoa, and influencing the price of rice. For coffee and
16/   This can average seven members: the farmer, one or more wives, children and some
close relatives. In spite of the size, essential operations on the upland and swamp
farm are tedious enough to fully occupy the family labour for the greater part of the
year for both food and cash crop cultivation.
17/    Except in Freetown and surrounding areas, land is held by tribal communities and
Chiefdoms and is granted by the Paramount Chief to village farmers under usufruct.
.1/    In inland valley swamps, there is the added problem posed by the threat of bilharzia
which has proved to be a real health hazard.
12/    According to the Bank's Mid-Term Review, dated January 1987, "the primary
constraint to increased (rice) production has been low producer prices." Sierra
Leone's experience in coffee, cocoa and rice has confirmed the finding elsewhere that
while any cost reductions from input and credit subsidies were considered by the
farmer to be important, it was the price incentive (farmgate price) that turned out to
be the stronger determinant for higher production.



- 11 -
cocoa, the parastatal had established producer prices at about 30 percent below border bench marks;
and for rice, long relied upon to achieve food self-sufficiency, the SLPMB had indirectly influenced
the retail price through manipulating rice imports and setting the wholesale price. Price determination
for each of the crops was based upon the inefficient cost-plus pricing approach. In each instance, it
appeared that a comfortable margin for the SLPMB was of foremost consideration and it is this which
appeared to have taken precedence over the need to provide an adequate and remunerative producer
price to the farmer. While, all three crops enjoyed protection through credit and input subsidies,
rice, in addition, received trade protection through quantitative import restrictions, and coffee and
cocoa were penalized by a grossly overvalued exchange rate. Coffee and cocoa were further
discriminated against through an export tax of 35-40 percent for coffee and 35 percent for cocoa.
The distorted agricultural policy was ultimately to take its toll on production, the balance of
payments, the exchequer, and overall economic growth.
3.16   Both the wholesale and retail price of rice are now market determined. However, the market
itself, imperfect and encouraging of high trading margins, is such that consumer welfare is becoming
increasingly compromised and the welfare of the producer almost totally ignored. At appraisal in
May 1991, while the farmgate price of rice averaged about 33 percent of the import parity price, the
retail price of imported rice was at least five times higher at Le 4,500 per bag and that of
domestically produced rice, which enjoys a premium due to taste preference and quality, seven times
higher at Le 6,500 per bag. In December 1991, the retail price had more than doubled to over Le
10,000 but the farmgate price had remained unchanged. Some price increase was inevitable due to
the adjustment reforms, but with trade liberalization and a world market price much lowered due to
technological progress in yields, retail price increases of these orders appear excessive. 2Q/ D1/
The high margins could be justified, in some part, by the poor state of roads, rising cost of fuel and
spare parts, and the entrepreneurial risk involved in doing business in an economic environment that
is yet to stabilize. However, these high margins are also the result of oligopolistic pricing given that
a handful of private traders dominates rice import. Unlike past policy regimes which endorsed
consumer subsidies there is now no direct consumer subsidy on rice. Yet, economic distortions
presently do exist through the protection afforded to the consumer by the waiver of the 10 percent
import tariff on rice as well as the substantial direct consumer subsidy on rice for the security force;
the cost of this latter subsidy to the government budget amounted to Le 100 million for 25,655 bags
procured in April 1991 alone and the burden is estimated to have risen significantly since.
3.17   Policy distortions within the rice sub-sector have become aggravated with the institution of the
Government's Public Emergency Measures, 1992. While these measures have not been directly
resorted to, they have had an indirect influence at containing the retail price of rice to Le 8200 per
20/   A temporary price increase, forecast in the Bank's commodity price forecasts of July
29, 1991 compared to those of March 13, 1991, was attributed to strong demand
resulting from the Middle East war and also from Eastern Europe. The latest price
forecasts dated February 10, 1993 project a negligible short-lived recovery in 1994
and a significant decline, in real terms, through 2005.
21/   Until a realignment of the exchange rate, the retail price was also influenced upward
by the artificial shortage of rice created in Sierra Leone from the considerable illegal
cross-border trade with Guinea.



- 12 -
bag. 22/ In addition to providing protection to the consumer, these measures have dampened
incentives to rice importers and traders by limiting their trading margin to Le 400 per bag. The
impact on the farmgate price of rice has been adverse and the situation with respect to producer
incentives in the face of expanding demand from a rapidly growing population has become serious.
3.18   In the short-term, given the scarcity of foreign exchange (exacerbated by the loss in export
earnings from coffee and cocoa due to economic disruption in tree crop growing regions bordering
Liberia), there is a limit to the amount of rice consumption requirements which can be met through
imports, even with current levels of per capita consumption on the low side. 23/ 24/ There is
also a limit to the amount of food aid which can be expected beyond that necessitated by emergency
circumstances. There are, thus, within the time-frame of the short-run, few viable options other than
to encourage marketed output from domestic production by encouraging fuller use of existing
improved technology. In recent years, the farm-gate price of paddy has averaged less than 50 percent
of the retail price and only about 33 percent of the border equivalent. 25/ With the institution by
the new regime of various food control measures, the producer price incentive remains
unremunerative and insufficient to enable the smaliholder to produce meaningful surpluses for the
market. The cost of land preparation and cultivation is substantial especially in the swamp rice
ecologies where considerable untapped potential is known to exist and in some of which Sierra Leone
could develop strong comparative advantage. Furthermore, with devaluation and high trading
22/   The NPRC Government has instituted a number of 'food control' measures through
Decrees 9 and 10 of its Public Emergency Regulations which sanction power to
suspend market forces in the requisition, distribution, storage, transport and pricing of
food items.
231/   The decline in agricultural production in the coffee and cocoa growing areas bordering
Liberia has been steep, although the extent of decline is difficult to ascertain. Official
estimates, placing the fall in cocoa and coffee export volume in 1991/92 at over 65
percent and 35 percent, respectively, appear to be optimistic; rice production is
estimated to have fallen by more than 40 percent. The decline in real terms in the
international price of coffee and cocoa, experienced during the 1980s, has continued
through 1992 and has further aggravated the adverse impact on coffee and cocoa
export earnings.
24/   The food situation is reported to have deteriorated in 1992 because of below normal
plantings of cereal crops on account of the civil strife and shortages of seed and
farming implements. Estimates of the numbers of persons internally displaced
because of civil strife are placed at 257,000 and an additional 255,000 are reported to
have sought refuge in Liberia and Guinea. The index of 1992 import requirements as
a percent of normal requirements is projected at 160 compared to 86 in 1991 and the
1992 food aid requirements as a percent of normal requirements is projected to be as
high as 850. See FAO Special Report on the Food Supply Situation and Crop
Prospects in Sub-Saharan Africa, No. 4, December 1992.
25/   Prior to the suspension of disbursements, the Bank had recommended substantial
increases in the farmgate price of rice. This was at a time when input and credit
subsidies were still in force, the exchange rate grossly overvalued and the
infrastructure constraint less severe.



- 13 -
margins, the prices for imported inputs have escalated sharply and are beyond the financial reach of
the subsistence farmer. The dismantling of producer price support, and input and credit subsidies,
typical of the earlier policy regimes, and to which rice output had been responsive, albeit through
acreage rather than yield increases, has resulted in a serious squeeze on the farmer's cash flow and
perpetuated his inability to undertake necessary farm investments. 26/ Beyond the short-term, this
situation is expected to improve as entry by the private sector in the procurement and marketing of
essential farm inputs increases and a competitive environment emerges. However, for increased
private sector investment in agricultural production and marketing, two preconditions, besides
economic stability, are necessary: (i) sound investment proposals with high economic justification and
(ii) a fully functioning and effective commercial banking network willing to finance such agricultural
investments.
3.19   The producer prices for food crops other than rice are also purported to be market determined
and in the case of cash crops, the situation varies. For offee and cocoa, under the adjustment reform
programme, the SLPMB had agreed to ensure that the producer price for each crop would not fall
below the level of 60 percent of the FOB price. 27/ However, the SLPMB has found it difficult
to fulfill this requirement. Even though its monopoly in the internal marketing and export of both
crops has been relinquished, because of its high overhead costs, the SLPMB has found it increasingly
difficult to withstand the stiff price competition from private buying agents. In the case of tobacco,
the producer price is arrived at through bargaining by the tobacco company with its contract farmers.
In practice, however, the tobacco company is in a strong position to exercise monopsonistic power
and does eventually exercise this prerogative. An important crop for subsistence producers, and the
second largest single source of excise revenue, tobacco had till very recently received heavy trade
protection through an import ban on cigarettes. 28/ Production, carried out by contract farmers,
remains highly input and management intensive, and input subsidies feature prominently. In addition,
the costs of storage and the transport and handling of inputs, especially fertilizer, are not recovered
from farmers. With the import ban on cigarettes (now lifted), there had been little incentive to
improve technical efficiency, and policy distortions due to production subsidies had compromised, and
continue to compromise, economic efficiency. High cost producers, with production costs
substantially larger than those faced by other African producers, had been sheltered through trade and
domestic protection, and yields and quality remained low, especially the quality of flue-cured tobacco.
To retain farmers, the tobacco company had to pay prices for tobacco leaf higher than the cost of
production, and much higher than levels that could be justified by the productivity of labour. In fact,
in recent years, when the average cost of leaf per kilogramme harvested was US$1.80, the price paid
to the farmer by the tobacco company was US$1.45; the comparable cost in other African countries
such as Kenya and Ghana was about US$1 per kilogramme. Besides the economic cost of the trade
ban, which has so far not been assessed, there are two additional costs (less amenable to
26/   In 1973/74, soon after initiation of the IADPs, subsidies on rice and petroleum had
accounted for 10 percent of recurrent expenditures and had absorbed more than one-
third of the revenue increase. Fertilizer and chemicals, and sprayers for tree crops,
were subsidized at 50 percent and 100 percent, respectively.
27/   Producer prices for coffee and cocoa announced by the SLPMB have recently
averaged only about 30 percent of the FOB price.
2/   The ban on the import on cigarettes is reported to have been lifted with effect from
December 1991 and has been replaced by an import tariff.



- 14 -
measurement) which may also be attributed to past tobacco trade policy. One is the environmental
cost from the excessive and indiscriminate use of fuel wood for tobacco curing - on average, two to
three kilogrammes of fuel wood are used to produce one kilogramme of flue-cured tobacco, and as
much as 100 kilogrammes to produce one kilogramme of fire-cured tobacco. The other serious
economic cost is, the now generally accepted, though not scientifically proven, toll on human health
from the consumption of tobacco. 22/
(ii) Technology Transfer
3.18   Technology transfer that had emerged as one of the few and more valuable legacies of the
IADP era has, with the rapid decline of sector institutions, been rendered progressively ineffective.
The gains anticipated from the transfer of technology in the form of higher yields and output have,
therefore, not obtained. The result of two decades of experience with donor-funded projects in Sierra
Leone is that a large number of farmers have been made aware, either through actual use or training
and demonstration, that improved technical packages can lead to substantial yield increases.
However, farmers have been wary of sustained adoption not only because of the unremunerative
farm-gate price and difficult access to inputs and markets, but also because of the greatly reduced
capability of the extension service to provide advice on the use of these inputs, on good post harvest
practices and on market signals and information that could strengthen decision-making by farmers. In
fact, many smallholder farmers, once active participants in IADPs, are reported to have reverted to
traditional practices. It is now increasingly recognized by well established international research
institutes that to realize and sustain the full benefits of the agricultural research effort, an effective
agricultural extension service is indispensable. 30/ The immediate institutional priority in Sierra
Leone is to restore the capacity of sector institutions to provide basic agricultural services,
specifically, the effective transfer of yield-enhancing technology to farmers, the monitoring and
evaluation of the results of such technology transfer, and the provision of regular and timely feedback
from the farmers to the agricultural research institutes for the further development of improved
technology.
3.19   The cumulative negative impact of the deteriorated extension service has been seriously and
most obviously felt in the inability of the DAF to implement its well-prepared unified extension
programme as well as its programme for on-farm demonstrations and trials. 31/ It is also evident
in the DAF's work programmes in areas other than crops. That livestock extension has suffered is
reflected in the poor health and high mortality of livestock due to non-availability of drugs and
vaccines, the weak management and feeding of animals, inadequate integration with crop farming, and
29/   Meanwhile, the prospects for cultivating pepper in tobacco growing areas, and
processing it for export, are extremely good. Disseminating extension advice on the
cultivation and processing of pepper would be an important role for the agricultural
extension service of the DAF.
30/   CGIAR Seminar on Rice organized by the World Bank in Washington D.C. in
October 1991.
31/   Detailed programmes are provided in the National Agricultural Extension and Tree
Crops Programmes under the Agricultural Sector Support Project. 1987-89 prepared
by the Office of the Director-General, Ministry of Agriculture, Natural Resources and
Forestry.



- 15 -
in the inability of the Teko Livestock Training Center to make progress with its training programme.
32/ For many decades now, the forestry department, through lack of funding, has been unable to
effectively manage the forest resource and promote its conservation. In 1987, the Bank's Energy
Assessment mission concluded that "high forests which once covered most of Sierra Leone had been
reduced to four percent of the land area through shifting cultivation, commercial logging and cutting
for fuel wood." 22/ The environmental damage has been compounded by the rampant and
unchecked use of the fuel wood resource for cooking, and for tobacco and fish curing. With little
deliberate reforestation to show in return, secondary growth has replaced much of the high forest.
Some reforestation is being encouraged by donor funded projects identified in the Tropical Forestry
Action Plan (TFAP), the implementation of which will require a strong Forestry Division. 34/
The TFAP itself will need to be prioritized and followed-up with a more intensified and expanded
effort at arresting environmental degradation and promoting natural resource conservation. As
regards the Land and Water Development Division, important work on land capability assessment and
land-use planning, in spite of staff having been trained to carry out soil surveys, topographical
studies, and survey design and engineering, continues to suffer from lack of funding. Strengthening
the LAWDD is indispensable to the judicious development and consolidation of swamps and to the
much needed multi-disciplinary approach to swamp development. In the case of fisheries, even
though artisanal fishing along the coast has been constrained by a lack of equipment, spare parts and
fuel, it has had greater success than has inland fishing. The main reason is that even though
improved technology for fish farming, particularly in inland valley and mangrove swamps, has been
demonstrated, further investigation is required before it can be widely disseminated. Besides
extension per se, DAF Divisions which provide support to agricultural extension have also been
greatly weakened by the scarcity of funds. Foremost among these, the Planning, Evaluation and
Monitoring Services Division (PMESD), now called the Monitoring, Evaluation and Statistics
Division (MESD), has been unable to adequately monitor and evaluate the rate of adoption of
improved technology by farmers and, more importantly, the impact of such adoption on agricultural
productivity and output. It has also been constrained from carrying out other basic farm budget and
household surveys including an Agricultural Census. The Communications Division, also, has been
unable to maintain its programme of preparing printed and audio visual extension messages designed
to educate farmers in the use of improved technology and better farm husbandry.
3.20   The other and urgently sought side of technology transfer, namely, the effective and timely
feedback from farmers through extension officers back to research, has also been weak and has held
back progress in developing and disseminating improved technology of a sort that is directly relevant
to farmers needs. This is because agricultural research, due to insufficient funds, has been unable to
adequately address common constraints faced by farmers in the adoption of modem technical
32/   This training center was established at Teko in 1904 in the Northern Province. It
offers a two year course for the training of Livestock Inspectors for the Livestock
Division of the MANR&F.
33/   Sierra Leone: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector, Report of the Joint
UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Programme, October 1987, Report No. 6597-
SL.
34/   Sierra Leone: TroDical Forestry Action Plan Inter-Agency Forestry Sector Review,
Mission Report, UNDP/FAO, Rome 1990.



- 16 -
packages. While some of the constraints are technical in nature and relate to the design and
construction of irrigation systems and the presence of iron-toxicity and salinity in soils, others are
socio-economic in nature and are also health-related. The fact that most modern crop packages are
demanding of labour, of serious consequence to their increased uptake and sustained adoption is the
obstacle imposed by the acute shortage of farm labour and its escalating cost. Thus, while the socio-
economic aspects of technology adoption, especially on farmer profitability, are becoming more and
more serious, adaptive research has been unable to deal effectively with these in the improved
technology that it has developed. The existing improved packages, thus, remain largely unmodified
with respect to these various constraints and new ones to deal with them have so far not been
developed. 35/ This is urgently required. Regular and effective communication with farmers, and
feedback from them to the agricultural research scientists, through the extension service, appears to
be indispensable for identifying specific priority areas for research that can lead to sustained higher
yields and output, especially for rice.
3.21   The National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP), developed with GOSL and ASSP funding,
has an elaborate agenda for the conduct of research in many relevant areas. 361 This agenda,
however, needs to be prioritized and developed in a manner that ensures that the research developed
is demand-driven and directly relevant to farmers' needs. As indicated above, the agenda also needs
to incorporate research into socio-economic factors that influence, and are fundamental to, the uptake
of improved technology. The challenge is to prevent the present institutional oversight of problems
faced by farmers in moving from a low input/output technology to an improved one and to ensure
their active participation in the development of the technology. This can be best be done through
strong research-extension linkages. To coordinate the effort of the agricultural research institutes and
foster linkages with extension, the National Agricultural Research Coordinating Council (NARCC),
established under the original ASSP, as well as the Office of the National Extension Coordinator need
to be strengthened. Recently, the NARCC was included as a line item in the budget and basic staff
recruitment is reported to have been completed. The immediate challenge for NARCC is to
strengthen institutional coordination with the DAF and with the research institutes. This would call
for the setting-up of, on farmers' fields, an effective mechanism for joint meetings (according to
specific ecologically appropriate crop calendars) between research scientists, subject matter specialists
and farmers. Such On-Farm Adaptive Research (OFAR) is considered invaluable in obtaining
feedback from farmers on the use of the technology disseminated and in furthering the effectiveness
and relevance of the national research effort.
35/    Sierra Leone's experience with carrying out agricultural research, especially in rice,
dates back to more than 60 years. Supported by external assistance, high-yielding
varieties and improved practices have been developed and tested for the main food
crops in almost all agro-climatic zones: for rice, by the Rokupr Rice Research Station
(RRRS) and West Africa Rice Development Association (WARDA) and, for maize,
roots and legumes by the Njala Agricultural Research Station.
36/   op cit., National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP) of Sierra Leone, February 1987.



- 17 -
(iii) Input Supply and Post-Harvest Technology
3.22   For several years now, Sierra Leone has experienced a severe shortage of essential farm
inputs, especially fertilizer and veterinary supplies. Needless to say, these are essential to the success
of any effort to upgrade technology for increasing crop yields and arresting livestock mortality.
Difficult access to these inputs is best illustrated by the highly erratic availability of fertilizer since the
mid-1980s due to Sierra Leone's foreign exchange difficulties. Following the depletion by 1984 of
the 1980/81 stock of 8,000 metric tons, 10,455 tons were imported in 1985 and a further 2,800 tons
in 1987. More recently, in 1989, 450 tons were imported, and in 1990, 2,400 tons half of which was
donated. The use of modern farm inputs as prescribed by modern technical packages is, thus,
severely inhibited by the lack of availability of inputs at the time and place required, the cost of these
inputs when available, and the absence of a reliable private sector distribution mechanism, especially
in remote rural areas. The latter may be attributed to the unsettled investment climate which
continues to persist and due to which the private sector has chosen to act with extreme caution.
3.23   The demand for modern farm inputs, especially fertilizer, has been tempered by exchange rate
devaluation, attempts to reduce subsidies, and high transport and distribution costs, on the one hand,
and the low farm-gate price of rice, on the other. 371/ These factors have significantly discouraged
the use of inputs integral to yield-enhancing technology. In the case of fertilizer, between 1971 and
1981, the price ratio between 20:20:0 fertilizer and paddy was highly discouraging of the use of
fertilizer; in 1970, the price of fertilizer amounted to 60 percent of the price of rice, and in 1981, it
was 120 percent higher. 38/ Some past studies have demonstrated the sensitivity of fertilizer use
with respect to price. To illustrate, when the price of 20:20:0 was raised in 1976/77 from Le 1.50
per bag to Le 3.00, and for 15:15:15 from Le 3.00 to Le 6.00, fertilizer usage fell proportionately
from 5,100 metric tons to 2,511 metric tons. This contrasts sharply with fertilizer use when, in the
preceding three years, the price remained constant in nominal terms and its use, promoted by high
subsidies, increased by almost 24 percent in 1974/75 and 52 percent in 1975/76. However, fertilizer
use, subsidy notwithstanding, also fell on other occasions of fertilizer price increase, as was the case
in 1972, 1976 and 1979 - the fertilizer subsidy is currently above 70 percent of import parity. In the
case of coffee and cocoa, in spite of recently improved incentives (and prior to the border
disturbances in coffee and cocoa growing areas), the demand for fertilizer and modem farm inputs
remains weak. The main sources of demand for fertilizer have been, and continue to be, the
Magbasse Sugar Complex, Rokel Leaf Tobacco Company and various ADPs. Fertilizer is also used
in small degree by wealthier and more progressive rice farmers and by the Seed Multiplication Unit
for use by its contract-growers.
3.24   While the production of marketed surplus is inhibited by inadequate price and non-price
incentives, the output that is harvested/recovered is reduced by high post-harvest losses. These losses
are considerable and can approach 35 percent. Improper storage at the farm level, and insufficient
facilities for storage and processing at the village level, are among the main causes for these
significant post-harvest losses. Since 1984, the DAF, assisted by UNDP/FAO, has implemented two
phases of a project for post-harvest practices to provide facilities for and training in post-harvest
371/    The Government had agreed to eliminate the subsidy initially by January 1, 1985 and
subsequently by the 1989 cropping season. However, currency devaluation is
reported to have preempted the achievement of this goal.
38/ Source: UNDP/FAO Study on Fertilizer Marketing System. Sierra Leone, dated 1982.



- 18 -
technology at the farm level. Farmers have, in the process, become well aware of the considerable
reduction in crop losses that are possible through good post-harvest practices, especially for rice,
cassava, corn meal, oil palm etc. In the case of rice, it has been demonstrated that the use of drying
floors, parboiling tanks, mechanical threshers, and mobile and stationary mills can reduce post-harvest
losses from 25 percent to 10 percent. Other post-harvest related projects assisted by UNDP/FAO
have aimed at strengthening crop-protection services, improving agro-meteorology, etc. A more
recent proposal is a third phase project, prepared by the FAO, which proposes the establishment of
integrated rural processing centers at the village level. Through greater efficiency in crop storage and
processing, the primary aim of the project is to enlarge the availability of food for own consumption
and seed for the next season and enable a stock of harvest to be sold in the off-season when some
pressure on the price invariably exists. Besides the reduction in losses of harvested output, an
important indirect result of wider dissemination of post-harvest technology is the on-farm labour
requirement that could be reduced and diverted to tasks, on-farm and off-farm, that are more
remunerative and productive for the farm family.
3.25   The translation of farmers' awareness and knowledge of improved crop and post-harvest
technology into better yields, higher output and sustained growth is constrained by poor
creditworthiness, lack of purchasing power and difficult access to crdt especially seasonal credit.
This is also a problem for traders, many of them frequently women, who require working capital for
packaging produce, renting transport and purchasing fuel and a particular problem when it comes to
marketing perishables such as vegetables and fish. It is because of these difficulties that credit from
the informal sector, in spite of exhorbitant interest rates (frequently approximating 100 percent), and
barter exchange which is deeply ingrained in the rural economy, are resorted to. Cash shortages and
problems of dealing and storing large amounts of small denominations of currency notes coupled with
the lack of collateral, the financial risk inherent in farming, especially subsistence farming, and the
fact that farm incomes are limited by the relatively small size of the marketable surplus are aspects of
rural financial sector that exert a strong restraint on the modernization of the agricultural economy.
Unless rural financial intermediation is strengthened, the move out of subsistence agriculture to better
yields and incomes will be a long and tedious task.
3.26   With improved producer prices and better feeder roads, the demand for modem farm inputs
and farm machinery and implements is expected to increase as is the demand for most types of credit
for agricultural investment. In response to better economic prospects engendered by the adjustment
reforms, the demand for credit by small farmers, especially farmers groups and associations, has
already resumed. The Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL), with funding provided by the original ASSP,
initiated the establishment of a rural banking system to provide loans for agricultural production and
fishing. 22/ Through supplementing capital share subscription and providing training, BSL has,
through its Development Finance Department (DFD), assumed a development and supervisory role in
the rural financial sector. Since 1985, eight rural banks have been formed by village inhabitants led
by promoters who are typically well-to-do individuals and politicians. There are plans to increase the
number of rural banks to 10. Loans, primarily seasonal loans, are extended at below market rates of
interest which, about a year ago, were around 70 percent in nominal terms and minus 50 percent in
real terms. While the high (nominal) cost of borrowing, whether from the informal or formal sector,
has placed some limit on the demand for credit, the supply of funds has also been constrained by the
39/    There is also provision for loans for agribusiness, for instance, manufacturing,
handicraft and construction, as well as for automobile, mechanical and electrical
repairs.



- 19 -
tight monetary policy. With continued economic recovery and adjustment, the demand and supply for
the credit should ease. As regards credit recovery, in the present circumstances, loan repayment is
often secured through direct recovery from the harvest and is reported to be good at 97 percent. This
apparent success is attributable to the physical presence at harvest of loan officers, who, well
acquainted with the debtor's expected harvest, exercise their prerogative to collect. This is neither
efficient nor cost-effective in terms of modern banking practice. Ultimately, it is the ability of rural
banks to mobilize resources and reach a large number of farmers in a cost-effective manner that
would be critical to the financial viability of the rural banking system and make for the further growth
and resilience of the rural economy. The capacity of the existing rural banks to perform basic
banking functions is seriously constrained by the lack of technical assistance, weak mobility and poor
logistics.
(iv) Feeder Roads
3.27   Approximately one-third of Sierra Leone's feeder road network was funded by USAID and
constructed in the 1970s and early 1980s by CARE (Cooperative American Relief Everywhere) using
heavy mechanization. The remaining two-thirds was financed by other donors with a considerable
portion constructed under the Bank-funded IADPs. By 1987, about 71 percent of the feeder road
network was assessed as being in poor to very poor condition and in need, therefore, of major
rehabilitation, 25 percent was assessed to be in fair condition requiring periodic maintenance, and
about four percent was considered to be in good condition requiring routine maintenance. Four
hundred miles (55 percent located in the southern and eastern regions) of the feeder road network had
deteriorated to such an extent that it received the low rating of 2.0 in the weighted condition index
indicating need for priority rehabilitation. 401 A primary reason for the present condition of the
feeder roads has been a progressive and persistent lack of funding for their maintenance. In fact,
even in the IADP era, the problem of maintenance funding was so acute that CARE, a foremost
builder of these roads in Sierra Leone, decided to cutback on new feeder road construction and divert
funds earmarked for new investment to the maintenance of feeder roads that had been thus far
constructed.
3.28   Due to the continued lack of maintenance funding, the condition of feeder roads in Sierra
Leone has deteriorated further and is now a major obstacle to increases in agricultural surplus,
efficient marketing and distribution of agricultural output within and outside rural areas, and the
availability of wage goods in rural areas. As a consequence, the growth and development of the rural
economy has come close to a stand-still with both producers and consumers deprived of the benefits
of competitive pricing. The numbers of traders and middlemen that would conceivably find it
profitable to compete have been discouraged from doing so by rising transport operating and
maintenance costs triggered by the high cost of fuel and spare parts. It is the excessively high trading
margins, inherent in oligopolistic and monopolistic pricing sanctioned by poor transport and
marketing infrastructure, rather than healthy competition, fostered by a good road network, that has
emerged as the primary determinant of input and output prices faced by farmers, particularly those
located in remote rural areas. In the process, the ability and the incentive for the farmer to adopt
improved technology that would make for higher yields and output remains thwarted. While it is
imperative that rural roads are rehabilitated, it is equally imperative that their maintenance be
40/   The Government of Sierra Leone, Ministry of Works and Labour, Survey of the
Classified Road Network and Important Feeder Roads, Draft Final Report, November
1987.



- 20 -
adequately and regularly funded and carried out. This would reduce the likelihood of exhorbitant
marketing costs being passed on to the producer/farmer in the form of a poor farm-gate price and
steeply priced inputs, and to the consumer in the form of excessively priced basic consumption items.
An added adverse effect of the poor feeder roads and the inordinate marketing costs is the severe limit
placed on growth multipliers stemming from production linkages within the farm and rural sectors but
more importantly from inter-sectoral consumption linkages between the rural and urban sectors.
E. Donor Contribution
3.29   In perhaps what can best be described as Sierra Leone's most difficult economic circumstance,
that is, during the period of suspension of disbursements by the Bank and the inability of collapsed
government institutions to pursue agricultural development, it was the presence of donors which
sustained the sector. Bilateral and multilateral donors continue to play an important contributory role
in enhancing yields and output of project farmers and training counterparts in project execution and
farmers in the application of improved technology. The main projects include: the EEC funded
agricultural development projects in the Port Loko, Kambia and Koinadugu Districts; the GTZ-funded
agricultural development project at Bo-Pujehun, and a fisheries development in Kambia District; the
FAO project at Moyamba promoting the cultivation of rice, vegetables and oil palm as well as the
development of fisheries at Shenge and Tombo; the Rhombe Swamp Development Project funded by
Italian Aid (not yet on-stream); the new IFAD financed North Central Project, an extension of the
Magbosi project; the ADB funded agricultural development project at Moyamba, that at Torma Bum
promoting contract ploughing and ADB assistance to the Livestock Training Center at Teko in the
Northern Region; and the Japanese funded project at Gbontapi for promoting mechanized cultivation
through contract ploughing. The contribution of these projects to Sierra Leone's agricultural and
rural development has, so far, not been assessed by donors. An in-depth review to assess the net
economic and financial benefits of these projects is urgently required. Efforts are also required to
reduce the excessive high management and input-intensity of all these projects and eliminate inherent
economic distortions due to input and credit subsidies which are quite common. The key question is
to what extent these projects can be sustained under the present budgetary constraints and economic
realities. This learning and knowledge would be critical in the policy and institutional framework for
basic agricultural services as it continues to evolve.
3.30   In spite of substantial external assistance to the agriculture sector over the last few decades,
institutional capacity building has had mixed results and, on balance, remains weak. The impact on
institutional strengthening of donor-funded projects, including Bank-funded IADPs, has been two-fold.
First, these projects drew, and continue to draw, on MANR&F staff (by secondments supplemented
with field allowances as incentives) to assist with project execution. In the process, staff have been
trained to implement projects but not to plan and manage them. Second, the practice of drawing on
MANR&F/DAF staff had created parallel systems of agricultural extension and project management.
The unnecessary duplication of services through the excessive concentration of projects and staff in
some areas at the cost of local projects and backward areas has had little justification. Furthermore,
with staff being answerable at the same time to donors and senior civil servants, a fair degree of
confusion had emerged as to the appropriate authority in this dual system, especially on policy,
technical and administrative matters. The resulting lack of control, focus, and planning has been, and
continues to be, reflected in a number of dispersed independent projects which remain outside any
semblance of a sector strategy. A more serious shortcoming is the lack of a joint assessment by
donors of the impact on Sierra Leone's agriculture of past donor interventions and the absence of
regular donor coordination and regular joint meetings with the DAF.



- 21 -
3.31   Some donors have expressed reluctance to follow the Bank-led move away from the IADPs,
the integration of the IADPs into the main stream of the agricultural institutional structure and the
implementation of agricultural development projects within an overall policy framework that does not
sanction input and credit subsidies. There have been, in the past, two basic reasons for such donor
attitude and resistance. One is the belief that the MANR&F lacked the capacity to plan and manage
sector growth and development. This has been true to some extent and is attributed, in part, to the
setback in institutional capacity building from the difficult budgetary situation and the weak morale
and motivation of staff. However, it may also be attributed to the fact that seconded MANR&F staff
were made to assist with project implementation rather than the planning and management of projects. 41/
Second, many donors are of the view that without input and credit subsidies, farmers are unlikely to
adopt improved technology. 42/ The net result was the perpetration of highly management and
input intensive agricultural development projects that are becoming difficult to sustain. The Bank, in
the interest of promoting economic efficiency and capacity building has reiterated its strong
commitment to ensuring that the development effort is of a substance and pattern which is free of
distortions, one that is self-sustaining, and one that increasingly comes under the helm of sector
institutions, such as DAF. This view and effort is supported by cofinancier IFAD, and it is hoped
will, in the near future, gain increasing support from the donor community at large.
F. NGQs
3.32    NGOs have made an invaluable contribution to Sierra Leone's agricultural and rural
development. Even in remote geographical areas, farmers have benefitted from the agricultural
extension advice provided by DAF extension staff who are often assisted by local and international
NGOs. In addition, farmers have been educated by NGOs on the benefits of their adopting a group
approach for input purchase and output marketing and in the modalities of forming farmers
associations and functioning effectively as farmers groups. In the absence of a competitive and fully
developed private sector for marketing agricultural inputs, it is envisaged that more active
participation by the NGOs in the agricultural development process would continue to be sought.
Given the strong awareness of NGOs of the seasonal and time-bound nature of agricultural operations
and their well recognized commitment to the economic uplift of farm families, their assistance to
farmers in channelling inputs would instil a measure of certainty with respect to the timely availability
of input supplies. Furthermore, by facilitating cost-effective transport to local and more distant
markets, NGO participation could provide some countervailing power and competition to private
suppliers and traders, especially in remote geographical areas where farmers are exploited by weak
farmgate prices and forced to pay exhorbitant prices for essential farm inputs. Where farmers choose
to voluntarily group with the purpose of overcoming the constraints imposed upon their agricultural
operations by lack of collateral and poor creditworthiness, their bargaining power, whether for
purchase of inputs or marketing of output, could be greatly enhanced.
41/   In 1986, after the Mid-Term Review, the Bank was encouraged by MANR&F's
attempt at preparing the Green Revolution Plan (GRP), its weaknesses
notwithstanding, and acknowledged MANR&F's potential and initiative in taking a
lead role in guiding and supporting sector development.
42/   While this may true, it is also a fact that when the producer price warrants, farmers
are known to seek out improved technology and modern farm inputs.



- 22 -
3.33   Both local and international NGOs continue to work closely with DAF staff in agricultural
extension and training, particularly training in the use by men and women farmers of farm and agro-
processing equipment, in monitoring yields and output, and in enhancing management skills, etc.
Each NGO has advantages. Local NGOs possess working knowledge and have valuable insight into
the culture and traditions of farm households. This knowledge is indispensable to the successful
design and implementation of projects. 43/ With respect to project identification and appraisal, it
is the international NGOs which understandably have the greater advantage. These NGOs are well-
versed in procurement, implementation, and reporting, and have strong management and accounting
skills. Local NGOs have yet to develop these capacities and skills and their ability to do so is
constrained by limited resources. There has been a further problem faced by local NGOs. Even
when formally registered, as required with the Department of Rural Development, they do not enjoy
many benefits enjoyed by international NGOs, especially in respect of duty paid on essential imported
items. This differential treatment needs to be promptly and appropriately dealt with so that it does
not become a strong dis-incentive to local NGOs continuing their important contribution to sector
development.
G. Bank Group Operations
3.34   The IDA's development effort in Sierra Leone's agriculture sector has included three phases
of the Eastern IADP and two phases of the Northern IADP. These projects were area development
projects, complex and multi-purpose, management and input intensive, inclusive of strong
infrastructure components, and were aimed at increasing production and incomes of target groups of
farmers. Their overwhelming emphasis was on rice production through swamp development and
consolidation and this was, in some degree, to the neglect of upland farming that is deeply ingrained
in the rural psyche. Because of its socio-economic implications, upland farming, too, was
subsequently promoted by the IADPs. Besides, promoting rice cultivation, tree crop development
was also an important objective of the IADPs. The enclave nature of these projects kept them
estranged in practice from the macro economic concerns of the economy at large and economic
distortions in the sector in particular. Relative to the benefits and targets that were ultimately
attained, the IADPs turned out to be costly in terms of their demand on professional management and
organizational skills. As a result, and in the interest of sustainability, the Bank (utilizing its
knowledge and experience with IADPs in several countries) reassessed its approach to agricultural and
rural development and reversed it in favour of more simple and focussed projects. The ASSP was the
first non-IADP project in Sierra Leone the implementation of which was interrupted by the suspension
of disbursements.
3.35   Included in the overall lessons from the IADP experience in Sierra Leone are: first, that a
project implemented in a distorted macro environment cannot succeed; second, that while an enabling
macro environment is a necessary condition for sector and project success, it is not a sufficient
condition, and that sector policy reforms are essential complementary measures for supply response
and sustained growth; third, that the chances of a project succeeding in a country environment, where
a financial crisis remains unresolved, and the budgetary situation is unsustainable, are low; four, that
43/   Instances have been reported where international NGOs, not familiar with local
customs and traditions, imported and introduced pre-fabricated agendas and projects
which, as it turned out, were not successful. The cost to the NGOs and to the local
community involved was ultimately unjustified causing apprehension and caution on
the part of the village community toward further outside interventions.



- 23 -
the danger of under-estimating the impact on the supply response of the producer price incentive
compared to non-price incentives should be guarded against; and fifth, that there is a necessity of
obtaining information from indigenous sources on the socio-economic issues surrounding the
introduction of improved technology and new methods of cultivation, particularly with respect to
swamp rice. 44/ At the project level, the main lesson to be learned is that where institutional and
management capacity are relatively weak and undeveloped, simplicity in project design is
indispensable. Ambitious projects with complex designs in a country and sector saddled with serious
macroeconomic and financial constraints, and aggravated by limited absorptive capacity and poor or
non-existing infrastructure, are likely to meet with little success in achieving their objectives. This is
particularly true in instances where the record of macro economic management has been poor and
where it has continued to rapidly deteriorate.
H. Short-Term Options
3.36   Possibly beyond, but at least in the short to medium term, the pressure on the agricultural
sector to provide substantially more foreign exchange resources and food, and more employment
opportunities, is likely to grow. Prior to the onset of the economic decline, in the hope of finding
better prospects for incomes from mining, construction and trading, and from jobs in public
administration which expanded almost three-fold in the first decade of independence, large numbers of
the rural work force had migrated to mining areas and large towns. 45/ As the mining sub-sector
weakened so did the pull on outward migration. Now, with the economy depressed, urban life has
been transformed into an economic struggle accentuated by high inflation and a near collapse of most
public services. The lure of urban life has clearly faded for most and reverse migration back to rural
areas in some significant degree appears to be taking place. This trend of return to rural areas may
yet deepen as budgetary expenditures are further tightened and civil service staffing further curbed.
In any event, whether from natural population increase or continued migration back and forth, the
burden on the sub-sector to provide food and jobs is expected to increase. This burden is expected to
further grow as and when refugees return to Sierra Leone from neighbouring Guinea. To meet this
overall challenge, an increase in agricultural production and productivity, prompted by an effective
sector policy and strategy, and supported by strong transport and marketing infrastructure, is vital.
3.37   It should be borne in mind that the country still faces a serious resource constraint, that
institutional and infrastructure development are on-going processes which will require considerable
lead-time even though disbursements have resumed, and that farmers are basically risk-averse and
inclined to respond cautiously to the prospect of adopting new crop technology that is input-intensive.
In view of this, the sector cannot in the immediate future make up for all of the considerable time lost
during years of weak economic management and the suspension of disbursements. In the short-term,
44/   See World Bank, Project Performance Audit Reports, respectively, for the Integrated
Agricultural Development Project, Credit 323-SL, dated May 27, 1978 and the
Integrated Agricultural Development Project II, Credit 568/Loan 1138-SL, dated June
24, 1983; and Project Completion Reports, respectively, for the Eastern Integrated
Agricultural Development Project, Credit 1094-SL, dated December 28, 1990 and the
Northern Integrated Agricultural Development Project, Credit 1128-SL, also dated
December 28, 1990.
45/   According to the 1963 and 1974 Census figures, the urban population growth rate was
5.9 percent.



- 24 -
therefore, even though development options are obviously limited, they are not lacking. This is
because Sierra Leone's agricultural sector has considerable technological, institutional and
infrastructure excess capacity as well as extensive experience with implementing Bank-funded projects
in the past. It also has an underlying economic strength which its community and group approach
have to offer. Thus, in the short-term, a concerted effort on three fronts could create the enabling
environment that is urgently being sought and place the sector on a path of recovery and growth: (i)
tapping in the near term Sierra Leone's existing technological capacity for attaining higher crop yields
(ii) resuming institutional capacity building and strengthening mechanisms to transfer technology and
monitor its adoption; and (iii) rehabilitating the existing feeder road network. A prerequisite to the
successful tapping of these existing capacities would rest in strong sector policies that are reflected in
producer incentives that are conducive to higher production and sustained growth.
3.38   The Government of Sierra Leone has demonstrated a political will and commitment to
instituting and sustaining macroeconomic reforms espoused by the Bank and Fund. It has also started
to complement this effort through its commitment to important sector policy and institutional reforms
that would set the stage for an enabling environment for modern agricultural growth. However, an
environment where the private sector holds the key to expanded investment and commercial activity,
where a competitive market economy is to be responsible for ensuring efficiency in resource use, and
where the public sector is to reorient its focus and assume the vital role of providing timely and cost-
effective delivery of agricultural services remains largely undeveloped and weak. For decades now,
the Bank has assisted Sierra Leone to move towards such an environment. Through the original
ASSP, the institutional framework was given in-depth attention and many improvements were
introduced and, on the policy side, efforts were made to reduce the subsidy on fertilizer with a view
to its eventual elimination. With the suspension of disbursements and acute budgetary difficulty,
these policy and institutional reforms could not run their full course. It is critical that the process
now be completed.
IV. THE REVISED PROJECT
A. Project Objecve
4.1    The primary objective of the reallocated ASSP is to create an enabling policy and institutional
environment conducive to the recovery of agricultural output. This recovery would be led by the
private sector and pursued within the framework of a free market economy. Specifically, the sought
supply response in food and cash crops would be obtained through private sector initiative and
investment in production, storage, processing and marketing rather than through the highly input and
management intensive approach by public sector institutions pursued through the IADPs. Investment
decisions based on market signals would therefore be key, and which would, to bear fruit, require
strong policy, institutional and infrastructure support. The Matrix of Policy and Institutional Actions
given in Annex A contains the policy and institutional reforms that would support the fostering of the
enabling environment and it also provides a status comparison with the reforms pursued through the
original project and the Government's commitment to the policy reforms is stated in its Letter of
Sector Policy given in Annex B. With due attention to socio-economic and environmental factors, the
project aims to assist the agriculture sector to recover, and surpass, its earlier contribution to GDP,
rural incomes, nutrition, and net export earnings. Envisaged, therefore, is the intensive use of land
under cultivation through fuller utilization of existing improved technology. Given Sierra Leone's
present weak state of agricultural development, the two most important prerequisites to expansion in
marketed surplus are: first, an increase in agricultural productivity and second, greater efficiency in



- 25 -
the storage, processing and marketing of the agricultural surpluses produced. The means whereby the
project would achieve its objective of higher production and efficient marketing are through effective
technology transfer and strong research-extension-farmer linkages, increased availability of essential
farm inputs and agro-processing facilities, good feeder roads, and remunerative producer prices. To
the extent that any one of these is excluded or lags in its performance, agriculture sector recovery and
supply response would inevitably be seriously compromised.
B. Summary Description
4.2    The project would be implemented over a period of four years. Its design allows for a quick
disbursement of project funds anticipated at more than 80 percent by the end of the third project year.
The funds would be used for project activities in regions other than the eastern and southern regions
which remain politically insecure. In addition to strengthening the policy and incentive framework,
the project's objectives would be achieved through the following main components:
(a)    technology transfer (US$9.1 million): this component would by increasing the
capacity of front-line extension officers to transfer technology to farmers (i) strengthen
the dissemination of existing improved technology for food and cash crop cultivation,
and for post harvest technology, forestry, fishing, land and water development; (ii)
reduce the high mortality rate of the national livestock herd and small ruminants; (iii)
strengthen monitoring and evaluation of the technology transferred; (iv) rehabilitate
selected extension training and research facilities which are severely dilapidated; (v)
finance the training of Subject Matter Specialists, agricultural instructors, men and
women farmers, and loan officers of selected rural banks; (vi) enable the conduct of
on-farm adaptive research (OFAR) trials and crop demonstrations on farmers' fields
and ensure feedback to research scientists on the use of such technology adoption by
farmers through the extension service; and (vii) facilitate technology adoption through
alleviating the immediate bottlenecks faced by rural banks to provide seasonal credit
and working capital to farmers;
(b)    farm inputs and post-harvest technology (US$9.6 million): this component would
finance (i) the import of essential fertilizer, farm tools and implements, oil palm
seedlings, and small-scale agro-processing equipment for rice, cassava, oil palm,
maize and pepper; and (ii) the training, in post-harvest technology, of farmers
(including women farmers), agro-processors and extension officers;
(c)    feeder roads (US$7.8 million): this component would finance the rehabilitation of 530
km of severely dilapidated critical feeder road links, many of which are located in
remote but agriculturally productive areas. Almost 68 percent of the total length of
feeder road network to be rehabilitated would be done through two replications of an
on-going pilot project using labour-intensive rehabilitation methods. The employment
generation and food-for-work made possible through this sub-component would be
important to farmers and farm labour during the off-season, known as the 'hungry
season', when both food and cash are scarce;
(d)    research-extension linkages (US$0.4 million): to ensure that the technology
transferred to farmers is relevant to their socio-economic situation, and that the
technology subsequently developed is demand-driven, this component would (i) foster
research-extension-farmer linkages through a series of crop variety trials to be



- 26 -
conducted jointly by research scientists and subject matter specialists on farmers'
fields; (ii) provide for the publication of the results of these research trials; and (iii)
improve coordination of the research effort between the national agricultural research
institutes;
(e)    Coordination Unit (US$1.4 million): to strengthen the DAF's capacity to coordinate
and implement the ASSP, and plan and execute agricultural development projects and
programmes beyond the ASSP, the project would support, with appropriate technical
assistance, equipment and logistics, the establishment of a Coordination Unit within
the DAFF.
C. Detailed Features
4.3    Technology Transfer. a severe lack of funding has reduced the capability of the agricultural
extension officers for providing even minimal agricultural extension advice and farmer training. To
restore basic agricultural extension capability in the crops, forestry, livestock, fisheries, and land and
water development sub-sectors, the project would provide for logistical and operational support and
for refresher training of front-line extension officers. With the present staff strength, at least 30,000
farmers could be directly reached by the DAF extension service alone and, indirectly, approximately
900,000 farm households would be made aware of the benefits of adopting and sustaining the use of
improved technology packages. At Headquarters (HQs), DAF's capacity to monitor the uptake of
technology transferred and evaluate its impact on productivity and output would be enhanced and its
financial control, audit and accounting functions would also be strengthened. The project would
restore field extension capability, improve the capability of the DAF to monitor and evaluate the
technology of transfer, and strengthen the capacity within the DAF to undertake policy and strategy
planning and implementation. Existing improved technology would be introduced and promoted for:
(i) raising yields and productivity in food and cash crops on upland farms and inland valley swamps
(IVS); (ii) improving water control and farm management in IVS; (iii) arresting soil erosion through
encouraging tree planting and environmental conservation; (iv) promoting the financial benefits from
tree planting for fuel wood, poles and fruit; (v) enhancing inland and artisanal fishing; and (vi)
reducing post-harvest losses through the demonstration and dissemination of post-harvest technology.
4.4    At the field level, agricultural extension services would be administered by Region. Each
Region is divided into 10 circles or administrative zones which cover anywhere from 1 to 4
Chiefdoms, except for the Western Region which has five circles. 46/ To make field extension
possible and effective, DAF's technical Divisions at HQs would also be strengthened. Professional
and technical operations would continue to be headed by the Director-General (DG) of the DAF who
would oversee the Agriculture Division (crops); the Forestry Division; the Livestock Division; the
Fisheries Division; the Land and Water Development Division (LAWDD); the Monitoring, Evaluation
and Statistics Division (MESD) and the Communications Division. The Chief Agriculturist (CA)
heads the Agriculture Division and is assisted by the deputy CA and an assistant CA. Each Regional
Office is headed by a Chief Regional Officer (CRO), and staffed with Principal Agricultural Officers
(PAOs), Senior Agricultural Officers (SAOs), selected Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), officers for
monitoring and evaluation, training and engineering, and agricultural and mechanical superintendents.
The seven CROs report to the CA.
46/   There are seven regions: Eastern, Southern, South Western, Western, Northern,
North Central, and North Western.



- 27 -
4.5    The project would finance investment and operational and maintenance costs of vehicles,
field, office and laboratory eguipment and urgent civil works rehabilitation in selected agricultural
training and research institutes. Vehicles and motorbikes would be provided to senior officers at
DAF HQs as well as at each regional office and, at the village level, bicycles would be provided to
front-line extension officers. The allocation of these vehicles, including the two mobile training vans,
and motorbikes would be determined by the CA. For resuming the implementation of work
programmes of DAF Divisions in charge of Agriculture, Forestry, Livestock, Fisheries, LAWDD and
the MESD, the project would finance relevant field and office equipment. Severe under-funding of
these items has impeded basic day-to-day field and HQs operations. Equipment for individual DAF
divisions would consist of standard computer and office equipment as well as specialized field and
laboratory equipment: (i) for the Agriculture (Crops) Division, this equipment would consist of
supplies and tools for field staff and survey equipment; (ii) for the Forestry Division, the equipment
would comprise tools and equipment for nursery programmes, specialized equipment for forest
management, and equipment for utilization and wildlife conservation; (iii) for the Fisheries Division,
the equipment would consist of assorted fishing gear; (iv) for the Livestock Division, the equipment
would include drugs, vaccines and veterinary instruments; (v) for the Land and Water Development
Division (LAWDD), the equipment would consist of cartography, soils, agronomy, agro-meteorology
and laboratory equipment as well as equipment for studying water resources; (vi) for the
Communications Division, equipment to produce audio-visual aids for extension and farmer training
in all types of agricultural activity would be included; and (vii) for the MESD, equipment for
weighing, surveying and communications for surveys and studies would be included.
4.6    Refresher and on-going training of front-line staff would be indispensable for resuming
effective implementation of field extension services and operations. The programme for training
extension officers has been inactive for many years because of inadequate funding and the poor
condition of training facilities. Before training can be provided, these research and training facilities
would need to be rehabilitated. The project would finance essential rehabilitation only and, depending
on the specific research and training institute, could include urgent civil works repairs and
rehabilitation of fields on which on-station experiments would be conducted. Only those facilities
which are directly relevant to the project objectives would be funded. Included are the Mange
Training School, the Institute of Agriculture/Certificate Training College (CTC) at Njala, the Makali
Training Center, and training facilities at the Rokupr Rice Research Station.
4.7   Input Supply and Post-Harvest Technology. The project would ease the supply bottleneck of
imported and essential farm inputs such as fertilizer, chemicals and seed, tools and implements,
veterinary drugs and vaccines, and machinery for crop-processing. The inputs would not be delivered
to a targeted group of farmers, as was the case in the IADPs, but would be made available at specific
locations for purchase by farmers of their own volition and decision (Annex C). The use of these
inputs would however be monitored and evaluated by extension officers and monitoring and
evaluation officers of the DAF. The demand for these inputs, particularly in weak and uncertain
economic and political circumstances, is difficult since few estimates of their use in the past exist.
Even at the height of the IADP era, no statistics were collected on the amounts of fertilizer used on
various crops. Subsistence farmers who have not participated in donor funded projects are known to
use little fertilizer and farm chemicals. When indeed it is applied, fertilizer is used mainly for swamp
rice by the relatively large commercial farmers, and practically none is used for upland rice, or for



- 28 -
coffee and cocoa. It is also used for the cultivation of vegetables, which unlike upland rice (because
of severely eroded soils), show strong response to fertilizer use. 47/
4.8    While the judicious use of fertilizer would necessarily entail crop and location-specific
recommendations, general recommendations by the Adaptive Crop Research and Extension (ACRE)
Project funded by DAF/USAID suggest the use, with proper extension advice, of 20:20:0 for
application on upland farms and urea in the swamps. The project would finance the import of 7,000
tons of fertilizer in the first project year, 7,250 tons in the second project year, and 7,500 tons in
each of the last two project years. Accounting for about 50 percent of the total annual requirement
before the suspension of disbursements, this quantity would comprise various types of fertilizer in the
following approximate proportions: NPK 20:20:0 (30 percent), NPK 0:20:20 (5 percent), NPK
15:15:15 (20 percent), NPK 15:15:6.4 (4 percent), Urea (30 percent), SSP (4 percent), and MOP (7
percent). These proportions vary slightly from the mix of fertilizer types estimated by the DAF
Fertilizer Unit for its fertilizer requirements prior to the suspension of disbursements. Given that no
major technological advance or change in cropping patterns is reported to have occurred in Sierra
Leone since then, similar proportions may be assumed for the project period. The allocations have
been broadly guided by: (i) levels procured in the past in economic conditions considerably more
favourable from the point of view of the individual farmer; (ii) amounts likely to be realistically
absorbed by the sector at present when incentives for fertilizer use are relatively weak; (iii) higher
cost of imported inputs because of devaluation and high marketing costs; (iv) substantially weakened
farmer cash flow in view of the weak and stagnant farm-gate price of rice relative to production costs
associated with yield-enhancing technology; and (v) less than a fully understanding of the dynamics of
the fertilizer sub-sector given the infancy of comprehensive fertilizer trials within the country. Not
included in the import estimate are the fertilizer requirements of commercial and institutional entities
such as the Magbasse Sugar Complex, Rokel Leaf Tobacco Company and other donor funded projects
since each of these makes its own provision. Also not included are the fertilizer requirements of the
DAF Divisions and NARCC for the extension demonstration and research trials that would be
regularly carried out throughout the project period; these requirements have been provided for under
equipment support in the technology transfer and research-extension linkages components.
4.9    The demand for seed has remained fairly constant over the last ten years for high yielding
varieties of rice and is expected to approach about 2,000 tons per annum over the project period.
Most of the improved varieties are available through the Seed Multiplication Project (SMP)
established in 1976 with a grant from GTZ. The SMP has multiplied well over 30 rice seed varieties
through its three seed centers and approximately 4,700 contract growers. During the last year, seed
and fertilizer were supplied by the SMP to its contract growers at a price with a subsidy element of
about 25 percent and recovery was reported to be as high as 85 percent or more. Frequently, cost
recovery is carried out through barter exchange with farmers selling the seed rice in exchange for
necessities such as sheet roofs, cement and bicycles. Barter transactions constitute about 25 percent
of SMP's output recovery. Once released by the research institutes, the SMP multiplies, tests and
certifies the rice seed before sale to farmers and traders. Subsistence farmers are not among the main
purchasers of seed rice, since, they, as a rule, retain about 15 to 20 kilogrammes of seed from the
previous harvest as supply for the next season; usually this rice is inferior in quality compared to the
well supervised seed production of the SMP contract-grown seed rice. Over the project period, the
demand for high yielding rice seed is likely to increase. The existing capacity of the SMP of about
47/   The application of fertilizer would be discouraged in swamps which are naturally very
fertile and where soil fertility is not reported to rapidly decline.



- 29 -
2,000 tons is considered sufficient to meet this demand. Improved planting material for coffee and
seed for cocoa would continue to be supplied from DAF nurseries established with IDA funding in
the past. The revised ASSP has provided for nominal funding in the amount of US$50,000 for
maintaining the existing coffee and cocoa nurseries not located in the Eastern and Southern Provinces
bordering Liberia. As regards improved oil palm seedlings, the demand remains strong and the
shortage continues. Provision has therefore been made for the import of 300,000 oil palm seedlings
from Cote d'Ivoire complete with the required polybags and wire collars. For livestock health, over
US$200,000 would be made available for the import of the most essential drugs and vaccines and
veterinary instruments. A little over US$35,000 would be made available for the import of basic
farm tools and implements generally used by subsistence farmers.
4.10   To prevent losses of increases in harvested output from the uptake of improved technology,
the project would fund post-harvest technology. There is considerable unmet demand for such
technology, particularly parboiling tanks, drying floors, rice mills, cornmeal producing equipment,
facilities for preparing gari and fufu, oil palm processing facilities etc. 48l/ The project would
provide funds for the establishing by farmers associations of integrated crop-processing centers along
the lines proposed by the third phase of a UNDP/FAO project for post-harvest practices at the village
level prepared by the FAO. Machinery and equipment for processing rice, cassava, maize, oil palm,
groundnut and pepper would be made available to fifteen bona fide farmers' associations to establish
the integrated crop-processing centers across the country with technical assistance from internationally
recruited experts and DAF extension officers (Annex C and D). The construction of these integrated
crop-processing centers would be carried out with the active participation of potential beneficiaries
who would contribute the required land, materials and labour. The cost of this component comprising
crop-processing equipment and technical assistance amounts to over US$1.5 million. Specifically, the
project would finance, at least, five (seven) small size rice mills, five (seven) rice threshers, two
(four) cassava processing units, two (four) oil palm expelling units, five (seven) oil palm kernel
crackers, two (four) maize shellers, five (seven) maize grinders, five (seven) pepper grinding units
and one (two) sets of coffee processing machinery. Also included would be stationary and office
equipment and technical assistance for the integrated crop-processing centers. At least 500 male and
female farmers, as members of the selected farmers associations and groups, would be directly trained
by the project and a number of DAF technical and extension staff would also be trained. The project
would follow the current practice of full cost recovery through the capitalization by the farmers'
associations of the crop-processing equipment by the end of the project period. The funds from the
capitalization would be recovered by designated officials and deposited in the Treasury.
4.11   To facilitate the delivery of seasonal credit to small farmers, the project would provide
logistical support and training for six existing rural banks (Annex C). The operations of these rural
banks are, at present, severely constrained by a lack of mobility, insufficient equipment and
inadequate technical assistance. Without seasonal credit, farmers are unable to afford expenses for
the purchase of modern farm inputs required by yield-enhancing technology and for the effective
storage, processing and marketing of output. The farmers' already poor cash flow is under further
pressure from numerous economic and social factors that are a rural reality. Thus, after meeting
subsistence needs, the farmer, in addition to paying off debts contracted during the 'hungry season,'
the costs of hiring labour for land clearing, transplanting and weeding in the planting season, he is
48/    Wide usage of parboiling tasks will also be beneficial for conservation of the fuel
wood resource. At present, most parboiling of rice in villages draws heavily on fuel
wood.



- 30 -
obligated to meet essential community-related expenses surrounding post-harvest festivals and coveted
membership in traditional secret societies. All these debts and obligations make an early and
substantial demand on the harvest reaped by the farmer. At current input/output coefficients, the
investment of time and resources to adopt and sustain improved technology, develop and consolidate
swamps, bring more upland area under cultivation, consider on-farm storage and improved technology
is thus not of high priority. 49/
4.12   Feeder Roads. To reduce the isolation and exploitation of farmers in remote but highly
productive agricultural areas, the project would finance the rehabilitation of about 530 kilometers of
feeder roads. Urgent rehabilitation of selected feeder roads in the Port Loko, Tonkolili and
Koinadugu districts would be undertaken. These feeder roads, identified by the DAF (during the
ASSP supervision missions in May and December of 1991 and in August/September 1992) are located
in agricultural areas of high potential where food and cash crops are typically grown, and areas where
activity in the forestry and fishing sub-sectors is expected to gain momentum. A list of these feeder
roads is provided in Annex C. Many of these roads had been identified and recommended for
rehabilitation as far back as 1987. 5Q/ Their condition has now deteriorated further to such an
extent that the evacuation of marketed production of food and cash crops for export or urban and
rural domestic consumption is difficult and expensive. In view of the varied lengths of the feeder
road links and their scattered locations, rehabilitation of about 360 kilometers would be rehabilitated
using labour-intensive methods and the remaining 170 kilometers through equipment intensive
methods of rehabilitation.
4.13 The ILO component, with its emphasis on employment generation, would consist of tw
replications of a pilot project used to construct the 90 km feeder road stretch from Moyamba to
Shenge under funding from UNCTAD and food aid from WFP. Each replica would consist of one
labour-intensive unit and one equipment-intensive unit. The labour-intensive component would make
a useful contribution to the farm economy in three ways. It would: (i) help to expedite the
construction of feeder road links considered too short and possibly unattractive for contractors using
heavy mechanization; (ii) assist unemployed labour with food-for-work in the 'hungry season' after
the harvest has either been consumed, repaid or sold; and (iii) equipment made available under this
sub-component would be used by the SLRA for training purposes. An average of bout 120 km of
feeder roads can be expected to be rehabilitated by labour-intensive methods each year - about 50 km
with the equipment-intensive replica and about 25 km with the labour-intensive replica. The project
would finance the cost of light equipment for feeder road rehabilitation, the supervision costs and
wages of the labour gangs, and operation and maintenance costs. Food rations for the labour-
intensive sub-component would be provided by the World Food Progranmne (WFP) and would consist
of a nutritionally balanced food basket the actual market value of which would be far higher. Over
the three year project period, total rations would amount to 450 tons of rice, 35 tons of dried fish and
35 tons of cooking oil. This would provide about 90,000 food rations per year - 400 labourers (40
groups of labourers with each group consisting of 10 labourers) per year working for 25 days per
month for nine months each year.
49/   When funds are available, the first priority of the farm household after meeting the
first few obligations is most often investment in a metal sheet roof for the house.
50/   op cit. Ministry of Works and Labour, Survey of the Classified Road Network and
Important Feeder Roads.



- 31 -
4.14 Research-Extension Linkages. Project funds would be used to revive the recently established
National Agricultural Research Council (NARCC) to enable it to carry out its mandate of coordinating
agricultural research in Sierra Leone. The aim is to ensure that, based on feedback from farmers on
the improved technology introduced, research in future is demand-driven and directly relevant to the
technical and socio-economic constraints faced by farmers in the use of improved technologies. The
challenge is to obtain the active participation by farmers as end-users of the technology, in influencing
and determining the agenda for agricultural research as it evolves. Specifically, the project would
finance activities organized by NARCC to coordinate research and obtain feedback from farmers in
the technology promoted by the agricultural extension services. These activities would include joint
meetings of research scientists with farmers and Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) to carry out a
programme of crop variety and agronomic research trials on farmers' fields. These OFAR trials are
crucial to the ultimate success of Sierra Leone's agricultural research effort and have been severely
neglected in the past due to lack of funding and having been accorded low priority. Starting 1989/90,
funding to NARCC was to be provided through a government subvention but this has till now been
negligible. The project would enable NARCC to monitor, evaluate and coordinate the research effort
of long-established research institutes in Sierra Leone for OFAR trials and related demonstrations on
farmers' fields.
4.15   To facilitate feedback from farmers on the technical packages being promoted, to use this
feedback to modify and generate technical packages which are directly relevant to farmers needs, and
to encourage the conduct and publication of research which addresses farmers' technical and socio-
economic constraints, the project would assist NARCC to carry out those components of its mandate
which have a direct bearing on strengthening research-extension-farmer linkages. Specifically,
included in the funding would be regular visits, one every two months, to farmers' fields jointly with
SMSs and AIs; liaison with national and international agricultural research institutes including
regional institutes; diagnostic surveys; socio-economic studies; and the preparation of periodic and
annual reports providing an assessment of the results of technology adoption and directions for future
agricultural research development. The project would provide funding for materials and equipment
for the following programme of crop variety trials to be conducted with participation by farmers on
farmers' fields: at least 965 trials for rice, 100 for maize, 310 each for cassava and sweet potato, 150
for groundnut, 80 for cow pea, and a nominal number for cayenne pepper. Provision has also been
made for financing vehicles and motorbikes for participating staff, computer and office equipment for
NARCC, and operation and maintenance costs.
4.16   Coordinating Unit. To enable the DAF to coordinate and implement the ASSP and, in the
process, to strengthen its implementation capacity also for future projects and programmes in the
agriculture sector, the project would finance vehicles, office and computer equipment and technical
assistance for the Coordination Unit (CU). The CU would be established by merging the current
procurement and financial management units of the DAF. An internationally recruited Chief
Technical Coordinator (CTC) and Financial Controller (FC) would be retained by the CU. The CTC
would coordinate the ASSP and the FC would be responsible for all its financial aspects. Other staff
of the CU would comprise a Chief Procurement Officer, a Procurement Officer, an Assistant
Procurement Officer, a Senior Project Accountant, four accountants and an adequate number of
support staff.
D. Project Costs and Financing
4.17   The current undisbursed IDA balance in the ASSP amounting to US$19.5 million constitutes
69 percent of the total cost of the project estimated at US$28.3 million. Of the total project cost,



- 32 -
US$21.4 million or 76 percent is the foreign exchange cost and almost US$7 million the local cost
(Annex J). Taxes and duties amount to US$2.4 million (equivalent to Le 1.3 billion). The base cost
estimate, obtained at appraisal in May 1991, has been adjusted to reflect prices expected to prevail at
resumption of ASSP disbursements scheduled for January 1993. Total contingencies amount to 13.9
percent of total costs: physical contingencies 3.6 percent and price contingencies, calculated on base
costs plus physical contingencies and compounded annually, to 8 percent. The project cost estimate is
based on the following assumptions for domestic and international inflation for each of the four
project years respectively: international inflation at 0.8%, 1.7%, 3.6%  and 3.6%, and domestic
inflation at 37%, 21 %, 10% and 10%. Compared to the appraisal exchange rate of Le 250 to the US
Dollar, the exchange rate expected to prevail at implementation is estimated at Le 445. Thereafter,
the exchange rate in each of the project years would maintain a constant purchasing power parity
between domestic and foreign goods. All costs are incremental. Table 1 below outlines the main
components and their respective costs, and Table 2 the proposed financing plan for the revised ASSP.
Table I
Proiect Costs Includine ContinRencies 1/
(USS Millions)
Local      Foreien      Total        9
Technology Transfer                    3.41        5.67       9.08        32.1
Feeder Road Rehabilitation             1.69       6.13        7.82        27.6
Inputs and Agro-Processing             1.45       8.19        9.64        34.0
Research/Extension Linkages           0.25        0.12        0.37         1.3
Coordination Unit                     0.10         1.31        1.41        5.0
Total                   6.90       21.42       28.32       100.0
1/     Including duties and taxes in the arnount of USS2.4 milion, and contingencies amounting to US$2.9 million.
4.18   Financing. The Financing Plan shown in Table 2 below contains the contribution by the
World Food Programme in respect of food rations for the labour gangs under the labour-intensive
feeder roads sub-component as well as funding from food aid of the United Nations Volunteers who
would be provide technical support to some of the components.
Table 2
Financine Plan
Original ASSP              Revised ASSP
Financier              SDR Million   SDR Million         USD Million 1/
IDA                      20.3           13.9 2/            19.5
IFAD                      5.1           2.1 2/              3.0
Government                1.1           4.1                 5.8
Beneficiaries             0.8
Total            27.3          20.1                28.3
1/     Converted at an exchange rate of SDR 1.40687 to the US Dollar
2/      Undisbursed balance



- 33 -
E. Procurement
4.19   All goods and services financed under the IDA Credit and IFAD Loan would be procured in
accordance with IDA Procurement Guidelines following the procurement arrangements shown in the
table below. Except for the feeder roads component, all other procurement will be undertaken by the
ASSP Coordination Unit in DAFF. The procurement for the feeder roads component would be
carried out by the Sierra Leone Roads Authority for roads to be rehabilitated through ICB;
equipment, estimated at US$1.1 million, required for feeder road rehabilitation using labour-intensive
methods would be procured by Equipro (in consultation with the ILO) following Bank ICB Guidelines
on the Procurement of Goods and Works. The proportion of ICB in the procurement of civil works
is 98 percent, for vehicles 100 percent and for goods, equipment and materials 89 percent. The
Bank's sample bidding documents will be used for procurement for ICB and LCB.
Amounts and Methods of Procurement
(US$ Million)
Procurement Catezorv                   ICB             LCB            Other           Total
Civil Works
IDA            (2.8)           (0.1)                           (2.9)
[FAD           (0.6)           (0.0)                           (0.7)
Total           3.8             0.4                            4.2
Vehicles & Spare Parns
IDA            (1.7)                                          (1.7)
IFAD           (0.0)                                          (0.0)
Total           2.7                                            2.7
Goods, Equipment & Materials
IDA            (7.0)           (0.7)                           (7.7)
[FAD           (1.3)           (0.1)                           (1.4)
Total           8.8             1.0                            9.8
Consultancies, Technical
Assistance, Studies & Training
IDA                                            (3.5)           (3.5)
IFAD                                           (0.8)           (0.8)
Tote]                                          6.5             6.5
Incremental Recurrent Costs
IDA                                            (3.7)           (3.7)
IFAD                                           (0.2)           (0.2)
Total                                          5.1             5.1
Total
IDA            (11.5)          (0.8)           (7.2)          (19.5)
IFAD            (1.9)          (0.1)           (1.0)          (3.0)
Total           15.3            1.4            11.6           28.3
Note: Figures in parentheses denote amounts financed by IDA and IFAD; the remainder would be
financed by the Government
4.20   For the rehabilitation of feeder roads, three ICB civil works contracts, each valued at about
US$3.8 million are envisaged. Rehabilitation works, aggregating US$0.4 million, for selected
extension training institutes scattered across the country may not be attractive to foreign firms and, as
such, Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) procedures, acceptable to IDA, would be followed. IDA
financing for LCB would be limited to US$0.1 million. LCB would follow the practice of public bid



- 34 -
opening and clearly stated evaluation criteria. The award would be made to the lowest evaluated
responsive bidder and foreign bidders would be allowed to participate if they were to so desire. The
first LCB document would be reviewed by the Bank before it is released to the bidders. The
threshold for prior review for all civil works would be US$100,000. All of the vehicles (US$2.7
million) and goods. equipment and materials (US$8.8 million) would be procured under ICB. IDA
Guidelines on margin of preference will apply. Other small items available locally at competitive
prices would be procured by LCB up to an aggregate amount of US$1.0 million with proposed IDA
financing of US$0.7 million. All procurement of goods through ICB would be exempt from pre-
shipment price inspection by the Government's appointed inspection agency, although it would
continue to carry out the quality and quantity inspection.
4.21   Consultants for technical assistance and studies would be recruited in accordance with IDA
Guidelines for the appointment of Consultants. This includes the hiring of procurement agents to
undertake the procurement of agricultural inputs and crop-processing machinery valued at US$7.5
million. Also envisaged is a separate services contract for delivery-to-site of these inputs and
machinery, that is, delivery to designated stores/depots and integrated crop-processing centers. All
contracts for Consultants would be subject to prior review by IDA.
4.22   At the Project Launch Workshop, procurement training would be provided to all staff in each
implementing agency assigned responsibility for handling procurement in the Project. Procurement
planning and action plans will be given particular emphasis. To strengthen procurement management,
the revised ASSP has ensured the separation of responsibility between the Senior Procurement
Officer, vested with the ultimate responsibility for procurement within DAF, and the Financial
Controller. Each officer would report independently to the internationally recruited Chief Technical
Coordinator for the ASSP who would be located in the ASSP Coordination Unit.
F. Disbursement
4.23   The remaining IDA Credit and IFAD Loan would be disbursed over a period of four years.
The project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1996 and closed by June 30, 1997. Small
contracts not exceeding US$10,000 would be reimbursable based on the SOEs. The Coordination
Unit would maintain adequate records and accounts for disbursements against SOEs. The Terms of
Reference for the Auditors of the Project would include a requirement that SOEs be verified and that
a statement to this effect be included in the Annual Statement of Accounts.
Summary Disbursement Schedule
(USS Millions)
CateYor-y                    Amount of Allocation  ExDenditure Financed
IDA      IFAD           (perent)
Civil Works                   2.9      0.6               95
Vehicles                      1.0      0.0               65
Equipment and Materials       7.1      1.4               95
Technical Assistance, Studies  3.5     0.8               65
& Training
Incremental Recurrent Costs   5.0      0.2          70% through end December 1995
and 30% starting Januay 1996
Total         19.5      3.0



- 35 -
Disbursement Schedule for IDA and IFAD
(USS Millions)
CY            1993         1994          1995          1TOW Total
IDA          5.9           6.0           4.4          3.2           19.5
IFAD         0.7           1.1           0.7          0.5            3.0
Tol          6.6           7.1           5. 1          3.7          22.5
G. Project and Special Accounts
4.24   Assurances have been obtained that a Special Account for the Project would be opened by the
Borrower at the Bank of Sierra Leone with an authorized amount of US$800,000 to cover eligible
expenditures for four months disbursements under the IDA Credit and in the amount of US$350,000
to cover eligible expenditures for four months disbursements under the IFAD Loan. A Project
Account for counterpart funds, that is, the Government's contribution in local currency, would also be
opened in the name of DAFF with a local commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The Government's
contribution would be reflected in the approved annual budget and would be paid into the Project
Account quarterly in advance. The Coordination Unit in the DAFF would be responsible for
maintaining and administering the two accounts in accordance with established accounting procedures.
It would prepare estimates for quarterly cash requirements for the Project based on appraisal
estimates, except where amendments are necessitated by cost increases or changes in project
implementation and agreed with IDA and IFAD. The budgets comprising these estimates would be
submitted to IDA for approval.
H. Audit and Reporting
4.25   The Government would ensure that DAF arranges for an annual audit of the Special and
Project Accounts by independent auditors acceptable to IDA and that the auditor's reports be
submitted to IDA within four months of the end of each project year. It would include a separate
opinion on the use of the SOEs. In addition, it would ensure that an internal audit of the two
accounts also be carried out. The internal audits will be reflected in quarterly statements and reports
of Project expenditures which would be made available to IDA no later than the middle of the
following quarter. Progress on the implementation of the ASSP would be regularly reported through
Quarterly Progress Reports. These reports would be prepared by the Coordination Unit and will be
made available to IDA two weeks before the end of the following quarter. The progress reports
would also include reporting on compliance with the procurement plans and schedules for all
procurement under the project including that carried out by other implementing agencies as well as an
updated Procurement and Processing Implementation Schedule as an attachment. A Mid-Term
Review (MTR) would be carried out jointly by the IDA, IFAD and DAFF, at the end of which an
action-oriented MTR Report would be prepared. At the end of the project implementation period, a
Project Completion Report (PCR) would be prepared by the GOSL no later than six months beyond
the project closing date.
I. Project Implementation
4.26   The revised ASSP would be coordinated and implemented by a Coordination Unit (CU) to be
established in the Office of the Director-General, DAF (Annexes F, G and I). The DAF would



- 36 -
implement the component for Technology Transfer and Research-Extension Linkages and would be
assisted by the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL) for the small sub-component for strengthening Rural
Banks for which the BSL would have oversight responsibility. Two of the five components would be
executed by agencies outside the DAF with the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) - Department
of Feeder Roads - responsible for the Feeder Roads component of which the labour-intensive feeder
roads sub-component would be supervised by the ILO. Each of the project components would be
implemented in close and regular coordination with the CU through a Coordinating Committee (CC)
to be chaired by the Director-General, DAF. Other members of the CC would include: the Deputy
Financial Secretary and the Director of Planning (Department of Finance, Development and Economic
Planning); the Chief Technical Coordinator for the Project; the National Extension Coordinator
(NEC); the National Research Coordinator (NRC); the Chief Agriculturist, DAF; the Chiefs of the
Forestry, Fisheries, Livestock, Land and Water Development, and the Monitoring, Evaluation and
Statistics Divisions within DAF; the Head of the Department of Feeder Roads in SLRA; the Director
of the Development Finance Department in the BSL; the two Technical Coordinators responsible for
Input Supply and Agro-Processing, respectively; the Technical Coordinator responsible for the Feeder
Roads component; and the Rural Financial Specialist to be located in the Development Finance
Department of the BOSL. Implementation of each component is described below.
4.27   Technology Transfer. Implementation would take place under the technical direction and
supervision of the National Extension Coordinator (NEC) who would report to the Director-General,
DAFF through the Chief Technical Coordinator (CTC) of the Coordinating Unit for the ASSP.
Procurement responsibility for the technology transfer, research-extension linkages, rural banks and
CU components would rest with the procurement staff in the CU. The responsibility for preparing
policy direction and regional work plans would rest with the Department Heads at Headquarters and
with the Chief Regional Officers (CROs) for implementation. To reach a large number of farmers
and quicken the pace of technology transfer, a group approach to agricultural extension and
technology dissemination would be pursued. This approach is based on the modified training and
visit system. The agricultural extension services of the DAF would convey extension messages to men
and women farmers for improved crop cultivation technology and farm practices, postharvest
technology and practices, natural resource conservation including the planting of trees and reducing
slash and burn practices, livestock health and integration of livestock with crop cultivation, and
improved fish farming in the swamps and along the coast and its integration with farm activity in the
swamps and along the coast. While extension officers would encourage farmers to organize
themselves into groups and/or associations to benefit from economies of scale in credit and input and
output marketing, they would not get involved in the actual organization of farmers into groups. To
ensure that farmers not belonging to a group are also provided extension services, front line extension
staff would interact with all farmers.
4.28   The concept of the Model Production Programme (MPP) Village, which was also introduced
during the IADPs, with clear benefit, would be encouraged. In the MPP, the extension agent resides
within the village assigned to his care and works closely with the target group/population on various
production programmes often with the assistance of NGOs. The basic benefit of the group approach
is its cost-effectiveness in respect of transport and field extension staffing and in maintaining a close
working relationship with farmers. Other important benefits include the elimination of inefficiency,
and practical difficulty, inherent in implementing a system that is rigid and complex for subsistence
farmers with limited time and labour resources and the fact of such a system being more conducive to
the active participation and involvement by farmers in actual planning of their crop activities based on
a crop calendar prepared by the extension officers with direct input from farmers. The crop calendar
would form the basis for subsequent training of the farmers themselves. Having been drawn up with



- 37 -
input from the participating farmers, the crop calendar would also be more acceptable to farmers and
would make for ease in implementation. For the peak season, farm households would be provided
with technical assistance in all aspects of crop production, and after harvest and in the off-season
would receive advice on vegetable cultivation, on improved husbandry of small ruminants, and on
post-harvest technology.
4.29   At the farm level, the transfer of technology would take place through the approximately 900
agricultural instructors (Al) located in villages throughout the country; about 300 of these are assigned
to donor funded projects. Typically, an Al, assisted by two to four agro-technicians, can reach
approximately 500 farm families with the extension message, and cover anywhere from six to ten
villages. 51/ At any one point in time, the Al could be in direct contact with about 10 percent of
the farm families in areas which fall under his jurisdiction. Based on the crop calendar, extension
staff would schedule regular fortnightly visits with farmers with the day fixed well in advance and
communicated to the farmers concerned also well in advance. Quarterly and monthly meetings, field
days, small plot demonstrations and weekly markets would also form an integral part of the crop
calendar and the extension schedule. A programme of extension demonstrations would take place on
farmers fields and through regular field days. The National Agricultural Extension and Tree Crops
Programmes prepared under the original ASSP, with modifications, where necessary, will serve as a
broad guide for the extension demonstrations to be undertaken. 52/ Given the importance of rice
as the primary staple, and given the critical need for raising food output, levels of nutrition, farm
incomes and foreign exchange earnings, the thrust of the demonstration programme, as outlined
below, appears sound. Twenty five percent of the demonstrations will focus on rice (14 percent
upland farming and upland rice technology, 16 percent for inland valley swamp rice, and 5 percent
for mangrove and boliland rice); 20 percent on rice-substitutes such as cassava and sweet potato; 10
percent on maize, sorghum and millet; 15 percent on agro-processing of cassava, groundnut, oil palm
and coffee; and 10 percent for tree crop rehabilitation, agro-forestry, village woodlots and use of
work oxen.
4.30   Because of the severe cash flow constraint faced by the subsistence farmer and difficult access
by him to credit, the project espouses flexibility in the design and application of technical packages
with strong emphasis on improved husbandry. This flexibility would enable farmers, in cases where
they are unable to adopt every recommendation of a technical package, to make an initial start in the
uptake of yield-enhancing technology and progressively derive higher output and income through
modified use of the package. An essential prerequisite for such modification would be its sanctioning
by agricultural research scientists prior to the dissemination by extensiOn staff of the technology in
question. 53/ Thus, conceivably, there could be a situation or crop season when finances might
not permit the farmer to use the exact amounts of improved seed and fertilizer prescribed by the
technical package. In this instance, farmers, on the advice of extension staff, could use improved
51/   To upgrade the quality of extension services, it is envisaged that the post of the agro-
technician will be abolished with qualifying incumbents retrained and upgraded to the
level of agricultural instructors.
52/   op cit.
51/   Under the IADPs, some flexibility as to the use of technical packages did exist but
this was confined to soil types and to the extent to which swamp development had
taken place.



- 38 -
technology modified to suit their financial circumstances. Such modification would permit the
continuation of the process of modernization and improvement in farm productivity, through
upgrading of technology, albeit at a slower pace. A gradual promotion of improved technology
would be preferable to a process of complete adoption followed by a complete dismissal of yield
enhancing technology as has been known to take place in Sierra Leone.
4.31   The technology extended to farmers would, for the most part, be intermediate input/output
technology to begin with. The impact, though limited would not be insignificant. For subsistence
farmers, which the ASSP is primarily designed to assist, the design of the technology package would
be simple and, more importantly, with respect to input use, flexible. To place improved technology
within the easy financial reach of a large number of farmers, the design of the improved technical
packages in respect of input coefficients would be variable within strict limits established by the
research scientists of the agricultural research institutes. The cash-flow and financial obligations of
farmers would determine the extent to which they would be able to implement a particular technical
package at any one point in time. 54/ The merit of this approach is that poor farmers would not
be excluded from participating in methods to increase yields, output and incomes and would have the
following options: (i) adoption of improved farm practices, such as correct spacing and weeding, with
the use of improved seed only; (ii) adoption of improved farm practices with the use of improved
seed and some fertilizer; and (iii) adoption of improved farm practices with the use of improved seed
and the full prescription of fertilizer. In each case, the farmer would be made aware by the extension
officers of the different levels of yield, output and income that could be expected from the flexible
approach to the adoption of technical packages based on prevailing input and output prices. Because
of the high cost of fertilizer relative to output price, and less than optimal fertilizer response in some
soil conditions, fertilizer is recommended as only one part of an improved package. As crop yields
improve, farmers would be able to graduate to higher and higher levels of technology the farm-gate
price permitting. The relatively better-off medium and large-scale farmers who could afford modern
inputs in line with original recommendations would be advised accordingly and would benefit
commensurately from the resulting higher output. Soil and water conservation and other
environmental concerns would form an integral part of the extension message in each type of
agricultural extension and in all technical packages.
4.32   Programmes to transfer technology to farmers by other Divisions of the DAF that would be
revived through the project are as follows. The priority for the Forestry Division, headed by the
Chief Conservator of Forests, would be to arrest environmental degradation and promote resource
conservation through sound management of the forest resource. The Division would regularize and
intensify its efforts to disseminate appropriate extension messages to farmers on the adverse effect on
crop yields from slash and burn techniques. Further, it would emphasize the necessity to farmers of
planting trees to arrest soil erosion and derive financial benefits from the fuel wood, fruit and wood
for poles that this planting could yield. The Tropical Forestry Action Plan (TFAP) contains
numerous projects and programmes which were identified at the TFAP Round Table held in Freetown
in May 1990. In addition to its field extension work, the Forestry Division would focus on
prioritizing these projects and programmes. Revision of the outdated Forest Ordinance of 1912
(subsequently renamed the Forestry Act) would constitute a key task and would include the drawing
up, by mid-term, of a legislative framework for setting and revising royalty rates based on market
54/   This is particularly relevant given that the response of improved rice varieties to
fertilizer use has been observed, through adaptive research trials, to be significant but
moderate in all of the rice ecologies.



- 39 -
value, introducing market forces in the allocation and management of forest concessions, and
promoting competitive practices in the extraction and marketing of timber and non-timber forest
products. The overall consideration in forest resource management would be governed by the
principle of sustained yield management and its exploitation based on the economic value of wood.
4.33   A restored livestock extension service would be critical to enhancing the farmer's financial
security provided by small ruminants and, in circumstances of growing labour scarcity, by draught
power as a substitute for labour in some ecologies. Accordingly, the Livestock Division of the DAF
would be strengthened by the project both at the field level and at HQs, and the acute supply
bottleneck of essential drugs and vaccines for livestock health, it is envisaged, would also be eased.
This would enable the veterinary staff to treat the livestock herd for fatal diseases and enable field
extension staff to advise farmers on livestock health and husbandry. An important aspect of livestock
extension would relate to the use of work oxen by farmers as a means of enhancing net financial
returns and releasing scarce labour resources for other urgent farm and off-farm economic activity.
Livestock extension messages would also educate farmers on the advantages and means of integrating
livestock with crop cultivation in various ecologies and within various farming systems. Given the
shortages and rising cost of labour, as well as the need for ecological balance, integrated farming
systems would be placed high on the research agenda of the agricultural research institutes. The
Fisheries Division of the DAF would be strengthened to provide extension advice on artisanal and
swamp fishing and also on efficient methods for curing and smoking fish. An important source of
protein, fish is in high demand but artisan fishermen and farmers are unable to fully exploit the vast
resource along Sierra Leone's long coast line for lack of technical know how, fishing gear and
equipment. Swamp fishing has great potential as a means of nutrition and livelihood but the pace of
tapping this potential is limited by a lack of sufficiently tested application. While research into the
technology for swamp fishing and its integration into the farming system is promoted, extension staff
of the Fisheries Division would advise farmers on the technology which presently exists.
4.34   The Land and Water Development Division (LAWDD) has a key role to play in the pattern
and pace of development of the agricultural sector. Severe technical constraints which have hampered
swamp development in the past remain a serious challenge even today. The technical problems
surrounding water control and structures in swamps has been studied by the GOSL and donors but no
cost-effective and practical solution has yet been found. Other serious problems in some of the
swamp ecologies relate to the iron-toxicity and salinity in soils. The ASSP would strengthen the
LAWDD and enable it, in consultation with the internationally recruited Swamp/Watershed
Management Expert, intensify its efforts to provide technical assistance to farmers cultivating
developed swamps, carry out land capability assessments, undertake land-use planning, analyze the
numerous studies which currently exist within the LAWDD on swamp development, consolidation and
management. In this endeavour, the LAWDD would also ensure that methods of land clearing and
development of swamps are not hazardous to the ecology concerned and that these methods and
practices are environmentally sound.
4.35   To support the efforts of all of the DAF Divisions and monitor and evaluate the results of
technology transfer, implementation of the programmes of the remaining two DAF Divisions, namely
the Communications Division and the Monitoring. Evaluation and Statistics Division (MESD) would
be as follows. The Communications Division would produce audio-visual aids to facilitate the and
promote the dissemination to farmers of improved farming practices and technology by the various
DAF Divisions. These aids would include wall charts and posters, black and white photographs,
graphic designs, audio-cassette programmes, brochures and booklets, quarterly newsletters, mobile
agricultural slide and film shows, agricultural news coverage, public address systems, and banners,



- 40 -
the substance and design of which would be determined in conjunction with extension staff. It would
be important to obtain the ideas of extension officers for each type of agricultural extension and from
staff at all levels, particularly front-line extension staff that are familiar with the training needs of
farmers and the affinity expressed by them for particular training media. The MESD would focus its
efforts on the collection, collation and analysis of food and cash crop yields and production by
ecology and farm size for new and rehabilitated agricultural areas, for swamps newly developed
and/or consolidated, the number of farmers in each circle that are initiated into adopting various
improved technology packages, sustaining the use of these technical packages, reverting to traditional
practices, fully or partially adopting the technical packages, the impact of adopted technology on
productivity, output and financial returns, the prices of farm inputs and output, and information with
respect to the labour market, rural financial market and input and output markets. It would also be
responsible for preparing farm and crop budgets, carrying out various types of household surveys and
conducting the Agricultural Census. A United Nations Volunteer (UNV) agricultural statistician
would be recruited to assist the MESD.
4.36   Rural Credit. The Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL) would be responsible for the implementation
of the Rural Bank sub-component with the technical assistance of an internationally recruited Rural
Finance Specialist and in association with the office of NEC in the DAF. Procurement of the
equipment and consultant would be undertaken on behalf of the BSL by the DAF. The Development
Finance Department (DFD) of the BSL would be responsible for ensuring that each participating
Rural Bank arranges for the collection and transport of vehicles and equipment allocated to it. The
DFD would determine the allocation of vehicles and equipment based upon substantive work plans
prepared in advance by and for each of the following six rural banks (RBs): Yoni Rural Bank and
Kunike Rural Bank (both in the Tonkolili District), Marampa and Masimera Rural Bank in the Port
Loko District, Mattru Rural Bank in the Bonthe District, Bombali Rural Bank in the Bombali District
and Sewama Rural Bank in the Kenema District - excluded are the Daru Rural Bank and the Moamale
Rural Bank both of which are located in the Eastern Province and both of which remain closed on
account of insecurity along the border with Liberia. The implementation plan for the sub-component
would specify the particular technical assistance and transport and equipment needs for each rural
bank and provide a comprehensive logistics and work plan clearly showing the extent and type of
assistance that would be provided to individual farmers or farmers' groups including those located in
rural areas that are relatively remote but within the vicinity of these rural banks. The DFD would
ensure that individual rural banks, helped with the technical assistance provided under the project,
assess the potential demand for seasonal credit in the areas that are under the purview of each. This
would be achieved through close and regular coordination with the DAF to keep abreast on the pace
of progress in agricultural production and processing on the one hand and rehabilitation of feeder
roads on the other. Based on this information, each rural bank would undertake the preparation of
quarterly work plans for lending and credit recovery operations in accordance with the DAF crop
calendar drawn-up for each ecological zone. Quarterly progress would be monitored by each rural
bank and any obstacles to progress promptly reported to the DFD for resolution in consultation with
the ASSP Coordination Unit and IDA. The Rural Finance Specialist (RFS) would be located within
the DFD to assist with the implementation of the sub-component in accordance with his Terms of
Reference. The main areas of technical assistance to be provided by the RFS would include an
assessment of the rural financial sector and recommendations for increasing the operational efficiency
and financial viability of rural banks.
4.37   Input Supply and Agro-Processing. At this point in Sierra Leone's agricultural development,
the institutional transition to privatized farm input supply is limited by weak demand and high
marketing costs. The reasons for these have already been discussed and pertain in the case of the



- 41 -
demand factor to the poor farmgate price and the high cost of imported farm inputs and labour, and
in the case of marketing costs to weak feeder roads and poor storage and marketing infrastructure and
facilities. Implementation of this component would necessitate a careful and well-integrated joint
effort by the DAF and farmers' associations. Farm inputs and credit, once provided by the extension
officer, either free of charge or at highly subsidized rates under the Bank-funded IADPs, will now, as
required by the Government's policy, be left to the private sector. A reliable and cost-effective input
supply and distribution mechanism would inevitably take time to develop. The pace of its
development and sustainability would be governed by the strength of the enabling environment for
private sector investment as it evolves. Private distribution channels would be expected to multiply in
the process and to strengthen with anticipated improvements in transport and marketing infrastructure
and better access to foreign exchange, credit and local currency. Elimination of input subsidies would
be integral to a strong enabling environment not only because of valid concerns with economic
distortions and economic inefficiency but also to provide the necessary adequate incentives for entry
by private sector in the marketing of modern farm inputs. Because of these factors, and because
much time has already been lost, transitional arrangements for access by small farmers to the timely
availability of inputs at prices more competitive than those now prevalent are necessary. These
arrangements are outlined. Procurement of the inputs and agro-processing machinery and equipment
would be undertaken through a services contract for the import and delivery-to-site based on
international competitive bidding. Each of the two Technical Coordinator for Inputs and Agro-
Processing, respectively, would be responsible for the procurement of items in their respective sub-
components. In the implementation of the component, the Technical Coordinator for Inputs would be
supported by technical assistance from a UNV Cooperative Trainer and an Expert in Agricultural
Extension, and the Technical Coordinator for Agro-Processing by two UNVs in mechanical
engineering.
4.38   In the case of farm inputs and aericultural tools and implements, deliveries would be made to
selected DAF stores and depots, some of which were constructed with IDA assistance in the past. An
internationally recruited Technical Coordinator for Inputs would, in consultation with the National
Extension Coordinator, and through the NEC with the CROs, specify the dates by which the various
inputs were to be made available at particular locations/stores/depots for purchase by farmers. These
dates would be determined with reference to the relevant crop calendar prepared each year by the
NEC jointly with the Chiefs of DAF Divisions, CROs and farmers for each ecological zone. The
quantities of fertilizer imports provided for by the ASSP are well within the DAF's existing storage
capacity which is 20,000 tons. Purchases by farmers would be made from ten specified DAF
stores/depots at predetermined prices ex-depot. Cost recovery from the sale of the inputs and farm
tools and implements would be the responsibility of the accountants of the Department of Finance,
Development and Economic Planning who would be responsible for recording and depositing the
recovered sales proceeds into the Treasury. The methodology for pricing ASSP financed inputs is
indicated in Annex D. All transactions would be conducted strictly on a cash basis. The use of th
farm inputs, especially fertilizer, would be closely monitored by extension officers and monitoring
and evaluation offices assigned by the CA to particular circles - this monitoring would be part of the
regular extension and monitoring activities of these officers and would be recorded by farm size and
owner, the crop(s) that it would used for, the amounts that would be used for each crop and for each
farm, and the yields and output that would be obtained for each crop and farm. It would be the
extension officers that would advise farmers on the use of the inputs although the decision as to
whether a farmer would purchase the inputs would rest with the farmers themselves and would be
determined by market signals and expected financial profitability.



- 42 -
4.39   As regards the agro-processing sub-component, under the supervision of an internationally
recruited Technical Coordinator, the crop processing machinery and equipment would be delivered to
fifteen pre-specified locations. At each location, an integrated agro-processing center would be
established by designated farmers' associations. The focus of the integrated processing centers would
be on the processing of paddy, cassava, maize, oil palm, groundnut and pepper depending on the
agro-ecological zone and the major farm activity in the area concerned. The HQs of the agro-
processing sub-component would be Makeni in the Bombali District with sub-offices located in the
DAF's District HQs in the Port Loko District and in the Tonkolili, Koinadugu, Kenema, Bo, Kambia
and Moyamba Districts. The GOSL would, with the assistance of the DAF, select fifteen farmers'
associations, to head each of the fifteen integrated crop-processing centers, from a list of forty-two
farmers' associations that had successfully participated in the two previous phases of the UNDP-
funded post-harvest projects at the farm level. The criteria for the selection of the farmers'
associations would be: (i) age of the farmers associations (at least seven years); (ii) stable record of
membership (less than ten percent turnover in the last five years); (iii) good creditworthiness reflected
in past (last five years) and current financial accounts/records with a rural or commercial bank(s); (iv)
sound financial management that could be upheld by up to date internal and external audits and an
absence of evidence pointing to corruption and wrong-doing since inception of the relevant farmers'
association; (v) strong Association management skills coupled with democratic decision-making within
its membership; (vi) a clear absence of barriers to membership by women in the Association; and (vii)
a good faith written agreement that the selected farmers' association will purchase the crop-processing
machinery and equipment at full cost four months prior to project completion.  The crop-processing
machinery and equipment would be capitalized by the respective farmers' associations over the project
period. The methodology for the purchase if crop-processing equipment by the farmers associations
is given in Annex E along with a sample draft agreement for farmer association purchase of such
equipment.
4.40   Feeder Roads. The Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA), through its Department of Feeder
Roads (DFR), would implement the feeder roads component. It would do so under the direction of
an internationally recruited Technical Coordinator for Feeder Roads (TCFR) who would be located in
the DFR and who would closely liaise with the Chief Technical Coordinator of the ASSP who would
be located in the Office of the Director-General, DAF. The TCFR would be responsible for quarterly
reporting to IDA through the DAF on the progress of the component overall through regular field
supervision. The ILO-supervised labour-intensive sub-component would be implemented by the
GOSL sub-contracting with the ILO through the SLRA. The Chief Technical Advisor, ILO (based in
Freetown) would supervise implementation of the labour-intensive sub-component with the help of an
internationally recruited Engineering Advisor, an ILO Trainer, a UNV -Procurement, two UNVs -
mechanical engineering, and two UNVs - civil engineering. In the interest of domestic capacity
building, local consultants would be eligible to compete in the procurement for consultants services to
carry out detailed engineering and design. SLRA/DFR staff would receive training in procurement
along with staff in the DAF. To carry out the rehabilitation of 360 km for feeder roads through
labour-intensive methods, small domestic contractors would be selected. A bidding process for the
selection of domestic contractors, trained and certified by the ILO in labour-intensive feeder road
rehabilitation, would take place and the rehabilitation itself would be supervised by the ILO. The
work force for the labour-intensive sub-component, consisting of eight labour gang groups each
comprising ten labourers, would carry out rehabilitation work on road sections situated on relatively
flat terrain requiring limited earth work and where the quality of roadside material was considered
suitable for gravel surfacing. The international bidding for the remaining 170 km of feeder roads
would be handled by the Technical Coordinator for Feeder Roads who would be located in the
Department of Feeder Roads in the SLRA. At the end of the project implementation period, the
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -- ---



- 43 -
equipment procured for the ILO-supervised component would revert to the SLRA for provision of
further training in feeder road rehabilitation and maintenance.
4.41   Research/Extension Linkages. The National Agricultural Research Coordinating Council
(NARCC) would liaise with the National Extension Coordinator and Chief Agriculturist, research
institutes, SMSs and farmers to coordinate regular visits, once every two months, to farmers fields to
test and demonstrate technology previously tested only on-station. These adaptive research trials
would be managed by the agricultural research institutes in the first two years of the project and in
the last two years of the project by SMSs. This is because, in the many years of scarce budgetary
funding which ultimately led to the collapse of the DAF's capacity to deliver basic agricultural
services to farmers, the agricultural research institutes took it upon themselves to undertake this
function in the interest of the farmers. By the third year of the project, however, it is envisaged that
the DAF would be in a stronger position to assume the lead role for carrying out the OFAR
demonstration and trials. At this time, then, the agricultural research institutes would concede this
role to the SMSs. All OFAR would be carried out on farmers' fields with their active participation
before being made an integral part of the final extension message that would be disseminated by
extension officers to farmers. The findings of the OFAR would first be analyzed by the scientists of
the agricultural research institutes with input as required from the SMSs and then be made available
to the NARCC for review and publication. Based on the regular feedback provided to research
scientists in the agricultural research institutes by farmers through the extension service, agricultural
research would increasingly undertake to address effectively the technical, health, sociological and
economic problems encountered by farmers in the use of the technology promoted and its sustained
adoption.
4.42   Coordination Unit. In accordance with the Amending Agreement for the Development Credit
Agreement, and guided by the Implementation Schedule (Annex G), under the leadership of the Chief
Technical Coordinator (CTC), the Coordination Unit would be responsible for the implementation and
coordination of the ASSP. This would necessitate a close monitoring of the performance and progress
of the project throughout the project implementation period. For this purpose, the CU would work
closely with the Offices of the National Extension Coordinator, Chief Agriculturist and DAF technical
divisions and liaise regularly with the Offices of the National Research Coordinator, the Director of
the Development Finance Department of the Bank of Sierra Leone, the Head of the Department of
Feeder Roads within the Sierra Leone Roads Authority. The officials heading these offices would, in
turn, work closely with the foreign and local technical assistants recruited to enhance the
implementation of the various components.
4.43   The Coordination Unit would be responsible, on an on-going basis, for:
(i)    undertaking the procurement for the technology transfer, rural banks and research-extension
linkages components and monitoring the performance of procurement for the input supply and
agro-processing and feeder roads components that would be the responsibility of the respective
technical coordinators for input supply, agro-processing and feeder roads;
(ii)   project performance reporting, and financial reporting and audit, as required and agreed, for
each component of the project; and
(iii)  reporting on the proceeds from cost recovered, accompanied by evidence of deposit of these
proceeds into the Treasury, from the sale of all project financed inputs and the capitalization
of the crop-processing equipment.



- 44 -
It would also ensure, as agreed that:
(iv)   by each February 15, the prices for project financed inputs, including that of fertilizer with
the agreed relevant level of subsidy, are posted at the designated DAF input stores/depots;
(v)   the parity price of rice is reviewed each quarter;
(vi)  the farmgate and consumer price of rice is monitored and posted; and
(vii)  the producer price for coffee and cocoa is reviewed and announced.
Also, in accordance with the implementation schedule in Annex F, the CU would ensure:
(viii)  the preparation, by each January 31, of an annual agricultural growth plan, jointly, by the
Heads of the Technical Divisions, the NEC and CA in close consultation with the
internationally recruited Agricultural Policy Planner;
(ix)   the preparation, by each January 31, of an annual, and monthly, work programme, consistent
with the annual agricultural growth plan and consisting of annual technical and operational
work plans, and procurement plans and schedules, for: (a) the DAF, by technical division at
the headquarters level, and for each district and regional office; (b) each rural bank; (c) each
DAF store/depot from which ASSP financed inputs would be sold to farmers; and (d) each of
the 15 farmers associations that is selected to participate in the project; and
(xi)  the preparation, by each March 31, the annual recurrent and public investment budget
proposals for the DAF, by each technical division, and NARCC; and
(xii)   a good understanding of the rationale, by each March 31, of annual recurrent and public
investment proposals for: (a) the DFD for overseeing the rural banks; and (b) the DFR in the
SLRA for the maintenance and new construction of feeder roads.
At mid-term and at the end of project implementation (by project closing), the CU would ensure:
(xiii)  the completion of the a Project Completion Report assessing the achievements and
performance of the project with emphasis on implementation performance and attainment of
production, policy, institutional and infrastructure objectives.
4.44   The CU would also monitor the progress of the Study on the Price and Trade policy Aspects
of Rice as well as the preparation of the Action Plan for the divestiture of DAF's oil palm estates
(plantations and mills) and ensure their timely completion as prerequisites to policy action. In
addition, it would ensure the timely completion of the Manpower Survey, DAF's Three Year Training
Programme and the revised National Agricultural Research plan (NARP).
J. Technical Assistance. Studies and Training
4.45   Given the very weak absorptive capacity of sector institutions, the project would finance 708
man months of technical assistance, of which 35 percent would be local technical assistance, an
essential study for the rice sub-sector and substantial in-country training for training men and women
farmers, trainers of trainers and extension officers, staff in sector institutions and rural bank loan



- 45 -
officers and managers. As regards technical assistance, as is shown below, by component, the feeder
roads component accounts for 40 percent of the foreign technical assistance and the input supply and
agro-processing component a little over 30 percent. Of the remainder, almost half is accounted for by
technical assistance for project coordination and the rest for technology transfer including research-
extension linkages. The fact that the technical assistance is fairly evenly spread across components is
Technical Assistance
(man months)
Technologv Transfer
Agricultural Policy Planner                           24
Swamp/Watershed Management Specialist                 24
UN Volunteer - Agricultural Statistician              48
Rural Finance Specialist                               18
Input Supply and Aero-Processinz
Technical Coordinator for Inputs                       48
Technical Expert in Input Marketing                    24
Agricultural Extension Specialist                     24
Technical Coordinator for Agro-Processing              36
UN Volunteers (2) - Mechanical Engineering             72
Feeder Roads
Technical Coordinator for Feeder Roads                 48
Engineering Advisor,ILO                                36
Trainer, ILO                                           18
UN Volunteer - Procurement                             36
UN Volunteers (2) - Mechanical Engineering             72
UN Volunteers (2) - Civil Engineering                  72
Proiect Coordination
Chief Technical Coordinator, ASSP                     48
Financial Controller                                  48
indicative of the overall serious weakness in implementation capacity of sector institutions.
Accordingly, almost two-thirds of the foreign technical assistance has been allocated for execution of
the project with the proviso that on-going training for counterpart staff by technical assistance
personnel would be a foremost consideration in the regular and rigourous performance evaluation of
the technical assistance. See Annex H for Terms of Reference. Based on the severe setback to sector
institutional capacity and a private sector that has yet to firmly establish itself in roles earlier played
by the public sector, the provision for technical assistance appears to be strongly justified.
4.46   The ASSP-funded study on the Price and Trade Policy Aspects of Rice is critical because of
Government's concern with a food import bill that has escalated, insufficient food security, declining
real farm incomes and increased malnutrition. Given the predominance of rice in the macro and rural
economy of Sierra Leone and the fact that the rice sub-sector has for decades been unable to attain
technical and economic efficiency, and the imperative for it now, under a liberalized exchange rate
and trade regime, to compete effectively as an efficient import substitute creates an urgent need for a
sound Government policy for rice. The study would examine the impact of the liberalized trade
policy on producer incentives, assess its economic costs and benefits, and present various policy
options to the Government for attaining food security while maximizing net financial returns to the
farmer and net economic benefit to the country. This would assist the Government in making the



- 46 -
necessary trade-offs at the policy level by acknowledging the economic costs, including environmental
costs, and incorporating these trade-offs in a strategy for growth.
4.47   To ensure the effective delivery of basic agricultural services by field staff, the project would
finance training for all Divisions of the DAF in accordance with the long-term training programme
designed by the Staff Development and Training Unit of DAF. The programme emphasizes the
building-up of a core of trained trainers in all agriculture disciplines through monthly in-service
training of agricultural instructors (AIs), regular training of Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs), pre-
service training at the certificate and degree levels, and the training of men and women farmers and
artisans. To improve the level and quality of extension advice, it is envisaged that all agro-
technicians would be phased out and upgraded to agricultural instructors through intensified training.
The training itself would comprise practical training with an opportunity for trainees to gain some
experience in teaching short courses under supervision. Follow-up training would include the
introduction of additional courses as needed by individual Divisions of the DAF and would be distinct
from training in the field provided by specific Regional Offices and agricultural development projects.
Over the four year implementation period, the project would make a provision for the following
training: 60 Subject Matter Specialists and Agricultural Instructors through regular quarterly training
and an additional 160 through monthly training; 3,520 Agricultural Instructors through short courses;
40 B.Scs and 40 M.Scs; and 4,000 farmers that would be directly trained through field days
organized by the agricultural extension services of the DAF and many more through demonstration
effect and cumulative impact. Assuming that each farmer follows-up with five to ten farmers, as he
would be expected to do, anywhere from 20,000 to 40,000 farmers and more would receive extension
training in the main areas of agricultural extension. This compares favourably with the successful
programme of extension advice funded by the IDA-financed Eastern IADP III which was able to
reach 16,000 farmers with extension advice.
V. PROFITABILITY. ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Profitability
5.1   Intensive Versus Extensive Cultivation. Sierra Leone has significant unleashed potential in
the production of both food and cash crops, the full realization of which is possible only in the longer
term. This does not rule out, however, substantial increases in output which can be achieved in the
short to medium run through intensive rather than extensive cultivation. High investment costs
associated with new swamp development, and difficult access to and availability of rural credit,
reduce greatly the scope for new swamp development by individual farmers. Similarly, large area
expansion on the uplands is limited by the scarcity and high cost of labour. In the immediate short-
term, therefore, production increases are most likely to emanate from inland valley swamps which
have already been developed and consolidated and also, though to a far lesser extent, from existing
upland farms. This would be achieved through fuller use of existing technology and improved crop
and farm husbandry. Specifically, the technology promoted by the project is intermediate technology
consisting of high yielding seed varieties, the use of fertilizer and manual cultivation.
5.2    The costs of farm labour and mechanization in the cultivation of rice in Sierra Leone have
long been reported to be high. 55/ Now, with exchange rate devaluation and the removal of the
55/   See supervision reports prior to the suspension of disbursements.



- 47 -
almost 100 percent subsidy on mechanization services (instituted in the 1970s), the cost of mechanized
rice cultivation has risen even further and sharply. Regardless of the rice ecology, unleashing the
potential for rice is, thus, a costly proposition, especially for the subsistence farmer. For land
preparation alone, the cost of labour and/or mechanization is almost prohibitive. The wage rate is far
in excess of the minimum wage that is negotiated every two years. Even though the prevailing
minimum wage is at least Le 74 per day (Le 60 about three years earlier), in practice, the farmer
pays anywhere from Le 100 to Le 200 for brushing in addition to Le 100 worth of food and another
Le 150 or so as an allowance for smoking and liquor. The number of man days for land preparation
in developed inland valley swamps can easily add to 250 man days and, in the case of undeveloped
inland valley swamps, to as much as 1,076 man days (approximately 400 man days for land clearing
and 676 man days for earthworks). Upland soils, generally lower in fertility than swamps, have
become less fertile through shifting cultivation and a fallow reduced from about from 12-20 years to
about seven. Poor farm cash flow, insecurity of tenure and difficult access to credit have inhibited
efforts by farmers to replenish soils. The problems to be surmounted for swamp rice cultivation are
quite different from those confronted by farmers on the uplands. In the cultivation of mangrove
swamp rice, the clearing of mangrove forest, particularly of the lethal and recurring 'kire kire' weed
in tidal mangroves, is an essential but highly tedious and labour intensive activity which frequently
forces the farmer to pay an exhorbitant wage for hired labour. In the case of inland valley swamp
ric, there are several levels of sophistication to which swamp development can be pursued. For the
purpose of adopting intermediate technology on inland valley swamps, however, the minimum
relevant prerequisites would include complete de-stumping, partial levelling, and the construction of
dykes and contour bunds for partial water control. These activities require considerable amounts of
labour resources and timely technical assistance. Demanding also of labour and tractor services for
land preparation are the low saucer-shaped swampy grasslands referred to as bolilands. Finally,
tractor services have become essential to land preparation in the riverain grasslands found in southern
coastal areas where labour scarcity is acute and where the labour that is available labour is fully
employed to deal with heavy weed infestation.
5.3    Technology Considerations. A number of improved technical packages and recommended
practices exist in Sierra Leone for the main food crops. These have been formulated over the years
for each major food crop by the Adaptive Crop Research and Extension (Acre) Project funded by
MAF/USAID and published as Crop Production Guides by MANR-USAID-NUC. As is evident from
the section below, for rice, a number of high yielding rice seed varieties may be relevant in the
context of more than one ecology. Some of these varieties are of short duration and others of a more
long duration. For instance, on the uplands, Rok 16 takes between 120 and 130 days to mature, Rok
3 from 140 to 145 days, and Lac 23 from 125 to 135 days - most of these varieties are fairly resistant
to the major rice diseases in the uplands. Similarly, for the lowlands, Rok 5 takes from 130 to 145
days to mature, Rok 6 from 140 to 145 days, Rok 10 from 170 to 190 days, CP 4 from 175 to 200
days, BD 2 from 130 to 150 days and Indo-China Blanc from 200 to 220 days - where iron-toxicity is
a problem, Gissi 27, Suakoko S, Adny 301 and GD 28 are recommended. Fertilizer response, based
on adaptive research trials, is reported to vary substantially ranging from being very good, good, fair
or poor depending upon soil conditions. Overall, the response is reported to be significant but
moderate in all of the rice ecologies.



- 48 -
5.4    The main improved seed varieties for rice by rice ecology are as follows:
Uplands               Rok 3, Rok 16, Lac 23 (red), Rok 17, Rok 18, Rok 19, Rok 20
Inland Valley Swamps  Tos 78, Rok 12, Rok 14, Rok 3, Rok 5, Rok 6, Rok 10, CP 4, Rok 24, Rok 25, Rok
26, Rok 27, Rok 28
Boliland              Rok 3, Rok 5, Rok 10, CP 4, Rok 29, Rok 30
Mangrove Swamps       BD 2, Rok 5, Rok 10, CP 4, Rok 9, Rok 21, Rok 22, Rok 23
Riverain Grassland    Rok 5, Rok 3, CP 4, Rok 10, Indo-Chine Blanc
Irrigated Lowland     Tos 78, Rok 14, Rok 6, Rok 31, Rok 32, Rok 33
Improved varieties also exist for crops other than rice. Thus, for cow pea, the most common variety
cultivated in the North is the "Temne" or "Musaia" and in the South, "Tabe" or "Akara". Improved
cow pea varieties from the IITA include Improved Red (1190) which is recommended for the wet and
dry season as is Improved White (4557), Improved White (3236) for the dry season and Ife Brown
for the wet and dry season. Improved cassava varieties include Rocass 1 and Nucass 1 and in the
case of maize, the recommended varieties are Western Yellow, TZSR Yellow, TZPB White (110-120
days to maturity) and Poza Rica 7931 (90-95 days to maturity).
5.5    Analytical Assumptions. Given the importance of rice as a staple food, the fact of its strong
macro economic bearing, and because it is a crop on which fertilizer use is (given the appropriate
incentives) most likely to be used, the profitability analysis focusses on rice cultivation in inland
valley swamps which, as alluded to above, offer good prospects for increases in yields and output in
the short to medium term. This is not to understate the increase in productivity and output that can
ensue from the application of improved technology to other food and cash crops indicated in Chapter
III. The profitability analysis is based upon a comparison of the 'without' and 'with project' situation
at the farm level assuming (a) no reduction in fertilizer subsidy and (b) elimination of the fertilizer
subsidy. The sensitivity analysis considers the gradual elimination of the fertilizer subsidy along with
changes in other variables. Crop budgets for upland rice and inland valley swamp rice, 'with' and
'without project', were prepared for intermediate levels of improved technology.
5.6   In view of the complexity of the rural labour market, an observation of the labour coefficient
for traditional and improved technology, both for upland and swamp rice (on swamps already
developed), may be noted. Invariably, the upland farm acts as the primary source of food security
for the farm household and is given priority by the farmer in the allocation of family labour. Since
the size of the farm household can vary a great deal between regions, locations and during different
months of the year, for the sake of this analysis, the assumption of the availability per hectare of
family labour at five adult members has been made. Given a farm work-week generally comprising
six days and the crop season ranging between five and six months, the total availability of family
labour per hectare adds to approximately 720 man days per year. As much as 80 percent of this
family labour time is spent for work on the upland farm for cultivating rice, cassava and vegetables.
There is some division of labour with the men concentrating on hunting, fishing and fencing and the
women on collecting palm fruit and fuel wood. The remaining 20 percent of the farm household's
time, that is, 144 man days is available for swamp rice cultivation. This is approximately 65 percent
of the estimated 220 man days per hectare required for swamp rice cultivation on swamps (already
developed) leaving an unfilled labour requirement of 76 man days.
5.7 The input coefficients for improved rice seed and fertilizer in the uplands and in inland valley
swamps are as follows: on the uplands (selected areas where soil degradation is not severe and can be
reversed): 70 kg. of improved seed per hectare and 5 bags SSP, 3.75 bags urea and 1.5 bags MOP;
and in inland valley swamps (selected swamps where the need for fertilizer has been established) 70



- 49 -
kg. of improved seed and of 2.5 bags (50 kilogrammes per bag) of 0-20-20 per hectare and half a bag
of urea. With the use of improved seed, paddy yields on developed inland valley swamps can
increase by about 67 percent and on the uplands by 30 percent with the application of fertilizer.
5&/ In the 'with project' scenario, the rice yield in inland valley swamps is expected to increase
from 2.1 tons to 3.5 tons and on upland farms from 0.7 tons to 1.1 tons. A conversion rate of 67
percent has been assumed for milled rice.
5.8 Results of the Profitability Analysis. The analysis shows that improved technology for rice
when used in the inland valley swamps (developed) could lead to favourable financial returns but not
necessarily when used on the uplands where the soil degradation is severe. It may be noted,
however, that economic profitability is strong and positive for the application of improved technology
both in inland valley swamps (developed) and on the uplands. For inland valley swamps, a
comparison of the 'with' and 'without project' scenarios shows that financial returns Oeones) per
hectare, at the farm level, assuming the existing level of subsidy, more than double in the 'with
Financial and Economic Profitability for Rice at the Farm Level
(with project and with current levels of fertilizer subsidy)
(percent change)
Inland Valley Swamps               Uplands
Financial  Economic             Financial  Economie
Leoneslhectare                   + 152     +77                  -127       +40
Leones/total labour              + 94     +61                   - 28       +44
Leones/kilogram                  + 52     + 6                   - 42       -12
Financial Profitability for Rice at the Farn Level
(with project and with elimination of fertilizer subsidy)
(percent change)
Inland Valley Swamps               Uplands
Financial                        F;niial
Leones/hectare                     -11                              -111
Leones/total labour                 - 9                             - 78
Lcones/kilogram                    -12                             - 112
project' scenario, almost double when profitability is measured by returns to total labour and increase
by one and a half times when profitability is measured by returns per unit volume of output. With
elimination of the fertilizer subsidy, the financial profitability is only slightly weaker in the case of
inland valley swamps: it still shows a doubling for financial returns per hectare, a 76 percent increase
56/    That most farmers have access to improved rice seed may be attributed to years of
rice research and testing carried out by the Rokupr Rice Research Station as well as
the intensified introduction and dissemination of improved seed by Bank and donor-
financed IADPs in the past. Many farmers have been able to meet their improved
seed requirements by multiplying improved seed. However, with the exception of
quality control exercised by the Seed Multiplication Project for the seed multiplied by
its contract growers, quality control and formal seed certification is lacking.



- 50 -
for financial returns to total labour and a 34 percent increase in financial returns per unit volume of
output. The case for a gradual reduction of the fertilizer subsidy versus immediate elimination rests
on the current price of fertilizer relative to farm incomes the levels of which have, over more than a
decade of prolonged economic decline, fallen sharply in real terms. This has prevented the urgently
sought improvement in rice yields in the inland valley swamps that fertilizer use can enable and so
also the reduction in the food import bill and malnutrition, and take-off of the subsistence farmer and
the farm economy.
5.9    Sensitivity Analysis. A sensitivity analysis was carried out for financial profitability at the
farm level for the cultivation of rice in developed inland valley swamps and the uplands with respect
to changes in the paddy yield, the farmgate price of paddy and the wage rate. The results show that
Sensitivity Analysis for Rice
(percent change)
yield         farnmate price         wage rate
-10%             -10%                 +10%
Inland Valley Swamps
Leoroheshctare               -92%              -14%                 -3%
Leones/total labour          -11%             -13%                  -3%
Leones/kilogram              - 3%              -11%                  0%
Uvlands
LeonesJhectare               -54%             -54%                  -24%
Leones/total labour          -39%             -37%                   0%
Leones/kilogran              -70%             -53%                  -24%
for inland valley swamps, the financial returns are highly sensitive to reductions in yield and are
sensitive, but to a lesser extent, to the farmgate price of rice paddy. In the case of the uplands,
financial profitability is adversely affected both by a reduction in yield and a reduction in the farmgate
price of rice paddy. In order that financial profitability in the uplands, as measured by leones per
hectare, approaches levels that can be obtained in the inland valley swamps, the farmgate price of rice
paddy would have to increase by 35 percent and, if financial returns are measured by per unit volume
of output and by total labour, the farmgate price would need to double and increase five-fold,
respectively. With the elimination of fertilizer subsidy, the returns to labour on the uplands are
highly sensitive to both a ten percent reduction in the yield and a ten percent reduction in the
farmgate price of rice, each showing a sharp fall of about 170 percent.
B. Environmental Factors
5.10   No adverse impact on the environment is expected from the revised ASSP. The cultivation of
swamps already developed and consolidated would be improved and the development of new swamps,
which can have negative environmental consequences, would not be pursued. Except for fertilizer, no
crop chemicals would be financed by the ASSP. The drugs and vaccines to be imported for livestock
health and the chemicals for the land and water development division would consist of chemicals that
are generally accepted and used. Tree planting, beyond the substantial tree crop (oil palm) cultivation
enabled by the project, would be deliberately promoted by extension officers. Negative
environmental impact from the slash and burn techniques widely practiced on upland farms would be
minimized through appropriate extension messages to farmers in particular and to the rural



- 51 -
community at large. Environmentally sound methods for feeder road rehabilitation would be
employed to prevent and combat soil erosion, ensure proper drainage, etc.
C. Benefits
5.11   The project would improve the incentive framework for rice, reduce mortality rates in the
livestock sub-sector, reduce post harvest losses and marketing costs, enhance the capability of the
DAF to provide basic agricultural services to farmers, plan and monitor sector strategy, strengthen
budgetary planning and management, expedite the privatization of its oil palm assets, and ensure full
cost-recovery of inputs and agro-processing equipment. The labour-intensive sub-component for
feeder road rehabilitation would provide food and rural employment in the post harvest months when
food and income are scarce. Supported by important policy reforms, the redesigned project would
lead to substantial output, income and nutritional benefits. By the end of the four year
implementation period, rice output is expected to increase by more than 55 percent per year.
Additional benefits from new oil palm planting would, given the gestation period, emerge more
towards the end of the project period and would continue well into the long term. The average
foreign exchange savings from reduced rice imports are estimated, in 1992 US Dollars, at about
US$43 million per annum and incremental earnings from the expected seven-fold increase in palm
kernel production of at least US$2 million. Financial returns to farmers are also expected to increase
substantially: for inland valley swamp rice, financial returns to total labour would rise by more than
65 percent initially and are expected to increase further in each successive project year provided the
policy and incentive framework is conducive to the farmer and is maintained. Given that the primary
focus of the project is on the creation of an enabling environment for private sector decisions and
production in the agriculture sector, an overall economic rate of return (ERR) is not applicable - the
ERR for the feeder roads component is at least 15 percent. The prospects for the project being
successfully sustained are strong given its considerable emphasis on training a large number of subject
matter specialists, front-line extension officers, men and women farmers, managers and loan officers
of rural banks, and university degree students in agriculture.
D. Risks
5.12   An overall risk to the project is that Government may not stay the course of the adjustment
programme, that the security problem along the border with Liberia may persist and that the on-going
civil strife may drag on. While the project cannot address this overall country risk directly, an effort
has been made to ensure that the timing of ASSP actions is synchronized with that of the macro
economic and structural adjustment reforms. The risk from economic disruption in the principal
coffee and cocoa producing areas in the Eastern and Southern Regions bordering Liberia has been
minimized by limiting project activities to areas outside the geographical purview of these border
disturbances until normalcy is established. The main project-specific risk is that farmers may
consider it unprofitable and unfeasible to adopt improved technology or sustain its use because of
weak rural financial institutions and because of the void created by the public sector relinquishing its
role in the import and distribution of modern farm inputs - overcoming both the weakness and void
will inevitably take time. In the meantime, the risk from the absence of dependable private sector
marketing channels has been addressed through providing for contract services and technical
assistance, and that of inability of subsistence farmers to obtain credit from rural banks, technical and
logistical support for strengthening selected rural banks has been included. The transition to
competitive pricing and private sector marketing would be further reinforced through a deliberate and
careful review and design of extension messages that would encourage farmers to group together and



- 52 -
derive economies of scale in the procurement of inputs, marketing of output and in the securing of
credit.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED
6.1    Agreements have been reached with the Government on the new design of the project and the
major policy and institutional actions that would be required and that are being sought. These actions
are key to the successful fulfillment of the objectives that would be pursued under the project. Stated
below are the main actions to which agreement with the Government has been reached:
A.    Policy Actions:
(i)    phased elimination of the subsidy on fertilizer with no more than 60 percent subsidy
on landed cost ex-depot effective February 15, 1993, no more than 40 percent
effective February 15, 1994, no more than 20 percent effective February 15, 1995,
and zero subsidy effective February 15, 1996 and agreement that the fertilizer price
would be announced no later than February 15 each year after prior review and
agreement with IDA;
(ii)   the implementation and maintenance of an organization and staffing plan for DAF
agreed to with IDA;
(iii)  implementation, by October 1993, of an appropriate price and trade policy framework
for rice based on the recommendations of the Study on the Price and Trade Policy
Aspects of Rice;
(iv)   preparation of an action plan by August 15, 1993, for the divestiture of DAF's oil
palm plantations and mills;
(v)    agreement with IDA, annually, on the pricing for farm tools and implements, oil palm
seedlings, and polybags and wire collars for these seedlings, and on user charges for
the agro-processing equipment; and
(vi)   a review each April of the prices of coffee and cocoa and their announcement no later
than each end May; prices would not be less than 60 percent of the FOB price.
B.    Institutional and Other Actions:
(i)    revision of the DAF Manpower Survey and the preparation by October 31, 1993 of a
Three Year Training Programme for DAF staff, to be updated annually by each end
January;
(ii)    a revision of the Agricultural Research Plan by January 31, 1994;
(iii)  the consumer and producer price of rice would be regularly monitored by the DAF
through its MESD and posted at the village level - the wholesale and retail price of
rice at the main urban and local consumption centers would be monitored every
fortnight and posted at the village level with no more than a two week lag and the



- 53 -
farmgate price of rice would be similarly monitored in the main rice ecologies in
selected areas of inland valley swamps, mangrove swamps, riverain swamps and
bolilands and would be similarly posted;
(iv)   the following would be made available to IDA (a) no later than each end January,
technical work plans including procurement and implementation design and schedules
for each DAF Division and Unit and for each component of the revised ASSP, and
for the feeder roads component, DOW/SLRA technical work plans which will
incorporate environmental mitigation measures; (b) no later than each end March,
proposals, by each DAF Division and Unit, for the recurrent budget and Public
Investment Programme prior to submission to the DFDEP; and
(v)    a Mid-Term Review would be carried out no later than December 1, 1994 and, to
facilitate the mid-term review, a progress report on project execution would be
prepared no later than September 31, 1994; and
(vi)   a Project (Implementation) Completion Report would be prepared within six months
of project closing.
C.    Actions for Project Start:
(i)   formal- submission to IDA of the annual audit reports for the project years before the
suspension of disbursements;
(ii)   conclusion of formal implementation arrangements between the DAF and the SLRA
for the feeder roads component, and between the DAF and the BOSL for the
component on rural banks;
(iii)   agreement upon the Terms of Reference for the technical assistance positions, the
Study on the Price and Trade Policy Aspects of Rice, and Action Plan for the
privatization of DAF's oil palm plantations and mills;
(iv)   identification of procurement and accounting staff for the Coordinating Unit and
counterpart staff for the input and agro-processing component;
(v)    agreement upon the membership of the Coordinating Committee for the ASSP and for
the Committee for Agricultural Producer Incentives; and
(vi)   agreement upon the feeder road links to be rehabilitated, the DAF stores to be utilized
for the sale of ASSP financed inputs, the list of farmers associations from which
fifteen would be selected to establish and operate the rural integrated processing
centers, and the rural banks to be assisted.
AF4AG
November 1992






- 54 -                                     ANNEX A
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
MATRIX OF POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ACTIONS
Action Under Oriainal ASSP         Current Status of Action            Action Under Revised ASSP
Institutional Develooment
reorganization  of  the  MANR    achieved   although   problems    assurances have been given that the DAF will
(recently renamed Department    with management functions and    maintain  an  organizational   structure  and
of Agriculture and Forestry,    decentralizationwere reported    staffing plan agreed to with IDA as a Project
DAF);                               at the time;                       start-up action; in particular, these changes
focus on the separation of the technical and
acdninistrative functions at DAF and on measures
to    strengthen    the    effectiveness    of
decentralized decision-making;
reaLigrunent  of  staff  within    IADP staff absorption into the    revisions to the Manpower Survey, reflecting
MANR;                              MANR was accomplished and a    changes   since   1987,   will   be  made  and
manpower survey prepared;          implemented by DAF,  no  later than July 31,
1993, after consultation with IDA;
integration  of  IADPs  into    IDA-funded    IADPs    were    using the new organizational structure in the
MANR;                               integrated into the MANR but    DAF,  the  ASSP  will  enhance  the  pLanning,
other  donor-funded  projects    coordination and implementation capacity for
have   not   so   far   been    agricultural development plans, programmes and
integrated;                        projects for the sector as a whole, beyond the
ASSP, including the gradual total integration
of ail IADPs;
privatization of Daru Oil Palm    as  had  been  agreed,   the    an Action Plan, including a fresh evaluation of
Conpany (DOPC);                    National  Oil  Palm  Company    the oil palm asset comprising the oil  palm
(NOPC),   a   joint   venture    plantations  and mills  at Daru  and Gambia-
company,  was formed to take    Mattru, will be prepared by June 30, 1993 for
over the operations of DOPC.    the divestiture of the two oil palm estates in
Subsequent    efforts    to    whole or in part;
privatize the company and/or
pursue professional management
have not succeeded;
Oterationat I wrovements
fifty  percent  reduction  in    only 12 percent reduction in    staff reductions recommended by the forthcoming
real  terms  of  daily  wage    real  terms  was  achieved  by    exercise on civil  service reform (an agreed
expenditures within MANR;          Mid-Term Review;                    reform under the Reconstruction Import Credit)
will be assured through the work plans and
budgetary proposals, as agreed with IDA, will
be reviewed each end March;
establishing  within  MANR  a    the Unit  was  set up and a    the training and evaluation process will be
Staff Development and Training    draft  evaluation  system  was    compLeted  and  refined  through  the  regular
Unit    and    a    personnel    drawn-up;                             assessment  of the work plans of  the Staff
evaluation system;                                                     Development  and Training Unit  in accordance
with the organization and staffing structure
agreed with the IDA;
completion   of   a  National    approved by MANR;                     revision, by no later than July 31, 1993, of
Agricultural        Training                                           the   Manpower   Survey,    to   assess   the
Programme;                                                             availability,  within DAFF, of  professional,
manageriaL and technicaL skills in relation to
the skills-mix required for sector growth and
development; and, based upon this revised
Manpower Survey, the preparation of a Three
Year Training Programme to be updated each end
January;



- 55 -                                      ANNEX A
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
MATRIX OF POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ACTIONS
Action Under Original ASSP           Current Status of Action            Action Under Revised ASSP
Operational Imrovements
(contd.)
strengthen     research    and    accomplished, although funding         National  Agricultural  Research  Plan  to  be
extension      through      the      remains a problem;                  revised for strategy and focus no later than
preparation   of  a  National                                            January  31,  1994  after  proposals  for  its
AgricuLtural  Research  Policy                                            revision are submitted to IDA no later than
and  Plan  (NARPP)  and  the                                             September 30, 1993; and as agreed with the IDA
establishment  of a  NationaL                                            on  start-up  actions  for  the  Project,  the
Agricultural         Research                                            National Extension Coordinator has been located
Coordinating  Council (NARCC)                                             in the Office of the Director-General, DAFF and
and the posts of the National                                            the minimal staffing of NARCC has also been
Research Coordinator and the                                             accomplished  as  a  Project  start-up  action
N a t i ona l    Extension                                               before the resumption of disbursements;
Coordinator;
strengthen    planning,    except for a draft report for    the main operational divisions of DAFF will be
monitoring   and   evaluation        regional  work  pLans  other    provided  logistical  support  and  technical
services  through  preparation    objectives were not completed;    assistance as required to enable the transfer
of work plans by region and                                              of technology to farmers based on technical and
annual   operational   plans,                                            operational work plans for the Headquarters and
identification of projects in                                            Regional Offices to be agreed with IDA;
line with sector policy for
public  investment programme,                                            po licy issues will be assessed by the Office of
preparation of a policy issues                                           the Director-General, DAFF in whose office the
paper, and preparation  of a                                             agricultural policy planner will be located;
design and format for monthly                                            this  Office  will  also  address matters with
and    quarterly    reporting                                            respect to the identification and coordination
systems by region;                                                       of projects;
as agreed with the IDA on the organizational
structure, the Monitoring, Evaluation and
Statistics Division (MESD) wi ll be strengthened
under the ASSP and its work progra_m and the
design  of  the  reporting  questionnaires  and
formats will be reviewed in detail each end
January along with the work plans of each DAFF
division and unit;
for    water    resources           accomplished; however, at some    as agreed with the IDA, as a start-up action,
development, the establishment    stage,  the  IDU  was  placed          the IDU has been restored to the LWDD;
of an Irrigation and Drainage    within the Agriculture (Crops)
Unit  (IDU)  in the  Land and    Division   with   no   serious    the LWDD would receive technical and logistical
Water  Resources  Development    rationale;                              support through the ASSP; its current technical
Division (LAWDD);                                                        and  advisory  services  to  farmers  will  be
subject to an initial detailed review with
technical assistance provided under the ASSP,
no later than January 31, 1993, and subsequent
regular reviews of technical work plans for the
MAFF divisions and units;
Aaricultural Pricing. Taxation
an w^des
formalization  of  an  Inter-    accomplished;    however,    the Terms of Reference for the Committee, now
Ministerial    Conmiittee    on    problems  with   setting   the    renamed the Committee on Agricultural Producer
Agricultural Pricing;               producer price for coffee and    Incentives  (CAPI), have  been  redrafted  and
cocoa    in   a    liberalized      agreed with the IDA to reflect the economic and
exchange rate and trade regime    institutional circumstances of a liberalized
are reported, and  those  for    exchange rate and trade regime;
rice at farmgate have proved,
to be unremunerative;               the policy impact of price and trade policy in
the coffee, cocoa and rice sub-sectors will be
assessed by this Committee and technical
assistance for formulating policy proposals (in
support of the liberalized prices) on producer
price incentives for coffee, cocoa and rice



- 56 -                                     ANNEX A
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
MATRIX OF POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ACTIONS
Action Under Original ASSP         Current Status of Action            Action Under Revised ASSP
will be provided by the AgricuLturat Policy
Planner to be based in the DG's Office as has
been agreed with the IDA;
Asricultural Pricina. Taxation
and Subsidies (contd.)
phasing  out  of  all  input    some  progress  was  made  on    the elimination of fertilizer subsidy through
subsidies, incLuding                reduction of input subsidies    a scheduLe for phased reduction: no more than
fertilizer subsidy which was    including fertilizer but this    60X subsidy effective  February 15, 1993, no
to be reduced to 10 percent by    has not been maintained nor    more than 40 percent subsidy effective February
June 30,  1987; consultation    have further reductions been    15, 1994, no more than 20 percent effective
with IDA prior to announcing    pursued;                               February 15, 1995 and zero subsidy effective
fertilizer price;                                                      February  15,  1996; as agreed,  IDA will  be
consulted on the price of fertilizer prior to
its posted announcement each February 15;
establishment of Pricing and    accomplished   through    the    the ASSP will monitor and enforce the agreement
Marketing Section in MANR in    establishment of the Pricing    reached between the Goverrnment and the IDA on
September    1984    for    and Marketing Section within    the adjustment programme and the Reconstruction
recomnendation and review of    PEMSD of MANR;                         Import Credit for maintaining coffee and cocoa
agricultural prices (including                                         prices at levels not less than 60 percent of
floor prices), study on the                                            the prevailing FOB price; these prices will be
liberalization    of   export                                          revised  annually  each  June  and  as my be
marketing,  and privatization                                          necessitated  by  major  developnents  on  the
of rice imports;                                                       world;
for rice, a Rice Policy will be iwplemented by
October 31, 1993 taking into account the
recommendations of the Study on the Price and
Trade Policy Aspects of Rice to be funded by
the ASSP and completed by April 30, 1993;
the consumer and producer price of rice will be
monitored and published monthly by the MESD as
follows: the wholesale and retail price will be
collected every fortnight at the main urban and
local consumption centers and will be posted at
the village level with no more than a two week
lag; and in selected areas in the main rice
ecologies.
Feeder Rod
(none)                             (none)                              about 530 km of feeder roads in agriculturally
productive areas will be rehabilitated, 68
percent through labour-intensive methods of
production; this will enhance esployment and
incomes in the 'hungry season;' an agreement
between the DAF and the Sierra Leone Roads
Authority    (SLRA)/International    Labour
Organization (ILO) (which will supervise the
ioplementation    of   the    labour-intensive
rehabilitation) has been drawn up as a start-up
action and is acceptable to IDA;
Rural Banks
Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL) to    accomplished;   eight   rural    the ASSP will provide logistical and technical
establish a pilot rural bank    banks established  (of which    support to six  rural banks which are fully
at Mile 91, and contribute 50    two are temporarily closed due    operational and which have been agreed to with
percent of the initial capital    to the disturbances along the    IDA; two newly opened rural banks have been
of each  new  rural  bank  to    border with Liberia) and two    substituted for the two located In the troubled
provide Le 600,000 interest-    are under construction;                eastern province bordering Liberia which remain
free loans for 10 years after                                          temporarily closed; an agreement, acceptable to
concurrence with IDA;                                                  the IDA, between the DAF and the Bank of Sierra



- 57 -                                     ANNEX A
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
MATRIX OF POLICY AND INSTITUTIONAL ACTIONS
Action Under Oriainal ASSP          Current Status of Action           Action Under Revised ASSP
Leone has been concluded as a Project start-up
action;
Inut   SUPDlV   and   Aaro-
Processii.
(none)                             (none)                              agro-processing equipment  Located at fifteen
Integrated Crop Processing Centers wiLL be made
available  to  fifteen  bona  fide  farmers'
associations to be selected by the DAFF,
satisfactory to IDA and IFAD from an existing
list of 40 farmers' associations (these had
participated in the two earlier UNDP/FAO
projects on post-harvest technology practices);
agreement with the IDA on the methodology for
determining user charges and capitalization of
the   crop-processing    equipment    by   the
participating farmers' associations has been
reached as a Project start-up action;
inputs financed by the ASSP will be moved to,
stored at and sold from DAFF stores/depots,
agreed  with  the  IDA;  agreement  on  the
methodology for pricing the farm inputs, that
is, fertilizer, improved planting material for
oil palm seedlings and polybags and wires
collars for these seedlings, and tools and farm
implements has also been reached with the IDA
as a Project start-up action;
Research-Extemin Linkages
(none)                             (none)                              the ASSP will finance on-farm adaptive research
(OFAR) and provide for reguLar feedback from
farmers to agricultural research institutes
through the Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs)
of DAFF; a series of agronomic and crop variety
trials will be carried out on farmers, fields
in the presence of farmers, research scientists
and SMSs; the results of OFAR will be evaluated
by the agricultural research institutes and the
National Agricultural Research Coordinating
Council (NARCC) will document and publish the
results as input into an agenda for the
improvement  and  development  of  technical
packages   taking   into  account   technical,
economic and social problems encountered by
farmers;
Coordination Unit for the ASSP
(none)                             (none)                              the ASSP will finance the establishment within
the Office of the Director-General of DAF a
Coordination Unit (CU), headed by a Chief
Technical Coordinator; other staff will include
a Financial Controller, a Chief Procurement
Officer, a Procurement Officer, an Assistant
Procurement Officer, four accountants and
support  staff;  the  CU  will  conduct  Its
operations through a Coordinating Committee the
membership of which has been agreed with IDA.
After Project completion the CU will continue
as the Agricultural Policy Planning Unit for
the DAF.



- 58 -
AHNNX B
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE,
DEVELOPMENT & ECONOMIC
PLANNING
SECRETARIAT BUILDING
GEORGE STREET
FREETOWN
SIERRA LEONE
November 17, 1992
Mr. Edwin Lim
Director
Western Africa Department
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Dear Mr. Lim,
Agriculture Sector SupEort Project
(Credit 1501-SL) - Letter of Sector Policy
This is to request your approval for Amendments to the Development Credit
Agreement of April 18, 1984, for the Agriculture Sector Support Project (ASSP), Credit
1501-SL. The Amendments, already discussed with the Bank mission, concern major
changes in the description of the ASSP necessitated by a severe deterioration of the
agriculture sector. The undisbursed balance in the Project is of the order of SDR17.5
million of which SDR13.9 million are IDA and SDR3.6 million IFAD resources.
As you are aware, the prolonged economic decline experienced by Sierra Leone
has had serious adverse effects on all sectors of our economy. The agriculture sector has
been particularly vulnerable and has not been able to make the meaningful contribution



- 59 -
ANNEX B
to the country's growth that it is strongly capable of. Compared to a decade ago, when
the ASSP was first appraised, conditions in the sector have deteriorated drastically.
These have required a close review of sector priorities. In the interim, agricultural
output has declined by more than 3.5 percent per annum on average. The Government's
objectives for the agriculture sector, however, remain the same and, because of the
growing economic hardship of our people, the commitment to achieving these objectives
is now firmer than ever. Raising rural incomes, increasing agricultural production, and
alleviating malnutrition are the objectives to which we refer and to which our agricultural
development effort will be directed. The revised ASSP would be instrumental in
restoring our efforts to achieving these urgently sought objectives. The Government
requests, therefore, a reallocation of the undisbursed balance to what we believe are the
sector's immediate priorities.  Your approval of the requested Amendments and
reallocation of the Credit, would, in our view, lead to the urgently needed recovery of
the sector and of agricultural growth.
Sierra Leone is blessed with abundant natural resources and a people willing to
work hard to develop these resources for the benefit of their families and their country.
Nowhere is this more true than in the case of the agriculture sector. Our farmers
struggle resolutely to improve their standards of living but are unable to do so. Rural
incomes in real terms have declined sharply and levels of nutrition have become
dangerously low. The average rural per capita income is now less than the poverty level
of US$75 and the per capita consumption of rice has fallen to less than 100 kg compared
to about 125 kg per capita in more prosperous times, and more than 135 kg per capita
in many regional countries. The sharp decline in the people's standard of living is a
cause for anguish to the Government of Sierra Leone for its people and also a matter of
deep concern for their future. Meeting the increasing demand for food and expectations
for higher standards of living, without burdening, further, the balance of payments, is
very possible if farm incomes and marketed production are increased. By the active
participation in economic activity of the poorest of our society, most of whom depend
on agriculture for their livelihood, output, rural incomes and calorie intake can be
enhanced, food imports reduced, and agricultural exports increased.
The impact on agricultural incentives of the macroeconomic policies pursued in
the past has proved to be adverse and deep-seated. With the economic realities of
unsustainable expenditures in the face of declining budgetary revenues, and shrinking
foreign exchange reserves, the need for new policies had become only too clear. It was
this recognition which led us to adopt, with your advice, an economic reform programme
which, we are proud to say, we have been able to sustain for more than two years now.
The improved terms of trade and economic incentives that have resulted from this
programme, particularly from the realigned exchange rate, are, as expected, being



- 60 -
ANNEX B
transmitted to the agriculture sector. However, it is the inability of our farmers to avail
themselves of these improved incentives, which continues to hold back sector recovery
and growth.  Progress which had been made through the IDA-funded Integrated
Agricultural Development Projects (IADPs) in raising crop yields received a serious
setback, for all practical purposes, during the suspension of ASSP disbursements. What
has endured is the technical knowledge which our farmers and agricultural officers gained
from the education, training, and demonstration effect enabled initially by the IADPs and
later by the ASSP until its suspension. Even though, with the passage of time, this
knowledge has become diluted, it remains valuable. It can now be put to good use, and
further improved upon, but not without a carefully designed investment and policy
initiative, an intiative that would meet the pressing constraints to higher farm
productivity, efficient crop-processing and marketing, and cost-effective delivery of
institutional agricultural support services. It is these constraints, Mr. Director, which
the Amendments to the Development Credit Agreement seek to address.
In the short-term, Sierra Leone's options for agricultural growth are obviously
limited but not entirely absent. These options rest in the yield-enhancing technology
which can be disseminated, in agricultural institutions which can be improved and in the
feeder road infrastructure that can be rehabilitated. The means of tapping these options,
however, do not exist, and it is these that constitute our immediate constraints. As with
most of our institutions, those in the agriculture sector have been greatly weakened by
the acute and prolonged budgetary crisis from which Sierra Leone is starting to emerge.
Thus, besides the agricultural research and training institutes, the Department of
Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF) has been affected to the extent that it is now
without adequate funding unable either to convey the improved technology to farmers or
to improve technical packages through adaptive research. Many of our farmers who, in
the past, had adopted new and improved methods of production have been forced to
return to traditional agricultural practices. Crop yields have fallen to subsistence levels
with devastating impact on sector growth and rural standards of living. In a similar vein,
the acute foreign exchange crisis has prevented the import of essential inputs such as
fertilizer, improved planting material, agro-processing machinery, and basic farm tools
and implements. Not only are potential crop yields not realized but the limited output
is reduced further by high post-harvest losses. Furthermore, the reduced import of
essential veterinary supplies, especially drugs and vaccines has accelerated the mortality
rates of our livestock. Meanwhile, the poor delivery of rural credit has left farmers
without financial recourse for upgrading technology and the severe deterioration of rural
roads has left them without efficient means for marketing any surplus output. Finally,
the producer price of Sierra Leone's predominant staple rice remains weak, and current
financial returns argue against the farmer incurring the cost of adopting yield-enhancing
technology and marketing the output. Overcoming these obstacles is fundamental to



- 61 -
ANEX B
raising agricultural productivity and marketed output, which, if not done in the near
future, will result in irreparable damage to the agriculture sector.
In view of the above, we request, that the undisbursed funds in the ASSP be
reallocated in a manner that would ease these constraints in the immediate future. In
addition to the close attention for strengthening agricultural policy planning and
institutional capacity, a three-pronged approach is envisaged by the ASSP: first, to
provide farmers with relevant technical know-how for tapping the agronomic potential
using existing yield-enhancing technology; second, to overcome shortages of inputs
integral to the application of this improved technology, and reduce postharvest losses;
and third, to rehabilitate feeder roads especially in remote but agriculturally productive
areas. The revised ASSP has five components: technology transfer (US$9.1 million),
agricultural inputs and post-harvest technology (US$9.6 million), feeder road
rehabilitation (US$7.8 million, research-extension linkages (US$0.4 million), and the
Coordination Unit (US$1.4 million). These components have been carefully designed
and agreed upon. The dollar equivalent cost of the redesigned ASSP is US$28.3 million
inclusive of duties and taxes and physical and price contingencies. The Government of
Sierra Leone's contribution amounts to about 11 percent of total costs; this is in addition
to duties and taxes which would account for almost 8 percent.
The IDA Credit would finance 69 percent of the total cost and the IFAD Loan
almost 17 percent; the World Food Programme would provide about US$300,000 as its
contribution. Foreign exchange costs, as a proportion of the base cost estimate are 76
percent, and investment costs 83 percent. Technical assistance, including local technical
assistance, constitutes about 17 percent of total project costs and is earmarked for critical
areas - apart from facilitating implementation of the ASSP, the technical assistance is
designed to strengthen agricultural policy and planning capacity, and swamp and
watershed management, two areas in urgent need of attention.
Before touching upon the fundamental policy and institutional changes which
would be implemented through the ASSP, and which would foster the enabling
environment for sustained agricultural growth, the Project would yield considerable
benefits for our balance of payments. Incremental paddy output is estimated to rise by
more than 65 percent per year. With benefits from reduced post harvest losses and
improved recovery rates from efficient small-scale milling, this would translate into 50
percent of annual imports of rice averaged for the last two years. Significant investment,
employment and income gains to the rural economy are also expected from strong
multiplier effects which would be generated by the resurgence of the rice economy.
Similar, production and trade benefits would result from the new oil palm plantings.
However, because of the long gestation period, these benefits would be realized only



- 62 -
ANNEX B
after Project completion but would then extend well into the future. The average foreign
exchange savings from reduced rice imports are estimated, in 1992 US Dollars, at about
US$43 million per annum and incremental earnings from the expected seven-fold increase
in palm kernel production of at least US$2 million. As regards, coffee and cocoa, we
are hopeful that once security is fully restored in the tree-crop growing areas along the
border with Liberia, production will recover and so also will the contribution to our
export earnings. Besides the improved nutrition levels that the higher rice and palm oil
output would enable, the enhanced crop yields and marketable surplus resulting from the
use of fertilizer would permit substantial increases in farm incomes. At current product
and factor prices, financial returns per hectare and financial returns to total labour in rice
cultivation in existing inland valley swamps are initially estimated to double, and those
per unit of output to increase by almost 50 percent.  Provided incentives to rice
cultivation are favourable, these financial returns could subsequently strengthen even
more. With further improvements in technology expected from the stepped-up adaptive
research effort, higher farm incomes from the cultivation of other crops such as
groundnut, tobacco, cassava, sweet potato, and vegetables are also anticipated.
Apart from promoting technical and operational efficiency in the sector, we would
like to draw your attention, Mr. Director, to the policy framework within which the
revised ASSP would be implemented and the economic efficiency gains that would be
ensured. It is our firm endeavour that our economic policy, designed to increase
economic efficiency and expedite the transition to a market-led economy, is reinforced
at the sector level. Accordingly, we would like to assure you of our commitment to
adopt border pricing and full cost recovery for all ASSP-financed inputs and crop-
processing machinery. We would like to remove the fertilizer subsidy as early as
possible to enable a rapid transition to competitive pricing and the efficient use of this
essential and relatively high cost ingredient for technology improvement. However, the
Government cannot but be sensitive to the exigencies of our farmers, especially
subsistence farmers, who require a strong initial incentive to reinstate their use of
fertilizer at a time when production and marketing costs are high. We have therefore
adopted the following schedule for the phased elimination of the subsidy: no more than
60 percent, no more than 40 percent, no more than 20 percent, and zero percent effective
February 15, 1993, 1994, 1995 and 1996, respectively. This schedule would permit a
strengthening of the enabling environment for increased agricultural production expected
from the rehabilitation of feeder roads and improved access to credit, and allow the
private sector the required time and opportunity to enter into the commercial import and
distribution of fertilizer.
In addition to the financial benefits, significant economic gains are anticipated
from the rice subsector. To enable us to weigh policy options for rice, a Study on the



- 63 -
ANNEX B
Price and Trade Policy Aspects of Rice is included in the revised ASSP. Based on the
findings, the study will provide an assessment of the costs and benefits of each policy
option. This will enable the Govemment to formulate a Rice Policy that will address its
concems for food security and sustainable rice production. For the first time, our
economic policy for rice will be based on a comprehensive review and overview of the
subsector. The policy will focus on the incentives for rice cultivation that will be called
for beyond the short term, and beyond the month to month concerns of providing Sierra
Leone's population with its staple food needs. It will thereby establish the policy
framework for technical, economic and environmental efficiency in the rice subsector
without which the sector will not be able to compete effectively on the world market now
that our trade and exchange rate regime has been liberalized. Our past policies to
promote rice cultivation, especially in the swamps, where most of our future prospects
rest, have not brought about the results that had been sought. We are hopeful that once
the new policy is formulated, we will be able to address issues in the rice subsector
taking into account all aspects of our economic and social fabric and the well-being of
both our farmers and consumers.
Monitoring incentives for the adoption of improved technology, especially for
rice, as well as the impact of this adoption, will be critical to the success of our
agricultural development initiatives. We would like to assure you that monitoring and
evaluation, and the development of a strong data base, will be at the core of our
agricultural planning and policy analysis.  Accordingly, and because rice is a
predominant staple and producer crop, we intend to monitor the wholesale, retail and
farmgate price of rice at key locations in our country on a regular basis. These market
price indicators will go a long way in filling the current vacuum in market intelligence
which is indispensable to sound investment decision-making not only for rice but also for
close substitutes and other food and cash crops. For this purpose, close attention will
be given to the formats and questionnaires that will be used for monitoring and
evaluation. In the case of coffee and cocoa, as you know, we are committed, under the
macroeconomic reform programme, to ensuring that the price paid for these crops to
producers by buying agents of the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB) will
not fall below 60 percent of the FOB price. Once the security situation along the border
with Liberia is resolved, we are confident that the improved incentives and restored
agricultural services will manifest themselves in higher growth.
With respect to the divestiture of the DAFF's oil palm estates, we have agreed
to prepare an Action Plan for the privatization of the oil palm plantations and mills at
Daru and Gambia-Mattru. Our attempts in the past to privatize the asset, which was also
sought under the original ASSP, have not succeeded for a variety of reasons. We would
now like to undertake the preparation of the Action Plan, in a systematic manner, and



- 64 -
ANNEX B
would like, in the interest of the asset which continues to deteriorate rapidly, for this
exercise to be initiated as early as possible. Technical assistance for a fresh evaluation
of the asset and for the drawing up of an Action Plan (for the divestiture of the asset
either in part or in full), once the evaluation is completed has been provided for in the
revised ASSP.
On institutional capacity, we would like to assure you, Mr. Director, that we are
continuing to build upon the organizational changes that had been instituted under the
original ASSP. In addition to strengthening our agricultural policy planning and analysis
capacity, we envisage improvement in two principal areas. First, we would like to
delineate the professional and technical functions of the DAFF from administrative
matters which affect it. This functional separation will enable the DAFF to focus on
strengthening the delivery of basic agricultural services without day to day interruptions
in operational work. Our less than satisfactory experience in the past dictates such
separation of responsibility to be a priority if our farmers are to be provided with quality
support services in a manner that is cost-effective. Second, we would like to ensure
effective decentralized decision-making by requiring Regional Offices to report to the
Director-General, DAFF through the Chief Regional Officers and the Divisional Heads
rather than to administrative heads through non-technical channels. We would also like
to assure you of our commitment to streamlining the DAFF staff structure and to
reducing its daily wage expenditures in the interest of operational and budgetary
efficiency. This would be achieved without jeopardizing the ability of DAFF to deliver
the higher growth objective that is expected of it, and by ensuring consistency with the
civil service reform exercise currently being carried out under the Reconstruction Import
Credit. In the coming months, therefore, our officers will work closely with your staff.
In addition, and concurrently, the DAFF will revise the terms of reference for its various
operational divisions, and assess the managerial, professional and technical manpower
and training needs that would be required to deliver and sustain higher agricultural
growth in the coming years. The revised ASSP has already provided for a strong
emphasis on training not only agricultural extension officers but also farmers, farmers'
groups, agro-processors, rural bank managers and loan officers, accountants, statisticians
and computer technologists. Training of domestic contractors in road rehabilitation and
maintenance will also be strengthened with the equipment procured for the labour-
intensive feeder roads component.
To strengthen budgetary planning, control and management, we would like to
draw your attention to the implementation procedures set out in the ASSP. These are
designed to link, through operational and technical work plans, the crop calendar for each
ecological zone with the annual budget cycle. Furthermore, budgetary proposals would
relate to a comprehensive assessment of agricultural performance in the previous year



- 65 -
ANNEX B
and strategy for the next. The institutional streamlining proposed for the DAFF would
not only be conducive to operational and budgetary planning but more importantly to
ensuring accountability both at Headquarters and at the Regional Offices. Funding will
no longer be sanctioned for input and credit supply and distribution but instead costs will
be fully recovered from the sale of ASSP-financed inputs and machinery and deposited
directly into the Treasury Main Account. With respect to sector policy, as it continues
to evolve, we would like to assure you, Mr. Director, of close and careful monitoring
of the extension messages that would be conveyed to farmers. Thus, besides, the
dissemination of improved technology, these messages will be used to educate farmers
on issues which are considered indispensable to sustainable agriculture. Among others,
the extension messages will focus on protection and conservation of the soil and
environment, elimination of subsidies and price liberalization, market intelligence, and
group approaches to procuring inputs, marketing output and gaining access to credit.
In closing, Mr. Director, we would like to reaffirm that the Government's
commitment to the macroeconomic and stabilization programme is strong and abiding.
With our sustained efforts at reform, which are beginning to bear fruit, we shall see a
further deceleration in the rate of inflation and further strengthening and maintenance of
positive real rates of interest. We would like, furthermore, to express our appreciation
of the Bank's decision to keep Credit 1501-SL open and to support the reallocation of
undisbursed funds for objectives which would arrest the decline of the sector and make
for sustained growth in agricultural output, incomes and export earnings. I take this
opportunity to assure you that we will do everything we can to make up for the time lost
during the suspension of ASSP disbursements and ensure that the ASSP objectives are
fully realized.
Yours sincerely,
(signed)
J. S. A. Funna
Secretary of State for
Finance, Development & Economic
Planning



- 66 -
ANNEX c
List of Input Stores. Feeder Roads. Rural Bank and Farmers' Associations
Input Stores 1/
Town                                             District
1.    Makeni (Headquarters)                             Bombali
2.     Magburaka                                        Tonkolili
3.     Bafodia                                          Koinadugu
4.     Blama                                            Kenema
5.     Bo                                               Bo
6.     Rhombe                                           Port Loko
7.     Katonga                                          Port Loko
8.     Kambia                                           Kambia
9.     Kamakwie                                         Bombali
10.   Taiama                                            Moyamba
Feeder Road Links
miles
1.    Makote-Batkanu                                    40
2.     Kabala-Mongo                                     74
3.     Kabala-Bafodia                                   32
4.     Lunsar-Masimera-Mile 91                          30
5.     Foradugu-Gbinti-Port Loko                        46
6.     Mile 91-Rochain Malal-Mara                       18
7.     Yonibana-Masugbe                                 12
8.     Barmoi-Kantaia                                   20
9.    Joru-Lalehun                                      19
10.    Mange-Mambol                                     18
11.   Barmoi-Mabanda                                    15
12.   Mabanda-Maboto                                    6
13.   Sumbuya-Sabuya                                    18
14.   Sumbuya-Banguria                                  18
15.   Kaifuna-Mabala                                    13
1/ Currently owned by the Department of Agriculture and Forestry.



- 67 -
ANNEX C
Feeder Road Links (contd.)
miles
16.   Kaitiri-Yana                                    21
17.   Karina-Pendembu                                 18
18.   Gbin-Kagberi                                    6
19.   Musaia-Dogoloya                                 6
20.   Falaba-Manankon                                 18
21.   Benikoro-Didiya                                  6
22.   Sandikoro-Sirekude                              27
23.   Barmoi-Makaranke                                27
24.   Tombo-Waterloo                                  12
Rural Banks
District
1.    Yori Rural Bank                                 Tonkolili
2.    Kunike Rural Bank                               Tonkolili
3.    Marampa and Masimera Rural Bank                 Port Loko
4.    Mattru Rural Bank                               Bonthe
5.    Bombali Rural Bank                              Bombali
6.    Sewama Rural Bank                               Kenema



- 68 -
ANNEX C
Farmers Associations 2/
District     Village
1.    Tuma Faso                  Bombali       Makeni lol
2.    Mabonkani                   Bombali      Mabonkani
3.    Thonkonba                   Bombali      Thonkonba
4.    Kalangba                    Bombali      Kalangba
5.    Machinka                    Bombali      Machinka
6.    Tamaranneh                  Bombali      Masongbo
7.    Rodinneh                    Bombali      Manknehbana
8.    Tabai                       Bombali      Mabarai
9.    Konsho                      Bombali      Konsho
10.   Mabunth                    Bombali       Mabunth
11.   Tambiama                   Bombali       Tambima
12.   Ndowahun                   Bombali       Mahin
13.   Bathlol                    Portloko      Melekuray
14.   Temesu                     Portloko      Gbombana
15.   Mapown                     Portloko      Mapown
16.   Tamaraneh                  Portloko      Gbomsamba
17.   Katonga                    Portloko      Katonga
18.   Kontawalla                 Portloko      Kontawalla
19.   Manise                     Portloko      Manace
20.   Rhombe                      Portloko     Rhombe
21.   Rowollow                    Kambia       Rowollow
22.   Gbinle                      Kambia       Gbinle
23.   Gbonkumaria                 Kambia       Gbonkumaria
24.   Makalie                     Kambia       Makalie
1/    This list includes farmers' associations that participated in the two previous UNDP-
funded projects on postharvest practices executed by the FAO and will form the basis
for the selection of the farmers' associations that could participate in the agro-
processing component of the revised Agriculture Sector Support Project.



- 69 -
ANNEX C
Farmers Associations (contd.)
District      Village
25.    Bamoi                       Bamoi         Bamoi
26.    Kagberay                    Bamoi         Kagberay
27.    Masimera                    Bamoi          Masimera
28.    Kamba                       Bamoi         Kamba
29.    Gbama Dev.                  Bo            Gbama
30.    Ngiegboiya/Baiegboiya       Bo            Ngiegboiya
31.    Konima                      Bo            Konima
32.    Bayama                      Bo            Bayama
33.    Pelewahun                   Bo            Pelewahun
34.    Niagolehun                  Bo            Nigolehun
35.   Fanima                       Bo            Fanima
36.    Gbotima                     Moyamba       Gbappi
37.   Kpetima                      Moyamba       Kpetima
38.   Taninahun                    Moyamba       Taninahun
39.    Manjehun                    Moyamba       Manjehun
40.   Naligoloma                   Moyamba       Gbonjema
41.    Gbotima II                  Moyamba       Matagelema
42.    Moemoh                      Moyamba       Moemoh
2/     Marketing and Credit Association
AF4AG
November 1992



- 70 -
ANNEX D
Methodology for Pricing Inputs and Crop-Processing Equipment 1/
Financial Import Parity Price =
FOB price at port of export
plus freight to Freetown
plus insurance
plus cost of unloading at Freetown (port)
equals CIF price Freetown
multiply by the official exchange rate
add import tariffs/duties
add local port charges
add local transport and marketing cost to relevant market 2/
equals market price
deduct transport and marketing cost from project 3/
deduct local handling and storage costs at project 3/
1/     The price of fertilizer inclusive of agreed level of subsidy.
2/     The market nearest the input stores or integrated crop-processing center.
3/     The input store or integrated crop-processing center.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 71 -
ANNEX E
Capitalization of the Crop-Processing Equipment 1/
Procedures
Qualifying farmers' associations would be able to purchase the crop-processing equipment
over the ASSP project implementation period. This cost of this equipment would be fully
recovered by the Project. The following steps and procedures would be involved in the
purchase by farmers' associations of the equipment:
(a)    signing of an agreement (sample attached) by the selected farmer association and the
Department of Agriculture and Forestry (DAF);
(b)   the agreement would be accompanied by a commercial bank cheque from the farmers'
association in the equivalent of no less than ten percent of the landed cost of the
equipment four months prior to the arrival of the equipment;
(c)   this cheque and all subsequent cheques would be made out to the Accountant General;
(d)   the members of the participating farmers' association would, once the cheque has been
processed, and on the advice of the DAF, proceed to prepare for the construction of
the Integrated Crop Processing Center (ICPC). The ICPC would consist of a shed to
locate a rice mill or if other equipment is to be purchased a shed to house such
equipment. Land, labour and materials for the construction of the shed(s) would be
provided by the farmers' association concerned and construction would be carried out
under the direct supervision of the technical assistance to be provided under the
Project;
(e)    on completion of the ICPC, to the satisfaction of the Project, the farmers' association
would make a down payment equivalent to no less than twenty percent of the cost of
the said equipment;
(f)   the remainder of the cost of the equipment would be recovered as follows: in each of
the first and second years after the first harvest, thirty percent of the cost of the
equipment ex-ICPC plus depreciation for the first year and the second year, as
relevant and, in the third year, ten percent plus depreciation;
(g)   in the event that three months prior to the completion of Project implmentation, the
farmers' association is unable to purchase the said equipment, such equipment would
be sold to the highest bidder through a public bidding process.
1/    User charges to Farmer Association members, for milling/processing agricultural
produce, would be based upon the operating cost of the equipment (labour and fuel)
plus the cost of maintenance (servicing and repair). A reasonable trading margin
would be allowed to be charged to non-members.



- 72 -
ANNEX E
Capitalization of the Crop-Processing Eguipment 1/
Sample Agreement
1.    We, Farmers' Association (name), located at (village name) in District (name),
hereby, enter into an Agreement with the Department of Agriculture and Forestry to
establish and operate an Integrated Crop-Processing Center, hereafter referred to as
ICPC, and that we further agree that until the crop-processing equipment (specify)
shall be fully amortized by the said Farmers' Association over a three year period not
to later than three months prior to the end of the Project period, the equipment shall
remain the property of the Government of Sierra Leone.
2.     Once the said equipment is fully amortized by the said Farmers' Association, a formal
legal transfer of the same said equipment shall be made in the name of the Farmers'
Association named in (1) above.
3.     The Farmers' Association, named in (i) above, agrees to abide by the amortization/
payment schedule laid out in the Procedures for Capitalization.
4.     The Farmers' Association, named in (1) above, further agrees to:
(a)    undertake the construction of the ICPC using its own land, labour and
materials;
(b)    operate and maintain the crop-processing equipment in question in accordance
with procedures established by the Project;
(c)    maintain detailed financial records on the:
(i)    operating costs;
(ii)    maintenance and repair costs;
(iii)   milling/processing rates per unit of output charged to each member of
the Farmers' Association and each non-member;
(iv)   total monthly costs incurred and revenues generated from the
operations of the ICPC - these expenses and revenues shall be
recorded separately for different crops; and
(v)    financial contribution by each member of the said Farmers'
Association toward amortization of the said equipment.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 73 -
ANNEX F
PAGE I OF 6
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACTIONS T BE TAKEN                              BY WHOM                 BY WHN
1993
A. INSITnlMONAL
1. REVIEW OF DAF STAFF REDUCTIONS WITH IDA 1/   DAF A/                  MAY 1
2. REVIEW OF DAP TORS WITH IDA                  DAF A/                  MAY 30
3. MEETINGS OF COORDINATION COMblTTEE           MEMBERS                 APRIL 30 B/
4. MEETINGS OF CAPI 2/                           MEMBERS
5. COUNTERPART STAFF (INPUTS/AGRO) IN PLACE 3/  DAF/DFDEP               APRIL 15
6. SELECTION OF 15 FARMERS' ASSOCIATIONS
DAF/TA                 MAY 30
B. PRICING AND SUBSEDIS
1. ANNOUNCE PRICES OF ASSP FINANCED INPUTS      DAF A/                  MAY I
2. PHASED REDUCTION OF FERTIUZER SUBSIDY 4/     DAF A/                  MAY I
3. ANNOUNCEMENT OF FERnIUZER PRICE              DAF Al                  MAY I
4. REVIEW OF PARITY PRICE FOR RICE              DAF Al                  JUNE 15
5. POST MONITORED CONSUMER RICE PRICE 5/        DAF - MESD              APRIL 30 Bl
6. POST MONITORED PRODUCER RICE PRICE 6/        DAF - MESD              APRIL 30 Bl
7. REVIEW FOB PRICE FOR COFFEE & COCOA BEANS    DAF Al                  APRIL 30
S. ANNOUNCE PRODUCER PRICE COFFEE & COCOA 7/
DAF/SLPMB Al           MAY 15
C. RICE PRICB AND TRADE TARIFF POUCY
1. COMPLETION OF STUDY ON RICE POUCY            DAF/TA                  SEPT. 15
2. REVIEW FINDINGS/OPTIONS OF RICE STUDY        GOSLIIDA                NOV. 30
D. PRIVATEZATiON
1. COMPLETE VALUATION OF DAF OIL PALM ASSET 9/  DAF/TA                  AUGUST15
2. ACTION PLAN FOR PRIVATIZING OIL PALM ASSET 10/  DAF/TA               OCTOBER31
E. BUDGETARY PROVISON, COST RBCOVERY AND AUDIT
1. QUARTERLY ADVANCE BY DFDEP TO DAF AND SLRA   DFDEP                   APRIL 30
2. DEPOSIT IN TREASURY OF COSTS RECOVERED 11/12/  DFDEP                 JUNE 15 B/
3. COMPLETION INTERNAL AUDIT                    GOSL                    DECEMBER31
4. COMPLETION EXTERNAL AUDIT                    AUDIT FIRM              DECEMBER31
F. ANNUAL GROWIII. BUDGBTARY AND WORK PLANS 13/
1. PRELIUMNARY DRAFT ANNUAL GROWIH PLAN         DAF/TA                  DECEMBER 15
2. PROPOSED ANNUAL TECHNICAL WORK PLANS 14/     DAF                     OCTOBER31
3. IDA REVIEW OF WORK PLANS WITH CU             CU/IDA                  MAY 1
4. DRAFT BUDOET PROPOSALS                       DAF                     MAY 1
5. FINAL PROCUREMENT PLANS AND SCHEDULES        DAF/SLRA                MAY 15
6. DEUVERY PLANS/SCHEDULES FOR FARM INPUTS      DAF/TA                  APRIL30
7. DEUVERY SCHEDULES/CROP-PROCESSING MACHINERY  DAFITA                  JUNE 15
G. TRAMNO AND RESEARCH
1. COMPLETE DAF MANPOWER SURVEY                 DAF                     JUNE 30
2. PREPARE 3 YEAR DAF TRAINING PROGRAMME        DAF A/                  OCTOBER31
3. PROPOSALS BY NARCC TO REVISE NARP 151        NARCC/AGRIC. INSTTS     SEPTEMBER 30
H. PROJECT PERFORMANCE
1. QUARTERLY REVIEW                             DAF/SLRAIBSL/TA         JUNEIOCTOBER END
2. ANNUAL PROJECT PERFORMANCE REVIEW 16/        CU                      NOVEMBER I
NOTE: THE FOOTNOTE NUMBERING IN EACH INDMDUAL IMPLEMENTA1ION SCHEDULE IS NOT NECESSARILY CONSECUTIVE.



- 74 -
ANNEX F
PAGE 2 OF 6
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACnONS TO BE TAKEN                             BY WHOM                BY WHEN
1994
A. INSITULMONAL
1. REVIEW OF DAF STAFF REDUCTIONS WITH IDA II  DAF A/                 MAY I
2. REVIEW OF DAF TORS WITH IDA                 DAF A/                 MAY 30
3. MEETINGS OF COORDINATION COMMITTEE          MEMBERS                JANUARY 15 B/
4. MEETINGS OF CAPI 2/                         MEMBERS                JANUARY I Cl
B. PRICING AND SUBSIDIES
L. ANNOUNCE PRICES OF ASSP FINANCED INPUTS     DAF A/                 FEBRUARY 15
2. PHASED REDUCTION OF FERTILIZER SUBSIDY 41   DAF A/                 FEBRUARY 15
3. ANNOUNCEMENT OF FERTIUZER PRICE             DAF Al                 FEBRUARY 15
4. REVIEW OF PARITY PRICE FOR RICE             DAF Al                 JANUARY 15
5. POST MONITORED CONSUMER RICE PRICE 51       DAF - MESD             JANUARY 15 B/
6. POST MONITORED PRODUCER RICE PRICE 6/       DAF - MESD             JANUARY 15 B/
7. REVIEW FOB PRICE FOR COFFEE & COCOA BEANS   DAF A/                 APRIL 30
8. ANNOUNCE PRODUCER PRICE COFFEE & COCOA 7/   DAFISLPMB At           MAY 15
C. RICE PRICE AND TRADE TAREFF POUCY
1. IMPLEMENTATION OF RICE POLICY 8/            GOSL                   JANUARY31
D. PRIVATIZATON
I. ACTION PLAN FOR PRIVATIZING OIL PALM ASSET 1O/  DAF/TA             JANUARY 15 C/
E. BUDGETARY PROVISION, COST RECOVERY AND AUDIT
I. QUARTERLY ADVANCE BY DFDEP TO DAF AND SLRA  DFDEP                  JANUARY 15 Cl
2. DEPOSIT IN TREASURY OF COSTS RECOVERED 11/12/  DFDEP               JANUARY 30 Bt
3. COMPLETION INTERNAL AUDIT                   GOSL                   DECEMBER31
4. COMPLETION EXTERNAL AUDIT                   AUDIT FIRM             DECEMBER31
5. PREVIOUS YEAR'S AUDIT REPORTS TO IDA        DAF                    APRIL 30
F. ANNUAL GROWIH. BUDGETARY AND WORK PLANS 13/
I. FINAL DRAFT ANNUAL GROWrH PLAN              DAF/TA                 JANUARY31
2. PROPOSED ANNUAL TECHNICAL WORK PLANS 14/    DAF                    JANUARY 31 31
3. IDA REVIEW OF WORK PLANS WITH CU            CU/IDA                 MAY I
4. DRAFT BUDGET PROPOSALS                      DAF                    MARCH 31
5. FINAL PROCUREMENT PLANS AND SCHEDULES       DAF/SLRA               MARCH 31
6. DEUVERY PLANSISCHEDULES FOR FARM INPUTS     DAF/TA                 FEBRUARY 28
7. DEUVERY SCHEDULES/CROP-PROCESSING MACHINERY  DAF/TA                JUNE 15
G. TRANING AND RESEARCH
1. UPDATE 3 YEAR TRAINING PROGRAMME            DAF A/
2. COMPLETE NATIONAL AGRIC. RESEARCH PLAN      NARCC/AGRIC. INSTITS   JANUARY31
H. PROJECT PERFORMANCE
1. QUARTERLY REVIEW                            DAF/SLRA/BSLITA        JANUARY I Cl
2. ANNUAL PROJECT PERFORMANCE REVIEW 16/       CU                     MARCH 31
3. PROGRESS REPORT FOR MID-TERM REVIEW         CU/TA                  JULY 31
4. MID-TERM REVIEW                             DAFF/SLRA/IDA          SEPTEMBER I
NOTE: THE FOOTNOTE NUMBERING IN EACH INDIVIDUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE IS NOT NECESSARILY CONSECUTIVE



- 75 -
ANNEX F
PAGE 3 OF 6
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACnONS TO BE TAKEN                              BY WHOM                 BY WHEN
1995
A. INSTrUIIONAL
I. REVIEW OF DAF STAFF REDUCTIONS WITH IDA 1I   DAF A/                  MAY 1
2. REVIEW OF DAF TORS WITH IDA                  DAF Al                  MAY 30
3. MEETINGS OF COORDINATION COMMITTEE           MEMBERS                 JANUARY 15 Bl
4. MEETINGS OF CAPE 2/                          MEMBERS                 JANUARY I Cl
B. PRICING AND SUBSIIES
1. ANNOUNCE PRICES OF ASSP FINANCED INPUTS      DAF A/                  FEBRUARY 15
2. PHASED REDUCTION OF FERTILIZER SUBSIDY 4/    DAF Al                  FEBRUARY 15
3. ANNOUNCEMENT OF FERTILIZER PRICE             DAF Al                  FEBRUARY 15
4. REVIEW OF PARITY PRICE FOR RICE              DAP Al                  JANUARY 15
5. POST MONITORED CONSUMER RICE PRICE 5/        DAF - MESD              JANUARY 15 Bl
6. POST MONITORED PRODUCER RICE PRICE 6/        DAF - MESD              JANUARY 15 B/
7. REVIEW FOB PRICE FOR COFFEE & COCOA BEANS    DAF A/                  APRIL 30
B. ANNOUNCE PRODUCER PRICE COFFEE & COCOA 7/    DAF/SLPMB Al            MAY 15
C. RICE PRICE AND TRADE TARIFF POUCY
1. MONITORING NEW RICE POLICY 8/                CAPI/GOSL               JANUARY 31 Ct
D. PRIVATIZA1ON
1. ACTION PLAN FOR PRIVATIZING OIL PALM ASSET 10/  DAFITA              JANUARY 15 C/
E. BUDCETARY PROVISION, COST RBCOVERY AND AUDIT
1. QUARTERLY ADVANCE BY DFDEP TO DAF AND SLRA   DFDEP                   JANUARY 15 C/
2. DEPOSIT IN TREASURY OF COSTS RECOVERED 11/12/  DFDEP                 JANUARY 30 B/
3. COMPLETION INTERNAL AUDIT                    GOSL                    DECEMBER31
4. COMPLETION EXTERNAL AUDIT                    AUDIT FIRM              DECEMBER31
5. PREVIOUS YEAR'S AUDIT REPORTS TO IDA         DAF                     APRIL 30
F. ANNUAL GROWIH. BUDGETARY AND WORK PLANS 13/
1. FINAL DRAFT ANNUAL GROWrH PLAN               DAF/TA                  JANUARY31
2. PROPOSED ANNUAL TECHNICAL WORK PLANS 14/     DAF                     JANUARY 31 31
3. IDA REVIEW OF WORK PLANS WITH CU             CU/IDA                  MAY I
4. DRAFT BUDGET PROPOSALS                       DAF                     MARCH 31
5. FINAL PROCUREMENT PLANS AND SCHEDULES        DAF/SLRA                MARCH 31
6. DELIVERY PLANS/SCHEDULES FOR FARM INPUTS     DAF/TA                  FEBRUARY 2S
7. DELIVERY SCHEDULES/CROP-PROCESSING MACHINERY  DAFtTA                 JUNE 15
G. TRAINING AND RESEARCH
I. UPDATE 3 YEAR TRAINING PROGRAMME             DAF Al
2. COMPLETE NATIONALAGRIC. RESEARCH PLAN        NARCCIAGRIC. INSTITS    JANUARY 31
H. PROJECT PERFORMANCE
I. QUARTERLY REVIEW                             DAF/SLRA/BSLTA         JANUARY 1 Cl
2. ANNUAL PROJECT PERFORMANCE REVIEW 16/        CU                      MARCH 31
NOTE: THE FOOTNOTE NUMBERING IN EACH INDIVIDUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE IS NOT NECESSARILY CONSECUTIVE.



- 76 -
ANNEX F
PAGE 4 OF 6
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACnIONS TO BE TAKEN                            BY WHOU                BY WJHEN
1996
A. INSTITUnONAL
1. REVIEW OF DAF STAFF REDUCTIONS WITH IDA 1/  DAF A/                 MAY 1
2. REVIEW OF DAF TORS WITH IDA                 DAF A/                 MAY 30
3. MEETINGS OF COORDINATION COMMYITTEE         MEMBERS                JANUARY 15 B/
4. MEETINGS OF CAPI 2/                         MEMBERS                JANUARY I C/
B. PRICING AND SUBSIDIES
1. ANNOUNCE PRICES OF ASSP FINANCED INPUTS     DAF A/                 FEBRUARY 15
2. ELIMINATION OF FERTILIZER SUBSIDY 41        DAF A/                 FEBRUARY 15
3. ANNOUNCEMENT OF FERTILIZER PRICE            DAF A/                 FEBRUARY 15
4. REVIEW OF PARITY PRICE FOR RICE             DAF Al                 JANUARY 15
5. POST MONITORED CONSUMER RICE PRICE 5/       DAF - MESD             JANUARY 15 B/
6. POST MONITORED PRODUCER RICE PRICE 6/       DAF - MESD             JANUARY 15 B/
7. REVIEW FOB PRICE FOR COFFEE & COCOA BEANS   DAF Al                 APRIL 30
8. ANNOUNCE PRODUCER PRICE COFFEE & COCOA 7/   DAF/SLPMB A/           MAY IS
C. RICE PRICE AND TRADE TARFF POLICY
1. IMPLEMENTATION OF RICE POLICY B/            GOSIJCAPI              JANUARY 13 Cl
D. PRIVATIZAlION
i. ACTION PLAN FOR PRIVA1IZING OIL PALM ASSET 10/  DAF/TA             JANUARY 15 C/
E. BUDGETARY PROVISION, COST RECOVERY AND AUDIT
1. QUARTERLY ADVANCE BY DFDEP TO DAF AND SLRA  DFDEP                  JANUARY 15 Cl
2. DEPOSIT IN TREASURY OF COSTS RECOVERED 11/12/  DFDEP               JANUARY 30 Bl
3. COMPLETION INTERNAL AUDIT                   GOSL                   DECEMBER31
4. COMPLETION EXTERNAL AUDIT                   AUDIT FIRM             DECEMBER31
S. PREVIOUS YEAR'S AUDIT REPORTS TO IDA        DAF                    APRIL 30
F. ANNUAL GROWIH, BUDGEIARY AND WORK PLANS 131
1. FINAL DRAFT ANNUAL GROWTH PLAN              DAF/TA                 JANUARY31
2. PROPOSED ANNUAL TECHNICAL WORK PLANS 14/    DAF                    JANUARY3131
3. IDA REVIEW OF WORK PLANS WITH CU            CU/IDA                 MAY I
4. DRAFT BUDGET PROPOSALS                      DAF                    MARCH 31
5. FINAL PROCUREMENT PLANS AND SCHEDULES       DAF/SLRA               MARCH 31
6. DELIVERY PLANS/SCHEDULES FOR FARM INPUTS    DAF/TA                 FEBRUARY 21
7. DELIVERY SCHEDULES/CROP.PROCESSING MACHINERY  DAF/TA               JUNE 15
G. TRAINING AND RESEARCH
1. UPDATE 3 YEAR TRAINING PROGRAMME            DAF A/
2. COMPLETE NATIONAL AGRIC. RESEARCH PLAN      NARCC/AGRIC. INSTITS   JANUARY31
H. PROJECT PERFORMANCE
I. QUARTERLY REVIEW                            DAF/SLRAIBSIJTA        JANUARY I Cl
2. ANNUAL PROJECT PERFORMANCE REVIEW 16/       CU                     MARCH 31
NOTE: THE FOOTNOTE NUMBERING IN EACH INDIVIDUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE IS NOT NECESSARILY CONSECUTIVE.



- 77 -
ANNEX F
PAGE 5 OF 6
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
ACnONS TO BE TAKEN                              BY WHOM                 BY WHEN
1997
A. INSTMMIONAL
1. REVIEW OF DAF STAFF REDUCnONS WITH IDA 1/    DAF A/                  MAY I
2. REVIEW OF DAF TORS WITH IDA                  DAF A/                  MAY 30
3. MEETINGS OF COORDINATION COMMITTEE           MEMBERS                 JANUARY 15 B/
4. MEETINGS OF CAPI 2/                          MEMBERS                 JANUARY I Cl
B. PRICING AND SUBSlDEES
1. ANNOUNCE PRICES OF ASSP FINANCED INPUTS      DAF A/                  FEBRUARY 15
2. PHASED REDUCTION OF FERTLIZER SUBSIDY 4/     DAF A/                  FEBRUARY 15
3. ANNOUNCEMENT OF FERTILIZER PRICE             DAF A/                  FEBRUARY 15
4. REVIEW OF PARITY PRICE FOR RICE              DAF A/                  JANUARY 15
5. POST MONITORED CONSUMER RICE PRICE 5/        DAF - MESD              JANUARY 15 B/
6. POST MONITORED PRODUCER RICE PRICE 6/        DAF - MESD              JANUARY 15 B/
7. REVIEW FOB PRICE FOR COFFEE & COCOA BEANS    DAF A/                  APRIL 30
S. ANNOUNCE PRODUCER PRICE COFFEE & COCOA 7/    DAF/SLPMB A/            MAY IS
C. RICE PRICE AND TRADE TARIFF POUCY
I. IMPLEMENTATION OF RICE POLUCY 8/             CAPI                    JANUARY 15 C/
D. PRIVATlZATION
1. ACTION PLAN FOR PRIVATIZING OIL PALM ASSET 10/  DAF/TA               JANUARY I5 Cl
E. BUDGErARY PROVISION, COST RECOVERY AND AUDIT
1. QUARTERLY ADVANCE BY DFDEP TO DAF AND SLRA   DFDEP                   JANUARY 15 Cl
2. DEPOSIT IN TREASURY OF COSTS RECOVERED 11/12/  DFDEP                 JANUARY30 B/
3. COMPLETION INTERNAL AUDIT                    GOSL                    DECEMBER 31
4. COMPLETION EXTERNAL AUDIT                    AUDIT FIRM              DECEMBER31
5. PREVIOUS YEAR'S AUDIT REPORTS TO IDA         DAF                     APRIL 30
F. ANNUAL GROWIH, BUDGETARY AND WORK PLANS 13/
1. FINAL DRAFT ANNUAL GROWTH PLAN               DAF/TA                  JANUARY 31
2. PROPOSED ANNUAL TECHNICAL WORK PLANS 14/     DAF                     JANUARY3131
3. IDA REVIEW OF WORK PLANS WITH CU             CU/IDA                  MAY 1
4. DRAFT BUDGET PROPOSALS                       DAF                     MARCH 31
5. FINAL PROCUREMENT PLANS AND SCHEDULES        DAF/SLRA                MARCH 31
6. DELIVERY PLANS/SCHEDULES FOR FARM INPUTS     DAF/TA                  FEBRUARY 28
7. DELIVERY SCHEDULES/CROP-PROCESSING MACHINERY  DAF/TA                 JUNE 15
G. TRAINING AND RESEARCH
1. UPDATE 3 YEAR TRAINING PROGRAMME             DAF I/                  JANUARY31
H. PROJECT PERI0RUANCE
1. QUARTERLY REVIEW                             DAF/SLRA/BSL/TA         JANUARY I C/
2. ANNUAL PROJECT PERFORMANCE REVIEW 16/        CU                      MARCH 31
3. PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT                    GOSL                    APRIL I
NOTE: THE FOOTNOTE NUMBERING IN EACH INDIVIDUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE IS NOT NECESSARILY CONSECUTIVE.



- 78 -
ANNEX F
PAGE 6 OF 6
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
ANNUAL IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Nan3Os m nTTE ANNUAL IPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES F)R 1993, 1994, 1995, 1996 AND 1997.
1/ DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY (DAF).
2V COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE PRODUCER INCENTIVES.
3/ INCLUDES TEN ACCOUNTANTS TO BE PROVIDED BY THE DFDEP TO MAN THE TEN DAF INPUT STORES/DEPOTS.
4/ NO MORE THAN 60, 40 AND 20 PERCENT OF IMPORT PARITY IN MARCH 1993 AND FEBRUARY 1994 AND 1995, RESPEC'IVELY.
5/ WHOLESALE AND RETAIL PRICE AT MAIN URBAN AND SELECTED LOCAL MARKETS TO BE POSTED AT VILLAGE LEVEL
6/ FORTNIGHTLY, THE FARM-GATE PRICE OF RICE IN SELECTED AREAS OF ALL RICE ECOLOGIES.
7/ TO BE NO LOWER THAN 60 PERCENT OF FOB PRICE.
1/ RICE POIICY RESULTING FROM REVIEW OF FINDINGS AND OPInONS REFLECTED IN STUDY.
9/ THE OIL PAUL ASSET INCLUDES THE PLANTATIONS AND MILLS AT DARU AND GAMBIA-MATrRU.
10/ IN WHOLE OR IN PART.
11/ COSTS RECOVERED FROM THE SALE OF ASSP-FINANCED INPUTS AT THE TEN DESIGNATED DAF INPUT STORES/DEPOTS.
12/ ON A CONTINUOUS BASIS - DEPOSIT TO TREASURY TO BE MADE IMMEDIATELY ON RECOVERY OF COSTS.
13/ OPERATIONAL WORK PLANS, BUDGETS, PROCUREMENT ACTION PLANS AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULES.
14/ BY EACH DAF DMSION AND FOR EACH PROJECT COMPONENT WHETHER IMPLEMENTED BY BSL, SLRAIILO OR DAF.
15/ NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COORDINATING COUNCIL AND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PLAN.
16/ A REVIEW OF TEN MONTHS IN THE INrrIAL PROIECT YEAR.
17/ NO LATER THAN JUNE 30, 1997.
A/ EACH MONTH THEREAFTER.
B/ EVERY FORTNIGHT THEREAFTER.
C/ EVERY QUARTER THEREAFTER.
AF4AG
November 1992



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROCECT
(CREDIT 1501-SI)
SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1993                     1994                     1995                     1996               1997
ACTIONS                                  A MIJ |J |AIS IO|NDI |JTFTM|A M  |IJ[AIS IO|N|DI FJ TFTMTA7M|J J IAIS IO|N D   I FTMTATMTJ J AS ION|D  F MA
A. INsinITMIONAL
I. REVIEW OF DAF STAFF REDUCTIONS WITHIDA UI  B                        
2. REVIEW OF DAC TORS WITH IDA             E                         E                        E                        E
3.MhEETINGS OF COORDINATION COM[MITTEE    EMMMMMMMM   MMMMMMMMMMMM   MMMMMMMMMMMM   MMMMMMMMMMMM   MMMMMM
4. MIEEnNGSOFCAPI2/                             B    B       B    B    B    B         B    B    B    B          B    B    B    B         B     B  B
S. COUNTERPART STAFF (INPUTS/AGRO) IN PLACE 3/  M
6. SELECTION OF 15 FARMERS' ASSOCIATIONS  E
B. PRICING AND SUBSIDIES
I. ANNOUNCE PRICES OF ASSP FINANCED INPUTS  B                  M                        P                        M                         M
2. PHASED REDUCTION OF FERIIJZER SUBSIDY 4/    B               M                         dM
3. ELIMNATION OF FERTILIZER SUBSIDY                                                                              M MM
4. ANNOUNCEMENT OF FERTIUZER PRICE          B                  M                        M
S. REVIEWOFPARrTYPRICEFORRICE                M       E       M    E    M    E          dM    E    M    E  | M    E  |M    E                M  E
6. POST MONrORED CONSUMER RICE PRICE 5/   EMMMMMMMM  mmMMMMMMMMMMM  M   MMMMMMMMMMMM   MMMMMMMMMMMM   MMMMMM
7. POST MONITORED PRODUCER RICE PRICE 6/  EMMMMMMMM             I MMMM[M MmMmMm- MMMMMMMMMMMM: MMMMMMMMMMMM   MMMMMM
S. REVIEW FOB PRICE FOR COFFEE & COCOA BEANS   E                   E                        E                        E                         E
9. ANNOUNCE PRODUCER PRICE COFFEE & COCOA 7/    M                    Pd M                                               dM                       M
C. RICE PRICE AND TRLADE TARIFF POLICY
1. COMPLETION OF STUDY ON RICE POLICY             MP
2. REVIEW FINDINGS/OPTIONS OF RICE POLICY STUDY      E                                                                                                Z
3. IMLDEENTATION OF RICE POUCY S/                            E
D. PRIVATIZATION
1. COPETE VALUATION OF DAF OIL PALM ASSEr 9/     Pd
2. ACnON PLAN FOR PRIVATZING OIL PALM ASSET 10/      E
NOTE TIHE BEGINNING, MIDDLE AND END OF THE MON TH, BY WHICH ACTIONS ARE TO BE COMPLETED, ARE DENOTE BY ThE LETTERS NB Pd' AND 'E. RESPECnVELY.



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1993                    1994                    1995                     1996               1997
ACnONS                       ~~~~~~~~~~~A M_ _J _ AS 0  TA MJ J A F M  NT D1     |ID  J J A      S O N D  |J|F|FM|FA|MTI Jl |AIS|JO|N|DIJ|||||
ACTIONSN DFT-                                                                      F FF Am
E. BUDGErARY PROVISION, COST RECOVERY & AUDIT
I QUARTERLYADVANCEBYDFDEPTODAFANDSLRA B    B    B          B    B    B    B         B    B    B    B        B    B    B    B         B    B
2. DEPOSIT IN TREASURY OF COSTS RECOVERED I1/12/  MMMMMMM   MMMMMMMMMMMM   MMMMMMMMMMMM   MMMMMMMMMMMM   MMMMMM
3. COMPLETON INTERNAL AUDIT                             E                       E                        E                       E
4. COMPLETION EXTERNAL AUDIT                            E                       E                        E                       E
5. ANNUAL EXTERNAL AUDIT REPORT TO IDA                           E                        E                       E                        E
F. ANNUAL GROWTH, BUDGETARY & WORK PLANSI3/ I3
0o
1. PRELDIINARY DRAFT ANNUAL GROWIH PLAN                M                        M                        M                       M I
2. FINAL DRAFT ANNUAL GROWITH PLAN                         E                        E                       E                        E |
3. PROPOSED ANNUAL TECHNICAL WORK PLANS 14/  E             E                        E                       E                        E
4. IDA REVIEW OF WORK PLANS Wnli CU       B                    B                        B                       B                        B
5. DRAFT BUDGET PROPOSALS                 B                    E                       E                        E                        E
6. FINAL PROCUREMENT PLANS AND SCHEDULES  M                    E                        E                       E                        E
7. PLANS & SCHEDULES FOR FARM INPUTS DELIVERY  E             E                        E                       E                        E
S. SCHEDULES FOR DELIVERY OF AGRO-EQUIPMENT  M                       M                       M                        M                       M
G. TRAINIG AND RESEARCH
1. COIMPIET DAF MANPOWER SURVEY               E
2. PREPARE 3 YEAR DAF ITRAINING PROGRAMME           E
3. UPDATE 3 YEAR TRAING PROGRAMME                         EE                                                   I I I
4. PROPOSALS BY NARCC TO REVISE NARP 15/          E
5. COMPLETION NATL AGRIC. RESEARCH PLAN                    EX
NOTE THE BEGINNNG, MIDDLE AND END OF THE MONTH, BY WHICH ACTIONS ARE TO BE COMPLETED. ARE DENOTE BY THE LETTERS 'B'.  M' AND 'E. RESPECTVELY.



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SI)
SUMMARY IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1993                    1994                     1995                     1996               1997
ACnONS                        A ~~~~~~~~MI _J _A IS O ND   F T-MTA MJ _1 _ AS IO T _ FJF rM A FM _       |OND   11-F |F|M| I|J JA|SIO|N|D|| |FMATM|I]-
ACTIONS                                  AMJSNTD   JMMJ                        N      JFMAM        AISJONID   TEAMIT         SON         ETmAM
H. PROTECT PERFORMANCE
1. QUARTERLYBREVIEW                               E         B    B    B    B         B    B    B    B         B    B    B    B         B    B
2. ANNUAL PROJECT PERFORMANCE REVIEW 16/             B          E                        EEE
3. PROGRESS REPIR FOR MID-TERM REVIEW                                   E
4. MID-TERM REVIEW                                                          BI                 
5. PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT 17/
NOTE. THE BEGINNING. MIDDLE AND END OF THE MON TH. BY WHICH ACTIONS ARE TO) BE COMPLETED, ARE DENOT-E BY IHE LErrERS 'B3. 'M AND 'E * RESPECTIVELY.
1/ DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE AND FORESTRY (D AF).
2/ COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURE PRODUCER INCENTI VES.
3/ INCLUDES TEN ACCOUNTANTS TO BE PROVIDED B Y THE DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE, DEVELOPMENT AND ECONOMIC PLANNING TO MAN TIE TEN DAF INPUT STORESIDEPOTS.
4/ SUBSIDY NO GREATER THAN 60 PERCENT, 40 PERCENT AND 20 PERCENT OF IMPORT PARITY IN MARCH 1993 AND FEBRUARY 1994 AND 1995.
5/ FORT-IGHTLY. WHOLESALE AND RETAJL PRICE AT MAIN URBAN AND SELECTED LOCAL MARKETS TO BE POSTED AT VMIAGE LEVEL WITH NO MORE THAN A TWIO WEEK LAG.
6/ FORTNIGHTLY, THE FARM-GATE PRICE OF RICE IN SELECTED AREAS OF IVS. MANGROVE SWAMPS. RIVERAIN SWAMPS, BOUILANDS AND UPLANDS.
7/ TO BE NO LOWER THAN 60 PERCENT OF FOB PRICE
S/ RICE POUCY RESULTING FROM REVIEW OF FINDIN GS AND OPnONS REFLECTED IN STUDY.
9/ THE OIL PALM ASSET INCLUDES IRE PLANTATIONS AND MILLS AT DARU AND GAMBIA-MATTRU.
10/ IN WHOIE OR IN PART.
11/ COSTS RECOVERED FROM THE SALE OF ASSP-FINA NCED INPUTS AT THE TEN DESIGNATED DAF INPUT STORES/DEPOTS.
12/ ON A CONTINUOUS BASIS - DEPOSIT TO TREASURY TO BE MADE IMMEDIATELY ON RECOVERY OF COSTS.
13/ CONSISTING OF OPERATIONAL WORK PLANS. BUD GETS. PROCUREMENT ACTION PLANS AND SCHEDULE, AND IMLEMENTATION SCHEDULES.
14/ BY EACH DAF DIVION AND FOR EACH PROJECT C OMPONENT WHEIHER IMPLEMENTED BY BSL. SLRA/ILO OR DAF.A
15/ NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COORDINATING COUNCIL (NARCC) AND NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PLAN (NARP).
16/ A REVIEW OF TEN MONTHS IN THE INIIAL PROJEC T YEAh                                                                                              x
17/ NO LATER IRAN JUNE 30. 1997.
AF4AG
Nov_ar 1992



- 82 -                        Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the Chief Technical Coordinator for the ASSP
Location:            Department of Agriculture and Forestry (DAF), Coordination Unit.
Per io2d:            48 man months
Oualifications:      Advanced Degree in Public or Business Administration or
Institutional/Organizational Development with at least 10 years field
experience in the management of agriculture and rural development
projects. It is preferable that seven of the ten years experience should
have been obtained in a developing country. Must be able to read,
write and speak English fluently.
Responsibilities:    The Chief Technical Coordinator for the ASSP (CTC) will report
directly to the Director-General (DG) of DAF in whose office the
ASSP Coordination Unit (CU) is to be located. His main
responsibility will be the coordination and implementation of the
Agriculture Sector Support Project (ASSP). He will work closely
with the DAF Division Chiefs and Chief Regional Officers as well as
key relevant officials in all of the other implementing agencies for the
ASSP. He will also coordinate the technical assistance inputs of all
foreign and local technical assistance assigned to the Project and in
consultation with the Director-General oversee the preparation and
review of the work plans of the technical assistance team.
Specifically, the Chief Technical Coordinator will:
(a)    ensure that all project components are executed in accordance
with the project timetable indicated in the ASSP Project
Redesign and Implementation Report (PRAIR). For this
purpose, the CTC will draw up quarterly work plans for the
activities of the Coordinating Unit, six months in advance, and
develop with the Chiefs of the DAF Divisions quarterly work
plans also six months in advance;
(b)   identify and promptly resolve, in consultation with the
Director-General and his officials, other ASSP implementing
agencies and IDA, as the case may be, any bottlenecks and
impediments to the smooth implementation of the ASSP and
any factors that may obstruct the achievement of its objectives;
(c)    oversee the work of the Financial Controller and Chief
Procurement Officer to ensure that accounting and
procurement are undertaken in a timely manner, that sound
international accounting practices are applied and that the



- 83 -                        Annex H
Bank's Guidelines on the Selection of Consultants and
Procurement of Goods and Services are meticulously followed;
(d)    oversee the operation and reporting of the Project and Special
Accounts, and monitor counterpart funding and IFAD co-
financing;
(e)    coordinate the ASSP through close liaison with: (i) the
Technical Coordinator for Feeder Roads, located in the Feeder
Roads Department (DFR) of the Sierra Leone Roads Authority
(SLRA) and the Chief Technical Advisor, ILO for the feeder
roads component; (ii) the Technical Coordinator for Farm
Inputs and the Technical Coordinator for Agro-Processing for
the Input Supply and Agro-Processing Component; and (iii)
the Rural Finance Specialist located in the Development
Finance Department (DFD) of the Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL)
for the technical and logistical support to selected rural banks;
(f)    consult closely with the National Extension Coordinator and
the National Research Coordinator for implementing the
Technology Transfer and Reseach-Extension Linkages
Components;
(g)    as required, and on behalf of the Director-General, monitor
agricultural development initiatives of other donors and
bringing to the attention of the Director-General and IDA any
substantive variance with the Bank's near term sector strategy
as enunciated in the ASSP, particularly with respect to its
policy and institutional aspects;
(h)    work with the Chiefs of the Crops, Forestry, Fisheries,
Livestock and Land and Water Development Divisions and
with the Chiefs of the Monitoring, Evaluation and Statistics
Division and the Communications Division on their quarterly
work programmes and budgets with the ultimate objective of:
(i) increasing the adoption rates by farmers of the technology
transferred; (ii) improving impact assessments on crop yields
and farm incomes as a result of the technology adopted; and
(iii) promoting the sustained use of the technology transferred;
(i)    monitor and report on ASSP implementation through the
preparation of quarterly progress reports for each component
and sub-component and for each DAF technical division and
regional office, identify bottlenecks, and propose and
implement measures for strengthening implementation;
(j)   identify gaps in the managerial skills within the DAF that may
be regarded as impediments to the strengthening of
management capacity in the DAF and sector institutions;



- 84 -                        Annex H
(k)    ensure compliance with the Bank's reporting requirements as
specified in the Bank's Project Redesign and Implementation
Report; and
(I)    ensure that Sierra Leoneans are fully involved in all aspects of
ASSP decisions and implementation and that local counterparts
are fully trained in key aspects of project coordination and
implementation.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Chief Technical
Coordinator will prepare a report reviewing the performance and
implementation of the project/component/sub-component or area of
specialization and based upon his experience make recommendations
or express thoughts for strengthening the general area of activity with
which he was involved, for example, challenges and constraints in the
coordination and management of agricultural projects in Sierra Leone.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 85 -                        Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the Financial Controller
Location:           Department of Agriculture and Forestry (DAF), Coordination Unit for
the ASSP.
Period:             48 man months.
Oualifications:     Advanced Degree in Accounting (ACCA or its equivalent) with at
least 10 years experience in working with a Government agency in a
developing country, preferably in Africa. Fluency in English.
Responsibilities:   the Financial Controller will report directly to the Chief Technical
Coordinator for the Agriculture Sector Support Project (ASSP) for all
ASSP-related finances, and to the Director-General of DAF for all
other financial and budgetary matters. He will liase closely with the
Accountant General and the Auditor General for matters relating to the
Government's accounting regulations and acceptable commercial
standards and will be in overall authority for the DAF accounts and
financial staff located in the Coordination Unit. Specific tasks will
include but will not be limited to:
(a)    ensuring that ASSP accounts in each implementing agency for
the ASSP are maintained in a form acceptable to IDA by
working closely with relevant Divisions of the DAF and with
the Bank of Sierra Leone (Development Finance Department),
the Sierra Leone Roads Authority (Department of Feeder
Roads), the Technical Coordinator, Farm Inputs and the
Technical Coordinator, Agro-Processing;
(b)    supervising the operation of the ASSP Project and Special
Accounts and counterpart funding;
(c)    ensuring that all ASSP Project and Special Accounts are
properly maintained in a manner that will facilitate internal
and external audit;
(d)   reviewing contract documentation and disbursement requests to
IDA and IFAD to ensure that the material is in accord with
the legal, accounting and procurement requirements of IDA
and IFAD;
(e)    ensuring that the annual capital and recurrent actual and
proposed budgets of the DAF, DFR in SLRA and the DFD in



- 86 -                        Annex H
the Bank of Sierra Leone are consistent with the objectives of
the ASSP;
(f)    providing technical support to administrative sections of
regional offices in the preparation of annual recurrent and
capital budgets;
(g)    guiding counterpart staff in implementing improvements to the
existing accounting systems at headquarters and at regional
levels - this would include, improving and regularizing
accounting returns and reporting systems for each region; and
(h)    bringing to the prompt attention of the Chief Technical
Coordinator for the ASSP any problems with respect to
accounting and budgetary problems encountered in any of the
ASSP-components and suggesting practical recommendations
for early resolution.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Financial Controller
will prepare a report reviewing the performance and implementation
of the project/component/sub-component or area of specialization and
based upon his experience make recommendations or express thoughts
for strengthening the general area of activity with which he was
involved, for example, the challenges and constraints in financial and
budgetary accounting and control in Sierra Leone.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 87 -                         Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the Agricultural Policy Planner
Location:            Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAF).
Period:              48 man months
Oualifications:      Advanced Degree in Economics with specialization in economic
development planning and at least 10 years experience in a developing
country in agricultural policy planning and analysis. Fluency in
English and good communication and writing skills.
Responsibilities:    The Agricultural Policy Planner (APP) will report directly to the
Director-General (DG) of DAF. His overall task will be to advise the
DG on agricultural policy, agricultural growth performance and
prospects, and oversee the formulation of an annual agricultural
growth plan as required by the Agricultural Sector Support Project
(ASSP). The APP will work closely with the National Extension
Coordinator, National Research Coordinator, Chief Agriculturist,
Division Chiefs of the Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries, Livestock,
Land and Water Development, Monitoring, Evaluation and Statistics,
and Communications Divisions and will attend all meetings of the
Standing Committee of the DAF. Specific tasks will include:
(a)    growth analysis, marketing and price policy analysis,
institutional policy analysis, strategy formulation, and
identification and formulation of programmes for agricultural
development based on economically sound criteria;
(b)    assessing, each year, aggregate policy and growth performance
of the agricultural sector within the context of the macro
economic adjustment reform programme;
(c)    identifying specific factors, by each sub-sector, responsible for
strong and poor growth, as the case may be, taking into
account the impact on yields and output of individual food and
cash crops, artisanal fish catch along the coast and in inland
swamps, fuel wood and charcoal output, and the change in the
livestock herd and number of small ruminants;
(d)    analyzing constraints to higher agricultural output and
productivity with specific attention to price and non-price
incentives in agriculture - constraints in respect of technology,
credit, delivery of basic agricultural services, and transport,



- 88 -                          Annex H
storage and marketing infrastructure will be singled out for
discussion;
(e)    assessing the impact on agricultural growth of (i) the
prevailing domestic trade and exchange rate policy regime; (ii)
the international market for traded goods; (iii) the domestic
rural labour market; (iv) trends in private investment in
agricultural production, processing and marketing; (v)
operation of the rural financial market; (vi) bilateral and
multilateral food aid delivered, distributed and monetized; and
(vi) environmental practices in the agriculture sector by the
main ecological zones;
(f)    assessing the implications of growth performance in the year,
for the availability of food and levels of nutrition, farmer
profitability, trends in marketed output, imports and exports,
and the balance of payments;
(g)    formulating an annual agricultural growth plan (AAGP) based
on agricultural policies and priorities designed to maximize
growth, productivity and farm incomes and reduce policy and
economic distortions. The priorities will be clearly defined
and will be decided taking into account intra-sectoral and
inter-sectoral trade-offs required to achieve the targeted
growth. The sub-sector strategies for the year will reflect
these priorities and will form the basis for work plans for
DAF Divisions for the year; and
(h)    training local counterpart staff in all of the above tasks.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Agricultural Policy
Planner will prepare a report reviewing the performance and
implementation of the project/component/sub-component or area of
specialization and based upon his experience make recommendations
or express thoughts for strengthening the general area of activity with
which he was involved, for example, challenges and constraints in
agricultural policy planning in Sierra Leone.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 89 -                         Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the Swamp and Watershed Management Expert
Location:            Department of Agriculture and Forestry (DAF), Land and Water
Development Division (LAWDD).
Period:              24 man months.
Oualifications:      First Degree from a University with a well recognized school of
Agricultural Engineering or Irrigation Technology, and a Masters
Degree in Hydrology, Irrigation Economy, Irrigation Science or
related fields. The Expert should have at least ten years practical
experience in irrigation with emphasis on swamp irrigation and small
farmer systems, and in the management of catchments and swamps.
Of this experience, a minimum of five years in countries with agro-
climatic conditions similar to Sierra Leone would be desirable.
Experience with rice production agronomic requirements would be
preferred.
Responsibilities:    The primary objectives of the swamp and watershed management
expert (SWME) are to assist the DAF to develop an internal capacity
to design and install environmentally sustainable, practical, low cost
and technically efficient field-level practices in swamp improvement
and management for rice and other crop production systems and in so
doing assist farmers to increase productivity. The SWME will report
to the Chief of the Land and Water Development Division of DAF.
The SWME will be required to travel widely within the country and
work with the field staff of LAWDD sections of regional offices. He
will experiment with swamp water management techniques with a
view to improving those already in use by farmers and advise on
overall catchment management to enable the maintenance of an
optional water cycle and minimum soil and water loss. Specific tasks
will include, but will not be limited to:
(a)    assisting LAWDD staff of the DAF with the identification of
swamp areas for improvement/consolidation, the preparation
of plans, technical designs and specifications, and cost
estimates for implementation;
(b)   training counterpart and support staff in the design, field
construction and maintenance of low cost swamp irrigation,
flood control and drainage distribution systems;
(c)    training staff and farmers in techniques for the proper
operation and maintenance of systems;



- 90 -                         Annex H
(d)    supervising the selection and establishment of demonstration
plots at representative sites and working closely with the Chief
Agriculturist, National Extension Coordinator, agronomists
and Subject Matter Specialists in the DAF in the development
of programs to demonstrate labor-efficient water and
catchment management, crop management, tillage and
harvesting techniques to farmers;
(e)    reviewing water and catchment management practices giving
regard to available local information and previous technical
studies maintained by the LAWDD, and identifying means of
improving these practices through field levelling, improved
tillage and seed bed preparation, and through minimizing the
labor input where the labour market so requires;
(f)    reviewing water supply and water use patterns, and monitoring
data to assist the Swamp Irrigation Users Groups or
Associations make decisions with respect to water use
practices and water conservation taking into account labor
availability and competing demands for labour;
(g)    reviewing the techniques currently used for the management of
irrigated crops in different agro-ecological zones and devising
means of improving on these in a manner that would
contribute positively to the farmers' welfare. These practices
will take into account labor scarcity, and the need to maximize
labor efficiency, group/participatory management of the
irrigation systems, and cost recovery measures;
(h)    reviewing with soil scientists and agronomists of DAF, the
National Agricultural Research Council (NARCC), Rokupr
Rice Research Station (RRRS), and the University of Njala
(NUC), Agricultural Training College, the soil analytical data.
Particular emphasis will be placed upon the nutrient and
micro-nutrient status of the soils for establishing fertilizer
requirement based on the real, rather than the perceived, needs
of the crops. The SWME will also assist in training staff and
farmers to recognize the symptoms of soil salinity and/or
sodicity and iron toxicity from analytical data and field
observations and to advise on appropriate remedial actions;
(i)    training local counterpart staff in performing all of the above
tasks.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Swamp and
Watershed Management Expert will prepare a report reviewing the
performance and implementation of the project/component/sub-



- 91 -                       Annex H
component or area of specialization and based upon his experience
make recommendations or express thoughts for strengthening the
general area of activity with which he was involved, for example, the
challenges in constraints in swamp development and consolidation and
watershed management in Sierra Leone.
November 1992



- 92 -                        Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the Rural Finance Specialist
Location:            Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL), Office of the Director, Development
Finance Department.
Period:              18 man months.
Oualifications:      Advanced Degree in Business, Agricultural Economics or related
discipline with at least seven years operational experience in banking.
Five of the seven years experience should have been obtained in a
developing country in a rural setting with experience in a management
position.
Responsibilities:    the Rural Finance Specialist will work directly with the Director,
Development Finance Department of BSL, to implement the ASSP's
component for strengthening rural banks. Specific tasks will include
but will not be limited to:
(a)    reviewing the existing financing modalities of the rural sector
and recommend measures for improvement;
(b)    reviewing the operations of rural banks and determining
methods and efficiency measures for improving savings
mobilization, credit delivery and financial control;
(c)    developing a monitoring system for rural finance operations in
the formal and informal sectors;
(d)    establishing a methodology for assessing and reviewing the
demand for seasonal, medium and long-term loans by type of
agricultural activity;
(e)    establishing a system to monitor funds extended to rural banks
by the National Development Bank (NDB) under various lines
of credit financed by donors including the ADB;
(f)    assessing the training needs, organizing training programmes
and workshops, and preparing, in consultation with the BSL,
training manuals for rural bank managers and loan officers;
(g)    liaising closely with the Office of the National Extension
Coordinator in the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and
Fisheries (DAF) for assessing the credit needs of individuals



- 93 -                        Annex H
and group farmers with a view to facilitating group lending by
rural banks;
(h)   training local counterpart staff in carrying out all of the above
tasks; and
(i)    bringing to the prompt attention of the Chief Technical
Coordinator for the ASSP any problems with respect to the
implementation of ASSP-financed logistical, technical and
training support to the participating rural banks and suggesting
practical recommendations for early resolution.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Rural Finance
Specialist will prepare a report reviewing the performance and
implementation of the project/component/sub-component or area of
specialization and based upon his experience make recommendations
or express thoughts for strengthening the general area of activity with
which he was involved, for example, challenges and constraints in
rural/agricultural credit institutions in Sierra Leone.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 94 -                         Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the Technical Coordinator for Farm Inputs
Location:            Department of Agriculture and Forestry (DAF) Regional
Headquarters, Makeni.
Period:              48 man months.
Oualifications:      Post-Graduate Degree in Agricultural Technology and at least 7 to 10
years experience in crop technology, input handling, and training of
farm leaders, preferably in West Africa. Experience in organizing
farmers groups and associations and providing training to them in the
purchase of inputs and marketing of output would be desirable.
Responsibilities:    The primary objectives of the Technical Coordinator's (TC's)
assignment are to assist with the implementation of the input supply
sub-component of the overall Input Supply and Agro-Processing
component of the Agriculture Sector Support project (ASSP). In
particular, the Technical Coordinator will ensure that the ASSP-
financed inputs are physically available at designated DAF stores
and/or depots by a particular date to be determined with reference to a
specified crop calendar previously finalized with the National
Extension Coordinator and the Chief Agriculturist, DAFF. The TC
will report to the Chief Technical Coordinator of the ASSP, who will
be located within the Office of the Director-General, DAF and will
liaise closely with the DAF counterpart staff and the Technical
Coordinator for Agro-Processing. The TC will be required to travel
widely within the country and ensure that fertilizer and oil palm
seedlings are made available for the timely purchase by farmers. He
will be responsible for:
(a)    assessing the demand for specific farm inputs for the
geographical area to be served by each designated input
store/depot;
(b)    logistics and planning, in particular, preparing auiply
schedules for ensuring the timely availability of stocks in each
designated DAF store/depot;
(c)    preparing a detailed work plan for and the implementation of
the input supply sub-component including procurement action
plans and schedules and ensuring consistency at all times with
the input supply sub-component and the relevant crop calendar
- the detailed work plan will contain assessments of quantities
of each of the inputs required for each crop season at each of



- 95 -                          Annex H
the ten selected input stores/depots and the dates by which
these supplies should be delivered to the respective locations;
(d)    preparing Guidelines for Input Supply and Storage for staff at
each input store/depot for carrying out the detailed work plans
drawn-up for it;
(e)    ensuring that adequate quantities of farm inputs are in fact
transported and stocked at the selected DAF input
stores/depots, and that these are appropriately stored;
(f)    ensuring that staff of each of the ten selected input
stores/depots (i) maintain regular up-to-date detailed records of
all inputs stocked and supplied to farmers (ii) comprehensive
records of sale transactions for all inputs sold at the designated
input stores/depots and (iii) work closely with the extension
officers and monitoring and evaluation officers assigned to the
administrative circle in which each input store/depot is located
to monitor the use of the ASSP-financed inputs purchased at
these stores;
(g)    maintaining liaison with each of the ten input stores/depots on
an on-going basis as well as holding quarterly joint meetings
with them to monitor the progress of the input supply sub-
component;
(h)    sensitizing farmers to the need for farm level storage and
correct storage practices especially for fertilizer;
(i)    supervising the work of the Technical Expert in Input
Marketing and the Expert in Agricultural Extension;
(j)    training and educating farmers and counterpart staff in input
marketing and storage; and
(k)    bringing to the prompt attention of the Chief Technical
Coordinator for the ASSP any major problems with respect to
the provision and sale of ASSP-financed inputs at the ten
stores/depots and suggesting practical recommendations for
early resolution.
Tasks (a), (b), (c) and (d) will be carried out with the assistance of the
Expert in Agricultural Extension and task (i) with the assistance of the
United Nations Volunteer in Cooperative Training.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Technical
Coordinator will prepare a report reviewing the performance and
implementation of the project/component/sub-component or area of



- 96 -                        Annex H
specialization and based upon his experience make recommendations
or express thoughts for strengthening the general area of activity with
which he was involved, for example, challenges and constraints in
marketing and input supply in Sierra Leone.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 97 -                       Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the Technical Coordinator for Agro-Processing 1/
Location:            Department of Agriculture and Forestry (DAF) Regional Headquarters,
Makeni
Period:              36 man months
Oualifications:      Post-Graduate Degree in Agricultural Technology/Engineering and
Mechanical Engineering with specialization in food crop processing. At
least ten years experience in post-harvest technology at the farm and
village level is required, preferably in West Africa. Experience in
training farmers' associations and groups to establish and operate crop-
processing centers will be highly desirable.
Responsibilities:    The primary objective of the technical assistance is to assist the DAF to
implement the agro-processing sub-component of the larger input supply
and agro-processing component of the Agriculture Sector Support Project
(ASSP). The Technical Coordinator will collaborate with DAF
counterpart staff and two United Nations Volunteers (UNVs) to carry out
his responsibilities. His main responsibility will be to ensure that fifteen
integrated rural crop-processing centers are established by selected
farmers' associations, that they are operated in an efficient manner, and
that costs of the crop-processing machinery and equipment is properly
maintained by the farmers' association and fully recovered by the ASSP
four months prior to project completion. The TC will report to the Chief
Technical Coordinator of the ASSP, who will be located within the Office
of the Director-General, DAF and will liaise closely with the DAF
counterpart staff and the Technical Coordinator for Farm Inputs. The TC
will be required to travel widely within the country. Specifically, he will
be responsible for:
(a)    preparing a detailed work plan for the implementation of the agro-
processing sub-component ensuring at all times consistency with
the input supply sub-component and with the crop calendars
relevant to specific ecological zones;
(b)    selecting fifteen farmers' associations (from a list of 42 farmers'
associations that had participated in two post-harvest technology
projects prepared by the FAO and funded by the UNDP) based on
the criteria established by the ASSP for qualifying farmers'
associations for participation in the agro-processing sub-
component;



- 98 -                       Annex H
(c)    preparing an action-plan for the establishment by the selected
farmers' associations of each of the fifteen selected integrated
crop-processing centers (ICPC);
(d)    preparing an action-bound time-table with (a) drawings and layout
plans for the construction of each ICPC and (b) an amortization
plan for the capitalization of the crop-processing machinery and
equipment;
(e)    ensuring that each of the requirements in the action-bound time-
table are fully understood by the members of each participating
farmers' association and accepted by them;
(f)    drawing-up specifications for the machinery and equipment that is
to be procured and ensuring that this machinery and equipment is
appropriate for the ecology within which the particular ICPC is
located;
(g)    ensuring full cost recovery of the crop-processing machinery and
equipment by assisting, as far as possible, members of the
participating farmers' associations to act in compliance with the
amortization plan;
(h)    conducting training courses/workshops/seminars for the members
of the farmers' associations, DAF counterpart staff and technicians
(i) in the operation, maintenance and management of the integrated
crop-processing centers, especially the machinery and equipment;
and (ii) to strengthen the basic organization and functioning of the
farmers' associations;
(i)    based on the Bank's Guidelines for the Selection of Consultants,
arranging for a services contract to procure, in accordance with
the Bank's International Competitive Bidding procedures, the crop-
processing machinery and equipment and vehicles for the sub-
component;
(j)    supervising the work of the two UN Volunteers who would assist
the fifteen selected farmers' associations to establish, operate and
maintain the ICPCs especially the machinery and equipment;
(k)    training local counterpart staff in performing all of the above
tasks;
(I)    preparing a completion report four months prior to the project
closing date; and
(m)   bringing to the prompt attention of the Chief Technical
Coordinator for the ASSP any major problems with respect to the
establishment, operation and cost-recovery at the participating



- 99 -                      Annex H
ICPCs and suggesting practical recommendations for early
resolution.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Technical Coordinator
will prepare a report reviewing the performance and implementation of the
project/component/sub-component or area of specialization and based upon
his experience make recommendations or express thoughts for
strengthening the general area of activity with which he was involved, for
example, challenges and constraints in post-harvest processing and
marketing in Sierra Leone.
1/    The basic terms of reference for the agro-processing component, made available
by the FAO Office in Freetown, have been amended slightly.
AF4AG
November 1992



-100 -                       Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the Technical Coordinator for Feeder Roads
Location:            Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA), the Department of Feeder Roads
(DFR).
Period:              48 man months.
Qualifications:      Post-Graduate Degree in Civil Engineering with at least 15 years post-
qualification experience including five years experience in managing
projects in road construction and management and five in feeder/rural road
construction and supervision, preferably in Africa. Fluency in English.
Responsibilities:    The Technical Coordinator for Feeder Roads (TCFF) will oversee the
implementation of the Feeder Roads component of the Agriculture Sector
Support Project (ASSP) including the labour-intensive sub-component.
The latter will be supervised by the ILO under the direction of the Chief
Technical Advisor, ILO, based in Freetown, Sierra Leone. Overall
coordination and implementation of the Project will rest with the ASSP
Coordination Unit. This will be established in the Department of
Agriculture and Forestry (DAF) within the Office of the Director-General
DAF and will be headed by a Chief Technical Coordinator for the ASSP.
The TCFF will report directly to the Director, Department of Feeder
Roads, Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA). Specifically, the TCFF
will:
(a)    prepare annual work programmes and assist the Director, DFR in
the preparation of procurement documents for works, services and
goods to be procured under the ICB sub-component - procurement
for the labour-intensive sub-component will be undertaken by the
ILO and the TCFF and Director, DFR will be kept fully and
regularly informed of this procurement;
(b)    liaise with the Chief Technical Advisor, ILO for following the
implementation and progress with work plans for the labour-
intensive sub-component to enable regular quarterly reporting of
the sub-component;
(c)    ensure strict adherence to technical specifications through
monitoring the quality of construction at rehabilitation sites;
(d)    maintain correct up-to-date records of all financial transactions and
commitments made under the feeder roads component;



- 101 -                      Annex H
(e)    monitor overall progress of the feeder roads component (both ICB
and labour-intensive) through preparation of monthly and quarterly
progress reports assessing physical, procurement and institutional
achievements under each of the two sub-components and the
submission of these to the Chief Technical Coordinator of the
ASSP Coordination Unit in DAF;
(f)    ensure that sound environmental procedures and controls are
applied;
(g)   train local counterpart staff in performing all of the above tasks;
(h)    at the end of the project period, prepare and submit a Project
Completion Report assessing the extent to which project physical
and institutional objectives were attained, an analysis of actual
versus projected benefits, and implementation performance; and
(i)    bringing to the prompt attention of the Chief Technical
Coordinator for the ASSP any major problems with respect to the
equipment-intensive or labour-intensive feeder road sub-
components and suggesting practical recommendations for early
resolution.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Technical Coordinator
will prepare a report reviewing the performance and implementation of the
project/component/sub-component or area of specialization and based upon
his experience make recommendations or express thoughts for
strengthening the general area of activity with which he was involved, for
example, challenges and constraints in feeder road rehabilitation in Sierra
Leone.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 102 -                        Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the United Nations Volunteer in Statistics
Location:             Department of Agriculture and Forestry (DAF) - the Monitoring,
Evaluation and Statistics Division (MESD).
Period:               48 man months.
Oualifications:       University Degree in Statistics, Economics or Agricultural Economics. At
least four to five years practical experience with data collection and
computerized data base storage and processing of agricultural statistics and
crop forecasting is required. Fluency in English.
Responsibilities:     the UNV will work directly with the Chief of the Monitoring, Evaluation
and Statistics Division to establish a comprehensive statistical data base for
monitoring key growth and structural variables in the agricultural sector.
Specifically, the UNV will set-up a computer data base system for
recording and up-dating statistical information with respect to:
(a)    time series agricultural data at the most dis-aggregated district or
circle level on production costs, yields and acreage by individual
crops in the main ecologies and regions of the country; in a
similar manner, data will also be recorded for the forestry,
artisanal fisheries and livestock (including small ruminants) sub-
sectors;
(b)    the size and ownership of (i) food crop, cash crop and tree crop
farms; (ii) forest farms and concessions; (iii) fish farms; and (iv)
livestock farms; and where integrated farming systems prevail, the
number and types of agricultural activities and production yields
by each activity;
(c)    for each circle, the number of farms (by farm size, ownership and
level of technology use) where yield-enhancing technology is being
disseminated by the agricultural extension services of the DAF and
the resulting annual change in yields;
(d)    weekly agricultural price statistics at the farmgate, retail and
wholesale levels for all food and cash crops including tree crops;
(e)    monthly transportation costs by region/district for each crop, for
forest products including fuel wood and charcoal, for fish and for
livestock and small ruminants;



- 103 -                      Annex H
(f)    weekly prices, in the main local markets, of agricultural inputs,
farm tools and implements, and mechanization services;
(g)    by farm size and agricultural activity in each month of the year,
the number of agricultural/farm labourers (by age and sex)
employed, the duration for which employed each month, and the
daily wage (excluding and including food);
(h)    crop and farm budgets for each farming activity;
(i)    by type of agricultural activity, the levels and changes in
indebtedness of farmers, the size and terms of the loans (from
informal and formal sectors) and the period over which the loan is
actually repaid or anticipated to be repaid;
(j)   income, consumption and investment expenditure by farm
household with key characteristics of each farm household
recorded (that is, location, size and activity(s) of the farm
household); and
The UNV will also train local counterpart staff in establishing and
maintaining a computer data base for all of the above and in providing
technical assistance with guiding M&E staff in the design of suitable
questionnaires/surveys for data collection and analysis. He/she will also
bring to the prompt attention of the Chief Technical Coordinator of the
ASSP, any major problems encountered in establishing and operating the
statistical data base.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the UNV will prepare a report
reviewing the performance and implementation of the project/component/sub-
component or area of specialization and based upon his experience make
recommendations or express thoughts for strengthening the general area of activity
with which he was involved, for example, challenges and constraints in the
establishment and operation of agricultural data base systems in Sierra Leone.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 104 -                       Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference
for a
Technical Expert in Input Marketing
Location:            Makeni, Headquarters of the Input Supply and Agro-Processing
Component of the Agriculture Sector Support Project (ASSP).
Period:              24 man months.
Oualifications:      Post-graduate degree in Agricultural Technology and Marketing and at
least 7 to 10 years field experience in crop technology, input handling,
and training of farm leaders, preferably in West Africa. Experience in
advising farmers and farmers' organizations and associations at the village
level in input purchase and marketing will be useful. Fluency in English
and good communications skills.
Responsibilities:    The primary objectives of the assignment are to assist the Technical
Coordinator for Farm Inputs in implementing the input supply sub-
component of the Input Supply and Agro-Processing component of the
Agriculture Sector Support project (ASSP). In particular, the assignment
requires that all ASSP-financed inputs are made available at designated
DAF stores/depots by a specified date determined by the operational crop
calendar finalized each year with the Extension Coordinator and Chief
Agriculturist, DAF as well as with the relevant Chief Regional Officers.
The Technical Expert will report to the Technical Coordinator for Farm
Inputs and liaise closely with the DAF counterpart staff and the technical
assistance team for the Agro-Processing sub-component. The Technical
Expert will be required to travel widely within the country and ensure that
fertilizer and oil palm seedlings are placed within the timely reach of
farmers. Specific tasks will include:
(a)    preparation of a detailed annual and quarterly overall
implementation work plan and work plans for each of the
individual ten stores/depots;
(b)    ensuring that each of the specified ten DAF stores/depots are
adequately supplied with ASSP-financed farm inputs and that the
inputs are appropriately stored; this would require regular periodic
assessments of demand for ASSP-financed inputs for the
geographical area served by each selected DAF store
(c)    logistics planning, in particular, preparing supply schedules to
ensure the timely availability of stocks in each designated DAF
store/depot based on a predetermined crop calendar;



- 105 -                      Annex H
(d)    ensuring the maintenance of regular and up-to-date records of
inputs stocked and sold to farmers for each of the ten
stores/depots;
(e)    maintaining close liaison between the input supply stores/depots
and sensitizing famers to farm level storage;
(f)    apprising extension staff of DAF of the key factors in the cost-
effective storage, transport and marketing of inputs with the sole
purpose of enabling the extension officers to regularly disseminate
advice to farmers (private sector) rather than the DAF (public
sector) marketing inputs;
(g)    preparation of Guidelines to train farmers in input handling and
storage, particularly with respect to factors related to climate and
temperature in the handling and marketing of farm inputs,
especially fertilizer;
(h)    working with farmers and sensitizing them to the advantages of
grouping together to benefit from economies of scale in the
purchase of inputs and in the marketing of inputs;
(i)   training farmers in the technical, logistical and accounting aspects
in input purchase and marketing;
(i)    bringing to the prompt attention of the Technical Coordinator for
Farm Inputs any problems with the delivery, storage and sale of
ASSP-financed inputs at the ten DAF stores/depots and
suggestions for early resolution
(k)    at the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the technical
coordinator/expert/specialist will prepare a report reviewing the
performance and implementation of the project component/sub-
component and making recommendations for strengthening the
general area of activity with which he was involved, for example,
marketing and input supply systems within the country.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Technical Expert will
prepare a report reviewing the performance and implementation of the
project/component/sub-component or area of specialization and based upon
his experience make recommendations or express thoughts for
strengthening the general area of activity with which he was involved, for
example, challenges and constraints in private sector input marketing in
Sierra Leone.
AF4AG\November 1992



- 106 -                       Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference
for an
Agricultural Extension Specialist
Location:            Makeni, Headquarters of the Input Supply sub-component.
Period:              24 man months.
Oualifications:      Degree in Agriculture with specialized kmowledge of crop production in
the tropics with at least seven to ten years experience in practical
agricultural extension training including the training and visit (T&V)
method. Experience in training members of farmers' associations and
cooperatives and management training would be desirable.
Responsibilities:    The primary objective of the assignment is to assist the Technical
Coordinator for Farm Inputs to implement the input supply sub-component
of the larger Input Supply and Agro-Processing component. The
Extension Specialist will report directly to the Technical Coordinator for
Farm Inputs and maintain close liaison with the National Extension
Coordinator, Chief Agriculturist, other technical Division Chiefs of DAFF
and the Chief Regional Officers. He will also maintain close liaison with
the United Nations Volunteer in Farmer Training in Post-Harvest
Technology. The Extension Specialist will:
(a)    review the effectiveness of the extension systems in place in each
Region and suggest measures for making these more cost-
effective;
(b)    review, in-depth, the effectiveness of linkages between extension
programmes, applied research and extension and farmer training
and suggest improvements for strengthening these linkages; the
review and suggestions should be thoroughly discussed with the
Chiefs of Technical Divisions of the DAF, the National
Agricultural Research Coordinating Council (NARCC), senior
scientists and officials of the Rokupr Rice Research Station
(RRRS) and other agricultural research institutes, and the Njala
University College (NUC);
(c)    provide guidance on the substance and design of training materials
(to train farmers) produced by the Communications Unit of DAFF
with a view to expanding farmers' receptivity to technical
information disseminated by agricultural extension officers on
yield-enhancing technology and on the importance of farmers'
feedback to extension officers, subject matter specialists and



- 107 -                       Annex H
scientists of agricultural research scientists on their experience
with the use of this technology;
(d)    work closely with the Staff Training and Development Unit to
conduct periodic re-orientation and training workshops for
agricultural extension officers in (i) the methods of technology
dissemination to individual farmers and members of farmers'
associations and (ii) designing methods for assisting grassroots
farmers' associations and groups - both (i) and (ii) should take into
account variations in local culture, customs and approaches;
(e)    conduct village level meetings and educate the designated group
leaders and members of farmers' associations on improved crop
technology, farm and tree husbandry, and sound environmental
practices; and
(f)    regularly apprise the National Extension Coordinator and the
National Research Coordinator of his findings concerning the
performance of the agricultural extension services and links with
agricultural research and suggest recommendations for their
further strengthening.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the Agricultural Extension
Specialist will prepare a report reviewing the performance and
implementation of the project/component/sub-component or area of
specialization and based upon his experience make recommendations or
express thoughts for strengthening the general area of activity with which
he was involved, for example, challenges and constraints in agricultural
extension services in Sierra Leone.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 108 -                       Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference
for a
United Nations Volunteer in Farmer Training in Post-Harvest Technology
Location:             Makeni, Headquarters of the Input Supply sub-component.
Period:               24 man months.
Oualifications:       Degree in Agriculture with background in Mechanical Engineering and at
least five to seven years experience in training subsistence farmers in
least-developed countries in post-harvest technology, especially in small-
scale crop processing techniques.
Responsibilities:     The primary objective of the assignment is to assist the Technical
Coordinator, Agro-Processing, to implement the agro-processing
component. Specifically, the United Nations Volunteer (UNV) will liaise
closely, especially in the field, with counterpart staff of the Department of
Agriculture and Forestry. The Expert will:
(a)    prepare draft layout plans and drawings for each of participating
crop-processing centers;
(b)    prepare detailed workplans for each crop-processing center, by
District, in accordance with the current crop calendar;
(c)    sensitize farmers for the need to strengthen their associations, and
assisting them in organizing their management groups;
(d)    conduct village level meetings and educate the designated group
leaders and members of farmers' associations on the importance of
fostering viable farmers' associations where crop-processing is a
stated objective;
(e)    provide on-the-job training to members of participating farmers'
associations on the chain of post-harvest operations to village level
crop-processing and their integration with the relevant crop
calendar;
(f)    prepare the training materials for each crop-processing center;
(g)    conduct training for extension workers on the operation and
management of the crop processing centers;



- 109 -                     Annex H
(h)    hold regular meetings with the farmers and extension workers and
based on these meetings prepare progress notes;
(i)    bring to the attention of the CTA any problems encountered in the
operation and management of the crop processing centers for early
resolution.
At the end of his assignment with the ASSP, the UNV will prepare a
report reviewing the performance and implementation of the
project/component/sub-component or area of specialization and based upon
his experience make recommendations or express thoughts for
strengthening the general area of activity with which he was involved, for
example, challenges and constraints in farmers' adoption of post-harvest
technology in Sierra Leone.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 110 -                      Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the ILO Engineering Advisor I/
(Feeder Roads Labour-Intensive Sub-Component)
Location:            ILO, Freetown and regional locations as required.
Period:              36 man months.
Oualifications:     The Engineering Adviser should have a University degree or equivalent in
Civil Engineering, followed by at least 15 years of professional
experience, a major part of which should have been in developing
countries, preferably including sub-saharan africa. He/She should be
thoroughly familiar with labor based construction methods in connection
with feeder roads and infrastructure. He/She should have ability to train
local counterpart staff, National staff and Technicians. He/She should be
fluent in English and be prepared to live under difficult conditions and
travel frequently within project areas.
Responsibilities:   The Engineering Advisor will be in charge of the Technical Assistance
Team supervising the implementation of the Feeder Road Component of
the Agriculture Sector Support Project (ASSP) in Tonkolili, Port Loko,
Kambia, Bombali and Koinadugu Districts of Sierra Leone. He/She will
work under the direction of the ILO Chief Technical Advisor who heads
the Technical Assistance Team supervising the Feeder Road Rehabilitation
and Maintenance Program in Sierra Leone. He/She in close cooperation
with staff seconded by the Government of Sierra Leone, National staff and
UNVs posted to the Project will carry out the following duties:
(a)    advise and assist senior personnel seconded to the project in
planning, implementation and monitoring of the Feeder Road
Rehabilitation activities;
(b)    advise and assist in preparing work plans, implementation and
material schedules and other programs for the smooth
implementation of the project;
(c)    advise and assist in preparing lists of all procurement of plant and
equipment, tools, materials, both local and overseas;
(d)    manage and coordinate all project inputs provided by GOSL and
World Bank, ensuring that inputs are effectively used;
(e)    prepare draft policy papers, guidelines, systems and procedures
and training materials;



- 111 -                       Annex H
(f)    organize seminars and specific training courses, for National staff,
and oversee the training carried out by UNVs;
(g)    advise and assist in setting up a system for the utilization of local
contractors for feeder road rehabilitation and, thereafter, for the
maintenance of the newly rehabilitated roads;
(h)    liaise with all International and National staff implementing the
ASSP Programme including the World Food Programme.
1/    The basic terms of reference for the labour-intensive feeder roads component were
made available by the ILO Technical Advisor in Freetown.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 112 -                       Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for UNV - Procurement Officer
(Feeder Roads Labour-Intensive Sub-Component)
Location:            ILO Office, Freetown and regional locations as required.
Period:              36 man months
Oualifications:      The UNV should preferably have a University Degree in Civil
Engineering or equivalent followed by at least three years professional
experience. He/She should have a good knowledge of English.
Responsibilities:    The UNV Procurement Officer will be attached to the World Bank
financed Feeder Road Component of the Agriculture Sector Support
Project (ASSP). The UNV will be a member of the ILO Technical
Assistance Team stationed in Freetown, with frequent travel to the site
offices/stores. His main responsibilities will be as follows:
(a)    assist in organizing all local procurement of materials, tools and
spare parts etc;
(b)    assist in setting up a stores system for the selected sites and carry
out training of local staff, store-keepers and others as needed;
(c)    organize regular stores auditing;
(d)    assist in planning material utilizations;
(e)    organize a system for keeping all records of local and overseas
procurement;
(f)    assist in organizing, clearing and transporting all overseas
procurement.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 113 -                     Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for UNV - Mechanical Engineer
(Feeder Roads Labour-Intensive Sub-Component)
Location:           ILO, Freetwon and regional locations as required.
PMrio2d:            36 months
Oualifications:     The UNV should have a University degree in mechanical engineering,
followed by at least four years professional experience, part of which
should preferably have been in developing countries. He/She should have
a good knowledge of English.
Responsibilities:   The UNV Civil Engineer, along with a second UNV Civil Engineer,
would assist in implementing the World Bank financed Feeder Roads
component of the Agriculture Sector Support Program (ASSP). The
UNV will be a member of the ILO Technical Assistance Team and would
work under the supervision of the ILO Engineering Adviser. The UNV
would organize and supervise the site mechanical workshop to be
established at suitable locations with the project area and would carry out
the following duties:
(a)    assist in elaborating technical specifications and building
documents for machinery and equipment;
(b)    carry out inspections of delivered equipment, set up stores and
stores management systems for all spare parts;
(c)   set up a system for the maintenance of the equipment and direct
the carrying out of maintenance and repair;
(d)    assist in planning of equipment utilization;
(e)    keep records of expenditures by equipment item;
(f)    carry out training of plants and auto mechanics, store keepers and
other associate staff.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 114 -                      Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for UNV - Civil Engineer
(Feeder Roads Labour-Intensive Sub-Component)
Location:            ILO, Freetown and regional locations as required.
Period:              36 months
Oualifications:      The UNV should have a University degree in Civil Engineering, followed
by at least four years professional experience, a major part of which
should have been in developing countries. He should have experience in
labor-based construction methods in connection with feeder roads
structures and buildings and a good knowledge of English.
Responsibilities:    The UNV Civil Engineer, along with a second UNV Civil Engineer,
would assist in implementing the World Bank financed Feeder Roads
component of the Agriculture Sector Support Project (ASSP). The UNV
would be a member of the ILO Technical Assistance Team and would
work under the supervision of the ILO Engineering Adviser. Duty Station
would be located at a suitable location, within these districts.
Each UNV would be assigned a number of sub projects (roads, culverts,
bridges etc.). They would carry out their duties in close collaboration
with their counterparts, and jointly the UNVs should;
(a)    carry out labor availability surveys;
(b)    make detailed investigations surveys, designs and plans for each
sub project, organize and supervise works to ensure adequate
quality and progress;
(c)    assist is selection of roads, tracks and other structures;
(d)    organize a system of careful management of project personal,
inputs adequate record keeping procedures;
(e)    assist local contractors in organizing of works and the mobilization
of labor;
(f)    organize procedures for adequate daily and weekly site reporting
and consolidate the information into monthly progress reports;
(g)    make a maintenance plan for each sub-project, set up
arrangements for maintenance and guide, and supervise actual
implementation of maintenance to a large extent to be carried out
by petty contractors;



-115-                        AnnexJH
The UNVs should provide on-the-job training to their counterparts,
technicians, and local contractors. Initially, the UNVs, under the
direction of the CTA, would manage the implementation of works, but
gradually responsibilities should be transferred to the engineering
counterparts. This transfer of responsibility should take place without loss
in productivity or quality. It would be closely monitored.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 116-                      Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference for the ASSP Coordinating Committee
Obiective:    The primary objective of the Coordinating Committee for the Agriculture Sector
Support Project (ASSP) is to monitor the overall progress in the implementation
of the ASSP through regular joint meetings of all the agencies responsible for
implementing a component or sub-component of the ASSP.
Membership:  Department of Agriculture and Forestry (DAF): Director-General, (Chairman),
Chief Technical Coordinator for the ASSP, Technical Coordinator for Farm
Inputs, Technical Coordinator for Agro-Processing, Agricultural Policy Planner,
Swamp and Watershed Management Expert, Technical Expert in Input Marketing,
Agricultural Extension Specialist, National Extension Coordinator, Chief
Agriculturist and the Chiefs of the Forestry, Fisheries, Livestock, Land and Water
Development, and Monitoring, Evaluation and Statistics Divisions; NARCC:
National Research Coordinator; Department of Finance. Development and
Economic Planning (DFDEP): Deputy Financial Secretary and Director of
Planning; Bank of Sierra Leone (BSL): Director of Development Finance
Department and the Rural Finance Specialist; Sierra Leone Roads Authority
(SLRA): Director, Department of Feeder Roads, Chief Technical Advisor (ILO)
and the Technical Coordinator for Feeder Roads financed by the ASSP.
Freauency
of Meetings:  The Coordinating Committee will meet once a month for each year of the ASSP
implementation period. The duration of the Meeting will be two days. Detailed
Minutes of the Meetings will be prepared by the Office of the Director-General,
DAF within one week of the conclusion of each Meeting and will be circulated
immediately thereafter to each implementing agency. A copy of the Minutes will
be also be sent to IDA and IFAD. In addition to these scheduled meetings, a
Meeting of the Coordination Committee may be called by the Director-General,
DAF and the Agenda on that occassion will be governed by the circumstance(s) in
question.
Purpos:      To examine (a) the obstacles encountered in ASSP implementation during the
month or six weeks (b) obstacles resolved during this period and (c) obstacles that
are yet to be resolved (including those being resolved at the time of the Meeting).
Agenda:      The Quarterly Work Plans prepared by each ASSP implementing agency or
department will form the basis of the Agenda for each Meeting. Copies of the
Quarterly Work Plans will be made available to each implementing agency or
department two weeks prior to the meeting. At each Meeting, the Coordinating
Committee will be given a detailed report on the progress with implementing each
ASSP component and sub-component. Briefly, the Meeting will focus on:
(a)   reporting on the overall implementation for the period under review by the
Chief Technical Coordinator (CTC) for the ASSP. In respect of the sub-



- 117 -                       Annex H
components, reporting responsibility will be as follows: for (i) the rural
banks sub-component, the Director of the Development Finance
Department of the BSL; (ii) the feeder roads component, Director of the
Department of Feeder Roads, SLRA; (iii) the input supply and agro-
processing component, the Technical Coordinator for Farm Inputs and the
Technical Coordinator for Agro-Processing, respectively; (iv) the research
extension linkages component, the National Research Coordinator,
NARCC; (v) the technology transfer component, the National Extension
Coordinator (NEC) and the Chiefs of the Crops, Forestry, Fisheries,
Livestock, Land and Water Development, Monitoring, Evaluation and
Statistics and the Communications Divisions.
(b)    identification of specific issues, by sub-component, responsible for any lag
in the achievement of the Quarterly Work Plans of the relevant component
of the ASSP, will relate to:
(i)    procurement of goods and services and selection of consultants;
(ii)    delivery of vehicles, equipment and supplies to the reporting
agency or to the required store or site;
(iii)   Proiect and Special Accounts;
(iv)   counterpart funding;
(v)   sale and record of inputs sold to farmers at each of the ten DAF
stores/depots;
(vi)  use and operation. maintenance and purchase of the  ars
processing equipment provided to each of the fifteen farmers'
associations;
(vii)  rehabilitation of the training institutes and feeder roads;
(viii)  assistance to and performance of selected rural banks;
(ix)  performance of the technical assistance;
(x)  progress with the training programme for extension officers,
farmers, agro-processors, graduates, and rural bank managers and
loan officers;
(xi)   intra-Department coordination in the preparation and execution of
work plans;
(xii)  inter-Departmental cooperation;
(xiii)  matters concerning IDA and IFAD;



- 118 -                      Annex H
(xiv) participation and performance of intended beneficiaries - farmers,
farmers' organizations and agro-processors;
(c)    proposed corrective action and the date by which it must be completed;
(d) follow-up on the proposed corrective action to be taken by the
implementing agency concerned through close monitoring and assessment
of the actions agreed upon at the Meeting;
(e)    evaluation and recording by each implementing agency of the status and
results of the follow-up with which it is entrusted and reporting on this at
the next scheduled Meeting of the Coordinating Committee;
(f)    discussion and recording of any exogenous factors impinging on project
implementation such as the macro economic situation, climatic factors,
labour market issues, credit, international commodity prices, etc.
No: To strengthen implementation of each ASSP component, and to facilitate the
discussion/conduct of the Meetings of the Coordinating Committee, it is advised that each
ASSP implementing agency/department conduct, as necessary, internal meetings along the
lines discussed above. In this regard, meetings such as those conducted by the Standing
Committee of DAF could prove useful.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 119 -                      Annex H
Sierra Leone
Agriculture Sector Support Proiect
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference
Committee on Agriculture Producer Incentives
Objective:    The primary objective of the Committee on Agriculture Producer Incentives
(CAPI) will be to assess (i) the impact of producer incentives, particularly
producer prices, on the production of the main food and cash crops and (ii) the
macro economic implications of these incentives.
Rationale:    With exchange rate and trade liberalization, and transition to a market economy,
the role of the parastatals and public sector institutions in pricing and marketing
has been relinquished. Yet, for purposes of food security, budgetary planning and
balance of payments impact, the response of agricultural production to changing
factor and product prices will be critical. The conventional economic policy tools
under trade liberalization will now become relevant and will supercede the
inefficient cost-plus pricing and trade restrictions frequently encountered in a more
closed and controlled regime. To enable the technical and economic efficiency
called for by a liberalized open economy, domestic producers would need to work
within the framework of producer prices that do not deviate very much from
border prices. Until recently, the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
(SLPMB) had been charged with assuring adequate incentives to coffee and cocoa
producers. With the future of the SLPMB uncertain, a mechanism is required to
monitor these prices for key food and cash crops.
MembershiD:  Department of Agriculture and Forestry; Department of Finance, Development
and Economic Planning; Bank of Sierra Leone: Department of Trade; and
Department of Industries and State Enterprises.
Frequency
of Meetings:  Once every quarter and as deemed necessary.
Purpose:      To guauge the adequacy of producer incentives for the main food and cash and
export crops with a view to assessing their policy implications especially for the
balance of payments, levels of nutrition and subsidies and trade tariffs.
Agenda:       Based on agricultural data for the quarter, collected and analyzed by the DAF
(MESD) and circulated by the Office of the Director-General, two weeks in
advance, to the members of the Committee, the Committee will assess the policy
implications of the demand and supply situation for the main food and cash crops
and make recommendations. Detailed Minutes of the CAPI will be prepared and
circulated by the Office of the Director-General to Committee members, and to
IDA and IFAD, within one week of the conclusion of the meeting and a copy of
the statistical data will be filed with the Minutes. To enable a comprehensive and
substantive discussion based on quarterly trends, by commodity and region,
provision by DAF (MESD) of the following data will be mandatory:



- 120 -                       Annex H
(a)    data on production, stocks, imports, supply and availability relative to
demand, and import bill of:
(i) rice (and close substitutes such as cassava and sweet potato);
(ii) palm oil;and
(iii) tobacco;
(b)    data on the production, stocks, exports and export earnings of coffee,
cocoa, palm kernel, ginger and pepper;
(c)    detailed data on marketing, storage and production costs (with any taxes,
tariffs and subsidies separately shown) for each of the above crops;
(d)    data on retail and wholesale consumer prices (overall and at selected
regional and local locations of the main food crops; and
(e)    data on the farm gate and market prices relative to border prices for each
of the above crops with the exception of roots and tubers.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 121 -                       Annex H
Sierra Leone
A2riculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference
Study on the Trade and Price Policy Aspects of Rice
Objective and Rationale
1.     The main objective of the study is to assist the Government of Sierra Leone in
formulating a price and trade policy for rice. The study will develop trade and price policy
options in the rice subsector through comprehensive assessments of the economic costs and
benefits of each option. The rationale for the study is the Government's growing concern with
the high and rising rice import bill, inaccess by consumers to rice, inadequate food security,
declining real farm incomes and increased malnutrition. These concerns have raised serious
questions as to the effectiveness of past policies from which neither producers, consumers nor the
exchequer appear to have benefitted. Now, under a liberalized exchange rate and trade regime, it
is imperative for the subsector to compete effectively as an import substitute. Urgently called for
is a rice policy which promotes an appropriate policy and incentive framework relevant to the
new macro-economic regime and which is at the same time pertinent and responsive to the
country's concern with food security.
2.    The study will assess (a) Sierra Leone's overall potential for rice cultivation; (b) the
extent to which this potential can be efficiently tapped in the short, medium and long term
respectively; and (c) the price and trade policy recommendations necessary for exploiting this
potential in an economically efficient manner and on a sustained basis. The study will focus on
the implications for producer prices and levels of economic efficiency of alternative levels of
import tariff on rice. The period of analysis will cover the three years which can be considered
as being the most representative of the last seven.
MethodO1°8Y
3.     Analyses will be carried out to identify distortions, assess comparative advantage, evaluate
financial and economic profitability, and examine the production response of rice to income and
price change. Specifically, the study will:
(a)    assess the nominal and effective protection coefficients at key points in the
marketing chain including farmgate, rural market and wholesale market for 1987,
1989 and 1992 respectively. For 1992, the effective protection analysis will
include a scenario analysis for fertilizer policy at the following levels of subsidy:
73 percent, 60 percent, 50 percent, 35 percent and 15 percent.
(b)    examine Sierra Leone's comparative advantage in rice cultivation through a
Domestic Resource Cost (DRC) analysis for each rice ecology under alternative
technologies with and without mechanization. The main rice ecologies to be
studied are inland valley swamps (IVS), mangrove swamps, riverrain swamps,



- 122 -                       Annex H
bolilands, and upland farms. For each of these ecologies, traditional and
improved technologies currently available will be considered. Mechanization
options will include work oxen, power tillers and tractors depending upon the
specific rice ecology and technology in question. For rice cultivation in the
swamps, for each swamp rice ecology the analysis will distinguish between new
swamp cultivation and swamps already developed. The DRC exercise will include
a sensitivity analysis on the exchange rate, border price, rice yield, wage rate,
discount rate and transportation cost.
(c)    estimate financial and economic profitablity for each rice ecology under traditional
and improved technology with and without mechanization and at different levels of
fertilizer subsidy.
(d)    conduct a sensitivity analysis on the price and income elasticities of demand and
supply for rice, and elasticities of substitution between rice and cassava and/or
sweet potatoe using existing elasticities in economies comparable to Sierra Leone.
C.    OUtDUi
4.     The study will provide an assessment of: (i) the magnitude of annual rice consumption
requirements in the short to medium term which can be met through efficient production from
existing swamps based on the DRC analysis; and (ii) the implications for the balance of payments
of closing the gap. Based on the findings, the Study will formulate the main elements of a Price
and Trade Policy for Rice which has as is primary objective: (a) economic efficiency; and (b)
incomes and employment. For any departure from economic efficiency, as may for instance be
called for by a policy which pursues the latter objective, both the economic cost and cost to the
budget will be clearly identified and quantified.
AF4AG
November 1992



- 123 -                       Annex H
Sierra Leone
A2riculture Sector Support Project
(Credit 1501-SL)
Terms of Reference
Action Plan for the Privatization of DAFF's Oil Palm Assets
Objective and Rationale
1.    The main objective of the technical assistance is to assist the Department of Agriculture
and Forestry (DAF) to prepare an Action Plan for the early privatization of its oil palm estate
(plantations and mills) at Daru and Gambia-Mattru. Privatization of the assets, an objective of the
original ASSP, was interrupted by the suspension of IDA disbursements. One of the reported
problems with the initial effort made at the time was dissatisfaction by the Government of the
results of the valuation. Important to the indigeneous diet, red (palm) oil has balance of payments
implications, a good potential for developing into an efficient import substitute and for providing
employment opportunities, and other important multiplier effects in the rural economy. The
rational for early privatization is to (a) eliminate the burden on the public sector budget on
account of the asset which is also rapidly deteriorating and (b) secure, for the asset, ownership
committed to the professional management and operation of the plantations and mills, and once
which can, without subsidies and protection, enable it to mazimize yields, capacity utilizaton and
favourable returns to investment.
2.     The Consultant will prepare an Action Plan which shall (a) consist of an outside
independent evaluation of the oil palm assets, disaggregated by each plantation and mill; and (b)
consider alternative modes of privatization/marketing the asset in full or in part. The Action Plan
will comprise the following:
(a)    Valuation which will be carried out by a professional valuation expert and a fair market
value (FMV) determined. This will be used to establish a range of values of the asset
within which offerings and negotiations will be conducted - the "highest and best use"
valuation will specify the upper range and the estimated liquidation value the lower range;
and
(b)    Privatization/Marketing Methods and Strategy which will discuss marketing objectives and
the means for achieving these objectives. Besides the objective of obtaining a fair price
(not necessarily the maximum price) for the asset, the objective of ascertaining the nature
of the ownership, its financial resources and management capability, and access by it to
technology and markets will be critical to the long-term financial and economic viability
of the enterprise and ultimate success of the privatization.
Methodology
3.     The prerequisites and the methodology for the valuation to be followed by the Consultant:
(a)    preparatory work will precede the valuation exercise and will consist of:



- 124 -                        Annex H
(i)    the preparation of accurate financial statements by an outside auditor in
accordance with generally accepted accounting standards. After verification of
receivables, inventories and other assets, the financial statements may need some
restatement and the financial income statements and balance sheets some
reconstruction; and
(ii)    a legal audit to verify ownership title, identify pending legal claims, and clarify
the extent and nature of any other hidden and/or contingent liabilites;
(b)    the valuation will be guided, once the preparatory work specified in 3 (a) above is carried
out, by the following methodolgies for valuation:
(i)    the use of the market valuation approach for the valuation of real estate and
buildings which lend themselves to comparison with other transactions for
properties similarly located
(ii)   the use of a liquidation value basis and an income valuation basis for the oil palm
plantations, specialized machinery and equipment, since these, under the
management of the new ownership, are expected to generate future income
streams; and
(c)    the Action Plan for privatization itself will consider the following privatization/marketing
methods:
(i)    public offering - a number of desirable features can be built into the offering such
as providing an upper limit to share ownership by any single shareholder, special
terms for employees, and incentives to hold the investment rather than cashing it
out;
(ii)    public tenders - competitive bids on divestitures or service contracts are common
in the initiation of a sales process to privatize. Because of its transparency, the
open bid process is preferable to one where buyers are identified in advance and
direct negotiations held. The preparation and design of the request for bids will
be critical to ensuring that concerns of the Government are adequately addressed.
To facilitate comparability and screen out less creditworthy competitors, bids will
normally be requested on an all cash basis;
(iii)   direct negotiation - to provide for final direct negotiations (based on requests for
sealed bids in a public tender) for various terms, conditions and warranties to go
into the final contract rather than for negotiations over the actual price, though
negotiations on price can be included. Provision will also need to be made for
unsolicitated bids which are expected once a privatization programme gets
underway as well as bids which might have been directly solicitated. For direct
negotiation to succeed, an external impartial review mechanism would be required
transparency.



- 125 -                     Annex H
-QU
4.    The Consultant will prepare an action plan specifying in detail the steps that the
Governrent of Sierra Leone would need to take in privatizing its oil palm plantations and mills at
Daru and Gambia-Mattru. All supporting documentation including the valuation should be
included as an Appendix to the Action Plan.
AF4AG
November 1992



126 -
ANNEX I
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(CREDIT 1501-SL)
ORGANIZATION CHART
FOR
PROJECT COORDINATION AND IMPLEMENTATON
(by implementing agency and senior staff responsibility)
IMPLEMENTING AGENCY
(DAFF)
IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
(Office of the Director-General)
* Director-General of DAFF
ASSP COORDINATING UNIT **
* Chief Technical Coordinator
(ASSP)
FinanciaL ControLler
Chief Procurement Officer
National Extension Coordinator
F~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER AND            INPUTS AND AGRO-PROCESSING                   FEDElRADS
RESEARCH EXTENSION LINKAGES              (DAFF COUNTERPARTS)                         (SLRA)
(DAFF)                        (FARMERS ORGANIZATIONS)
(TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)
* Chief Agriculturist              * Technical Coordinator (Inputs)        * Head, Dept. Feeder Roads
* DAFF Division Chiefs             * Technical Coordinator (Agro-         * TechnicaL Coordinator
Chief Regional Officers                                (Processing)                     (Feeder Roads)
* NationaL Extn. Coordinator
RURAL BANKS                                                        LABOUR INTENSIVE PILOT
(BSL)                                                                    (110)
* Dir., Dev. Finance Dept.                                                 * Chief Technical Advisor
* Rural Finance Specialist                                                                      (ILO)
Note:
(  )    denotes institutionaL responsibility.
*      denotes meombership in the ASSP Coordination Committee; in addition, the membership of the Coordinating
Coamittee will include the Deputy FinanciaL Secretary and the Director of Planning (Department of Finance,
Development and Economic Planning) and the National Research Coordinator (Natlonal Agricultural Research
Coordinating Council).
**     denotes other staff in the Coordinating Unit, namely, a Chief Procurement Officer, a Procurement Officer, an
Assistant Procurement Officer, a Senior Project Accountant, four accountants and support staff.



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Project Cost Sueeary
Leone                                        US Doltar                                      X Total
-------------------------------------------    ------------------------------------            XForeign             8ase
Local         Foreign           Total           Local     Foreign        Totat           Exchange           Costs
A . TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER              1U47429090.2   2831523164.1   4278952254.3         2832871.6   5395882.7   8228754.3                 66.2            32.4
O . FEEDER ROADS                      639189057.1   2936260850.1   3575449907.2         1290543.8   5585321.4   6875865.2                 82.1            27.1
C   INPUTS 4 AGRO-PROCESSING          500569379.2   3994226265.9   4494795645.1          1245670.7   7398167.1   8643837.8                88.9            34.1                  1
D . RESEARCH EXTENSION LINKS           87003381.8       57494195.2    144497577.0         172367.2    105512.7    277880.0                39.8             1.1
E . ASSP COORDINATION UNIT             40962297.7    658679453.0    699641750.7           83848.9   1261616.0   1345464.9                 94.1             5.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                  2715153206.0  10478183928.0  13193337134.0         5625302.2  19746499.9  25371802.2                 77.8           100.0
Physical Contirgencies               61149638.4    409437866.6    470587505.0          117595.5    787380.5    904976.0                 87.0             3.6
Price Contingencies                 814794067.3    247556525.1   1062350592.4         1163057.9    879924.0   2042981.9                 43.1             8.1
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  3591096911.4  11135178320.0  14726275231.0         6905955.6  21413804.5  28319760.1                 75.6           111.6
3/30/1993 22:48
z,



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Sumwary Account by Project Component
Leone
INPUITS &      RESEARCH         ASSP
TECHNOLOGY                  AGRO-PROCESSI    EXTENSION      COORDINATION
TRANSFER     FEEDER ROADS         HG           LINKS            IHIT
r==sra======ssssasasssss=  ==========w===zs==w==r===== ======
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS & CIVIL UWRKS           156615153.9   1768000000.0             0.0             0.0            0.0
S. VEHICLES                         1150592040.0     72651571.2      58572800.0      9584640.0      30883840.0
C. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES            546929939.6    523240400.1   3444042672.5      27546671.4      16175078.4
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              535147800.0    598045500.0    694412160.0      44850000.0    599040000.0
E. TRAINING                          355992000.0            0.0      34612500.0     40799200.0             0.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              2745276933.5   2961937471.3   4231640132.4    122780511.4    646098918.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS                                                                                                                         co
A. CIVIL UWRKS O&N                           0.0             0.0            0.0             0.0     29176145.3
B. VEHICLE O0                       1191852017.2     68201662.5      54985216.0      8530329.6             0.0
C. EQUIPMENT 0LM                     341823304.2   3053107M7.5    198170296.7       12436736.0      11916687.0
D. OTHER OPERATING COSTS                     0.0    140400000.0      10000000.0             0.0     12450000.0
E. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES                   0.0     99600000.0             0.0       750000.0             0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS               1533675321.4    613512435.9    263155512.7      21717065.6      53542832.3
Total BASELINE COSTS                4278952254.8  3575449907.2  4494795645.1    144497577.0    699641750.7
Physical Contineencies             100537614.4   206594596.6    159245780.6        1856565.6       2352945.9
Price Contingencies                340034957.8   285190289.5    358506174.6       45794935.8      32824234.8
Total PROJECT COSTS                 4719524827.0  4067234795.3  5012547600.3    192149078.3    734818931.4
=s-s=t=======s=ussssuflus aatssssss3=3=lzs===fl=fl3sssssssssssfllf3f.z===s=
Taxes                              983226029.5    156293215.7    88167741.1       13923449.4      28101579.4
Foreign Exchange                  2948698263.3   3186286822.9  4256799269.1       60223691.3    683170273.9
3/30/1993  22:48



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Sumary Account by Project Component
Leone
Physical                    Price
Contingencies               Contirnencies
Total             S          AmoKnt            X        Amount
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS 4 CIVIL WORKS          1924615153.9            10.0    192461515.4           2.4    46939723.7
B. VEHICLES                         1322284891.2             5.0     66114244.6           0.6      8231500.3
C. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES           4557934761.9             4.7    212011745.1           7.2    328608589.9
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             2471495460.0             0.0            0.0          10.0    247893289.0
E. TRAINING                          431403700.0             0.0            0.0          58.3    251446014.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             1070M3967.0               4.4    470587505.0           8.2   883119117.5
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS OIN                    29176145.3             0.0            0.0           8.8      2567582.7
B. VEHICLE 08.                      1323569225.2             0.0            0.0           4.2     55780167.8
C. EQUIPMIENT O&M                    869657797.3             0.0            0.0           6.5     56377895.2
D. OTHER OPERATING COSTS             162850000.0             0.0            0.0          10.0    16238769.8
E. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES           100350000.0             0.0            0.0          48.1    48267059.4
Total RECURRENT COSTS               2485603167.9             0.0            0.0           7.2    179231475.0
Total BASELINE COSTS               13193337135.0            3.6    470587505.0            8.1   1062350592.5
Physical Contingencies             470587505.0
Price Contingencies               1062350592.5             1.9     20040929.6
Total PROJECT COSTS                14726275232.0             3.3    490628434.6           7.2  1062350592.4
Taxes                             1269712015.1            2.7      33853992.0
Foreign Exchange                 11135178320.0            3.7    417396405.7
3/30/1993 22:48



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Stnmery Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Leone
1993           1994            1995           1996          Totat
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS & CIVIL UORKS           186994946.6   1977021446.4             0.0            0.0   2164016393.0
B. VEHICLES                         1375288080.3     21342555.7             0.0            0.0   1396630636.0
C. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES           2563637216.0   809317573.0    842873905.8   882726402.0  5098555096.8
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE              994489681.0    808380420.6    602429904.5    314088742.9   2719388748.9
E. TRAINING                          118286579.9    147672181.5    182953778.1    233937175.1    682849714.6
Total INVESTMENT COSTS              5238696503.8   3763734177.3   1628257588.4   1430752320.0  12061440589.0
          s======gss=gS== s==========Stsst=====r=== ==                                                         0
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS O&N                     7446861.4      7754415.6       8087674.3      8454776.7      31743728.0
B. VEHICLE O&N                       329247425.5    339283875.3    348938178.4    361879913.8  1379349393.0
C. EDUIPHENT O&I                     242402946.9    253193368.9    265765492.3    164673884.6    926035692.6
D. OTHER OPERATING COSTS              53640818.7     56078067.3      58616103.4      10753780.4    179088769.8
E. SALARIES AND ALLOUANCES            39654975.0     50675244.7      58047334.5       239505.1    148617059.4
Totat RECURRENT COSTS                672393027.5    706984971.9    739454782.9   546001860.6  2664834642.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                 5911089530.8  4470719149.1   2367712371.2   1976754180.6  14726275231.0
30 9 2=======s=2=333=.u=sz=z=s=48===s=====mtssus=sus=====s=3======t
3/30/1993 22:48



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Sumary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
US Dollar
1993           1994           1995          1996           Total
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS & CIVIL WORKS            359605.7       3801964.3            0.0            0.0      4161570.0
B. VEHICLES                           2644784.8        41043.4            0.0            0.0      2685828.1
C. E)UIPHENT AND SUPPLIES             4930071.6      1556379.9      1620911.4      1697550.8      9804913.6
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE               1912480.2      1554577.7      1158519.0       604016.8      5229593.7
E. TRAINING                           227474.2        283985.0       351834.2      449879.2       1313172.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS               10074416.4      7237950.3      3131264.6     275144.8    23195078.1
t====r2r-S2-==-2S* U SUSssSSWssSSStSWSS===SS=ssstS=====                                                  (A
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS OIN                      14320.9        14912.3        15553.2        16259.2        61045.6
B. VEHICLE DIN                        633168.1        652469.0       671035.0       695922.9      2652595.0
C. EQUIPNENT DIN                       466159.5       486910.3       511087.5       316680.5      1780837.9
D. OTHER OPERATING COSTS               103155.4       107842.4       112723.3        20680.3       344401.5
E. SALARIES AND ALLOUANCES              76259.6        97452.4       111629.5          460.6       285802.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS                 1293063.5      1359586.5      1422028.4      1050003.6      5124682.0
===z===SSSS SZUUU=----UU   rMMUSZlSrS* WuSSSXuSSZus*sSmfSS====2==S=flu
Total PROJECT COSTS                  11367479.9      8597536.8      4553293.0      3801450.3    28319760.1
act= ====:fls= sgsstzsssstssnstsstsusmssssswxumssflsm.snas.ut=s .====s==fl
3/30/1993  22:48
x-



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICJLTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Leone
Sunmary Accounts by Year
Base Costs                                            Foreign Exchange
1993           1994            1995           1996          Total               X         Amout
===z==rslsa.2flt==========r=========z=======-====z=z=s=============2====== ======:==tt==ss===========:====
I. INVESTMENT COSTS
A.  BUILDINGS & CIVIL WORKS         156615153.9   1768000000.0             0.0             0.0   1924615153.9             95.7   1841394380.8
B.  VEHICLES                       1303962951.2     18321940.0             0.0             0.0   1322284891.2             65.1    860841246.7
C.  EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES         2409697169.5    718532660.4    714852465.9    714852465.9   4557934761.8               86.4   3939014684.0
D.  TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            964337880.0    737968080.0    503166000.0    266023500.0   2471495460.0               83.7   2067414960.0
E.  TRAINING                        100593025.0     99228025.0    107168425.0    124414225.0    431403700.0                4.9      21299200.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS             4935206179.5   3342050705.4   1325186890.9   1105290190.9  10707M73967.0               81.5   8729964471.4
II. RECURRENT COSTS
F.  CIVIL UORKS 0&                   7294036.3      7294036.3       7294036.3      7294036.3      29176145.3             n7.1      22483435.5
G.  VEHICLE O&M                     327319528.0    332083232.4    332083232.4    332083232.4   1323569225.2               70.2    929483303.6
H.  EQUIPMENT OUH                   23868675.4    241519120.7    244247089.9    145204801.3    869657797.3                75.4    655852718.2
I.  OTHER OPERATING COSTS            52412500.0     52412500.0      52412500.0      5612500.0    162850000.0              86.2    140400000.0
J.  SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES          33450000.0     33450000.0      33325000.0        125000.0    100350000.0              0.0             0.0
Total RECURRENT COSTS               659162849.8    666758889.5    669361858.6    490319570.0  2485603167.9                70.3   1748219457.3
Total BASELINE COSTS               5594369028.9   4008809594.9   1994548749.6   1595609761.0  13193337134.0               79.4  10478183928.0
Physical Contingencies           185459528.4    213642730.0      35742623.3     35742623.3    470587505.0              87.0    409437866.6
Price Contingencies              131260973.5   248266824.2    337420998.4    345401796.3   1062350592.4                23.3    247556525.1
Total PROJECT COSTS                5911089530.8  4470719149.1   2367712371.2   1976754180.6  14726275231.0                75.6  11135178320.0
==-z------------------sss-----st----=ass=s==sssss   vvmz=zmms=zzzzmsss==Z======w
Taxes                            824014893.9    150654690.2    155741308.3    139301122.7   1269712015.1                0.0             0.0
Foreign Exchange                4399618885.1   3783966973.6   1597878419.7   1353714041.9  11135178320.0              100.0  11135178320.0
3/30/1993  22:49



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
S_ary Accoumts Cost Stmary
Leone                                      US Dollar                                   X Total
---------------------------------------------    ------------------------------------        X Foreign           Base
Local        Foreign          Total          Local    Foreign        Total          Exchange          Costs
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -   ........ .............. ... .... ...
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
A. BUILDINGS & CIVIL WORKS          83220M.1   1841394380.8  192615153.9           165650.6  3535532.3  3701183.0                95.7           14.6
B. VEHICLES                        461443644.5   860841246.7  132228891.2          888360.4  1654495.1  2542855.6                65.1           10.0
C. EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES          618920077.8  3939014684.0  4557934761.8        1464138.6  7301120.6  8765259.2                86.4           34.5
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE            404080500.0  2067414960.0  2471495460.0         795248.3  3957627.6  4752875.9                83.7           18.7
E. TRAINING                        410104500.0    21299200.0   431403700.0         790392.5    39230.0   8296Z2.5                 4.9            3.3
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            1977769495.4  8729964471.4  1070M3967.0         4103790.4  16488005.7  20591796.1              81.5           81.2
11. RECURRENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS 0U1                   6692709.8    22483435.5    29176145.3          16832.4    39275.6    56108.0                77.1            0.2
S. VEHICLE 0&                     394085921.6   929483303.6  1323569225.2         776262.7  1769062.7  2545325.4                70.2           10.0
C. EQUIPMENT OZ                   213805079.2   655852718.2   869657797.3         492262.8  1180156.0  1672418.8                75.4            6.6
D. OTHER OPERATING COSTS            22450000.0   140400000.0   162850000.0          43173.1    270000.0   313173.1               86.2            1.2
E. SALARIES AND ALLOWANCES         100350000.0            0.0   100350000.0        192980.8         0.0   192980.8                0.0            0.8
Total RECURRENT COSTS              737383710.6   1748219457.3  245603167.9        1521511.8  3258494.3  4780006.1                70.3           18.8
Total BASELINE COSTS              2715153206.0  10478183928.0  13193337134.0      5625302.2  19746499.9  25371802.2              77.8          100.0
Physical Contirgencies           61149638.4   409437866.6   470587505.0         117595.5   787380.5   904976.0                87.0            3.6
Price Contingencies             814794067.3   247556525.1  1062350592.4        1163057.9   879924.0  2042981.9                43.1            8.1
Total PROJECTS COSTS              3591096911.4  11135178320.0  14726275231.0      6905955.6  21413804.5  28319760.1              75.6          111.6
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... .....                                       .=~Zz    Z=z====zmwXvZZZ
3/30/1993  22:49
x-.



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Projects Components by Year
Totals Including Contingencies
Leone
1993           1994            1995           1996           Total
--======== =-=__=.sr============s============== =  =
A. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER               2697344944.4    763272166.9   595353260.6   663554454.5   4719524826.1
B. FEEDER ROADS                      1126946591.7  2414780655.5   466374820.2        59132727.9  4067234795.3
C. INPUTS & AGRO-PROCESSING          1817803572.2   1083452020.0   1086938795.5   1024353212.7  5012547600.3
D. RESEARCH EXTENSION LINKS            56841804.0     40827195.9    45318440.4       49161638.0    192149078.3
E. ASSP COORDINATION UNIT             212152618.6    168387110.7   173727054.6    180552147.5    734818931.4
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  5911089530.8  4470719149.1   2367712371.2   1976754180.6  14726275231.0
3========2=2=============
3/30/1993 22:49



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Projects Conponents by Year
TotaLs Including Contingencies
US Dollar
1993           1994             1995           1996           Total
A. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER                   518n7201.8      1467831.1       1144910.1       1276066.3       9076009.3
B. FEEDER ROADS                          2167205.0       4643809.0        896874.7        113716.8       7821605.4
C. INPUTS & AGRO-PROCESSING              3495776.1       2083561.6       2090266.9       1969910.0       9639514.6
D. RESEARCH EXTENSION LINKS               109311.2         78513.8         87150.8         94541.6        369517.5
E. ASSP COORDINATION UNIT                 407985.8        323821.4        334090.5        347215.7       1413113.3
Total PROJECTS COSTS                     11367479.9       8597536.8       4553293.0       3801450.3      28319760.1
========3/30/1993-22:49
3/30/1993 22:49



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Leone
Project Cowponents by Year
Base Costs                                          Total
1993           1994            1995           1996      Leone       USDotlar
= == = re====================== == === == = = ===============
A. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER              2548203987.5   702862995.9    504073518.3   523811752.6  4278952254.3           8228754.3
B. FEEDER ROADS                     1058768144.7   2126566173.4    352566173.4      37549415.6  3575449907.2        6875865.2
C. INPUTS & AGRO-PROCESSING         1727100278.1    984918390.7    943336488.2   839440488.2  4494795645.1          8643837.8
D. RESEARCH EXTENSION LINKS           51974873.0    30799953.8       30799234.7    30923515.5    144497577.0         277880.0
E. ASSP COORDINATION UMIT            208321745.5    163662081.1    163773335.1    163884589.1    699641750.7        1345464.9
Total BASELINE COSTS                5594369028.9  4008809594.9   1994548749.6  1595609761.0  13193337134.0          25371802.2
Physical Contingencies             185459528.4    213642730.0      35742623.3     35742623.3    470587505.0        904976.0
Price Contingencies                131260973.5   248266824.2    337420998.4   345401796.3   1062350592.4          2042981.9
Total PROJECT COSTS                 5911089530.8  4470719149.1   2367712371.2   1976754180.6  14726275231.0         28319760.1
========z================ ===
Taxes                             824014893.9    150654690.2    155741308.3    139301122.7   1269712015.1         2441753.9
Foreign Exchange                 4399618885.1   3783966973.6   1597878419.7   1353714041.9  11135178320.0        21413804.5
3/30/1993 22:49



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICUCLTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Financing Plan by Disbursemmnt Category
US Dot tar
IDA                IFAD                 GOSL             Govermanmt               Total                        Local
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------           For.       (Exct.       Duties
AiDnt      X        Amount      X        Amount     X         Amount     X        Anoit       X         Exch.      Taxes)       & Tax.
=--=z= ....= ...................... ssa............... ..=............ sS -=====-== .....     ==  t======z============            ==.=.==.==.
A. CIVIL WlRS                     3212253.5    77.2    688559.7    16.5           0.0     0.0   260756.6       6.3   4161570.0    14.7  3957842.7    149786.4       53940.8               1
B. VEHICLES                       1745568.4    65.0      12312.9     0.5          0.0     0.0   927946.6    34.5  2685828.1        9.5   1745568.4      18607.8    921651.9
C. EGUIPHENT                      7683836.9    78.4   1540595.6    15.7           0.0     0.0    580481.1      5.9  9804913.6   34.6   8122372.0   1339991.0   342550.6
D. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE           3480490.4    53.2    672866.6    10.3           0.0     0.0  2389409.2    36.5   6542766.3   23.1   4113806.3  2428960.0               0.0             w-
E. O01 COSTS                      3431470.0    67.0    216106.6      4.2          0.0     0.0   1477105.4    28.8  5124682.0    18.1   3474215.0    526856.4   1123610.6
Total Disbursement                19553619.4    69.0   313044 .5    11.1           0.0     0.0  5635699.2    19.9  28319760.1  100.0  21413804.5  4464201.7   2441753.9
=za=g========r======s=t=sts=====zzz=====- .......====  =z======= ............  ====== .....=================
3/30/1993 22:49
z
t>1
x



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Financing Plan by Project Coonents
US Dot tar
IDA                IFAD               GOSL             Coverrant               Total                       Local
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------      For.       (ExcF.      Duties
Amount     t       Amnt       X        Amount     X        Aomt a              Amont      X         Exch.      Taxes)        Tax.
A. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER           5467481.5   60.2   360394.2    4.0            0.0     0.0  3248133.6   35.8  9076009.3   32.0  5670573.6  1514616.4  1890819.3
B. FEEDER ROADS                  5187223.1   66.3  1012359.1    12.9           0.0     0.0   1622023.1   20.7  7821605.4   27.6  6127474.7  1393566.8   300563.9
C. INIPUTS & AGRO-PROCESSING     7666296.3   79.5  1532106.7   15.9            0.0     0.0   441111.6    4.6  9639514.6   34.0  8186152.4  1283808.8   169553.3
D. RESEARCH EXTENSION LINKS       115814.8   31.3    26792.3    7.3            0.0     0.0   226910.4   61.4   369517.5        1.3   115814.8   226926.8    26775.9
E. ASSP COORDINATION UNIT        1116803.7   79.0   198789.1   14.1            0.0     0.0    97520.6    6.9  1413113.3        5.0  1313789.0    45282.8    54041.5
Total Disbursement               19553619.4   69.0  3130441.5   11.1            0.0     0.0  5635699.2   19.9  28319760.1   100.0  21413804.5  4464201.7  2441753.9
=============saasa==S=saa==aaaaaa=aaa=aa==f=taaa====== aaaaaaaaaa== = aaaa===raa=z=a ===================
3/30/1993  22:49
0c
I



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUWPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Disbursement by Financier by Semester
US Dollar
IDA       IFAD       GOSL    Government      Total
Ammt       Amount     Amount      A.KKnt     Amot
Semester
1  1979128.1   159389.7         0.0   900383.5  3038901.3
2  3923838.2   529056.4         0.0  1230845.3  5683739.9
3  2923394.9   501478.3         0.0   839561.7  4264434.9
4  3145851.3   596026.0         0.0   556891.0  4298768.4
5  2966642.7   562937.3         0.0   615783.0  4145363.0
6   1452314.6   235826.0        0.0   588505.9  2276646.5
7  1224313.8   197822.2         0.0   440269.5  1862405.5
8   1254805.5   204312.2        0.0   441607.4  1900725.2
9   683330.2   143593.3         0.0    21851.9   848775.4
10        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
TOTAL     19553619.4  3130441.5         0.0  5635699.2  28319760.1
3/30/1993  22:49
L4



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501-SL
Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange / Local / Taxes
US Dollar
IDA        IFAD        GOSL      Government       Totat
Amount      Amount       Amount      Aotint       Amount
======2 =   2========r===:=========t=zfl==ft==u=zfls..53
I   Foreign                  18696406.3   2637576.5           0.0     79821.7  21413804.5
11  Local (Exci. Taxes)        857213.0    492865.0           0.0   3114123.7   4464201.7
III Taxes                           0.0          0.0          0.0   2441753.9   2441753.9                                         1
Total Project                 19553619.4   3130441.5          0.0   5635699.2  28319760.1
========== s==   ==~=S======2==t=2US 
3/30/1993 22:49
x-.



