Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20410
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(IDA Credit 1501-SL)
(IFAD Loan 0119-SL)
June 28, 2000
Rural Development III
Country Department 16
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without world Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of July 1999)
Currency Unit    =    Leone
Le 1,000        =    US$0.0005
US$1.00         =    Le 1762 (at closing, June 1999)
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES (LelUS$)
1983      1984       1985       1986       1987      1988       1989   l  1990
1.859     2.510      5.123     15.243     34.043     32.514l 59.818    151.4069
1991   l  1992       1993       1994       1995   l  1996   l  1997   l  1999
295.344   499.076    567.326   586.539   753.942   970.750 l 981.908 J 1762.235
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASSP       Agriculture Sector Support Project
IADP       Integrated Agricultural Development Project
ICR        Implementation Completion Report
IFAD       International Fund for Agriculture Development
MAF        Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MAFE       Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and the Environment
MANR       Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
NGO        Non-Governmental Organization
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director Brian Ngo (Acting)
Sector Leader Jean-Paul Chausse
Task Team Leader: Rudolph Polson



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(IDA Credit 1501-SL)
(IFAD Loan 0119-SL)
Table of Contents
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
A. INTRODUCnON ............................................................                                                I
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................................                                         I
C. ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES ...........................................................                          4
D. FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATON ...........................................................                             5
E. SUSTAINABILITY ............................................................ 6
F. BANK PERFORMANCE ............................................................                                           6
G. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE ...........................................................                                      7
H. IMPLEMENTATION AGENCY PERFORMANCE ........................................................... 7
1. PROJECT OUTCOME ........................................................... 8
J. FUTURE OPERATIONS ...........................................................                                           8
K. LESSONS LEARNED ............................................................                                            8
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ...........................................................                                9
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA  CREDITS ............................................................ 11
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE ........................................................... 12
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS ...........................................................                                 12
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...........................................................    1 3
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ..........................                    ................................. 13
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT ...........................................................                          13
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ........................................................... 14
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ........................................................... 14
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ...........................................................                           15
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS ....................................................  16
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS ........................................................... 16
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ...........................................................                            16
TECHNICAL ANNEXES
ANNEX I:   FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION BY KEY  PERIODS ................................... 17
ANNEX II:  INDICATORS OF ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES PER KEY PERIOD .......................... 21
APPENDICES
A. AIDE MEMOIRE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION ....                           ...................................................... 24
B. BORROWER'S COMMENTS .......................................................... 24
C. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION .......................................................... 25
MAP
IBRD 17501
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






i
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(IDA Credit 1501-SL)
(IFAD Loan 0119-SL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agriculture Sector Support Project
(ASSP) in Sierra Leone for which Credit 1501-SL in the amount of SDR 20.3 million was
approved on June 14, 1984 and became effective on December 10, 1984. The project was co-
finarnced by IFAD with a loan in the amount of SDR 5.1 million.
Implementation of the ASSP occurred under very difficult country circumstances. Project
implementation was first suspended in May 1987 due to the county being in a non-accrual status.
After a long interregnum spanning over five years, the project was redesigned in April 1993, but
disbursements were again suspended shortly thereafter due to the Borrower's non-compliance
with audit requirements. Implementation was also affected by the ongoing civil war in the
couitry which led, among other things, to pervasive insecurity in rural areas, wide-spread
destruction and instability of the central government. Although a peace treaty was signed in
April 1996 and democratic elections were held shortly thereafter, the elected civilian government
was overthrown a few months later (in 1997), leading to further suspension of credit
disbursements. The civilian government was restored to power nearly a year later and the Credit
was again restructured in June 1998 specifically to address the acute humanitarian crisis in rural
areas, where more than 200,000 farm families have been internally displaced. The Credit was
finally closed on June 30, 1999 due to governance issues and inability to properly supervise
implementation. The final disbursement took place on February 24, 2000 at which time the
undisbursed balance of SDR 2.3 million was cancelled.
The IFAD Loan became effective on January 23, 1985 and was closed on December 31, 1996.
Out of the SDR 5.1 million Loan, SDR 4.4 million was disbursed. The final disbursement took
place on July 20, 1998, at which time the undisbursed balance in the amount of SDR 682,854.44
was cancelled.
Country circumstances did not permit a final supervision mission nor a re-appraisal of the
operation's financial and economic impact. The ICR was therefore prepared as a Desk Review,
based on records available in the project files. The ICR was prepared by Rudolph A. Polson,
Task Team Leader, of the West Africa Rural Development Unit (AFTR3) of the Africa Region's
Rural Development and Environment Technical Family. It was reviewed by Mr. Jean-Paul
Chausse (Sector Manager, AFTR3) and Mr. Brian Ngo (Acting Country Director for Sierra
Leone). The Borrower has prepared its own completion report, which is available from project
files.



ii
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(IDA Credit 1501-SL)
(IFAD Loan 0119-SL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Agriculture Sector Support Project
(ASSP) in Sierra Leone for which Credit 1501-SL in the amount of SDR 20.3 million was
approved on June 14, 1984 and became effective on December 10, 1984. It was co-financed by
IFAD with a loan of SDR 5.1 million.
Project Objectives
Project implementation spanned nearly fifteen years, from initial effectiveness in December 1984
to closing in June 1999. During this period, the project was modified several times to respond to
changing priorities and needs in the rural sector. These changes are described below:
(a)  From effectiveness to redesign in 1993, the key objectives of the project were to: (i)
restructure the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and merge it with the Ministry of
Natural Resources to create a single Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR); (ii) privatize government operations in mechanical land preparation and oil palm
production and processing; and (iii) strengthen the MANR's capacities, in particular for
policy analyses and make service delivery more cost effective by putting into place a
budgeting, financial management and monitoring system and undertaking a civil service
reduction program.
(b)  From redesign in 1993 to 1998, the objectives of the project were formally modified
to: (i) increase food and cash crop output, farm incomes and levels of agricultural
employment; (ii) enhance agriculture's contribution to the country's balance of payments;
and (iii) strengthen implementation capacity of the key sector agencies.
(c)  Between 1998 and project closure in 1999, the objectives of the project remained
unchanged, but the emphasis of the project was substantially modified to: (i) provide
emergency support to displaced rural farm families; (ii) undertake the priority
rehabilitation of the extension and research infrastructure destroyed during the civil war;
and (iii) restore the basic functions of the Ministry and begin a comprehensive program of
capacity building.
The original objectives were in line with the priority sectoral needs. The sectoral analysis
presented in the Staff Appraisal Report is adequate.  The project sought to address key
constraints and limit Government's role to that of creating an enabling environment and service
provision. The main area in which the project fell short was in its support to the emergence of an



iii
active private sector to replace Government. The key difference between the redesigned and the
original ASSP was a greater focus on short-term supply response through improved incentives
and restoration of field agricultural services rather than through institutional change alone; a new
project component was also added specifically aimed at the rehabilitation of feeder roads. The
redesigned ASSP however did not provide any specific assistance to the private sector for taking
over the procurement and distribution of agricultural inputs after the Sierra Leone Produce
Marketing Board was liquidated. It is not clear to what extent the re-design team took the civil
war into account in its assessment of the country's ability to implement the project, given that
disbursements under the credit had to be suspended within two years after project restructuring.
Implementation Experience and Results
Implementation of the ASSP was interrupted in May 1987 by the suspension of disbursements by
IDA and the co-financier (IFAD) due to overdue debt service payments. On April 15, 1992,
Sierra Leone was restored to accrual status, but the delay in implementation and the changed
development priorities necessitated a complete redesign of the project in 1993. With the
redesign, project scope and objectives were expanded to include sector policy reforms and
restructuring of the sector ministry. The redesigned operation, with a new closing date of June
30, 1997, was approved by the Board in April 1993. Implementation of the redesigned ASSP
was again interrupted in 1994 due to the escalating civil war which severely limited project
activities to only a small area of the country. The election of a civilian government in March
1996 revived new hopes for peace and with it expectations of expanding support to the
agricultural sector. Given the changed developmental priorities, the Borrower requested a
reallocation of the credit proceeds to enable it to address the emergency needs created by the
civil war. These discussions were under way when the elected civilian government was
overthrown on May 25, 1997.
The May 1997 coup triggered an across-the-board suspension of Bank Group activities in Sierra
Leone on June 1, 1997, a suspension which remained in effect until the democratically-elected
government was restored to power in February 1998. Disbursements resumed in June 1998. The
project was closed on June 30, 1999 when deteriorating security conditions made it difficult to
properly supervise implementation and the Borrower's adherence to legal and financial
covenants.
The ASSP was for over a decade the only IDA-financed vehicle for support to the rural sector in
Sierra Leone. It only partially met its original and subsequently revised objectives, despite the
high level of investments made (SDR 22.7 million actual versus SDR 26.5 million planned or
about 86 percent). The outcome is therefore rated highly unsatisfactory. I)uring the initial
period, the project assisted in implementing needed policy reforms, including the removal of
fertilizer subsidies, dismantling of the product marketing monopoly of the Sierra Leone Produce
Marketing Board (SLPMB), the disposition of older (reconditioned) tractors to farmers
associations (but not the privatization of Government's tractor for hire service), and
strengthening of agricultural research institutes. The project was also instrumental in putting into
place a broad-based and responsive extension service although this could not be sustained in
latter years due to the civil war. Additionally, the project was an important vehicle for providing
emergency support to rural families displaced as a result of the civil war, and through the
provision of seeds, it helped to fill a rural food security gap caused by disruption in production.



iv
The disruption in production occurred from the rebel incursion which did not allow for a normal
production cycle from planting to harvest. The project was unable to privatize any of the
parastatals identified because of the poor security situation.
The project suffered from a number of ills (which are well described in the text, including our
approach in project amendments) besides the insecure environment. Key among these factors
included lack of capacity and problems of counterpart funding.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
The project was successful in implementing the policy reforms of the earlier years but country
circumstances prevented the realization of any benefits of these reforms in terms of improved
incomes or efficiency of service delivery. As a result of the civil war, many of the earlier gains
in building sector capacity were drastically eroded. Viewed from this perspective, the ASSP was
therefore unable to achieve its primary objective of increasing food production and rural incomes
and reducing poverty. Rather than continuously changing project scope to respond to various
situations in the agricultural sector, which made project implementation more complex and
difficult to monitor, it might have been advisable to close the project and in its place, quickly
prepare a well-focused and monitorable program targeted at addressing the specific rural
emergency. In addition, the Bank was often too optimistic in its assessment of the deteriorating
security situation in the country.
Key lessons learned from implementation of the ASSP are as follows: (a) while amending an
existing project may often provide the immediate best option for providing emergency
assistance, it may be preferable to cancel the original operation and prepare, when circumstances
permit, a small targeted quick disbursing operation which can address the existing emergency
situation, as procedures for standard investment operations are too cumbersome for emergency
assistance; (b) privatization of state enterprises with a virtual monopoly is necessary but not
sufficient for the fast emergence of a viable private sector able to take over the provision of the
corresponding services in an insecure environment; (c) in countries undergoing violent civil
crises, it is important that Bank support be based on closed consultation and coordination with
other donors, both to avoid duplication of efforts but also to ensure a harmonized and
coordinated approach to providing assistance.



1
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(IDA Credit 1501-SL)
(IFAD Loan 0119-SL)
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION REVIEW
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    At the time of project appraisal (1983), Sierra Leone's agricultural sector was
characterized by low adoption rates for basic on-farm technologies and weak sector institutions
with limited capacity to efficiently deliver agricultural services, in particular an ineffectual
research and extension service. There was also substantial government involvement in the
marketing of export crops, notably cocoa; and high subsidies on fertilizer and farm machinery.
At the same time, the government had many agencies with overlapping responsibilities for
providing agricultural services. The ASSP was initially designed to help the government
streamline the sector's institutional set-up and foster both efficiency and cost-effectiveness in the
provision of basic services to farmers, thereby helping to unleash a sustained agricultural growth
that would lead to improved rural incomes and rural livelihoods.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
2.    As a result of the long span of the project life (1983-1999) and the many disruptions in
implementation, the objectives of ASSP were changed several times to address the changing
circumstances and priorities in the sector. Three separate periods can be identified in project
implementation, each with specific objectives as defined below.
B.1 Original Objectives (1983-1993)
3.    The project was originally designed to be national in scope and to give broad support to
the Government in addressing the sectoral priorities identified during appraisal. These are: (i)
the streamlining of the institutional framework for the sector so as to improved the management
of ongoing development efforts and to concentrate efforts of the Ministry in areas where public
sector input is essential; (ii) provide foreign exchange for critical imports that will maintain
productive potential of the sector; (iii) improve the sector's productive potential through
appropriate investments. The project was in support of the adjustment program agreed with the
World Bank and the IMF.
In support of these objectives, the project included the following activities:
(a) A plan of action with the following elements: (i) a rationalization of the institutional
framework in the agricultural sector through a merger of the Ministry of Agriculture and
Forestry and the Ministry of Natural Resources (MANR later Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and the Environment - MAFE); a reorganization of the merged ministry based on



2
decentralization of field operations to regional offices, integration of Integrated Agricultural
Development Projects (IADPs) within this structure; and privatization of Ministry operations
in mechanical land preparation and oil palm production and processing; (ii) enhancement of
Ministry operations through reorganization of financial and accounting systems,
establishment of staff development and training units and development of appropriate
training programs, development of improved planning and monitoring systems, reduction of
excessive daily paid labor force, and improvement in coordination arrangements for research
and training; and (iii) improvement of policymaking in agricultural pricing and taxation
through formalization of an inter-ministerial committee in this area and the development of
an appropriate data base and analytic capacity in the Ministry.
* Institutional support: (primarily vehicles, equipment and supplies, and consulting
services).
* Sectoral support: import financing and establishment of Agricultural Development
Fund in which receipts from sales of inputs would be placed.
*  Program support: tree planting, establishment of Drainage and Irrigation Unit and
swam development.
* Provision offoreign exchange: to cover the imports required for subprojects,
identified and implemented by MANR.
B.2 Redesigned Project Objectives (1993-1998)
4.    When Sierra Leone regained accrual status in April 1992, after a five year suspension, it
became necessary to redesign the project. The redesigned project sought to complete the reforms
started under the project prior to suspension, support private sector development in input and
output marketing, emphasize the restoration of field agricultural services, and rehabilitate feeder
roads. The redesigned project was therefore to target:
(a)  Technology transfer: (i) strengthen the extension services; (ii) rehabilitate selected
extension and research facilities and intensify the training of subject matter specialists;
(iii) improve monitoring and evaluation; and (iv) alleviate the immediate technical
bottlenecks faced by rural banks in extending credit to farmers.
(b)  Research-Extension linkages:  (i) foster research-extension-farmer linkages through a
series of crop variety trials to be conducted on farmers' fields; (ii) provide for the
publication of the results of these research trials; and (iii) improve coordination of the
research effort among national agricultural research institutes.
(c)  Farm input use and post-harvest technology: (i) the import of fertilizer, farm tools and
implements, oil palm seedlings, and small scale agro-processing equipment for rice,
cassava, oil palm, maize and pepper; and (ii) the training of farmers, agro-processors and
extension officers in post harvest technology.
(d)  Feeder road rehabilitation: rehabilitate 530 kms of severely dilapidated feeder roads in
remote but agriculturally productive areas (about two-thirds using labor-intensive
technologies).
(e)  ASSP coordination and management.



3
5.    The original objectives were in line with the priority sectoral needs. The sectoral analysis
presented in the Staff Appraisal Report is adequate. The project sought to address key
constraints and limit Government's role to that of creating an enabling enviromnent and service
provision. The main area in which the project fell short was in its support to the emergence of an
active private sector to replace Government.
6.    The key difference between the redesigned and the original ASSP was a greater focus on
short-term supply response through improved incentives and restoration of field agricultural
services rather than through institutional change alone; a new project component was also added
specifically aimed at the rehabilitation of feeder roads. The redesigned ASSP wanted the private
sector to take over the productive activities of Government, but how this was to be achieved was
ill-defined. It is not clear to what extent the re-design team took the civil war into account in its
assessment of the country's ability to implement the project, given that disbursements under the
credit had to be suspended within two years after project restructuring.
B.3 Refocusing of Project (1998-1999)
7.    Between 1998 and 1999, the development credit agreement was amended to address the
acute emergency situation caused by the on-going civil war. The project was not resubmitted to
the Board because the Country Director felt this was not necessary as the objectives of the
project had not changed and the overall project description was not significantly altered, and
there was an overriding need to respond without delay in the absence of other donors. Funds
were reallocated for allowing MAFE to procure seeds and other emergency supplies needed by
rural households and to complement relief efforts by NGOs as follows:
(a)  Emergency support to farm families: to provide households with basic seeds and farm
implements to resume production of food crops and help replenish household security
stocks; these activities were implemented with assistance of NGOs active in rural
communities;
(b)  MAFE rehabilitation: to provide critically needed logistical support to MAFE and its
regional and district offices for enabling them to resume critical service delivery to
returning and displaced farmers, and to better monitor the implementation of the
emergency program;
(c)  Research and training facilities rehabilitation: to rehabilitate selected research and
training facilities and enable key staff to resume their technical responsibilities; and
(d)  Institutional support to MAFE: to provide operational and administrative support to
MAFE to restore its basic functions during the implementation of the restructured ASSP.
8.    It is not clear on what grounds a decision was made to continue operations in the country
following the lifting of suspension and what kind of assessment had been made to justify
continuation, other than for humanitarian reasons. IFAD decided to close its Loan as planned on
December 31, 1996, as it had become increasingly difficult to execute the project. IDA is poorly
placed to provide humanitarian aid in the absence of other major donors being a lender rather
than a donor and having a set of procurement and implementation policies that make it difficult



4
to respond to crisis. The project thus simply lacked the institutional set-up and the ability to
respond rapidly to crisis and many of the activities supported turned out to have been in vain.
C. ACHIEVEMENTS OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
C.] OriginalASSP (1983-1993)
9.    Institutional and policy reforms. The specific objectives of this component were only
partially met. The project enabled the Government to rationalize the sector institutional set-up
by merging the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry and the Ministry of Natural Resources to
create a Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR later MAFE) and integrate the
IADPs within its structure. In addition, six agricultural regions were created, each headed by a
Chief Regional Officer wiih extensive decision-making power, thereby decentralizing the
operations of the Ministry. On the policy side, the key reform was a gradual removal of the
fertilizer subsidy, with a complete phase planned for February 1996. Government also repaired
and sold off older tractors to farmers organizations, but failed to privatize several parastatals
(Gambia/Mattru and Daru Oil Dam Estates, the MAFE Farm Mechanization Scheme, and the
Magbass Sugar Complex) bec -ise of lack of private sector interest given the lack of security.
The management arrangements for the Newton Livestock Station were cancelled because of
mismanagement.
10.   Technology Transfer. The specific objectives of this component were to a large extent
met, but continuation was undermined by the civil war. Under the project, the Government
established the Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) to take over the facilities and staff of the
erstwhile Adaptive Crop Research and Extension Project. This new institution was mandated to
carry out research and extension support to root and tuber crops, maize and cowpeas, though it
later expanded its activities to also include groundnuts. IAR undertook in particular programs for
the selection of improved cassava and sweet potato varieties for low income farmers. Adaptive
research on post harvest technology concentrated on agro-processing activities. About 40
cooperative associations were trained and given access to agro-processing equipment.
Continuation of this activity was also disrupted by the civil war.
C.2 Redesigned Phase (1993 to 1998)
11.  Institutional and policy reforms. With the civil war nearly engulfing the entire country,
many of the key reforms were simply abandoned, mostly unfinished. For example, although the
fertilizer subsidy was removed as planned, private operators found it too risky or too costly to get
into the fertilizer import and distribution business. Also, many producers lacked the resources to
buy fertilizer at the free market price or adopted low input, risk minimizing strategies. The
planned privatization of the Ministry of Agriculture's operations in mechanical land preparation
and oil palm production and processing had to be abandoned.
12.   Feeder Road Rehabilitation. The project was successful in rehabilitating nearly 381 kms
of feeder roads under a labor-intensive program implemented with technical assistance from the
ILO. This represented about 72 percent of the planned target. The labor-intensive program
provided employment opportunities in the rural areas, leading to income gains for those who



5
participated. However, with the civil war expanding to many parts of the country, the program
was abandoned and the equipment and facilities of the Sierra Leone Roads Authority, the
implementing agency, were looted and destroyed.
13.   Rural Banks. The project was to support the Bank of Sierra Leone in establishing eight
rural banks in different parts of the country, to provide credit to rural entrepreneurs and to
encourage rural savings mobilization. Only one bank (the Bombali Rural Bank) became
operational, and even this one was quickly closed when the civil war affected the Bombali
District.
14.   Research and Extension Linkages. The project helped to revive the National
Agricultural Research Coordinating Council (NARCC) as the vehicle for the coordination and
rationalization of research activities. However, NARCC did not become fully effective, and was
reduced to a token Secretariat with no technical support or logistical capability to carry out its
mandate. Two pilot activities in T&V begun in the Southern and Northern provinces of the
country, although achieving promising early results on the ground, were not scaled up as a result
of the civil war.
C.3: Emergency Support Phase (1998-1999)
15. Emergency Support to Farm Families. Achievement under the emergency program was
marginally successful. The project was able to procure more than 4,000 MT of rice seeds which
were distributed to farm families in various Districts with the assistance of local NGOs and
farmer associations. However, many of the areas were again engulfed by the war during the
harvest season and many of the farmers assisted lost their crops. The research institutions (at
Rukupr and Njala) were not rehabilitated due to insecurity existing in those areas at the time of
project closure. An institutional assessment of the Ministry was undertaken which made
recommendations for its restructuring. The findings of this study could be implemented under a
follow-up operation.
D. FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION
D.I Factors Outside of Government and Implementing Agency Control
16.  Implementation of the ASSP was sporadic throughout the project life mostly as the result
of factors external to the project and its implementation agency, the Ministry of Agriculture,
Forestry and Environment (MAFE). The key factor was the civil war, for which a peace treaty
was signed but full disarmament has yet to take place.
D.2 Factors Under Government and Implementing Agency Control
17.   Due to the lack of capacity and continuous interruptions, the Borrower's main
implementing agency was often too slow in carrying out agreed reforms as noted during the mid-
term review. Procurement was initially managed by a Central Tenders Board which lacked
capacity and basic understanding of IDA and IFAD procedures, resulting in frequent delays.
During latter stages of implementation, the Borrower reformed the Tenders Board but only for



6
the latter to be closed due to the war. Another factor impeding implementation was counterpart
funding, especially where the Borrower was required to contribute to training and technical
assistance, often including foreign exchange contributions. Schedule I of the Development
Credit Agreement was changed to reduce the counterpart funds burden, from 95 percent of all
expenditure to 100 percent foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures. Even after
this amendment, Government was unable to provide sufficient counterpart funding because of
the impact of the civil war.
18.   Financial and Administrative Management. The project was implemented under six
different governments and as many Permanent Secretaries of the ministry, making it impossible
to maintain continuity in the administrative management of the project. Financial management of
the ASSP became lax due to the general deterioration in governance caused by the war and the
inability of project management and the Bank to undertake field supervision due to high
insecurity.
19.   Legal Covenants. The legal covenants were essentially adhered to, except for those
relating to financial management.
20.   Project Costs and Financing. The original ASSP cost was US$28.9 million. Actual costs
are estimated at US$30.0 million, with IDA contribution US$23.4 million (US$21.5 million
planned), IFAD US$6.2 million (US$5.1 million planned) and GOSL US$0.4 million (US$0.8
million planned).
E. SUSTAINABILITY
21.   Prolonged civil war has made it impossible to sustain any of the project's activities and
investments. Once civil war has ceased and the country has returned to normalcy, it will have to
be rebuilt in many ways from the ground up as much of the physical infrastructure has been
destroyed or severely damaged and institutions and human capital have all but disappeared.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE.
22.   The Bank's performance at the identification and appraisal stage was satisfactory. The
project's design adequately reflected sectoral constraints and the analysis presented in the Staff
Appraisal Report was satisfactory. The only weakness at the time of appraisal was that
inadequate attention had been paid to support measures for the development of the private sector
that was to take over several key activities hitherto undertaken by Government.
23.   Bank performance during redesign of the project was deficient. The Bank did restructure
the project to fit the country's changing circumstances and priorities and this restructuring was
reasonably well targeted. However, the Bank was too systematically optimistic in the re-design,
relying on institutional arrangement and policy reforms that were beyond the capacity of the
Government and implementing agency to implement. Also, the Bank should have also taken into
account the capacity of the Borrower to provide counterpart funds during a civil war in a timely
manner, and thereby reduce this burden appropriately at the time of project redesign. In the
redesigned ASSP, the Borrower was expected to contribute a large share of counterpart funds,
including contribution of foreign exchange. This led to implementation delays. The adjustment



7
of the project to support emergency/humanitarian activities was targeted to the right priorities
and its implementation arrangements --through NGOs active on the ground-- were appropriate.
It is, however, doubtful that this project was an appropriate vehicle given its cumbersome
procurement procedures and the absence of major donors. Even though a dialogue existed
between the Bank and the major donors, it is unclear why the Bank continued its operations
while the major donors and other multilateral organizations (including the project's cofinancier
IFA]D) discontinued their support.
24.   Bank's performance on supeivision per se was marginally satisfactory. I)uring the first
phase, implementation progress was adequately monitored and reported. Implementation
problems were identified and adequately addressed. Throughout the life of the project, the Bank
triecl to monitor implementation and address issues. However, field missions were increasingly
difficult to execute after the outbreak of the civil war and this made it impossible to ensure actual
implementation and the fiduciary responsibilities of the Bank. It is clear that, although Bank
efforts to meet the country's needs were well meaning, the Bank was often highly optimistic in
its assessment of the improvement in the security situation, which led to commitment of further
resources which had little development impact. In retrospect, it would have been better to follow
IFAD's lead and cancel the operation, at least at the time of the second suspension, and to stand
ready to quickly prepare an emergency reconstruction program as soon as the country's situation
had allowed the minimum conditions for actual implementation and impact on the ground.
G. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
25.   As was the case in many countries at the time of project preparation, Government's role
in project design/preparation was limited. Most of the work was carried out by consultants and
Barnk staff as Government simply lacked the requisite expertise.
26.   The Crovernment's performance during project implementation was marginally
satisfactory. Despite the prolonged civil war, it made serious efforts in implementing the project.
However, many of the factors affecting implementation were beyond its control. Initial lapses in
adhering to the legal covenants related to financial management led to disbursement suspension,
but subsequent administrations met all covenant requirements. Two disbursement suspensions
were not related to project implementation, but to general conditions (non-accrual status of the
country and later the civil war). The Borrower did not always meet its commitment to provide
sufficient counterpart funding, due in part to its reduced capacity to generate resources following
the outbreak of the civil war.
H. IMPLEMENTATION AGENCY PERFORMANCE
27.   The project was implemented through MAFE's office of the Director-General when the
prcject was redesigned in 1993. The performance of the implementing unit under the Director-
General was, on balance, satisfactory. Despite its limited capacity and frequent changes, project
performance reporting, financial reporting and audits were carried out according to the required
standards and at the required periods, except for the one time in 1995 when implementation was
suspended.



8
I. PROJECT OUTCOME
28.   The project's outcome is rated as highly unsatisfactory. The project failed to achieve any
of its major objectives and has not yielded and is not expected to yield significant development
results. Many, if not all of the initial concrete achievements such as feeder roads, research
institutes, extension services, etc. could not be sustained. Physical facilities are destroyed or in a
state of disrepair. Admittedly, these are due largely to country circumstances than to project
design. In terms of agricultural sector policies, the project also succeeded in supporting the
removal of fertilizer subsidies, privatizing tractor hire services and helping redefine the role of
government in the agricultural sector. Again, these could not be followed through.
29.   The high state of insecurity in the country made it impossible to collect the data needed to
estimate an end of project cost benefit analysis to compare with the cost benefit analyses
undertaken during the redesigned ASSP.
J. FUTURE OPERATIONS
30.   No plan for the future operation of the project's investments was developed by the
Borrower. The Borrower is, however, committed to and anxious to begin the process of nation
and rural sector rehabilitating at the cessation of the conflict. Despite overwhelming odds and
high risks, it is diligently pursuing a program that would hopefully lead to national peace which,
in turn, would create the necessary conditions for a follow-up operation. The focus of any new
operation in support to rural development should be (i) the reconstruction of the basic
infrastructure; (ii) the assistance to displaced populations for returning to the farmstead and
resume production; and (iii) the rebuilding on essential institutions. It is in this context that the
Borrower is working to urgently prepare a follow-up project to the ASSP as soon as country
circumstances permit.
K. LESSONS LEARNED
31.   Key lessons learned from  implementation of the ASSP are as follows: (a) while
amending an existing project may often provide the immediate best option for providing
emergency assistance, it may be preferable to cancel the original operation and prepare, when
circumstances permit, a small targeted operation which can address the existing emergency
situation; (b) privatization of state monopolies is necessary but not sufficient for the fast
emergence of a viable private sector able to take over the provision of the corresponding
services: it is essential to provide the incentives for expanded private sector participation; (c) in
countries undergoing violent civil crises, it is important that Bank support be based on close
consultation and coordination with other donors, both to avoid duplication of efforts but also to
ensure a harmonized and coordinated approach to providing assistance.



9
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(IDA Credit 1501-SL)
(IFAD Loan 0119-SL)
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
A.   Achievement of Objectives
Obiectives             Substantial    Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macro Policies                  2         F7              O             El
Sector Policies                7          F-              0       
Financial Objectives           LI       [I               Li]
Institutional Development                                 7C
Physical Objectives                       [2]       
Poverty Reduction                         [Li [In
Gender Issues                   g                           I
Other Social Objectives         Ei        [             [Il
Environmental Objectives       Em []                                    L
Public Sector Management                                                Li z
Private Sector Management                 111            L Ei
Other (specify)                  ]           l
B.   Project Sustainability
Proiect Sustainability         Likelv               Unlikelv            Uncertain
OI]                  Edii                  Oi



10
C. Bank Performance
Performance                    Highlv Satisfactory    Satisfactory          Deficient
Identification                       OI                      Flm
Preparation Assistance               [I]                     [I]
Appraisal                            Fi -I 
Supervision                          FE                                             I i
D. Borrower Performance
Performance                    Hiahly Satisfactory    Satisfactory         Deficient
Preparation                                                  [ 1 ]
Implementation                       EI                      F11 m                1-1
Covenant Compliance                                          LZ F                :
Operation (if applicable)            F                       F1                    W
E. Assessment of Outcome
Performance    Highly Satisfactor     Satisfactory    Unsatisfactorv    Hiehly Unsatisfactory
Outcome                                   LI                L 0I



11
TABLE 2: RELATED IDA CREDITS
Loan/credit title                Purpose          Year of Approval        Status
Preceding Operations                Rice and tree crop                              Closed
Eastern IntegratedAgricultural      development
Development Project (Cr.323;
Cr.568/Ln.1 138; Cr.1094)
Northern IntegratedAgricultural                                                     Closed
Development Project (Cr.568/Ln. 1183;    Rice development
Cr.1128)
Roads Rehabilitation and Maintenance                              1993              Closed
Project (CR.245 1-SL)               Transport planning and
policy development and
assistance to
communities through
NGOs in increase the
use of non-motorized
The Transport Sector Support Project    transport.                1997             On-going
(TSP)(Cr. 2895-SL)
Build-up the
coordination and
monitoring unit of the
Ministry of Trade,
Industry and Transport;
Establish an
autonomous Road
Transport Authority;
Invest in a program of
road maintenance to
trunk roads, feeder
roads and city streets.



12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in Project Cycle                      Date Planned       Date actual/atest estimate
Identification
Preparation
Appraisal                                   June 1983           June 1982
Negotiations
Letter of Development Policy
Board Presentation and Approval             June 1984           June 1984
Signing                                     June 1984          June 1984
Effectiveness                               December 1984
Suspension                                  May 1987
Redesign and Credit Amendment               April 1993         April 1993
Restructuring                               June 1998          June 1998
Credit Closing                              December 1987      June 1999
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS
-___________________          nFY85        FY86         FY87        FY88        FY89
Appraisal estimate        |      -          8,830       i4,520      19,910      21,510
Revised                        2,740        4,150        6,710       6,730       6,750
Actual                         2,544        4,049        6,259       7,109       7,130
Actual as a % of revised         -           96           93          106         106
Date of last Disbursement
FY90         FY91        FY92         FY93        FY94
Appraisal estimate               -            -            -           -           -
Revised                        6,770        6,770        6,770       9,220       9,460
Actual                         7,150        7,175        7,175       7,175       10,437
Actual as a % of revised        106          106          106         78          110
Date of last Disbursement    I          II_   _I 
____________________           FY95         FY96         FY97        FY98        FY99         FYOO
Appraisal estimate
Revised                        10,560       12,970      21,470      21,470       21,470      21,470
Actual                         10,780       12,335      15,588       15,588      21,557      23,379
Actual as a % of revised        102          95           73          73          100         109
Date of last Disbursement    .



13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
NO TICATORS WERE SPECIED IN THE SAR
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
No INDICATORS WERE SPECIFIED IN THE SAR
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study             Purpose as at appraisa/redefined             Status       Impact of Study
Rice Trade and Price Policy    *  to examine the impact of the liberalized  Completed   Use an input for food
trade policy on producer incentives,                  policy analysis.
*  assess its economic costs and benefits; and
*  present various policy options to
government for attaining food security
while maximizing net financial returns to
the farmer and net economic benefit to the
country.
Inland Swamp Development   *  to review the IVs development in all parts    Completed   Used in Environmental
of the country, in a bid to develop an overall        and food policy
strategy for sustainable cultivation of this          analyses
agro-ecology;
*  to determine the physical, agronomic and
socio-economic suitability of these swamps. I



14
TABLE 8: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. By Component
(US$ Millions)
__________________                 _ ~Item  Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest Estimate
Institutional Support                               4.719             NA
Sectoral Support                                   10.683             NA
Program Support                                     6.916             NA
Project Preparation Facility                        0.850             NA
Total Base Cost                                    23.168             NA
Physical Contingencies                              0.945             NA
Price Contingencies                                 4.791             NA
Total Project Cost                                 28.904            30.000
B. Project Financing
(US$ Millions)
Source                 Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
IDA                              20.3                               23.4
IFAD                              5.1                               6.2
GOSL                              1.1                               0.4
Beneficiaries                     0.8
Total                            27.3                               30.0
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
Due to the numerous disruptions in project implementation, the prolonged civil war
which affected the collection of reliable sector data, and the inability to mount a final
supervision mission, an end-of-project economic analyses could not be undertaken to
compared sector performance with targets established at project redesign in 1993. The
ICR itself was undertaken as a desk study due to these reasons.



15
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
|                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Original   Revised Fulflill 
Agreement: CREDIT      Covenant       Covenant       Fulfill        Date                                         Description ofI
Class(s)      Status         Date                                                         Covenantl
4.01 (b)            02       Complied with                               Provide adequate budget for recurrent expenses of DAF and SLRA quarterly in advance.
4.02 (b)            10       Complied with                               Prepare annual work programs, due January 31 each year.
4.02 (b)            02       Complied with                               Submit budget proposals and procurement schedules for next calendar year, due March 31 each
year.
4.04 (a)            02       Complied with                               Open and maintain a Project Account.
4.05 (a)            10       Complied with                               SLRA to conclude an agreement with ILO for labor-intensive road rehabilitation.
4.05 (b)            10       Complied with                              BSL to provide TA and training to Rural Banks
4.07 (b)            09       Complied with                               DAF and SLRA to maintain adequate physical and financial records of project activities.
4.07 (d)            09       Complied with                              IDA/DAF to access annual progress of project, due March 31 each year.
4.07 (d)            09       Complied with   09/01/1994                  IDA/DAF to carry out Mid Term Review.
4.07 (e)            09      Not yet due                                  DAF to submit Project Completion Report, due no later than 6 months after closing date.
Annex 1, Schl,3 (d)         12      Complied with                               Adjust fertilizer subsidy in line with Sch 5 of DCA, due February 15 each year.
Annex 5 Sch 5,2             12       Complied with   04/30/1993    07/31/1996    Complete Rice Price and Trade Policy Study
Annex 5 Sch 5,2             12      Expected soon    10/30/1993    06/30/1997    Review findings of study with IDA/FAD and implement.
Annex 5 Sch 5, Part 1,4     12       Expected soon    06/30/1993   05/31/1997    Finish Action Plan for divestiture and privatization of DAF oil palm plantations and mills.
Annex 5 Sch 5, Part 11, 3 (a)  12    Complied with   09/30/1993                 NARC to submit proposals for review of National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP).
Annex 5 Sch 5, Part II,3 (b)  12     Complied with   01/31/1994    12/31/1996    NARC to submit revised Plan.
Annex 5 Sch 5, Part I, 4 (c)  12     Complied with   07/31/1993    03/31/1996    Submit DAF manpower assessment report
Annex 5 Sch 5, Part III, 6 (a)  9    Complied with                               DAF to maintain r cords of project input and agro-processing unit sales.
Covenant Class
01    Accounts/audit
02    Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
03    Flow and utilization of Project funds
04    Counterpart funding
05    Management aspects of the Project or of its executing agency
06    Environmental covenants
07    Involuntary resettlement
08    Indigenous people
09    Monitoring, review and reporting
10    Implementation
11    Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
12    Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action
13    Other



16
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS
Statement number and title                              Describe and comment on lack of compliance
All relevant manual statements were adhered to
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTSi
l_____ _  Planned              Revised                     Actual
Stage of project cycle       Weeks   US$'000          Weeks       US$'000       Weeks       US$'000
Preparation to Appraisal
Appraisal
From Appraisal to Board
Supervision                                                                      274.9        735.3
Completion                                                                        5.4          37.3
TOTAL                                                                            280.3        772.6
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS2
Stage of project cycle     Month    Number    Days in   Specialized staff          Performance            Types of
I         of         field          skills              rating            problems
Year    persons                    represented
Through appraisal
Board approval through
effectiveness
Supervision 1                  9/91           1          13      ENGINEER
Supervision 2                  5/93           1          9       ENGINEER           2          2
Supervision 3                  9/93          2            7      TRANSPT. ENGS   1             2
Supervision 4                  3/96          2           10      AE,AS              S          U
Supervision 5                  11/97         3           10      AE,AE,AS
Supervision 6                  06/98          1          21      AE
Supervision 7
Supervision 8
Supervision 9
Supervision 10
Mid-term review
Supervision 12
Completion Mission
Specialized skills: AE = Agricultural Economist; AG: = Agriculturist; AS = Agricultural Services
Specialist; AR = Agricultural Research Specialist; Econ = Economist, FA = Financial Analyst; IFAD =
IFAD representative; OA = Operations Analyst; Soc = Sociologist; TA = Task Assistant, TTL = Task tearn
leader. Types of Problems: CT = Counter part funding.
I Project implementation was interrupted several times due to country circumstances as noted in the SAR. As a result supervision was
intermittent and no final completion mission was undertaken. Project implementation spanned 17 years during which there were
many changes in the responsible units and some project files are incomplete.
2 Project files are incomplete, so that it is impossible to accurately depict this



17
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURE SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
(IDA Credit 1501-SL)
(IFAD Loan 0119-SL)
TECHNICAL ANNEXES
Annex I
Page I of 4
Factors Affecting Project Implementation by Key Periods
Period                           Factor                                                                         Extent of Impact
High                                         Medium                             Low
1984-1993            December 1984:                               *   Means for GOSL to address the pressing concerns of low
ASSP became effective.                           adoption rates of basic on-farm technologies, a poor
extension service system and overall weak sector system.
May 1987
Suspension of ASSP disbursements by the     *   Led to the reversal of sectoral developments that had
Bank, because of non-payment of service dues     begun under the ASSP. Farmers no longer had access to
by GOSL to the Bank.                             the much needed imported inputs such as fertilizer, seeds
and veterinary drugs and vaccines, so that they returned
to their traditional methods of farming.
*    There was marked reduction in the agricultural
productivity, as the suspension continued.
December 1991
Rebel Invasion on the eastern boarder with  *   Initially did not have much impact on the project
Liberia.                                         activities, but after three years the project implementation
had to be suspended because the war spread to virtually
all project areas.



18
Annex I
Page 2 of 4
Period                         Factor                                                                   Extent of Impact
1984-1993 (Cont.)                                                                    High                                      Medium                           Low
April 1992
Sierra Leone restored to accrual status.  *   Prospects for resumption of project implementation    There was apprehension within the
became high, leading to preparations within the MANR. ministry that all progress made with
the international donors will be
.   The NPRC showed intentions to meet the country's   reversed with the military rule.
Military Coup brought the NPRC to power.      obligations to the international donors
1993- 1998          April1993
ASSP was redesigned.                     .   Changes were made to the original ASSP objectives to
reflect the realities existing after almost five years of
suspension of project implementation activities, and its
consequent reversal of whatever progress had been
made.
August 1993
ASSP was launched in Freetown.                                                                *   Awareness of new project
emphasis made clear to all major
stakeholders (farmers, extension
workers, researchers and
cooperating institutions).
June 1994
Temporary suspension of project activities,    .   Another drawback in the sectoral development process.
because the civil war had limited project
activities to only a small part of operational
areas.
June 1996                                *   Another drawback in the project implementation
Suspension of project activities by the Bank,  process.
due to non-compliance with audit requirements.
March 1995
Civilian government came to power.       .   The NPRC government had already reactivated the
implementation of the ASSP. The return to civilian rule,
however, assured the continuation of project activities.
Annex I



19
Page 3 of 4
Period                         Factor                                                                   Extent of Impact
High                                      Medium                       Low
1993 - 1998 (cont.)   April 1996
A program for resettlement, reconstruction and .   Some proceeds of Credit reallocated in support of the post-
rehabilitation was developed.                 conflict emergency recovery program.
November 1996
Peace Accord signed between the rebels and the Hopes of resuming normal activities in the country and, therefore,
GOSL.                                    resumption of ASSP activities increased.
May 1997
Military coup overthrew the civilian     *   Major destruction of project property, causing a cessation of
government and brought the AFRC to power.     project activities all over the country.
June 1997
Across-the-board suspension of all Bank
activities in Sierra Leone in reaction to the  a   Project activities officially suspended, again contributing to a
military takeover.                            reversal of the sectoral development process.
1998-1999           February 1998
Civilian government restored to power.   *   Hopes restored for the lifting of the suspension of ASSP
implementation by the Bank.
May1998
Post Crisis Agricultural Sector Assessment    .   Agreement reached to reallocate funds to provide support for the
Mission led by the Country Director held      returning farm families, and to support efforts leading to
discussions with the GOSL.                    reactivation of rural economic activities.
June 1998                                .   Funds approved for emergency needs only.
ASSP restructured for the last time.
January 1999                             *   Heavy damage to MAFE property, causing a complete
Rebels entered Freetown.                      suspension of all project activities.
March 1999                               .   Preparations made for the orderly closure of the project.
Pre-closure Review Mission between GOSL         . Priority procurement activities undertaken.
and the bank held in Abidjan
Annex I
Page 4 of 4



20
Period                        Factor                                                                    Extent of Impact
High                                      Medium                       Low
June 1999                                *   The ASSP could not use up all the Credit, as a result of the
Project closed                                numerous disruptions to the implementation process.
Consequently, some of the objectives could not be achieved
fully.



21
Indicators of Achievement of Project Objectives per Key Periods
Annex 2
Page I of 3
Original ASSP                                     Redesigned ASSP                             Restructured ASSP
Key Objective                                  (1984-1993)3                                        (1993-1998)4                                 (1998-1999)5
Sectoral Institutional and Policy   *   MANR was created out of two separate sector ministries  .   MAFE was restructured with the establishment of  *   Critically needed equipment and
Reforms                                  (MAF & MNR).                                           seven regional offices.                            assets destroyed during the coups
*   Creation of six agricultural regions for the country and    .   Technical and Administrative functions were  were replaced at MANR.
the appointment of CROs for each region.               separated to strengthen decentralized decision
.   IDA-funded IAPDs were integrated into the MANR          making.
under the control of the appropriate CROs.        .   Fertilizer subsidy completely removed in
*   The privatization of the Daru Oil Palm Mill with the    February 1996
take over by the National Oil Palm Company.       *   The Interministerial Committee on Agricultural
.   Identified tractors were repaired and sold to farmers.  Pricing renamed the Committee of Agricultural
*   National Agriculture Research Coordination Council      Producer Initiatives to reflect the economic and
(NACRR) established.                                   institutional circumstances of a liberalized
.   National Extension Council (NEC) was established.       exchange rate and trade regime.
.   Fertilizer subsidy removal started, albeit very slowly.  .   Staff numbers reduced from 8000 in 1991 to
*   Formalization of the Interministerial Commission on     4000 in 1996.
Agricultural Pricing was accomplished.
*   Efforts to reduce staff numbers started.
Technology Transfer                  *   The Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR) created  *   Both the IAR and RRS were strengthened, which   *   The relocation of operations of IAR
after the USAID-funded ACRE project closed.            led to more on-station agronomic trials as well as  to Freetown led to the introduction
*   Agricultural research and extension strengthened        on-farm trials. The result of these activities    and subsequent spread of improved
through the creation of NARCC and NEC.                 accentuated the spread of improved planting       root and tuber planting material in
*   Numerous on-farm trails of improved technology          material and good husbandry.                     the Westem Area.
packages (seeds, planting material, and farming   .   The National Extension Coordinator was finally
practices) were carried out on farmers fields with joint  located in the office of the of the DG to
activities by extension workers and farmers. This      coordinate the transfer of improved technology
process led to the adoption and spread of improved     packages, through the extension service.
seeds, planting material and good husbandry all over the
country.
3Implementation of the project was suspended between April 1987 to December 1993 due to non payment of Bank arrears by GOSL.
4 Implementation of the project was suspended between April 1995 to December 1997 due to (i) the spread of the civil war to most of the areas of operation for the project; and (ii) the overthrow ofthe
democratically elected government.
5 This is the Emergency Period for post



22
Annex 2
Page 2 of 3
Original ASSP                                     Redesigned ASSP                             Restructured ASSP
Key Objective                                  (1984-1993)                                          (1993-1998)                                 (1998-1999)
Farm Inputs and Post-Harvest                                                                .   Fertilizer, chemicals, seeds, planting materials,  *   More than 350,000 retuming farn
Technology                                                                                       tools and implements, veterinary drugs and       families benefited from seeds and,
None                                vaccines were all imported.                       planting materials and small
*   Agro-processing equipment was made available      implements.
to over 40 farmers' associations.
a   Agreement was reached with IDA on
methodology for charges and capitalization of
agro-processing equipment given out to farm
._______________. ______________.______                                                    fam ilies.                                   _____________________________________ai i s
Feeder Roads                                                                                .   As at May 25 1997, 381 km of feeder roads (or
72 percent of the what was specified in the
Action Plan) was constructed.
*   All six swamp crossings (a total of 8.5 km)
specified in the Action Plan were constructed.
None                           *   Rehabilitation of specified streets in Freetown               None
was almost completed at the time of the coup in
May 1997.
*   SLRAIGOSL started negotiations for passing on
feeder road construction activities to the private
sector.
Research and Extension Linkages     *   Strengthened agricultural research and extension    .   Financed activities organized by NARCC to
linkages through the creation of NARCC and NEC.        coordinate research and obtain feed back from
farmers using technology promoted by
agricultural extension services.                            None
.   The establishment of the seven regional offices
improved research and extension linkages.
*   Lessons from the T & V System experiment led
to the Unified Extension System now adopted by
_________________________________________________________                MAFE.                                        _______________



23
Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
Original ASSP                                   Redesigned ASSP                           Restructured ASSP
Key Objective                                    (1984-1993)                                       (1993-1998)                                (1998-1999)
Rural Banks                              .   Bank of Sierra Leone established 8 rural banks (RBs),    *   Two new RBs were opened to substitute for
though two were closed as a result of disturbances along  the two located in the troubled area.                None
the Liberian border.                              *   Logistical and technical support were
provided to the all the RBs.
Coordination of ASSP                                                                             *   A Coordinating Unit was established in   *   Funds provided administrative and
None                                MANR in the office of the Director           financial support to MAFE for the
General.                                     coordination of emergency activities.



24
APPENDICES
A. AIDE MEMOIRE IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION MISSION
Country circumstances did not permit a final supervision mission nor pre-appraisal of the
operation 'sfinancial and economic impact. This ICR was therefore prepared as a Desk Review
based on records available in the project files.
B. BORROWER'S COMMENTS
No comments were receivedfrom the Borrower.



25
C.: BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION
SCANNED
GOVERNMENT OF SIERRA LEONE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY AND MARINE RESOURCES
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT 1501 SL - END OF PROJECT REPORT
FREETOWN
JULY 31ST 1999



TABLE OF CONTENTS
PAGE
BACKGROUND ..............................................1I
INTRODUCTION ...........2
OBJECTIVE ..............................................3
PROJECT LOCATION AND COVERAGE ..........................                                                              .  3
COMPONENTS ...............................................3
COST AND FUNDING ...............................................6
PROJECT EXECUTION ...............................................6
ACCOMPLISHMENTS ...............................................9
CONSTRAINTS ..............................................                                                                   32
PROJECT IMPACT ..............................................                                                               33
LESSONS ..............................................                                                                       34
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS ....................................... 35
ANNEXES
Anr.ex I    List of Agricultural Project/Schemes
Ar,nex 11    List of NGOs in Agriculture Sector
Annex III   Map of Sierra  Leone showing Agricultural Regions
Annex IV   MAFE Proposed Organogramme
Annex V   Summary of Registered Farmers Associations
Annex VI   Tree Crops Nursery Establishment



BACKGROUND
Agnculture Sector Support Project (ASSP) was preceded by several Rural Development and Integrated
Agricultural Development Projects (IADP'S) covenng nearly the whole of Sierra Leone. (See annex 1). The
thrust of IADPs was on the integration of farmers support services such as farm tools, input supply, market
facilities, feeder roads. village wells and extension.
Integrated Agricultural Development Projects maintained organisation and management arrangements quite
distinct from the Public Service. It was intended that the Projects would ensure more focussed, coordinated.
and efficient delivery of rural services at the community level than existing Govemment bureaucracies.
The IADP'S achieved some success in areas of:
-  Quality manpower recruitment and training especially at sub-professional and professional levels
*  Development of three crops. and inland valley swamps.
*  Rural Credit and infrastructures, and
  Extension delivery
Cnticisms levied against the Projects include -
*  With ambitious targets IADPS. tended to spread thinly over a wide area often reaching a small
percentage of the farming population.
*  The Projects weakened the parent Ministry of Agriculture by drawing on the most qualified and
experenced Govemment staff through attractive incentive package.
*  Parallel Project management with the Public Service led to duplication of efforts, waste of scarce
resources. and conflicts all of which had serious implications for govemment.
*  The integration aspect of the Projects remained diffused and overall impact illusive.
Against this background Govemment of Sierra Leone agreed with major Donors that subsequent investments
in the Agrculture Sector must ensure effective integration. and proper coordination of isolated foreign
supported activities. and local efforts within clearly defined framework covering policy, institution, technology
transfer and incentves. The Agrculture Sector Support Projects was conceived inthis context with Word
Bank providing major funding supported by Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and
Govemment of Sierra Leone.



2
INTRODUCTION
The Agriculture Sector Support Project was formulated to integrate donor funded Projects in the
Ministry of Agriculture, and to promote effective coordination within the Sector. Restructuring and
strengthening of the Ministry along with relevant sector institutions remained the center-piece of the
Project. Absorption of projects and consolidation of previous achievements were gradual with shift
of emphasis to direct farmer and institutional support during the rebel war.
ASSP was designed for four years, but in effect, it had intermittent life spans running from 1984-
1999. Effective project implementation was during the periods 1984-1987, 1993-1997, and 1998 -
1999 due to debt service obligations, problems with local counterpart funding, military coups, and
protracted rebel war.
The suspension of funding in 1987 brought to a hall project activities. In 1993, operations resumed
following critical reviews in workshops negotiations with World Bank and IFAD to reach agreement
on major. changes in the design of the project. While still within the broad framework of the original
ASSP, the redesigned project (ASSP II) focussed on enhancing increase in agricultural production
by promoting the enabling environment, and assisting farmers to produce more. It was limited to
the utilization of the undisbursed balance of the original ASSP I. In this regard, its broad objectives
were more in areas of eliminating key institutional constraints to agricultural development and
laying the foundation for free market econoniy in the Sierra Leone Agricultural Sector.
Phase I (1984-1987) of the project coincided with Government adoption of the Structral
Adjustment Programme which provided basic policy framework. Focus was on institutional reforms,
capacity building, Projects Integration, follow up programmes and production incentives. It was
designed to meet the immediate agricultural development goal of the country, while at the same
time laying the foundation for short-long term agricultural development strategies.
In ASSP II design (1993), there was some change in focus. While keeping within the broad
objectives of ASSP I, the redesigned project focussed more on the immediate needs of the farming
population. Emphasis shifted to servicing farmers in displaced camps, and in safe areas of the
country, mainly in the form of Emergency Support essentially in Food Production,
The 25th May Coup of 1997 significanily disrupted the Project. Funds were suspended during the
military interregnunm, and the project and farmers subsisted on residual funds, and previous
harvests respectively until early 1998. The project again became a major source of Emergency
Relief in supporting farmers when funding resumed in 1998 up to the time the rebels invaded
Freetown on January 6, 1999 and greater part of the North and Eastern pats of the courjtry.



In eady March, 1999 emergency support continued, with the lure in rebel activities and prospects for peace.
until final termination of the Project on 301Q June, 1999.
In general. smooth project implementation was hampered by the rebel war. Nonetheless, ASSP has been a
major source of support to farmers. and the Ministry of Agriculture.
OBJECTIVE
ASSP was designed to increase food and agrcultural production through appropriate policy measures.
institutional reforms, and direct support to the sector to stop the economy from declining further and improve
the country's balance of payment.
Specific objectives include:-
I      Review of existing govemment policies, and cautious adoption of measures that are appropnate to
the Agnculture Sector.
II.    Restructurng and strengthening of Ministry of Agriculture and integration of Projects within the new
Ministry's structure enhancing the policy formulation, planning, and management capacity of the
Ministry
III    Significant reduction in the number of Daily Wage workers.
IV     The promotion of food and cash crops production
5v     Provision of foreign exchange to finance key farm inputs
V 1.    Pnvatisation of Govemment Commercial schemes like Oil palm estates, Farm machinery. and
equipments.
VII.    The promotion of Farmers Associations through effective mobilisation, organisation, and training.
'ViIl    Promoting and collaborating with Non-Govemmental Organisations (NGO's)
PROJECT LOCATION AND COVERAGE
The Project was for the entire country with the main Headquarters located in the Ministry of Agriculture in
Freetown. and Regional Headquarters located in the seven Agricultural Regions.
COMPONENTS
Project objectives were to be achieved through a number of components.



4
1. POLICY: Relates to seres of measures, and concrete decisions that were to be taken during and after
the life span of the Project. They include the following:-
i)     Phasing out subsidies on inputs. especially Fertilizers
ii)    Trade Liberalisation
iii)   Decentralization of decision making, and Development activities.
IV)    Pnvatisation of Oil Palm and Farm mechanisation schemes
v)     Pnvate sector promotion through appropnate Investment Code, Incentives, and Farmers
participation.
vi)    Promotion of Gender Balance, and Non Govemmental Organisations.
2 RESTRUCTURING AND STRENGTHENING OF KEY SECTOR INSTITUTIONS AND
ABSORPTION OF DONOR FUNDED PROJECTSIPROGRAMME
This component was considered fundamental to investments in the Agrculture Sector.  It called for
Restructuring and strengthening of MAFE together with its Research and Training Establishments through
surveys. Reviews. workshops, concrete policy Decisions, and support. Similar consideration was given to
Farmers Associations, Non Govemmental Organisations. and Rural Banks. The process is on-going.
Project absorption was gradual. given the slow process of Restructurng and Institutional developmeni, and
vared donor requirements all of which resulted in Co-Management in extreme circumstances as in European
Union. and German Funded Projects.
3. RESEARCH, EXTENSION AND TRAINING:
Involved the refinement of existing technologies. development and dissemination of demand dnven extension
messages. and training of MAFE personnel and farmers. The emphasis was on Field Trials - cum
aemonstrations. In service Training. Field Days, and farmers Ralleys. It covered Crops, Forestry, Livestock.
Fishenes. and Land and Water Development.
The need for effective coordination and Research - Extension - Farmer linkage became quite obvious In
this regard. a National Agrcultural Research coordinating Council (NARCC) was formed, and office of
National extension Coordinator created in MAFE Headquarters. The former was to articulate and coordinate
Research policies and programmes. and the latter to promote the formulation and nation-wide adoption of
unified Agncultural Extension system.  This component also envisaged the, rehabilitation of selected
Research and Training infrastructures and the provision of substantial logistics support.



4 FARM TOOLS AND INPUTS SUPPORT
in addition to consolidating the achievement of IADP's . provision was made for the expansion of Tree Crops
i Coffee. Cocoa. Oil palm. Fruit trees). and food production with emphasis on rice, the staple food, roots and
tuoers. and vegetables. Planting materials. tools. fertilizers, small amount of pesticides (for integrated pest
management) were provided under this category.
5. FEEDER ROADS
The Prolect made provision for the rehabilitation of 530 Km of Feeder roads in areas of high agrcultural
potential in Port Loko. Kambia. Bombali. Tonkolili. and Koinadugu Districts.  Intemational Labour
Organisation d1LO) implemented this component under the supervision of Sierra Leone Roads Authority
e SLRA) MAFE played active part in the selection of the roads. but the final choice was largely influenced by
the rebel war which caused some shift in locations to Moyamba Distnct. and Westem Area.
6. STUDIES AND CONSULTANCIES
A number of studies were undertaken and consultancies funded under the Project. These include-
i)     Inland Valley Swamp Development study by Sierra Agrcultural services (SAS)
II)    Agro-Processing Study by Atlanta Consult
iii)   Rice Policy study - Dunstan Spencer Associates
IV     Review of Unified Agncultural Extension system for Sierra Leone by Dr. Ray P A. Unama -
Pnvate Consultant
v)     Formulation of Rural Sector Support Project (RSSP) - by gFoup of Intemational and
National Consultants.
vI)    Surveys of Farmers Associations  - APEGS
7. TECHNICAL ASSISTANTS
The Project provided for several long term intemationally recruited Technical Assistants ranging from
ProjectChief Technical Coordinator to Financial Controller/Financial Management Specialist. However.
following intensive negotiations. the number was drastically reduced. This component was subsequently
adjusted to accommodate competent National staff on Govemment salaries. and short term consultancies.
Savings made by use of Nationals complemented Govemment counterpart contribution.



h
COST AND FUNDING
ASSP was estimated to cost 25.400.000.00 SDR. The undersigned balance after the 1987 suspension
amounted to 16.660.546.80 SDR as specified below:
WORLD BANK                    IFAD           GOSL           TOTAL
13.883.786.00            2.776,.757.80        -           16,660.546.80
As indicated above. World Bank was to provide the bulk of the funds. At the termination of the Project on
June 30. 1999 the Bank disbursed/committed 17.985,325.45 SDR. and IFAD 5.100.000.00 SDR. A total of
".314.674.55 SDR of undisbursed pre-committed amount was cancelled. Govemment contrbution to the
Project other than emolument and physical facilities was small and irregular due to detenorabng economic
situation. It amounted to only 809.0 Million Leones or 448,669.24 US dollars.
PROJECT EXECUTION
Project execution was by Govemment of Sierra Leone in collaboration with Donors. Management was as
complex. and diverse as Projects components, and duration.
Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA) supervised ILO to implement Feeder Roads, and Bank of Sierra Leone
handled Rural Banks. The rest of the Projects was managed by MAFE. which provided overall coordination
and supervision in the offices of the Director General (DG). and Chief Regional Officers (CRO), MAFE
Divisions. Sections and Units were responsible for the formulation and implementation of their respective
programmes. and action plans.
The Steering/National Coordinating Committee. Office of the National Extension Coordinator, relevant work
groups and NGO Desk facilitated the implementation, and coordinabon of Projects as highlighted below:-
SteennQ!National coordinatinQ Committee
The Committe comprsed of DG. CRO s. Divisional and Sections Heads of MAFE, Representatives of Ministry
of Development and Economic Planning. and Heads of Feeder Roads of SLRA, and Development Finance
Department of Rural Bank of Bank of Sierra Leone. The Task of the Committee was to review work
programme:budget. and progress and guide management teams on priorities, strategies, and overall
implementation.



it National Extension Coordination Section
This section provided the necessary guidelines. and technical back - stopping for the National Extension
Programmes. Specifically. it collaborated with the CRO's and various MAFE Divisions, to develop annual
work programmes. and document the performance. and achievements of the National Extension
Programmes
Intemationally recruited extension specialist assisted MAFE to set up the section. Headed by National
Extension Coordinator. the Section is composed of Integrated Units of Extension and Subject Matter
Specialists. Staff Development and Training. Gender and Nutrition. and Agricultural Communications. The
National Documentation Center also forms part of the Section which worked closely with National and
Regional Working Groups in programme execution.
iii, National Extension Working Group (NEWG)
A 52 member NEWG was set up to provide guidance. and direction for the National Extension Programme.
Membership compnsed of NEC tChairman). CRO's. Subject Matter Specialists. MAFE Divisional Heads.
Directors of Institute of Agncultural Research N'jala and Rice Research Station. Rokupr, NGO's and Farmers
Associates Representatives. The groups was specifically to help plan and implement the National Extensian
Programme.
iv. Regional Extenstion Working Group (REWG)
REWG compnsed of CROs (Chairman). Block Extension Supervisors (BES). Subject Matter
Specialist'Regional Officer of relevant Divisions. Regional training Officers and representatives of the
Researcn Institutes. Farmers Associations. and NGO's. The task of REWG was to ensure successful
technology transfer and high adoption rate through participatory programme planning/management meetings.
and recommendations on ways of improving performance.
v Non Govemmental Organisation (NGO) Desk
An NGO Desk Officer was designated in MAFE Headquarter to collaborate with NGO's. Farmers
Associations and Donor Agencies in field programmes planning and implementation. The Desk Officer and
CRO's organised several Inter- Agency meetings in Freetown and Regions to review work programmes. and
field reports. In this way the Desk was able to track the activities and collate relevant information/data on the
work of the cooperating partners. Annex 11 provides list of NGO's in Agriculture the Desk collaborated with
and monitored.



vi Financial ManaQement Section
Accounts. Procurement Unit. and Stores formed this Section responsible for preparation of Budget and
overall Financial Management and control of the Project. Manned by a Financial Controller/Financial
Management Specialist. Senior Project Accountant. Chief of Procurement. Head of Stores etc., The Section
worked closely with Ministry of Finance and the donors in the disbursement of Project Funds. It kept
Inventory of all Project assets. and prepared final books of Accounts for Audit purposes. The Project was
externally audited by Panell Kerr Foster Auditing Firm.
Project Monitonnq
The Project was monitored at the field level by the MAFE Monitonng and Evaluation staff in the Regions.
There was also Joint Monitorng. and supervision by MAFE Headquarters Officials often headed by the
Minister of Agnculture. World Bank likewise sent regular supervision Missions sometimes joined by IFAD
during which serous discussion were held. and important decisions on Project implementation taken.



9
ACCOMPLISHMENTS
At termination of the project, Key Policy decisions have been taken, and concrete results obtained. These
accomplishments were made in the face of recurring disbursement suspensions, and protracted Rebel War.
A. POLICY MEASURES
Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) adopted by Govemment provided macro-economic
framework within which policies specific to Agriculture Sector were pursued:
(I) Fiscal, Monetarv, Exchange Rate Regims
SAP brought about better Fiscal, Monetary and Exchange Rate Regim Management
through the following strategies and programmes:
(a)  The Rights Accumulation Programme (RAP)
(b)  Reconstruction, Import Credit (RIC)
    Public Sector Support Programme (PSSP)
(d)  Social Action, and Poverty Alleviation (SAPA) Loan
(e)   Structural Adjustment Facility (SAF)
(f)   Structural Adjustment Credit (SAC)
(g)  Sector Import Programme (SIP)
(h)  Agriculture Sector Support Project (ASSP)
The various interventions were by IMF (a,e), World Bank (b,c,h,f), ADB (d), and EU (g). Discemible results
were obtained in Public  Sector Expenditure Management and Control with significant cut backs on
Government spending. This was particularly brought about by Government freeze on- new recruitments,
reduction in excess wage, bills, and divestiture of state owned enterprises.
Donor funds provided additional resources. Deregulation enabled Commercial Banks to fix attractive
interest rates to encourage borrowing, and investments. By 1996, inflation had declined sharply, but the
gains could not be sustained due to escalation of the rebel war and the May 25 coup in 1997.
II. Trade Liberalizaion
Removal of major restrictions and monopoly on trade was seen by Govemment as major step
forward in promoting indigenous, and foreign private businesses. The following steps were
taken:



10
(a) Govemment declared Sierra Leone as a Free Market Economy.
(b) Sierra Leone joined the World Trade organization (WTO).
i Appropriate Investment Code was formulated and adopted with particular
reference to Tax Concessions/Incentives, and repatriation of funds by Foreign
Investors.
(d) Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board (SLPMB) monopoly on produce
marketing was terminated to promote private sector participation in produce
business.
(e) Subsidies on Farm Inputs (eg, fertilizers, planting materials), and services
(eg. mechanization) were phased out to encourage private Sector Investments
in such ventures.
Ill. Divestiture
Several state-owned enterprises were listed for divestiture, or serious restructuring. In the
Agriculture Sector; the list included the following:-
(a) Gambia/Mattru, and Daru Oil Palm Estates: Earlier Joint Venture arrangement
with Greenfield Agricultural and Industrial Development Co-oporation (GAIDCORP),
which provided management did not go far enough. The company formed-National Oil
Palm Company (NOPC), and the estates reverted to Government in terrible shape. A
comprehensive divestiture blue print is yet to be developed and carried through.
(b) MAFE Farm Mechanization Scheme: Since the mid eighties, MAFE has been taking
definite strides to divest, itself from Farm mechanization services with little success.
MAFE has put forward a number of proposals, and viable private investors are yet
to take the challenge. Meanwhile, reputable farmers associations were provided
with old tractors; workshop facilities, and repair services by the Ministry to
undertake their own mechanization services. In the same way, ASSP backstopped
farmers in the North/West and Northem Regions who were provided with Chinese
made power tillers on pilot basis to till their lands. This arrangement is being
explored further as a viable divestiture option.
(c)   Maqbass Sugar Complex: Proposal to privatize Magbass Sugar Complex
developed and run by the Chinese has been put forward. The Chinese



11
expressed interest in the proposal but finalization rests with improvement in
the security situation.
(d) Newton Livestock Station: The initial divestiture arrangement with a Company
called LIAT collapsed with serious deterioration in infrastructures and physical
facilities. The station was subsequently face lifted with bright prospects for
privatization, which has been mainly hampered by the war.
IV. Private SectorDevelopment and Promotion: Recognizing the vital role
private sector can play in divestiture, and economic growth, government
embarked on series of measures aimed at development, and promotion of the
sector. These were embodied in Public Sector Reforms with emphasis on
Economic, Legal, Regulalory and Governance Framework. A set of packages
designed to create the enabling environment for private investments is
highlighted in (I) above.
On its part, MAFE considered the support to Farmers Associations and Small-Medium Scale Agri-Business
as vital grass-roots options. In this regard, tremendous efforts were directed under ASSP towards the
reorganization, and strengthening of Farmers Associations. Selected Associations, and Grass-Roots Agri,
Business were encouraged to participate in input supply, and marketing. In early 1997 MAFE initiateO. a
programme of issuing fertilizers to a number of private business concerns on Concessional Terms for sale
to farmers and repayment afterwards once such arrangement was guaranteed by reputable Financial
Institution. This mechanism was intended to transfer input marketing which is not attractive at the moment to
the Private sector. The programme was on course until it was later disrupted by,the May 25 Coup, and
escalation of the war. The North Central Agricultural Project (NCAP) funded by IFAD likewise promoted the
formation of Farmers Service Company called FARMCO which is active in input supply, and output
marketing in its areas of operation.
(V)   Food Secunty:
Government policy on Food Security was articulated in the position paper
presented in Rome during the 1996 World Food Summit. The Policy, among
others, is embodied in the "Rome Declaration" adopted by all FAO Member
countries at the Summit.



12
(VI)   Natural Resources, and the Environment:
Sustained Management and use of Natural Resources and the Environment is on
top of Government Agenda in promoting growth. In this regard, Environment has
been accorded Ministerial Portfolio Status associated first with Lands and
Housing; then, Transport and Communications; and now Agriculture and Forestry.
A Land Use Committee has been fcrmed to facilitate the formulation and
implementation of appropriate Environmental Policies, Strategies, and
Programmes. An Environmental Act is already before Parliament for Ratification.
B.  RESTRUCTURING AND STRENGTHENING OF MAFE. AND FARMERS ASSOCIATIONS
Based on many surveys, studies, and workshops, proposals were put forward for
Restructuring, and strengthening of MAFE, and Farmers Associations. These two Key
Agriculture Sector Institutions have undergone major transformations as highlighted below,
but refinements are required:
As a first step, the country was divided into seven Agricultural Regions (Annex ll) for
effective supervision, better coordination, and optimization of agricultural potentials specific to
each region.
(i) MAF and MNR merged in 1984 to form MANR, but both were separated afterwards
when a separate Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Resources was created in 1992.
Environment was added to Agriculture in 1995 to broaden its mandate.
Meanwhile, IADPs and other projects have been either integrated into the Ministry,
Co-managed, or phased out.
(ii) Given these changes, the dynamics of Ministry Organogramme is quite
fascinaling. Annex IV gives the most up-to-date version, which is yet to be
finalized. Added to the original structure are three support Divisions (LWDD,
PEMSD, Environment), IAR, Njala; NARCC; NEC; CROs; Financial Management
section; and Office of Director General as Professional Head. Separate
organogramme for each and Job Descriptions have been prepared, and Key
Personnel appointed to their respective positions.
Operational Manual for the new MAFE organogramme is being developed
(iv)  Essential project personnel mostly in professional cadre were absorbed, and



13
remain part of MAFE core staff.
(v)  The 1986 Manpower Survey report revealed MAFE Manpower strength of 10,564
workers mostly in the daily wage category. Over the years, this number has been
phased out, and the figure stands at 3,672 as of June 30, 1999.
(vi)  While streamlining the structure, and functions of the Ministry, effective manpower
Appraisal and Training Programmes were vigorously pursued, details of which are
contained in the relevant sections of this Report.
(vii)  In the past, lack of logistics hampered the operations of the Ministry, and rendered
it ineffective. In order to address this problem, ASSP provided adequate mobility
at all levels and Equipments and Supplies throughout the life of the project.
A major deterrant, however, was the Rebel war, and Military Coups which caused
rnassive looting of Project Properties. Fortunately, the arrival of the last
consignment of 43 vehicles, 140 motor cycles, office and other equipments
coincided with relative peace and stability in the country. These items are in safe
custody in MAFE ware houses awaiting allocation when the need arises.
(viii)  F:armers Associations
Restructuring, and support was not limited to MAFE alone, but extended to
Farmers Associations, and Groups. Prior to ASSP implementation, there was
serious proliferation of Farmers Associations/Groups all over the country. Their
formation or creation was mostly Donor/project driven with only few cases of local
initiatives. The National Farmers Association of Sierra Leone (NAFSL) was also
said to coordinate a large number of small associations of its own. In order to
assess the situation, and mobilize, organize, and support farmers more effectively
NAFSL was provided with necessary support in 1994 to conduct surveys of
Farmers Associations in the country. This was followed by another survey in
early 1997 by a local Consultant.
These efforts were consolidated by joint MAFE/NAFSL Action through:
(a) Country-Wide surveys, and registration of Farmers Associations
(b) Sensization and Training Workshops



14
 Democratic elections of Chiefdoms and District Executives
(d) National Workshop on Expectations and roles, and stakeholders
Concensus on Operational Guide
Annex V gives summary of Registered Farmers Associations across the country. It is expected that
both the Regional, and National Executive Elections will be conducted before the end of the year.
Meanwhile, MAFE is already supporting the new Executives in the field of training, and programme
planning. It is also planned to support the new structures with some mobility (motor cycles for District
Coordinators out of the recent ASSP consignments, and office supplies.
C.   RESEARCH, EXTENSION, TRAINING, AND TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER
As indicated earlier, a significant thrust of ASSP was on Technology Developrrent!
Refinement, and Transfer. Much emphasis was therefore laid on this aspect of the project
during the period under review. The different implementing wings, and the National Exiension
Coordinating Section in particular were strengthened to perform these functions. Apart from few
bottlenecks, reasonable progress was made, and programmes were executed as planned:
(I) Research
Agricultural research on crops is being conducted by two Institutes: the Rice
Research Station (RRS) based at Rokupr, and the Institute of Agricultural Research.
based at Njala. These Institutes have separate mandates, and are governed by the
National Agricultural Research Coordinating Council (NARCC) which is part of
MAFE. There is an Institute of Marine Biology and Oceanography (IMBO) attached
to Fourah Bay College (University of Sierra Leone) and works closelywith Ministry of
Fisheries, and Marine Resources. MAFE itself has Kpuwabu and Pendembu Tree
Crop Stations, Bambawo Forestry Research and Training Stations, and Teko and
Musaia Livestock Stations which conducted minimum In-and-Out Station Research
and Maintenance Programmes.
ASSP supported NARCC to formulate a Strategic Plan for Agricultural Research (SPAR) using
mostly local expertise. SPAR is essentially synthesized from detailed review of all research
endeavours in the country, and provides comprehensive BLUE PRINT for the establishment of
Sierra Leone Agriculture Research Institute (SLARI) by Act of Parliament, a process that is at an
advanced stage. The proposed SLARI seeks to provide better Research Policy Direction, Integrate



15
Various Boards, and ensure effective Coordination and Management of Research Programmes.
Worthy of note is the range and outcome of Adaptive Research Trials cum Demonstrating undertaken
with the support of the project:
(1) Rice Research Station - Rokupr
With its mandate on rice, Rice Research Station, Rokupr was supported under the
project to conduct On-Farm Trials/Demonstration. The purpose was to diffuse
improved technologies and promote increased yields, and income of farmers. With
advent of the war, the programme was also intended to preserve valuable germplasm.
The following activities were undertaken during the reporting period:
(i) Evaluation of improved cultural practices and yields of farmers varieties;
(ii) Demonstration and multiplication of improved rice varieties on farmers fields;
(iii) Evaluation of improved rice varieties on farmers fields;
(iv) Germplasm conservation of Rokupr materals outside the station.
Sorghum Rehabilitation Programme
ASSP supported the rescue and planting of 60 sorghum accessions from R1kupr at
Hamilton in the Western Area. These materials were harvested and distributed to
farmers in subsequent seasons for multiplication, and expansion.
Rice and Sorghum Maintenance Proqramme
Along with the rescue and rehabilitation programme, the maintenance of released and
elite varieties of rice, and sorghum were also carried out in the Westem Area. The
objective was to maintain the genetic purity and Gene Bank. Six upland and fourteen
lowland rice varieties were grown in maintenance plots in Western Area and Lungi.
For sorghum, 9 materials were maintained at Hamilton in the Western Area. Trial-Cum
demonstrations plots showed high yield potentials and good adaptation of improved rice
varieties. Under improved management, upland rice varieties out-yielded local varieties
by over 140% (2.9tonlha. vs 1 .2ton/ha.). In the lowlands, yields averages were in the
order of 3.5ton/ha for improved varieties as against 1 .7ton/ha. for local varieties (120% increase).
Farmers interviewed showed preference for improved varieties if additional inputs like fertilizers
are available to them.



16
(2)  Institute of Agricultural Research (IAR), Niala
The mandate of IAR covers Food Crops other than rice with emphasis on cassava,
sweet potato, maize, groundnut, copeas, and other vegetables. With ASSP support,
work earlier done by IAR on these crops were refined in step-wise Field Trials, and
large scale Demonstrations/Multiplication. The intention was not merely to increase
yields and farmers income but to provide farmers with adequate planting materials and
improve their livelihood and nutrition. Taken into account the short duration nature,
high yields, and consumer acceptance, these crops were considered strategic for
the war situation. Their promotion therefore brought relief and salvation to vast
majority of the country's population.
Activities undertaken include:
-    On-Farm Adaptive Research Trials-Cum Demonstration using high yielding
cultivars/clones;
Expanded crop production demonstrations in the Northern, Southern, and
Eastern Regions;
- Cassava multiplication, and production in the Western Area;
Maize, groundnut, and sweet potato multiplication and production programme in
the Western Area;
Kafu Bullom Food Production Programme;
-   Intensive vegetable production in the western Area, and provincial Headquarter
Towns;
-   Preservation of some 63 cassava and 10 sweet potato germrlasms and their
multiplication at MAFE Newton and Ogoo Farm in the Western Area.
These programmes which IAR jointly implemented with MAFE Extension Staff benefited
88,167 farmers organized into 1,148 Associations/Groups, 8,440 students in 88 schools,
and 1,075 individual farmers.
Yields increases reported from Trial Plots were in the order of three times for cassava
(6ton/ha vs 2ton/ha), three times for groundnut (3ton/ha vs lton/ha.), and twice for
vegetables 4toniha. vs 2ton/ha) over and above farmers yields.



17
(3)  Clonal Seed Gardens, Trials and Demonstrations in the Eastern Region
The Eastern Region maintains Seed Gardens of improved coffee, and cocoa clones
in Kpuwabu, and Pendembu Tree Crops Stations. These stations provide farmers in
different parts of the country with planting materials. At the early stage of ASSP,
Field Trials conducted in these stations mainly on cultural practices like
Brushing, shade adjustment, pruning, and spraying were replicated on Farmers
Fields with encouraging results. Before the war broke out in 1991, farmers had
already started adopting improved cultural practices. Yield increase of 529Kg./ha vs
273Kg./ha (94%) and 757Kg.lha vs 371 Kg./ha (104%) were recorded by these
farmers over their old practice for cocoa, and coffee respectively.
Though these increases are much lower than world average, they are considered as
major break through in boosting national production, and farmers income.
(4)  Experimental Fishinq Programme
Fisheries Division of MANR (now Ministry of Fisheries and Marine Resources)
collected Fisheries Statistics in the main fish landing centres in the North-West and
Western Areas of the coast. It also conducted Fishing Experiments in selected
fishing stations in collaboration with local fishermen: Kissy Dockyard, Shenge, and
Tombo. The objectives of the programme were to:
(i)  Determine the species composition and distribution in selected artisanal
fishing grounds;
(ii)  The effectiveness of different mesh sizes in fishing gears;
(iii)  The effect of net colour on catch rates of selected fishing species;
(iv) Study the Biology of selected species.
Results:  Analysis of data suggested that:
(i)  Bottom set and drift net fishing may be a profitable venture;
(ii) The following species dominated the catch; Joe fish, sharks, sheep-head,
mackerel, sole in Tombo area;
(iii)  Catches were dominated by whiting, sheep-head, crocus, and to a lesser
extent by sole, Joe fish in Kissy Dockyard.
(iv)  The surface drifting multi-filaments net was very effective in Tombo
primarily catching pelagic to mild pelagic types which include mackerel,
Joe fish, sharks etc.;



18
(v) The green bottom set with a mesh size of 103mm (4") is found to be very
effective for demersal species like the spieanids, hugnose, sheep-heads.
Whitings (spieanids) and sheephead were observed to form the
mainstay of the Kissy Dockyard Experimental Fishing Station.
(vi) In Shenge, lobsters and snappers dominated the catch.
The data collected and experimental results analysed have been used to produce National Statistical
Bulletin and other useful information on Sierra Leone's Fisheries Resources,
Extension and Traininq
Several Extension approaches have been tried by different Agricultural Projects and Organisation in the
country before the inception of ASSP with each Division of MAFE also carrying out its own extension
service. Most of the approaches combined extension with commercial services such as credit, input
marketing, customer land preparation, and Agro- processing services. The different approaches surely left
farmers in a lot of confusion notwithstanding their merits.
A major task of ASSP therefore was to harmonize the different extension approaches through a
Unified System. The Unified Agricultural Extension System (UAES) was developed by a team consisting of
an external Agricultural Extension Consultant, a National Extension Coordinator, National Researdh
Coordinator, and teams of Regional and headquarters Subject Matter Spedialists, and Farming Systems
Research Teams. The main thrusts of UAES are:
(a)   To unify or harmonize the various Extension Approaches used by Divisions of
Agriculture, Forestry, Livestock, and Fisheries, NGOs and other Development
Agencies;
(b)   To ensure effective co-ordination between extension activities and relevant field
services like input supply, Agro-processing and marketing;
(c)   To make the extension worker more effective by reducing his/her work load to mainly
advisory services/ extension education;
(d)  To encourage the development of farmer's groups and associations as a vehicle for
the dissemination of production teclhnologies (group approach);
(e)   To make extension cost effective by increasing productivity and impact;
(f)   To develop a cadre of well-trained Subject Matter Specialists as backup support to
Extension staff to enhance productivity.



19
The Unified Extension System entailed the division of agricultural region into blocks for ease of extension
supervision. Each block is headed by Block Extension Supervisor (BES) who supervises Frontline Extension
Workers (FEW's). The Unified Agricultural Extension System was tested in two pilot agricultural (Northern
and Southern) regions.
The system proved to be effective and it corrected all the demerits of the previous systems. It has therefore
been accepted as the National Extension System in the entire country. An operational manual has been
developed on UAES for ease of application.
Staff Development and TraininQ Unit
The Agricultural Extension Training Unit under the ASSP 1 was re-organised and it became the Staff
Development and Training Unit. As the name implies, the unit is responsible for all training and personnel;
development matters in the Ministry.
Under the ASSP, series of training were conducted for staff of all categories and farmers:-
Saff Trainin.i:- A total of 1,089 staff participated in in-service training and workshops on extension
communication and crop production skills. The Table below gives a break down of staff training by
regions:
TRAINING  PROGRAMME                DURATION                PARTICIPANTS BY REGIONS
WR    NR      SR     ER    MAHERA    TOTAL
1.  Field Staff Sensitisation Workshop   1 day            40    30       30    30          30  160
On intensive Vegetable Production.
2.  Extension, Communication and         1 day             30    10      10    10            -  60
Production skills for Teachers of
Agriculture.
3.  Orientation Training for Trainers    2 days            44    30      20    20          10  124
4.  Training of Extension Staff on       2 days            30    30      30    30          20  140
Cassava, sweet potato and maize
cultivation                             ___
5.  Extension Staff Training on          1 day             22                    -              22
Cockerel Programme
6.  Training of Extension Staff          2 days            35    30      30    30          20  145
Involved in the Intensive Vegetable
Production Programme
7.  Extension/Farmers Training in        11 day            40    30      30    30          20  150
Production and Extension skills     ________.
8.  Extension and Forestry Staff         2 days            20      -       -     -           -  20
Training on mudstove
9.  Staff and farmers Training in Rice   3 days            25    20      20    20          10  95
Production skills
10. Training Workshop on Tree Crops      2 days           20    10       10    10            -  50
Nursery
11. Training of Forest Guards in Nursery  2 days          20    25        -      -              45
Establishment Technology_                                                      _
12. Training on the use of Computers     6 weeks          42                                    42
13. Training women for Extensiori Services    5 weeks      36   _         -                     36



20
Overseas Training:- During the reporting period, approval was given by the Bank to support one
student in U.K. to complete a PH.D Programme in Agricultural Extension.
The following courses were conducted under bilateral agreements between Sierra Leone and other
friendly countries for senior and intermediate staff.
NO.          DIVISIONIUNIT              PARTICIPANTS                        COUNTRIES
1     Agriculture                             11             Egypt, Ghana, Japan, Nigeria, U.K.
Tanzania
2     Forestry                                30              Brazil, Cameroon, Ghana, USA, South
Africa, Tanzania, Kenya, Zimbabwe
3     Livestock                                1              Egypt
4     PEMSD                                    4              Egypt
5     LWDD                                                    Egypt
6     Crop Production             1__                         Egypt
7     SDTU                                     2              Egypt
8     NADOC                                    3              Israel, India
9     Publicity                                3              Cameroon, India
10     DAF Management                          4              Ghana
11     Produce Inspection                      1              Thailand
12     Agnc. Engineering                       1              India
I   13     Certificate Training Centre             2              Thailand
Total                       64
Institutional Traininq:- The rebel attack on Njala disrupted he activities at the Certificate Training
Centre (CTC). The Centre was re-located in Freetown at the Chinese Agro-Technical Station,
Ogoo Farm. The Centre was refurbished to provide the basic essentials for teaching,.
accommodation, and practical training.
Farmers Traininq:-
The table below gives details of farmers training courses organised during the reporting period:
TRAINING  PROGRAMME                   DURATION           NO. OF PARTICIPANTS/ REGIONS OR AREA
WR       NR       SR      ER      MAHERA    TOTAL
1.  Vegetable Production skills                 ys             300      500      406     380          300       1886
2.  Tree Crops Training                     I day                65      50      150      150          76        491
3.  Basic Skills in Food Crops Production   2ys                 300     300      150      150         250       1150
4.  Training of farmers in cassava, sweet   2 days              178     183      350      165         253       1129
potato and maize cultivation
5.  Production and Extension Skills         2 days              150     100      100      100          50        500
Trainina
6.   Tree Crops Training (Nursery           2 days               65      50      150      150          76        491
Establishment)
7.   Cockerel Farmers Training              1 y                400         -       -        -           -        400
8.  Youth Training                          2 days              300     280      240     240          100       1160
9.  Blacksmiths Training                    7 days               20        -       -        -          20         40
10. Farmers Training on Mud-stove           I day              500         -       -        -           -       500
11. Launching of the Intensive Vegetable  lday                1,500    2000    1000    1000          500       6,000
Programme                                              _
12. Farmers Field Day                          y              8,000   6,000   5,000   5,000   4_000           28,000



21
Agricultural Communication Unit
This is an essential component of the Unified Extension System. The information and
communication activities continued to play critical roles in the technology transfer and the research-
extension linkage processes.
This unit focussed among other things, on the development of extension aid, mass communication
and publicity thus improving access to scientific and technical information as well as ensuring
efficient information delivery systems and networks.
The ASSP provided funding for the purchase of essential audio-visual equipments, and office
equipment, for better and more efficient information management and delivery and production of
effective communication materials. These inputs enabled the unit to revive the MAFE Newsletter,
develop a MAFE leaflet and introduce report binding facilities, while audio-visual information has
been provided for the revival of the Farming Magazine Radio Programmes as well as introduction
of regular television programme. These materials, in addition to posters, audio-cassettes and other
traditional media provided the necessary support to Extension, Training and Research.
The unit collaborated with the Forestry Division to produce a series of video recordings on
deforestation and environmental management, and with the research institutes to disseminate new
technologies for the production and processing of the country's traditional food crops.
The capability of the Agricultural Communication Unit to respond to the specific information and
communication needs of MAFE, Farmers, Researchers, Agricultural Professionals, as well as allied
and related institutions were substantially increased with ASSP support and intervention.
The Research - Extension Farmer Linkage - A viable research-extension-farmer linkage
mechanism is crucial to the success of the technology adoption process. It therefore constituted a
major priority area for ASSP programme.



22
The following major issues have been addressed in order to make the research-extension-farmer
linkage system more responsive to the needs for the farmers:
1.   Strengthening research institutes with funds and logistics support to enable them conduct
on-farm research-trials, demonstrations and crop multiplication programme in various parts
of the country;
2.   Training of agricultural instructors assigned to research institutions on the general
principles and practice of on-farm research and technology transfer programmes;
3.   Training of farmers collaborating with research  and extension  personnel on the
importance, principles and methods of on-farm trials;
4.   Organising, sensitization, and extension promotion activities such as farmers' field days
and distribution of mini-kits to promote the adoption of improved agricultural technologies;
5.   Provision of farm  inputs especially improved planting materials- to farmers through
extension staff;
6.  Identification and development of grass-root farmers organisation for participation in
technology development and transfer.
Concerted efforts have been made by the Ministry to promote a sustainable research extension
'farm' input linkage system to facilitate technology adoption by the farmers.
The Research - Extension-Farmer Linkage Committee
With a membership of 13 persons, the Research-Extension-Farmer-Linkage Committee was
established in MAF&E to co-ordinate the Research-Extension-Farmer Linkage. It consisted of the
National Research Co-ordinator as Chairman, Directors of IAR and RRS, MAFE Divisional Heads,
NEC, CROs and President of NAFSL. This Committee is responsible for the overall review of the
implementation of research-extension-linkage component of the project and facilitates the



23
development and strengthening of research-extension-farmer linkages among research scientists
of the agricultural research institutions, Subject Matter Specialists of MAFE and farmers through
the conduct of agronomic and crop Varietal Trials, on farmers fields. It improves coordination of the
research efforts of the National Agricultural Research Institutes and promotes On-Farm Adaptive
research trials on farmers fields.
D.   ASSP EMERGENCY FOOD PRODUCTION, AND OTHER SUPPORT SERVICES
Food Crops Production
As the war intensified; large scale multiplication and distribution of improve planting materials of
cassava, sweet potato, maize groundnut, cowpea, and'other vegetables remained a permanent
feature of ASSP until its termination. Since 1996, it is estimated that some 200,000 farm families
benefited from the packages each year either directly, or through multiplier effect.
The Crop Production Support Programme reached climax in 1998, and 1999 when the project funded the
Procurement and Distribution of 156,018 bushels of seed rice with package of tools to 78,009 war affected
farm families in all the seven regions of the country. Inspite of rebel disruptions notably at harvest, the
programme brought tremendous relief to several families, and laid some foundation for Post War
Rehabilitation and Development.
Tree Crops Programme
At the early stage of the project, effective Tree Crop Programme was established which stimulated interest
country-wide in Tree Crop Development. During the first phase of ASSP (1084,- 1997), the project
supported farmers to plant 4,400 ha. coffee, 1,900 ha. Oil palm, and rehabilitate 1,000 ha. of old coffee
plantations. The programme was implemented largely in the East and South, and to a limited extent, north
(mostly oil palm and some coffee). After the project suspension period, the Tree Crop Programme was
restructured in 1993 to focus on the maintenance and rehabilitation of tree crop plantations of coffee, cocoa,
oil palm, citrus, and kola nuts. Not much of new planting was undertaken. Community participation was
emphasized. Some nurseries were developed at regional level, and farmers encouraged to set up their own
village nurseries. On-the-Job training on nursery practices were carried out. Annex VI gives details of central
nurseries established.



24
Fertilizers
The project imported a total of 10,500 MT. Chemical fertilizers for sale initially at subsidized prices, but
subsidy was gradually phased out. The fertilizers were distributed to strategic MAFE stations and Research
Institutes for ease of access to farmers.
A Holding Account with MAFE and Ministry of Finance as signatories was established at the Bank of Sierra
Leone into which proceeds from sale of fertilizers were deposited. Similar accounts were opened in various
Commercial Banks in the Regions from where transfers of Regional Sales were made to the main Account
in Bank of Sierra Leone.
Fertilizer sales and use were closely monitored and regular returns made to headquarters until the Rebel
War and the Coup disrupted the process. Revenue generated were occasionally used to meet the perennial
shortfall of Government Counterpart Funding or local costs in agreement with Ministry of Finance.
Substantial funds accrued with time to cushion government financial burden, but the fertilizer sub-
component later suffered very serious devastation through massive looting during the rebel crises and
Coup. These incidents caused huge loss of revenues, but speculation is that the fertilizers ultimately landed
on farmers fields in one way or another, and crop yield increases were quite visible.
Crop Protection Services
The Crop Protection Unit of MAFE carried out pest and disease control measures against major pests and
diseases at regional level. There was sporadic outbreak of pests and diseases on food crops throughout the
country. The major pest controlled during the reporting period were grasshoppers (zynocesrus variegatus),
and the rice gal midge (co-orygernors) a relatively new pest. The Table below summarizes acreages of
fields sprayed and quantities of chemicals applied. Control was quite effective, and in all cases, care was
taken to follow International Safety Standards governing Agro-Chemicals.
ASSP CROP PROTECTION SERVICE ON CASSAVA AND RICE MAINLY
REGION      AREA SPRAYED    QTY. APPLIED      REMARKS
(HA.)        IN LITRES
Western                 865.2         1,176      Effective
Northern                 600            780
Southern                 200            200
Eastern                  200            200  _
Mahera                   240            350
Total                  2105.2         2,706
Crop Protection activities on Tree Crops was limited to only nursery operations as the major tree
crops areas were under rebel occupation.



25
Livestock
During the period, the Livestock Division addressed the following areas:
I. Blacksmith Traininq Programme
Due to the escalation of the war, farmers lost all their farming tools. There was therefore the
need to acquire simple farm tools at reduced cost. The blacksmith component at Rolako work
Oxen Station undertook to train local blacksmiths in the fabrication and repair of farm tools.
The blacksmith training programme was an exclusively capacity building programme for local
artisans to produce acceptable hand tools for the various localities and provide repair facilities in
rural areas. Twenty (20) blacksmiths were trained and given start up packages.
II. Cockerel Programme
This was a pilot programme designed to improve on the productivity of the local chicken both for
egg and meat production. It is a technological package in which improved cocks will cross with
local hens, the objective being to capitalise on the hardiness and resistance to disease of
local chickens whilst overcoming the smallness in size, slow growth rate, and long maturity
period. Eighty (80) Farmers Associations were trained on the programme in the Westerrn
Area whilst 25 extension agents received training in livestock extension methodologies and
poultry management. One thousand and five hundred (1,500) cockerels were distributed to the
associations. The programme was replicated in the Northern and Southern Regions with
positive results as off-springs from crosses showed far better production qualities than local
chicks.
Ill. Rehabilitation/Reactivation of Newton Agricultural Station
This was a demonstration and training station for farmers and extension agents and as a
source of technology transfer. The station was rehabilitated and three sets of breeding pigs
and 2,209 day-old chicks (broilers and layers) were acquired from local hatchery for brooding
and subsequent distribution to farmers. The intention was to encourage Farmers Associations
to form partnership with reputable Private Business Venture to take over the station. The
programme was abandoned as workers fled for their lives when rebels struck the area in



26
1995. All animals were eaten by the rebels and serious damage was done to the
infrastructures.
IV. Anti-Rabies Vaccination/Control Programme in the Western Area
The Livestock Division embarked on a massive sensitization and education of the public on
public health hazards of rabies and to reduce the incidence of rabies in both human and
animals by regular mass vaccination exercises.
Ten (10) Livestock Assistants were trained in the methods of rabies diagnosis, handling of
dogs and cats, and administering vaccines etc. Fifty (50) vaccination centres were set up
and 3,876 dogs and 538 cats were vaccinated against rabies.
V. Provision of Veterinary Drugs
The programme supplied basic veterinary drugs for treatment of animals. The drugs were
supplied to Veterinary Clinics and Livestock Extension officials involved in disease and
control campaign especially on the Northern part of the country which had the highest
concentration of livestock in the country.
Fisheries Sub-component
I. Fish Farming at Regional Level
Fish is the most important source of protein in Sierra Leone and it is always in high
demand. However, Its marketing and distribution is generally urban biased. The distribution
is also very uneven, i.e. while coastal areas frequently experience a glut, inland villages
most times suffer severe shortages, poor quality and unaffordable retail price. This
programme was therefore undertaken to facilitate even or reasonable distribution thereby
ensuring regional community food security.
In pursuance of the foregone, the programme, in collaboration with the Ministry of Marine
Resources, and Action Aid (NGO) supported the establishment of four (4) fish ponds in
Tonko Limba Chiefdom, Kambia District.



27
In the Western Areas, a 4,000m2 fish pond was constructed by MAFE at Ogoo Farm. This was
constructed at the Integrated Food Production model site for the 1995 World Food Day
Celebrations. In the Southern Region, displaced farmers were trained at the Bo/Pujehun Fish
Farming Experimental Station. A total of 30 participants took part in two training workshops
lasting two days each.
II. Training of Farmers and Staff
Successful implementation of the Fisheries Component depended on the calibre of its
Extension Staff. The first activity undertaken therefore was the selection and training of twenty-
one (21) field personnel. Fisheries Extension personnel were trained in various aspects of
Aquaculture.
Farmer training programmes focussed on promoting knowledge and skills development to
improve the capacities and potentials of the communities to actively participate and accept pond
fish farming as nutritionally and socio-economically viable farm enterprise. Farmers were also
trained on sited selection, construction and management of fish ponds. In all, 4 training sessions
were organised to train 120 farmei-s/fisher folks. The knowledge gained from the training
sessions, and demonstrations provided ample opportunities for farmers to undertake fish farming
activities on their own guided by Fisheries Extension Staff.
Forestrv
During the period 1984 - 87 efforts were made to promote re-aforestation and. energy saving
measures. With funding from FAO and the Work Bank, a number of preparatory activities for fuel
wood production and Agro-Forestry and also the formulations of a more comprehensive Forestry
Action Plan were put in place. The Action Plan emphasised, the establishment of a responsible
forestry service and preparing the sub-sector for accelerated development and investment. This
include the development of a viable data base and forestry inventory, sound policy and forestry
planning and consolidation of the forestry estates.
Since 1993 the major thrust has been on the promotion of energy saving programmes and forestry
extension to enhance community participation. About 5,000 community residents were sensitised;



29
200 model mud stoves were constructed by 20 trainees and 500 residents at the training sites and
environs. Sixty-seven (67) Forest Extension Workers were trained; 5,000 residents in village
communities were sensitised in the programme area. 104 acres of degraded areas were identified
and 26,000 forest seedlings were provided to re-plant about 30 acres of the degraded areas.
Land and Water Development Division
The major activity of the Division was the intensive skills development and demonstration
programmes at Ogoo and Hamilton Farms.
Ogoo Farm (22 ha.) and Hamilton Farm (28ha.) which were developed by MAFE and the Chinese
Technical Assistance Programme in the 1970 under went major rehabilitation work.
Major repair works including repair and cleaning of dams, replacement of irrigation pipes and
fittings, and improvement in the human-powered irrigation pump (Ogoo Farm only) were carried
out at both sites. About 100 farmers and youths and 30 technicians/extension personnel have had
on-the-job (in-the-field), training in scheme rehabilitation, maintenance, and water management.
PEMS Division
The three areas of the restructured Division of PEMS, namely the. Planning and Budgeting Unit, fhe
Pricing and Marketing Unit and finally the Monitoring, Evaluation to which Data Collection and
Processing Unit had been added, were established. The Pricing and Marketing Unit constituted
the Secretariat of the Inter-Ministerial committee on Agricultural Pricing. Market surveys were
conducted to serve as basis for fixing of agricultural commodity prices.
Monitorinq and Evaluation of the ASSP
The Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Division was responsible for the Monitoring of all
Programmes implemented under the ASSP. In the 1994/95 season the following were achieved.
I. Rapid Farmers Survey - this was intended to give a quick appraisal of the agricultural
situation in the country viz: number of Agriculture holdings, utilisation of land in the holding
the area under different crops and their volume of production, volume of livestock etc.;



29
II. Monitoring and Evaluation of the Intensive Vegetable Production and Cockerel Programme in
Western Area;
Ill. Quarterly monitoring and evaluation of MAFE activities.
The M&E Unit of PEMSD conducted a quarterly Monitoring and Evaluation of all the ASSP
Programme at field.
D. FEEDER ROADS
This component was launched in June of 1994. It was meant to rehabilitate 539km of feeder roads
in Port Loko, Koinadugu, Kambia and Tonkolili Districts using labour based and capital intensive
methods. This was accomplished in phases.
Plhase 1 - Training Activities
These focused on the training of small-scale contractors and the building up of the institutional
capacities in ihe Department of Feeder Road's. Sierra Leone Roads Authority (SLRA). Courses
conducted include the following:
(a) In 1994, the project trained 10 small/medium Contractor companies in the effective
management and execution of labour based methods of feeder road rehabilitation. Each
company had sponsored one Manager, Three Supervisors and one Mechanic for the training
courses. These Contractors were awarded " Trail Contracts" for feeder road rehabilitation and
continued to receive technical backstopping from the ILO Technical Assistance Team.
(b) In 1995 the project organised two training courses for the Sierra Leone Roads Authority
Supervisory Staff. The SLRA seconded 48 supervisory staff for these training courses
comprising 4 District Engineers and a number of Superintendents, Foremen, and Overseers
from the 'Western Region, Port Loko Region and Mile Region. These training courses were
organised in the SLRA training centre in Freetown.



30
For the second half of 1995 the project training activities were mainly confined to the training of 50
staff of 10 Contractor companies. In addition, 48 Sierra Leone Roads Authority, Supervisory staff
were trained in the effective execution and monitoring of labour-based road rehabilitation and
maintenance. The project training outputs exceeded the outputs stated in the project document.
Phase 2 - Feeder Roads Rehabilitation Activities
The field operation activities suffered a major set back with the deterioration of the security
situation in the project areas. Rehabilitation Work on many roads in Tonkolili District could not be
undertaken due to security constraints. Contractors suffered heavy losses as all their hand tools
were lost during the rebel attacks in the project areas.
The field operations of the project were moved to the Western Area which was considered to be
relatively safe. Here again the project ceased operations a month later on account of rebel attacks.
Approximately 30km were done. At a joint meeting between MAFE, ILO, and SLRA it was
decided to undertake feeder road rehabilitation in Port Loko District. In the Lungi area work done is
summarised on the Table below:-
Road Rehabilitation in Lungi Area
ROAD NAME          LENGTH            REMARKS
(KM)
Lungi   -   Konakridee  9.0km     Completed in July 1995
Kawbana -  Bailor Wharf  16.0km   - do
Kawbana -  Kalangba    5.4km      -  do -
Rogbis  -  Rogbere    7TOkm       Completed
Rogbane -  Mape        6.9km      -do-
Mathen -   Modia       7.7km      -do-
Kaleyiri -   Mape      7.2km      Completed
Petifu  -   Kawbana    lOkm       -do-
Kontea     Yuruka      3.6km      Completed
Total  72.6km



31
With relative stability in the Kambia District work on some of the orginally identified roads were
undertaken. It was however not feasible to stretch the project activities in many parts of Kambia
District. Activities undertaken comprised the following:
ROAD NAME       LENGTH             REMARKS
(KM)
Kitonki  -  Rogbane        9.0km             Completed
Konteya -  Laminya         9.0km             - do  -
Konteya -  Sangoya         3.2km             - do
Mana   -  Benka            100.kmr             do  -
Ro-Borup     Faradugu -    13.0km              do  -
Making
Maqbansar Link             4.0kmr              do  -
Mange - Mambolo            28.0km            - do
Total = 76km.
No significant work was done in 1997 because of the military interregnum. Work which started in
Koinadugu District and some on-going activities in other areas were abandoned. However, 9 badly
Damaged bridges on Makeni - Kamakwie Road were provided with Wooden deck and spot-improvement on
the entire 90Km. stretch undertaken.
Following a review and decision for IDA Support for Agriculture and Rural Development in May of 1998 ILO
under took an Assessment of the on-going project and formulated a revised W6rk Plan focussing on the
improvement of feeder roads and bridges in ASSP areas of Emergency intervention utilising the balance
allocation of funds under IOLISLRA Project OIL/931IDA. Accordingly, field operations commenced in
September of 1998 only to be interrupted by the rebel invasion of Freetown in January or 1999. Work
recommenced in April of 1999 in-spite of the hostilities and damages, which hampered project operations.
The following were accomplished:
Emerqency Repair of Mabanq Bridge
The Mabang Bridge (629ft. long), which links Freetown, Moyamba, Bo, and Kenema was completely burnt
down in 1997 by the rebels. With the closure of the main high way, this route was the only alternative route
to link Freetown with the rest of the country.
The SLRA/ILO were faced with a very difficult task of replacing the entire wooden decking of the bridge to
make it usable for the humanitarian emergency aid traffic. The project managed to complete 75 percent of
the bridge which was again partially destroyed in January, 1999 when rebels occupied the area.



32
Emergency Repairs on Sonao - Movamba Road
The project started repair work on the above road in October 1998. The repair work entailed bush clearing,
cleaning and reshaping of the roads, side drainage, cleaning of cross drainage structures.etc. by 10 small
scale contractors using labour intensive method.
The spot improvement work on the Songo-Moyamba Road (70km) was completed in December, 1998.
Work was suspended until May 1999 when emergency improvement of Moyamba - Moyamba Juncton
Road (35km) was started. It was completed in June ending.
The project carried out repairs. on only 105km instead of a target of 150km. The shortfall was as a result of
suspension of work from January to April due to the rebel attack on Freetown.
CONSTRAINTS
Effective project implementation was deterred by several factors of which the poor state of the
economy, and rebel war were most critical. Highlighted below are the major constraints ASSP
faced;
(i)  Economic Factors
Economic Crisis was caused by:
-   Incoherrent Macro-Economic Policies;
-   Political instability;
-   Fall in National Production, and World Market Price of Agricultural exports;
-   Drastic reduction in Government income from the productive sectcs , and tax revenues;
-   High budget and balance of payment deficits, and inflation.
These factors made it extremely difficult for Government to meet its debt service obligations and
counterpart funding leading to project suspension. The private sector also remained extremely
cautious in participating in Divestiture or new investments in the Agricultural Sector.
(ii) The Rebel War
The rebel war is singled out as the most serious factor that adversely affected both the
sector, and ASSP:



33
-   The war caused serious displacement of the farming population and damage to
lives, properties and rural infrastructures;
-   Many young men and women were abducted into the fighting force, maimed, or
killed thereby reducing farm labour;
-   There  was very severe and persistent looting of project properties. Such
incidents became worse during the 1997 RUF/AFRC interregnum when over 30
vehicles, 200 motor cycles, 650 bicycles, and a large consignment of fertilizers
were reported looted/stolen;
*   The diversion of the meagre Government financial resources to the "War Efforts"
made it difficult for Government to meet its financial commitments to the project;
The long duration of ASSP beyond the designed period was caused mainly by its
features and the war.
(iii)   Proiect Desiqn
ASSP is multi-sectoral with the main thrust on Institutional reforms, and Technology
Transfer. It has been considered the most complex project in terms of components, nation
- wide coverage, time-frame and assumptions all of which had serious implication for
management, and coordination.
The initial project design and financing plan imposed heavy financial burden on
Government, and called for a large contigent of Technical Assistant personnel. These
aspects were, however, critically reviewed and adjusted in favour of Govemment.
PROJECT IMPACT
Inspite of several constraints, ASSP created considerable impacts under the circumstances
it was implemented:



34
(I) The Structural Adjustment Programme (SAP) of which ASSP was a part brought
better policy Reforms, Public sector Management, and Economic performance. Fiscal,
and Monetary Deregulations, coupled with Trade Liberalization created the enabling
Environment, and greater business confidence for investments.
Inflation dropped from 110% in 1991 to 22% in 1994, and 11% in 1996. In Agriculture,
like many other sectors, public expenditures continued to drop through
Restructuring, Divestiture, Excess Manpower Reduction, and prudent use of limited
resources. The gains of these measures would have been much greater, but for the
war. This is particularly so taking into account the tremendous efforts made by the
various programmes in addressing the social costs of SAP;
(II) The Restructured MAFE now has a proper Policy Focus, and clearly defined
Structure, and Functions. Its cadre of highly trained and fairly well equipped staff
coupled with effective linkages with Farmers Associations, NGOs, and relevant
Institutions and agencies provide the best hope for post-war Rehabilitation and
Development;
(l1l) Farmers have been adequately sensitized, mobilized, and organized, and the
process of empowerment has begun;
(iv)   Effects of Technology transfer and other support packages have been quite
spectacular as reflected in high crop yields and overall agricultural production.
During the war, ASSP was a major source of support to both MAFE and farmers
more so when some donor agencies left the country. The project targeted large
concentrations of farmers in displaced camps, and safe areas. In this way, many
more farmers were reached than it would have been the case if farmers were
widely dispersed. The volume and quality of food produced helped to avert
famine, and improve nutrition. In some cases, war affected farmers sold their
surplus harvest of mostly roots, tubers, and vegetables to generate income.



35
ASSP also made significant contribution to Tree crops. Apart from increasing
the acreage under cultivation, it helped farmers to rehabilitate their farms and
increase the crop yields and income. Skills acquired will be useful after the war.
(v) The Feeder Roads Component suffered serious set back, and about 50% of the
target was achieved. The roads completed, however, eased transportation and
marketing of farm inputs, and produce, and movement of farmers.
LESSONS
1. Effective Policies, Strong Institutions, Basic Infrastructures, and Social Stability are
critical to investments in Agriculture Sector, and Economic Growth.
2. Agricultural Diversification, Rural Integration, Stable Environment, Cost Effective
Technology and Appropriate Skills will ensure Food Security, Job Creation, alleviate
poverty, and promote prosperity.
3. Clearly defined stakeholders roles, commitments, resources, and institutional
arrangement will bring the Private Sector, and Farmers into sharp focus, and reduce
Governments dominance and burden in the sector.
4.  Farmers remain undeterred by natural or mad-made disasters as agriculture is their
last hope for survival, and prosperity. This came out clearly during the war.
CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
ASSP remained the major support to MAFE and Farmers all over the country despite the war.
It provided livelihood for and saved the lives of several farm families. The basic supports to
MAFE made the Ministry to survive for over one and half decades as the Key Sector Institution.
In the course of project implementation, several lessons have been learned which have given
rise to a proposed Rural Sector Support Project (RSSP). It is recommended that urgent steps
be taken to appraise RSSP so that the gains made by ASSP will not be lost.



ANNEX I  DONOR FUNDED AGRICULTURAL PROJECT/SCHEMES
PROJECTISCHEME TITLE          HEADQUARTER           COVERAGE         EXTERNAL DONOR(S)
1. Land Resources Survey         Freetown          National             UNDP
Project (LRSP)
2.  Eastern IADP                 Kenema            Eastern Region and    World Bank
part of Pujehun
District
3.  Northern IADP                Makeni            Bombali and Tonkolil  Work Bank and ADB
Districts
4.  Koinadugu IADP               Kabala             Koinadugu District   European Union
5. NorLil Central Agricultural   Mile 91           Tonkolili and Kono    Intemational Fund for
Project                                         Districts            Agricultural
Development
6. Port Loko Agricultural        Port Loko          Port Loko District   European Union
Development Project
7.  North/Western IADP           Kambia             Kambia District      European Union
8.  Bo/Puiehun RIDP              Bo                Bo and Pujehun        GTZ
Districts
9.  Seed Multiplication Project  Freetown, Makeni  North and Eastern     GTZ
and Kenema        Regions
10. Moyamba Integrated Rural     Moyamba           Moyamba District     African Development
Development Project                                                  Bank (ADB)
11. Torma Bum Rice               Torm Bum          Bonthe District and   Netherland
Development Authority                          part of Pujehun      Government and ADB
District
12. Gbondapi Rice Project        Gbondapi          Puiehun District     Japanese Government
13. Moyamba Inland Valley        Moyamba           Moyamba District      UNDP
Swamp Development Project
14. Adaptive Crop Research       Njala University  National              United States
& Extension (ACRE)           College                                 Government
15. Work Oxen Project            Rolako            Northern Regions      British and French
Government
16. Workshop Project             Freetown          Northern and          British Government
Southern Regions
17. Gambia Mattru and Daru Oil   Gambia/Mattru     Bonthe and Kailahun   World Bank and ADB
Palm Estates                 and Daru           Districts
18. Magbass Sugar Complex        Magbass           Tonkolili             Chinese Government



ANNEX  11                                   NGO'S  IN AGRICULTURE
OPERATING AREAS
AGENCIS/NGO                STATUS              DISTRICTS                          CHIEFDOMS
1. ACCORD                  Local                Bo                     Kakua
f _ _ _ ___    Moyamba         Bumpeh Kamajei, Kowa, Dasse
2. ACF                      International       Bo                     Bagbe, Bagbo, Komboya, Selenga
Pujehun              Barrie, Panga Kabonde, Pejeh, Sowa
3. AFRICARE                 Intemation          Bo                     Kukua, Baoma, Jiayama Bongor,
Kenema                Dama, Gaura, Koya
4. CCSL                    Local                Bo                     Badja, Gbo, Selenga, Valunia
Tonkolili             Gbonkolenken, Kafe, Simniria, Kalan Sogoia, Yoni
5. VIRAD                   Local                Bo                     Bumpeh, Tikonko
6. WORLD VISION INT.    Intemation              Bo                     Lugbu
Bonthe                All 11 Chiefdoms
Pujehun               Malen
Kono                   All nine chiefdoms
7. ARCS                    Local                Pujehun                Bani, Panga Koabonde, Pejeh, Sowa, Galenese Perri.
8. PUDDRRA                 Local                Pujehun                Sorogbema, Makpele
9. SLRS                    Local                Kenema                 Small Bo, Niawa, Langrama, Simbora, Fallawando
Gbonkolenken, Yoni, Kholifa Mabang, Malal-Mara
Tonkoh_i
10. APEGS                  Local                Kenema                 Dodo, Lower bombara, Malegohun, Nongowa
Westem Area           Wellington, Hastings, Mountain Area, waterloo, York
Area.
Moyamba               Bumpeh, Kagboro, kongbor Ribbi
11. CORD-SL                Local                Kenema                 Dama, lower Bambara, Tunkia
Port Loko             Buya Romande
Kambia               Magberna, Mambolo
12. CRS'                   Local                Kenema                 Nomo, Nongowa, Tunkia
'Bombali              Sanda Tendara, Sellia Limba, Gbanti Kamaranka
Koinadugu             Dembelia, Kasunko, Sengbe, Wara Wara Yagala
Port Luko             Buya Romande, Koya, Maforki Maramnpa
13. FEETHLES               Local                Kenema                 Dama, kandulekpeyamna, Nomo, Nongowa
14. FORD                   Local                Kenema                 Lower Bombara, Dodo, Malegohun
15. ICRC                   International        Kenema                 Gorama Mende, Niawa, Small Bo
________________   Tonkolili              Gbonkolenke, Kholifa Mabang, Malal



16. KDDO                    Local                 Kenema                 Dama, Gaura, Koya, Dodo Kandulekpeyama
Kailahun               Njaluahun, Peje Bongre, Upper Bambara
17. KENDRA                  Local                 Kenema                 L/Bambara, Dodo, Small Bo, Malegohun, Nonogowa,
Sunbaru, Nomo, Tongay
18. MCSL                    Local                Kailahun                Njahuahun, Peje Bongre, YowaI
Moyamba                Banta Mokele
19. KDDF                    Local                Kailahun                Njaluahun, Jawai
20. CARE                     International        Moyamba,               Bumpeh, Dasse, Fakuniya,Kaiyamba, Kamgajei,
Kongbora, Kori, ribbi, Upper Bagruwa
Bendu Cha, Jong, Nongoba Bullum
Bonthe                 Gbonkolenke; Kafe-Simiria Kalansogoia, Kholifa
Tonkolili              Mabang
21. PASSACOFASS              Local                Bombali                 Makari Gbanti
Tonkolili              Yoni
22. MODDRRA                  Local                Moyamba                 All 14 chiedoms
23. JESUS HEALING            Local                Bombali                 Makari Gbanti, Birrwa
MINISTRY
24. ORIENT                   Local                Bambali                 Sella Limba
Port Loko              Koya, Marampa, Sanda
Westem Area-Waterloo   Magboloto
25. OHDRAD                   Local                Bombali                 Paki Manabang, Tambaka
26. CARITAS                  Local                Tonkolili              Gbonkolenke, Kalansogoia, Yoni
Port Loko              Dibia, Maforki, Sanda Magbolonto
27. ADRA                     Local                Tonkolili               Kholifa Rowala
28. FANADA                   Local                Tonkolili               Kholifa Mabang, Malal, Yoni
29. CAD                      Local                Port Loko              Buya romande, Koya, Maforki Marampa, Masimira
30. ARD                      Local                Port Loko              Lokomasama, KaffuBullum
31. Action Aid              International         Kambia                 Masungbala
Port Loko              Dibia, Maforki, Tms
32. SIQA                                          Port Loko              Kaffu bullum
Westem Area            Braimia
33. Kono district                                 None
34. Comtunal Aid S/L (CPA)  Local                 Kono                   Karima
35. Association for          Local                3 Regions
Sustainable Dev. (ASCOD)
36. Dina Dev. Programme      Local
(DDP)                                                                                _
37. Isnata Faramers Develop    Local              Port Loko              Lokomassama
39. Agency (ISFADA)         Local                                        Kaffu Bullum



40. Benevolent foundation For Local              Western Area
The Under Privilledged                           Koinadugu
(BEFOUP)                            ._ _
41. Rokel Development       Local                Kambia                  Mambolo, Samu, Magbama
Association (RODA)
42. Children's Welfare      Local                Western Area
Organisation S/L(CWO S/L)                        Southem
Eastern
43. MASS Farmers            Local                Kambia                  Mambolo, Magbema, Samu
Association (MAFA)                _
44. Partners On Rehab and   Local                Kambia
Rural Dev. (PORRD)
45. Partners in Dev. (PID)  Local                Northem
46. Light To The World      Local                NationWide
Ministries (LWM)



ANNEX  III                        MAP OF SIERRA LEONE SHOWING
AGIUCULTURIAL  REG IONS
.        13 OO! 1                          12                                 D
- l10 '                                                    .  .    .  ...........
C                  K'                        - LI
.{~  *J'                                        K OINADUGU
; Jf        ,          D b OMl 3 ALI    I                                      i   c-
J.Kombiq
0
1*m 'oPo rtLohoko
-TPORT" LOKO                          o Mugbur ulwu
glmot 9 l ON1'01KOLILI 
\ r>t  -'   .....      s            X             .            lZiJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kilol,ur, 
oMoyatnba                                                     C)
-U tf MOYAMBA oJem f-t .
/'t \ >+ , e ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K E N E t-8  -A
%IotCul' d.E vo 
Ki       KIT                              zmcI I' U JII
-      * OOIUtJOAIIIIIS.                                 _           (3)    Souill Wc sicrnl Riu io
International _, _                     M I L E S;               (5)    Norlh (Cetnrl RL'gioI
-leiioinlall                                  - 10  2 -C 30  A    so  (6)    Noirii :s'cr iern lRgito
DizLrict      ___                  JO :       0:=               (      Wcslcrll \sr:iea lcgioii
_     Fr_ctown_[copitoJJ    0Proyincil liecdquurLars           o [itstricU IIeadquurttrs



ANNEX IV                          MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, FORESTRY AND THE ENVIRONMENT
PROPOSED ORGANOGRAM
rDEPUTY MINIfg-R7]
F DIRECTOR GENERAL                                                      SECRETRY
Deputy Dir. G3en.                        Deputy Dir. Gen.        Dep. Perm. Sec.          Dep. Perm  Sec.
(Agnc. Operations)               (PlarnirlSerrvices & Research)   (Non Human Resources)     (Admin./P rsonnel)
DIRECTOR    DIRCTOR      DIRECTOR  DIECTOR  DIRCTOR                                             FINANCE               ADMIN GEN         PERSONNEL
(Crops)   (Enwironment)  (Extension) (Livestock)  (Forestry)  DIRECTOR           DIRECTOR
(PEMSD)                   (LWDD)
N G 0 CO-ORD.                           PRINCIPAL RESEARCH   PRINCIPAL
PRINCIPAL                                                  CO-ORDINATOR       ENGINEER
PROJECTS                                                   (AGRIC. RESEARCH)   (ENGINEERING)
CO-ORDINATOR
ENGtNEER
PROVINCIAL OFFICES
PROV. AGRC DIRECTORC|
DEPUTY DIRECTOR         DEPUTY DIRECTOR
(S.M S)                (Extension)
Provincial                                                      Senior Engineer                      Asst. Seuetary
Standing Committee                                                                                    (ADMIN.FINANCE)
' SUBJECT MATTER SPECIALIST



ANNEX V
SUMMARY OF REGISTERED FARMERS ASSOCIATIONS
NO  DISTRICT    CHIEFDOMS  VILLAGES ASSOCIATIONS MEMBERSHIP                                             TOTAL   FARM FAMILIES
MALE    FEMALE
I     Kenema            16              270            398                 37,187        30,366        67,553      8,444
2     Kailahun          14               165           300                 39,544        44,849         84,115     10,514
3     Bombali           13               365           933                 51,206        45,849         97,055     12,132
4     Koinadugu         I1               44            85                   1,625         2,613          4,238        530
5     Moyamnba          14               313           440                 18,939        15,665         34,604      4,326
6     Bonthe            12               119           161                  4,862         4,184          9,046      1,131
7     Tonkolili         11               366           858                 16,350        17,170         33,520      4,190
8     Kono              14               240           402                  8,562         5,793         14,355      1,794
9     Kambia             7               163           321                  8,198         5,249         13,447      1,681
10    Port Loko         9               514            602                 30,840        19,329        50,169       6,271
11    Bo               14               974            1663                41,289        41,026        82,315      10,289
12    Pujehun          13               444            687                 36,877        29,651        66,528       8,316
13    Waterloo Rural   -                 54            162                  3,449         4,049         7,498         938-
14    Mountain Rural  -                   6            14                    429           203           632           79
15    Uan              -                 24            56                   1,771         3,568         5,339        668
16    York Rural       -                 22            70                   2,711         2,887        5,598          70C
17    Koya Rural       -                 63            109                  3,734         4,168        7,902          988
Total                           | 3,632         7,261               307,573       276,341       583,914    72,991



ANNEX VI                                             TREE CROP NURSERY ESTABLISHMENT
REGIONAL TARGETS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
|EASTERN                     SOUHERN                 SOUTH WEST    NORTHERN                          NORTH WEST    WESTERN                                    T O TA L S
No. Crops                 P    A   %   P   A   %  P    A   %   P                                                  A   %   P   A   %   P   A   %   P    A    %
1  Oil Palm             25,000  21,854       87 37,500  30,300       81    -                      25,000 18,100      72    4,000  1,139       28   8,500   6,500      76  100,000    77,893         78
2  Coconut                        -                         162           19,800                    -       -       -                              20,000   6,300     31   39,800      6,462        16
3  Citrus                - _         =        =            3,918          29,700    =      -      29,700 29,700    100    .                         9,900   9,900    100   69,300    43,518         63
4  Coffee              300,000 210,000        70    -       -           1123,800-    63,000    -                                                   16,000  16,000    100  502,800   226,000         45
5  Kola-Nut             26,400  26,400       100 26,400   6,000      23  16,500   8,000       48  13,200 12,900       97                             -        -             82,500    53,300        65
6  Cocoa                40,000  12,597        31 12,000  24,000    200                                                   -                                                  52,000    36,579        70
7  Mango                               -            -      4,400                                                            2,618  2,150      82  13,200                    15,818     6,550        41
8  Avocado                                                                 3,300                                                                   13,200      98    0.7  16,500          98       0.6
9  Omamental                                                200            4,125                                                                    4,125   4,125    100    8,250      4,325        52
10  Bell Apple          _          -                         102        -                                        -       -       -       -                                                102
11  Star Apple                              -                134                                                                                                                          134     -
Key
P.   =   Planned Targets
A.        Actually Nursed
% = Percentage of Achievements






IBRD 17501
MAURITANIA                                                                                             SE' 12  1.  SEPTEMBER  1983
MR           ~~~~~MALI                     I2
SENe *>-Jr- NIGER                                                      SIERRA LEONE
THEGAM.1 0                                                        ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
LIIEA-xrEAs.~
8SMUGU 2EA ' )        r                Interior; Agriculture; Integrated  Agricultural Development Projects
lEONENt < (..COASTG)HANAI E         _   _  Aoricultural Region Boundaries (MAF)       _.       International Boundaries
LI8UIA2 ,                            -   Provincial Boundaries (Ministryofinterior)  6      National Capital
-   District Boundaries (Ministry oF Interior)  0     Provinciol Copitols
Atioit c  OctNan                                   IADP Boundories (Integrated Agricultural    =     Rivers
_________________.________________ ._ _   Development Project)
-10'            13-                                                                                                              10'-
Tree e.p h., b-en preered b  y
The Wodd thenke aN .o heeve p
fr the oomareo. e et be
reder- .0,           GUINA  b v
internet Joe ot The Word bank                       w       <        
Corporebon The dtu nK NAUb iNGU
-ed .nd b. b-d-re. eb.en.
anthsmnpd nolh7p4 one p                       I d   /   <                  Kcbolo
p.t1 f rh. WOd ba-k en be                                                                                    GU I 
.w^ jumIn -n th. .g W..             Lk @( 
of lrriity bmNl y                                                                        IS                      I TRICT
endnrserrinen  or nceoteeCe at(7    s\S
0_0h bomnde                                       N1r
N  R TH                  N                         V
MILISO /                     4 S0M   LI  D   TRICT
13~~~~~~~~~~~~C
/ /Esio~rth                     )Mkn   t                      4\ /  
rORT L O KO        ;ST\                               G R I C To   RIT
 <  Okel  5                         f  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~North Central- egion,
FREE N                                    .                                        1i 
ed                ~~~~~~~Moyombg S O  U  t  H    E tR  N                                                 i/  
OYAMBAx                                                            KENEMA  r.            > 
#<S   Western Q             fi[<BO                                E Ea s t      
\.   DISTRI T          )BO                  C      >     Kenemi/8 as
9 < i' ~~~..p--R5 Al V  I NX   
, ~ ~~~      ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                 ~~~~~~~~~~    I S  T_;   0Uth        >    R I 9; T  1
BTHE   Dl ItT      tRjgion                              j
0 (~~~~~~~~~~~Puiehun 0J                                         LI BE RI A
At/ntPc Oen . - - o~~~~~~~~~~~IST   IT
-7  MILES O                        0 -       i     ' -F 
13p-Ir                                                                             1



