Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C/?. /@'--- 5
Report No. 4833-SL
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
May 25, 1984
Wesrern Africa Projects Department
Agriculture D
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplents only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Barnk authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1        =  Le 2.50
Leone 1.00 = US$0.40
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 hectare                 2.47 acres
1 kilometer (km)         0.62 miles
1 kilogram (kg)           2.2 pounds
1 metric ton (ton)   =   2,205 pounds
1 liter (l)               1,507 U.S. quart
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ACRE      Adaptive Crop Research and Extension Project
BSL       Bank of Sierra Leone
CTU       Central Technical Unit
DOPC      Daru Oil Palm Company
EPD       Economic Planning Department
GMOP5     Gambia Mattru Oil Palm Company
IADP      Integrated Agricultural Development Project
ICAP      Interministerial Committee on Agricultural Pricing
IITA      International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
MAP       Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
MANR      Ministry of Agriculture & Natural Resources
MNR       Ministry of Natural Resources
NAPCO     National Produce Company
NARCC     National Agricultural Research Coordinating Council
NATCC     National Agricultural Training Coordinating Council
NUC       Njala University College
PAU       Pricing Analysis Unit
PEMSU     Planning, Evaluation, Monitoring and Services Unit
RRRS      Rokupr Rice Research Station
SDTU      Staff Development Training Unit
SLAPCO    Sierra Leone Agricultural Produce Company
SLPMB     Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board
WARDA     West African Research and Development Association
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY * .............    iv-v
I.    INTRODUCTION ... ........... O     SeO            *.O     .e            1
A.  Introduction and Economic Background ..................             I
B.  The Agricultural Sector  ...  to. sotooto. toe.  to.....  .         2
C.  Government Objectives .o. **** **..............t.....               3
D.  Bank and IFAD Operations in the Sector ...............      .*..    3
II.   PROJECT BACKGROUND *.  *.............*..*                               5
A.  Sectoral Constraints *   *..            .......    ...... .         5
B.  The Institutional Frewaework            ...........................  6
C.  The Incentive Framework   ...........*       ...................    11
D.  The Technological Base ... OlOOtOSSO. 0000 . .o. tot **too@        12
III.  THE PROJECT ..............o..oo.     .. ....o       ......ot..          14
A.  Project Strategy .. *o.....  .......  *.......                      14
B.  Brief Description               .............o....... .             14.
C.  Detailed Features ........  *0 o so sot so. 4.5.5 ......  ...       16
D.  Implementation Schedule                    ,                        25
IV.   PROJECT COST ..............................................             26
A.  Project Cost  ..........o. .....* *..... .. *                       26
B.  Proposed Financing                                                  27
C.  Procurement                                                         28
D.  Disbursement   ....                                                 29
E.  Accounts and Audit                   o30
V.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                  30
A.  Ministry Reorganization                                             30
B.  Operational Improvements                                            33
C. Project Implementation                                               37
D.  Pricing and Marketing                                               41
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission comprising
Messrs. B. S. Gray, J. C. English, N. Okcidegbe and Jo Silverman (consultant),
which visited Sierra Leone in June 1983. Mrs. F. Reza was responsible for the
typing and Mrs. Layton for the overall presentation of the report.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
| of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- i.i -
Table of Contents (continued)
Page No.
VI.   PRODUCTION, XARKETS, PRICES, AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS .......          43
A.  Production . . . . . ... .................                        43
B. Markets and Prices  ......................... ,                   45
C.  Financial Analysis * * * * *   .................. .. . . *.      46
D,  Cost Recovery ...        .....    ......*.*. .........9.         47
VII.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ...........................               47
A* Benefits ....*.*...                  0 S S ,                      47
B.  Economic Analysis ......*.... . . . . *..* ............ ..       49
C.  Environment]al Impact *9 * *9t 949999999............             51
D.  Risks ....*........*..,................*.............6....  * *..*.*.*.*.  51
VIII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS           ............................  52
ANNEXES
3-1       Technical Assistance Provided to MANR
3-2       T2ree Crop Planting Program
3-3       Implementation Schedule
4-1       Project Cost by Year and Component
4-2       Project Cost by Category and Project Component
4-3       Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
5         Organization Cha-t
6-i       Crop Yield Projectisns
6-2       Project Production Summary
6-3       Economic and Financial Prices - Palm Oil & Rice
6-4       Economic and Financial Prices - Coffee and Palm Kernels
6-5       Summary of Tree Crop Budget
6-6       Yarm Budget for Rice (upland and riverain)
6-7       Farm Budget for Rice (swamp rice)
6-8       Net Financial Returns
6-9       Government Cash Flow
MAP   IBRD No. 17501:  Administrative Boundaries: Interior; Agriculture;
Integrated Agricultural Development Projects.



- iii -
SIERRA LEUAXE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
DOCUt'!ENTS CONTAINED IN THE PROJECT FILE
FILE CODE
A.  Selected Reports and Studies on Subsector
Al.  "Sierra Leone Agricultu:al Sector Review."
June 29, 1983, IFAD/IDA                                       B/R
A2. USAID. Agricultural Sector Assessment Report
for Slerra Leone.                                       SL-4201
(Blue List 32521)
B. Selected Reports and Studies Relating to the Project
BI.  Huntings:  Proposed Restructuring of MAF & MNR.             127343
(Al-3)
B2.  MAF - Agricultural Developmnent V Project.                  127343-B2
B3.  IBRD - Sierra Leone Agriculture Sector Review               220743-B3
Supporting Paper III, Institutional Organization.
C.  Selected Working Papers (Doc. No. 220743)
Cl.  Institutional Development.
C2. Sectoral Support (Fertilizer and Mechanization).
C3.  Tree Crop Development.
C4. Swamp Develoypment.
C5. Daru Oil Palm Company.
C6.  Credit Arrangements.
C7. Project Cost and Economic Analysis Tables.



- iv -
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMKARY
Borrower:      Republic of Sierra Leone
Amount:        SDR 20.3 millioa (US$21.5 million equivalent)
Terms          Standard
Project
Descri2tioz:   The project would directly contribute to Governzmeat's objec-
tives of increasing domestic food production and agricultural
exports. It would comprise: (a) an action program for
rationalization of the institutional framework in the agricul-
tural sector, including merger of ongoing integrated agricul-
tural development projects with the reorganized Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR), privatization of
Ministry operatioas in agricultural mechanization and palm oil
processing, and improvements in operating systens in the MAUR
aad in agricultural policy-making; (b) significeat reductions
in numbers of unskilled support staff in MANR; (a) financing of
improvements ia operating facilities for MANR; (d) provision of
foreign exchange to fiaance key imports for the sector; (e)
support of tree crop and swamp development programs; and (f)
technical assistance. Provision of finance for imports would
be linked to progress in the action program.
Provision of key imports, principally fertilizers, spare parts
and agricultural equipment, and support of swamp development
and tree crop programs, would directly benefit about 80,000
farmers (aboul 25% of the total farm families), most of whom
have incomes close to the absolute poverty level of US$75 per
capita. The reorgaaization and strengthening of MANE would
also result in improved management of foreign aid flows to the
agricultural sector, which at preseat are widely dispersed and
poorly coordinated.  Project risks include:  inability of MANR
to cope with the proposed changes in organizatioaal structure,
functions and systems; and inadequate interest of the private
sector to participate in the privatization of services. These
risks are minimized by the steps already agreed, a comprehen-
sive package of technical assistance included in the project,
and the degree of iaterest of the private sector which is
already evident.



Bstimated Cost 1/                        _ US$ millio)
.Local    Forleign    Total
institutional Support                   0.7        4.0        4.7
Sectoral Support                        0.l       10.6       10.7
Tree Crop Development                   2.2        1.5        3.7
5wamp Development                       0.6        1.1        1.7
Kagbosi Extension                       0.4        0.4        0.8
Sut-projects                                       0.7        0.7
PP b Refioanciag                          -        0.9        0.9
Subtotal c4.0                                  19.2      23.2
Physical Contingencies                  0.1        0.8        0.9
Expected Price Contingencies            2.0        2.8        4.8
TO0TAL                              6.1       22.8       28.9
Financiag Plaa                               -Uss million)
IDA                                     3.3       18.2       21.5
IFAD                                    0.8        4.6        5.4
Government                              1.2         -         1.2
Beaeficiaries                           0.8         -        0.8
TOTAL                               6.1       22.8       28.9
Estimated Disbursementts(IDA FO):
(US$ million)
1985     1986       1987       1988      1989
Anaual                              2.9       5.9       5.7        5.4        1.6
Cumulative                          2.9       8.8      14.5       19.9       21.5
Rate of Return:  35% for tree orop arid swamp development components (25% of
base project cost).  Other elements do aot lend themselves to
quantification of benefits.
Staff Appraisal Report: Wo. 4833-SL
.I:   IBRD  17501
1/   Net of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
A. Introduction and Econoaic Background
1.01     Over the past several years, Bank assistance to agriculture in Sierra
Leone has been concentrated in Tntegrated Agricultural Development Projects
(IADPs). This was justified on the basis of the need to increase and focus
resources at the field level and to create a unified source of extension,
credit and input supply services. During earlier discussions on possible IDA
lending operations, it was agreed that, as a subsequent phase of Sierra
Leone's agricualt'ral development strategy, wider institutional improveTaents
and incentive policies were required to maintain and expand the achievements
of the IADPs. At the time of approval of the two ongoing Eastern and Northern
IADPs, it was indicated that the next lending activity would have a broad
focus on the reform of the Ministry of Agriculture and Yorestry (RAF) and the
integration of the externally funded projects with the Ministry. The proposed
project has been designed to meet that objective.
1.02     Sierra Leone has a total area of 72,000 kmn2, of which about 75% is
cultivable, and a population of 3.7 million, growing presently at 2.5% per
annum. It is in the low-income category of the countries of Sub-Saharan
Africa. In the last few years, real per capita incomes have declined by nearly
2% per ani.um.  The average per capita income was about US$385 in 1982 and was
unevenly distributed across sectors and reg4ons. The rural population (75% of
the total) have per capita incomes far below the national average; it is
estimated that about 65% of them exist below the absolute poverty level of
US$75.
1.03     The economic structure is characterized by two largely contrasting
sectors: agriculture (largely traditional), employing about 65% of the work-
force but accounting for only about 30% of GDP, and 30% to 40% of export
earnings, depending on market prices; and the modern mining sector accounting
for about 10% of GDP, and 60-70% of export earnings.  After growing vigorously
in the early 1970s, the economy has virtually stagnated in recent years.  The
major factors were a fall in diamond production and the cessation of iron ore
mining, and in the last two years the situation has worsened with a fall in
agricultural exports. This was caused by the combined effects of reduction in
world demand resulting from the recession in industrial countries and the
increasing overvaluation of the leone. At the same time, as domestic demand
has been at a relatively high level, the rate of inflation has accelerated
(the annual increase in the CPI for Freetown rose from 14% in 1981 to 30% in
1983), and the balance of payments has come under increasing pressure. The
estimated current account deficit for 1981/82 was Le 159 million (US$127
million at 1982 exchange rates), nearly 12% of GDP at current market prices.
This was reduced to Le 105 million (US$84 million) in 1982/83 because of



- 2 -
inability to finance imports. Debt servioing has soared beoause of Government
borrowing from commercial credit markets at high interest rates. Partly as a
result of the narrowness of the revenue base and of the inelastioity of the
tax system, revenues have not risen sufficiently to meet demands on Govern-
ment, and the deficit is now very high (nearly 40% of total expenditures and
10% of GDP in 1982/83).
1,04     Given the pressures to maintain staffing in the face of budgetary
limitations, the result has been to curb other operating expenditures, and
place great pressure on available financial resources. Bank financed and
other externally financed projects have suffered from erratic and often late
release of oounterpart funds. In addition, because of the shortage of foreign
exchange the MAF was unable to import fertilizers or spare parts for its
equipment for use outside externally funded projects during 1982 and 1983. As
a result, the Ministry's general field operations are at a virtual standstill.
B. The Agricultural Sector
1.05     The earlier figures indicate agriculture's importance to the economy,
the most important single element of which is production of rice, the staple
food. Less than 40% of production enters the moaetized economy and this comes
mostly from the eastern and southern areas of the country, where climatic
conditions have led to the development of tree crop production, mainly cocoa
and coffee for export. In the northern half of the country conditions are
less favorable, as the dry season becomes longer, and the cropping system is
based mainly on shifting cultivation of upland rice for subsistence.
1.06     The data base on agriculture remains fragmentary but the performance
of the sector is generally accepted to have been poor, and in recent years the
value of output per capita appears to have been actually falling. During the
1970s, total agricultural production rose by just under 2% per annum, increas-
ing slightly towards the end of the decade in response to a steady increase in
leone producer prices. This, however, amounted to a slight decline in per
capita terms. After 1980 performance deteriorated and between 1979/80 and
1981/82 estimated production declined by 3.7% per year. From 1979/80 to
1982/83 purchases of coffee and cocoa by the Sierra Leone Produce Marketing
Board (SLPMB) declined by about 40% and 4% respectively. However, it is
believed that part of this decline has been offset by smuggling to Liberia.
Rice production also fell nearly 15% over the same period and rice imports
rose from 50,000 tons in 1980/81 to 95,000 tons in 1982/83, the latter
amounting to about 20% of estimated consumption.
1.07     Notwithstanding the present somewhat unpromising situation, there is
considerable agricultural potential in the country. Studies have indicated
that, while traditional upland rice production is not economically viable as a
source of marketed surplus, rice production is viable with improved technol-
ogy, principally mechanized production in coastal and riverain flats, or with
improved water control in inland valley swamps. Less than 10% of the 1.0
million ha swampland area suitable for agricultural use has been developed and
about 50% of the tree crop potential remains untouched, leaving about 0.1
million ha suitable for further tree crop development. Potential also exists
in the other subsectors. Small livestock--sheep and goats--are widespread but



generally act as scavengers, while for health reasons cattle are 1P:gC 
confined to the north.  The fishery potential is significant, while for.'stry
has an important role to play in fuel production and overall land use manage-
ment, although sawn timber potential is limited. The recovery of the economy
depends on the agricultural sector, since in the medium-term it is the only
foreseeable engine of growth.
C. Government Objectives
1.08     Recognizing the present state of Sierra Leone's economy, namely,
declining commodity production, low levels of domestic savings, persistent
deficits in Government financial operations and balance of payments, the
Government intends to tackle two major sete of problems. These are: (a)
short-term financial problems, which need to be set right expeditiously and
(b) structural constraints to be addressed in the course of implementing the
Second Development Plan and subsequent developmeat efforts. Some steps have
been taken to address these problems in connection with the support agreement
with the IMF'. The official value of the currency was adjusted from Le 1.25 to
Le 2.50 per US dollar in July 1983, and commodity prices have been raised in
line with this.
1.09     In terms of agricultural sector objectives, these mean giving
priority to increasing production so as to reduce imports, particularly of
rice, and increase exports of major cash crops, and to increasing efficiency
in operations of Government agencies. These would be achieved through
policies and programs that would improve ir.centives to farmers, expedite
completion of successful ongoing investment projects, initiate new projects
with quick yielding results, and streamline public services in agriculture,
with privatization of suitable activities such as mechanical cultivation, oil
palm processing, and input supply.
D. Bank and .FAD Operations ia the Sector
1.10     Bank Group and IFAD operations in the agricultural sector to date
have been in support of the Government's earlier strategy of emphasis on IADPc
to foster the development of the sector.  The Bank/IDA Group contributed to
the financing of two IADPs through a phased approach under four loans/credits
which were aade between 1973 and 1981. The Eastera IADP is in its third phase
(Cr.323; Cr.568/Ln.1138; Cr.1094), while the Northern is in its second
(Cr.568/Ln.1138; Cr.1128). IFAD is the sole external financier of the Magbosi
IADP (for which the Bank is the executing agency), and a co-financier of the
Northern IADP II.
1.11     The projects have been reasonably successful in meeting their
physical crop development and civil work targets, but the quality of crop
development was low. The crop programs have contributed to increased food
production--mainly rice and palm oil; and the cocoa program is now coming into
production. They have been successful il. creating an awareness among farmers
of the benefits of improved practices, as reflected in the growing demand for
oil palm, cocoa and coffee seedlings in the Eastern area and for improved rice
seeds and fertilizers in the lorthern and Magbosi areas.  However, the overall
impact has been somewhat below expectations. Yield increases have not been as



high as originally envisaged and higher yielding swamp farming has not been
well integrated into the traditional farming systems, which are concentrated
on the uplands. The explanatory factors inolude technical weaknesses due to
inadequate research, as well as organizational weaknesses as reflected in the
quality of the extension services.  The institutional building efforts had
mixed results. Positive results were achieved in project management,
engineering and financial control. 1/ However snticipated progress in
integrating the Project management urnit in Eastern IADP with MAF has not been
achieved.
1.12     In the area of ru:"al credit, the Bank has financed a study, and is
engaged in ongoing discussions with the Government on possible development of
a rural banking system. In the forestry sector, a joint FAO/Bank mission in
June 1981, identified a project which has since been prepared by FAO/CP; the
project makes proposals on the reorganizational aspects of the Forestry
Department and for planting fuelwood trees near Freetown, and trees for saw
log produotion in the Gola area.
1.13     The emphasis in the past on a project, rather than sectoral approach,
had been justified on the basis of the need to concentrate scarce resources on
increasing production thruugh the IADPe.  At present there are seven IADPs
which account for 50% of the total development budget of the MAF.  In addition
to the three in whioh IDA is directly involved, EEC is supporting two
(Kambia/Port Loko and Koinadugu) and ADB and GTZ one each (Moyamba and Bo-
Pujehun respectively). Wbile the IADPs have certainly contributed to the
transfer of substantial resources to the regions and have been major sources
of extension, credit and input supply services, they still remain isolated
operations dependent on foreign expertise, funding and supervision.
1.14     Institutional reform has been under consideration by Government and
IDA for several years. Preparatory studies were financed under the IDA Tech-
nical Assistance Credit. In 1981, Huntings Technical Services completed a
major study on behalf of Government for institutional reform of MAF and the
Ministry of Natural Resources (MNR - responsible for livestock and fisheries).
The study was followed by the preparation of a fifth Agricultural Development
Project (Ag. Dev. V) by MAF and MNR with assistance from RKWA, Abidjan, in
whioh the major recommendations of the XHuntings study were further refined.
During preparation, it was confirmed that institutional arrangements and
incentive policies would determine the iultimate success of the IADPs, and that
more thorough sectoral analysis was necessary. Accordingly, a major review of
the agricultural sector was carried out by IDA/IFAD in October/November 1982.2/
The Review Mission, which worked closely with Government, concluded that there
was a need for a broader sectoral credit, which would support the proposed
1/   PPARs.  Credit 323-SL.  OED Report No. 2066, May 1978;
Credit 568/Loan 1138. OED Report No. 4581, June 1983.
2/   IBRD/IFAD. "Sierra Leone - Agricultural Sector Review."  Draft June
1983.



institutional reform aspects, but also address the other major constraints of
the seotor--incentive and technological--as well as provtcion for direct
productive investment in rice, coffee and oil palm.
1.15     In the meantime, the severe budgetary crisis has resulted in Govern-
meat failing to meet some counterpart .fand commitments to externally funded
activities, and the shortage of foreigrL exchange has severely hampered MAF's
operations outside the IADPs. In the 1983 planting season, MAF was unable to
obtain foreign exchange to purchase spare parts for its mechanical cultivation
aervices. While the institutional measures proposed will assist in improving
the productivity of the sector, this will take time, as too rapid an introduc-
tion of the changes could prove disruptive and reduce long-run efficiency.
The financial stringency could be lessened by scaling down activities in the
IADPs and increasing further the sliare of total expenditures met from external
sources.  However, the coverage of these projects is already relatively
limited, and these extension activities should be maintained, so as to have as
rapid an impact as possible on agricultural production.  Furthermore, the
existing extent of the IADPs is not beyond the longer term capability of the
country to finance. Therefore, the Sector Review Mission recommended that
additional foreign exchange be provided for financing the import of fertil-
izers, fuel, spare parts, agricultural equipment and implements to ensure
supplies of these essential items, and that this financing be linked to an
agreed program of institutional reforms and tied specifically to provision of
local counterpart funds for IADPs.
II. PROJECT BACKGROUNiD]
A.  Sectoral Constraints
2.01     Increased agricultural production, which is central to the realiza-
tion of Government's overall objectives, can be achieved through in .reases in
the area under production, increased productivity in given activities, or
shifts towards more productive activities. Such changes will only occur,
however, if steps are taken to deal -ith the constraints which have hindered
agricultural development over the past few years. These may most usefully be
grouped under three broad headinigs:
(a)  The institutional framework.  The principal problems here include the
duplication and inefficient operation of services to the sector.
(b)  The incentive framework.  Policies on prices, taxes, subsidies, and
marketing have in some cases been inimical to agricultural
production.
(c)  The technological framework.  This includes inadequate agronomic
practices; poor water control; and the low level of technology;
nearly all agricultural energy being supplied by human labor.



- 6 -
The pervasive nature of some of these constraints (especially those of an
institutional or technological nature) means that a cautious and gradual
approach to agricultural development is required.
B. The Institutional Framework
2.02     Production related services in agriculture are currently divided
between the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAF) and the Ministry of
Natural Resources (MNR). Under the general supervision of MAF are the seven
Integrated Agricultural Development Projects (IADPs), the Adcaptive Crop
Research and Axtension Project (ACRE), Rokupr Rice Research Station (RRRS),
the Torma Bum Rice Development Authority, Daru and Gambia M.attru Oil Palm
estates and other smaller entities. The MNR is responsible for livestock and
fisheries. External support to livestock has been limited, and that in
fisheries concentrated in Tombo and Kambia projects. The principal marketing
entity, the Sierra Leone Prcduce Marketing Board reports to the Ministry of
Trade and Industry. In addition, support is being given to agriculture
through p,-_.-rams such as World Food Program and also a number of non-
governmental organizations, such as CARE, Plan International, and CRS, which
are engaged in programs of assistance in rural areas focussed on agricultural
activities.
1.   Institutional Structure
2.03     The Ministries.  Government has agreed in principle that MAP and MNR
will be combined. The core organizations of MAF and MNR provide planning,
extension, monitoring and evaluation, cultivation and agricultural engineer-
ing, and regulatory services under centralized direction, through a classic
hierarchical structure, reaching down through regional and district offices to
village level. The four major divisions at headquarters in Freetown are:
Agriculture, Forestry, Livestock, and Fisheries. At the regional level, MAP
is represented by principal agricultural officers, supported by agricultural
officers, agricultural instructors and agro-technicians. The core services
are ineffective due to an absence of clear objectives, inappropriate priori-
ties, inadequate funding of development programs, lack of facilities, insuffi-
cient research, and extension services which are poorly paid, untrained, and
badly organized. In regions where there are IADPs, there are normally two,
virtually separate, extension services working within the same boundaries.
The IADP staff are better paid, with better logistical support, and are
generally better trained than the staff in the Ministries from which many of
the IADP staff have been drawn.
2.04     IADPs.  The IADPs were established with the objective of concen-
trating resources in areas with agricultural promise to increase production
and to foster field-level coordination of activities to ensure the avail-
ability of an adequate package of support services to farmers. While these
aims have been largely achieved, and it has always been understood that the
Ministries would eventually assume responsibility for these programs, there
has been considerable uncertainty about the timing and means of actually
achieving this. The development of IADPs has led to a dual system of agricul-
tural services in the field, with predictable consequences of duplication,
confusion and unbalanced development. At the same time, Government's



- 7 -
counterpart commitment to these externally funded projects has been a major
contributing factor to the shortage of resources for the Ministry's own
operations.
2.05     Organizational Problems.  In spite of this duplication, the develop-
ment of the IADPs has not slowed expansion of the Ministries' own staffing,
particularly in daily-paid categories. Excluding the IADPs, MAF and MNR had a
staffing of about 12,250 in 1981, or one employee for each 25-30 farming
families. Of this staff, only 11% is technical, 1% administrative, and 88%
support staff. Most of the latter are daily paid clerks or unskilled laborers
mostly concentrated in MAF, whose functions are ill-defined. The result of
this high staffing level is that for 1982/83 daily wages account for 51% of
the recurrent cost estimates of MAF. This share has been rapidly increasing
at the expense of operation and maintenance, and therefore of continuing
operations, thus undermining the Ministry's ability to provide services to
farmers.
2.06     The result of this overall situation has been a near eclipse of
MAF/MNR and a general malaise in the public services supporting agrioulture,
which can only get worse unless specific steps are takea to tackle it. Head-
quarters' weakness has resulted in inadequate coordination and supervision of
the various externally funded activities. The two ministries have a develop-
ment budget of Le 53 million (US$21 million) in 1983/84, of which Le 11
million is from domestic sources and Le 42 million represents external
funding. This budget covers a total of 70 ongoing projects, of which 34 are
receiving external funding. The IADPs represent about 44% of the total
development budget for agriculture. Headquarters' weakness has resulted in
inadequate coordination and supervision of these various externally funded
activities and the Ministries have not been able to develop a coherent overall
program for development of the sector. This results in large part from the
wholly inadequate level of staffing at senior levels in the two Ministries.
The present staffing provision at Grade G and above, i.e., Principal Agricul-
tural Officer or equivalent and above is 32 to manage an operational staff of
1,360, plus support and laboring staff of over 10,000. It has been recom-
mended that for an effectively staffed combined Ministry, a staffing of about
110 in these management categories would be required. Some equivalent manage-
ment staff are engaged in the IADPs, but even including an input from that
source, senior management in this structure is stretched far too thinly.
2.07     Major institutional and policy changes will be necessary to improve
the effectiveness and reduce the cost of these agricultural services. Govern-
ment is greatly concerned over the deficient performance, and there is a
widespread desire throughout MAF for an improved operating environment which
would allow more effective participation in relevant development programs. It
has now been agreed in principle that MAF and MNR will be combined, and IADP
staff and operations merged with the combined Ministry, starting with the
Eastern IADP. The Eastern IADP (Cr. 1094-SL, 1981) provided for such a merger
of Eastern IADP, but no specific plan of action was included in that project
and implementation has been delayed. It is intended that the reorganization
of MAF and MNR should aim to im;rove efficiency of services to agriculture,
both in terms of use of resources and of impact on production, and to develop
an organizational structure which is manageable but, at the same time,



flexible enough to effectively implement programs and allow for change in a
developing situation. More specifically, the approach would place em)hasis on
(i) reducing the scope of activities of the ministerial organization and
assisting the private sector to develop its capacity to assume responsibility
in areas such as production (e.g., oil palm and rubber estates), provision of
inputs (e.g., credit, contracting services for land preparation, seeds,
fertilizer and chemicals) and marketing; (ii) establishing a more efficient
and flexible operational and financial management system; and (iii) improving
strategic and operational planning for the Ministry.
2.08     Planning.  Many of the operational problems identified in earlier
studies of the Ministries are both causes and consequences of inadequate
planning. The proposed reorganization of MAF and MNR, and merger with the
IADPs, should result in decentralization of operating responsibilities to the
regions. This would mean a shift at national level from responsibility for
management of field operations to an emphasis on strategy, planning and the
development of programs and implementation guidelines for regional and local
units.
2.09     Financial Management. The current financial management and accounting
system is a serious obstacle to the efficient and effective performance of
necessary functions within the agricultural sector.  Normal Government dis-
bursement procedures are too rigid, require too many approvals and involve too
many organizational units (Working Paper 1). Although IADPs and other
external donor-funded projects employ different and more efficient systems,
they are not uniform among themselves and are operated outside the normal
Financial Regulations of Government. It is essential, therefore, that finan-
cial management and accounting systems are reorganized and harmonised, that
disbursement procedures within the Ministry of Finance are decentralized and
that an internal audit section is established. A financial reorganization
study to design a new system commuenced in July 1983. The study was carried
out by Pannell, Kerr and Foster (PKF) of UK/Sierra Leone, under IDA TA Credit
970-SL, and a draft report was submitted to Government, late 1983.
2.   Support Services
2.10     Research, Training and Extension.  Adequate performance by extension
staff requires relevant information based on applied research to extend to
farmers and training in effective techniques for the communication of that
information. In Sierra Leone, agricultural research has not been efficient2y
or effectively designed, coordinated, managed or applied and funding has beenL
inadequate. An adequate foundation for a training program has not therefore
been established. Research is carried out by the Rokupr Rice Research Station
(RRRS) and the Njala University College (NUC). There is insufficient
coordination between them and MAF and there is no national research policy.
RRRS is financially supported by UNDP and the West African Rice Development
Association (WARDA) (headquartered in Liberia), and there is collaborative
research with overseas centers, including the International Institute of
Tropical Agriculture (IITA) in Nigeria. In 1979, the USAID-financed Adaptive
Crop Research and Extension project became operational at NUC and is now
providing data for the formulation of technical packages. For tree crops,
there are no research programs other than a few isolated field trials. The



-9-
extension and training office within MAF currently operates staff training
programs, whereas farmers' training is carried out by IADPs. British tech-
nical assistance has just completed the construction at Njala of a new college
for middle level agricultural extension staff.
2.11     The field level extension agent is the Agricultural Technician
(AT). Performance at this level is generally agreed to be unsatisfactory.
The ATs have little formal training, receiving only six months of pr'l-service
training in general agricultural subjeots, and are poorly paid, their annual
salary amounting to only about Le 1,200 (US$480). Staff are reluctant to live
in villages at such low salaries, particularly as family committments
increase. Therefore turnover is high and the average level of experience
low. These problems are compounded by lack of in-service training and by
unsystematic supervision.
2.12     Input Supply.  Input supplies for smallholders (principally
fertilizer) are handled mainly by the IADPs. Except for the IADPs and private
companies such as Aureole Tobacco, fertilizer is only imported by MAF, but the
shortage of foreign exchange has drastically limited imports in the past two
years. Sales by MAP and IADPs are at subsidized levels fixed by Government.
Under credit 1094, Government agreed that this subsidy (now 60-70% following
devaluation) would be phased out. Agricultural chemicals are imported and
sold by the private sector. Improved rice seed is produced by outgrowers
under the German-financed Seed Multiplication Project. Cocoa and coffee
seedlings have been produced from local seed gardens but, as with oil palms,
the practice is now to import improved seed from the Ivory Coast. In the
longer term, there appears to be no reason why supply of fertilizers and
chemicals, in particular, and possibly seeds, should not be left entirely to
the private sector. However, in the short term, some steps need to be taken
to ensure timely availability of foreign exchange for a basic level of
Importation of essential agricultural inputs, in order to enable production to
be increased in response to improved price incentives resulting from the
devaluation of the leone.
2.13     Credit.  There is no countrywide agricultural credit system for small
farmers in the country. Currently, the main sources of agricultural credit
are the IADPs. Under the Eastern Project, an independent Farmers Finance
Company was established to facilitate provision of credit and inputs. The
other projects engage in credit activity directly through commercial services
sections. As a source of credit, the IADPs have had mixed results. The Bank
of Sierra Leone (BSL) has had the situation under review for some time. A
workshop on Agricultural Credit and Banking in 1978 initiated a proposal for
development of a rural banking network, based on systems in the Philippines
and Ghana. The rural banks would be local institutions, receiving deposits
and making loans within a limited geographic area. Following study, a modest
start has been made with the establishment of one rural bank in 1983 with BSL
assistance; and it appears to be working successfully, two other banks will be
opened in 1985. This approach appears appropriate in the circumstances.



- 10 -
2.14     At the present time, for a variety- of reasons linked to the previous
overvaluation of the leone and the tying up of large funds in the foreign
exchange pipeline, the banking system in Sierra Leone is excessively liquid.
Hlowever, because of lack of security the banks are hesitant to move beyond the
few private commercial enterprises in lending to agriculture. It is possible
that rural banks backed by BSL could obtain adequate funds for agricultural
lending from the onmmercial banks. However, if government borrowing require-
ments remain high and commercial activity picks up, the availability of funds
for agricultural lending could be limited. In order to foster the growth of
banks in rural areas, and continued commercialization of agriculture, con-
sideration might be given to adoption of measures to reserve a minimum share
of commercial bank lending for agricultural purposes, at least a part of which
could be channeled through the banks.
2.15     Machinery Services.  In order to stimulate increased rice production,
and in the absence of any privately operated agricultural contracting services,
MAF established a tractor fleet to undertake land preparation. This activity
has presented continual problems, charges have never covered costs, controls
over tractor operation have been weak, aad the service has been dependeat upon
Government subventions. Shortage of Government funds and particularly of
foreign exchange has led to a lack of fuel and spare parts, which has drasti-
cally reduced the capacity of the MA? services. The principal result of the
decline in services has beea to undercut the efforts of those farmers who were
attempting to develop coastal and riverain areas for rice production. That
such problems are not endemic to the country is shown by the much more satis-
factory performance of the Torma Bum Rice Development Authority which,
however, does have the advantage of operating larger areas well suited to
mechanical cultivation. It has now been generally agreed that means must be
fould to turn the MAY machinery services over to the private sector and to
eliainate the subsidies now being given.
2.16     Marketing.  The major agricultural marketing institution is the
Sierra leone Produce Marketing Board, which is part of the Ministry of Trade
and Industries. The SLPMB markets the main export crops and fixes product
prices for export crops after consultation with Government. Purchasing,
grading, storage and transportation to central collection points are the
responsibilities of a network of Liceased Buying Agents, a system which seems
to work satisfactorily. They are paid on the basis of the producer price,
fixed overheads, and profit margins.  The National Agricultural Produce
Company (IAPCO) is a subsidiary of the SLPMB and is essentially its trading
arm, being involved in rice trading and processing and export crop
purchasing. Surplus production of rice and groundnuts is small, the market
highly fragmented and transport difficult. SLPMB indicates that they are
willing in prinoiple to purchase paddy at the guaranteed price at their
depots, but acoess to them is difficult for most farmers. Purthermore, their
domestic purchases only amounted to 5,000 tons in 1982/83, since, at the high
official rate of exchange, a significant margin could be made on importation
of rice.   Limited amounts have been taken in by IADPs mainly as loan repay-
ment. Improved access to marketing channels, as well as appropriate prices,
will be necessary if local production is to be expanded to replace imports.



11 -
2.17     Parastatals.  The major parastatals involved in crop production and
processing, other than SLPMB and NPCO,  are the Gambia-4attru Oil Pali.t
Company (GMOPC) and the Daru Oil Palm Company (DOPC). These two operatioas
have a total processing capacity of 21 tons fresh fruit bunches (ffb) per hour
and their own plantations of 3,600 ha. They are also supported by about 3,400
ha of smallholder plantings.  A second phase loan for GMOPC is under negotia-
tion with African Development Bank (ADB), which would include new smallholder
planting of about 2,000 ha. The financial performance of the mills has been
poor and has been seriously affected by the lack of a commercial approach,
inefficient, very low throughput processing operations, and low outgrower
response to the opportuni y to sell fruit bunches to the mill, due to the
unattractive prices fixed i'y Government at the mill gate.  The production of
outgrowers' fruit bunches is estimated at 14,000 tons per year, but less than
10% of this quantity is sold to the mill.  Under these coaditions, the farmer
prefers to process by traditional, inefficient methods at home and sell either
on the Goverament-controlled wholesale market, or freely on the retail market.
The mills have been seriously affected by lack of foreign exchange for design
modifications and spares, and of workshop and process control laboratory
facilities. Following mill modifications and repair, and with improvement of
millgate prices, the delivery of fruit bunches to the mills is expected to
iaprove sufficiently to allow economic quantities of fruit bunches to be
processed.  Rehabilitation of the GMOPC is to be financed under the proposed
ADB loan. Similar improvements are required at DOPC. It is desirable that
toth enterprises be privatized. A major Sierra Leone producer of soaps,
vegetable oils, and fats has expressed an interest in taking a major share in
a merged enterprise.
2.18     Private Commercial Enterprises.  A limited number of commercial
enterprises do exist, principally in the fishing sector and related to provi-
sion of supplies to the higher income consumers, e.g., meat and poultry.
Beyond these the most significant activity is in the tobacco sub-sector where
the Aureole Tobacco Company is now expanding local production significantly.
The company has its own field extension staff and in 1983 had 6,500 contract
growers with a total of 1,050 ha under tobacco. Provision of inputs and
curing is fully controlled by the company, which plans to expand its operation
to cover 2,225 ha through 14,000 growers by 1986. The company is fully
satisfied with local grower performance and has started a limited export of
high quality fire-cured leaf.
C. The Incentive Framework
2.19     Past pricing policies of the Government have had a serious effect on
agricultural production, mainly because of the exchange rate policy. The
overvalued leone imposed low producer prices. In the case of main export
crops, coffee and cocoa, the farmgate prices were further lowered because of
the 30% export tax. As a result of low producer prices, there was a marked
increase in smuggling of coffee and cocoa to Liberia, amounting to about 30%
of production, according to come estimates. In the case of rice, although
there has been an official Government minimum price, this has normally been
below actual market prices and, therefore, inoperative. Through SLPMB,
Government has been the sole rice importer in recent years, and because of the



- 12 -
overvalued exchange rate, this has been a profitable activity for the agency,
especially since market prices have beea close to that implied by the
unofficial exchange rate,
2.20     Some steps to address these problems have been taken in connection
with the support agreement with the IMF. The official value of the currency
was adjusted from Le 1.25 to Le 2.50 per US dollar in July 1983, following a
period in which a parallel commercial market for foreign exchange was
operating.  The Goverament minimum price for husk paddy was raised from
Le 12 to Le 18 per bushel in early 1983; in July 1983 SLPIB buying prices for
coffee and cocoa were raised from Le 1,904 to Le 3,472 and from Le 1,568 to Le
3,034 per ton respectively. Considerably increased interest in production of
these crops has been reported. However, due to the chronic shortage of
foreign exchange, an unofficial market still exists and it remains to be seen
if these prices will continue to provide an adequate inceative.
2.21     Given the limited level of oommercialization of agriculture and the
potential for local monopsonistic situations to arise, there will remain a
need, even after the interim period of adjustment to the new exchange regime,
for a mechanism of guaranteed buyiag prices, in order to provide producers
with some guidance and security. In the past, the problem of low producer
prices has been compounded by delays in price adjustments. As a result, price
signals have often been too late for producers to respond, and delayed
announcements of price often caused disruptions in the market. Intermini-
steral review of proposals on agricultural prices and taxes prior to sub-
mission to Cabinet has been uneven, and MAF has lacked an adequate data base
on agricultural production and farm prices, or the analytical capability to
adequately fill its role in this area of agricultural price formulation.
Technical assistance is required to establish a data base and carry out
s-icing analysis.
D. The Technological Base
2.22     Virtually all production in Sierra Leone is undertaken by small-
holders and production systems are characterized by low-input/low-output
traditional technologies, which have undergoae little change. The major
opportunities for improvement are judged to be in lowland rice production, use
of mechanical power for cultivation, and improvement of perennial crops.
2.23     Lowland Rice.  Rice is now  largely produced in upland areas under
shifting cultivation. Because of steady population growth, fallow periods
have been progressively reduced until the systea now threatens to break down.
About 16% of the country consists of low Lying "swamplands," much of which is
potentially suitable for agricultural use. Considerable efforts have been
made by IADPs and others, e.g., lGOs, to stimulate use of inland valley swamps
for rice production, but in many cases the water control structures were
poorly constructed and maintained.  The reasons for the limited development of
local valley bottom swamp areas are complex.  They include lack of experience
in hydraulic engineering or hydrological data in the country, lack of
expertise among small farmers in the construction and maintenance of small
water control structures, lack of technical support to farmers following
initial conastruction, socio-cultural factors, the fact that user rights over



- 13 -
these areas are sometimes not clear, the lack of draught power for cultivation
and labor constraints (seasonal requirements and intra-farily division of
labor). There is a need to develop central technical expertise at Ministry
headquarters in this area, drawing upon existing experience in the IADPs etc.,
to develop an agreed approach more attuned to farmers' situations, and to
improve the capability of extension staff to assist farmers.  An  'AO-fuaded
engineer has been in Sierra Leone for six months initiating such a prograa,
but his funding will terminate before mid-1984.
2.24     Mechanization.  Labor, rather than End, is the main constraint on
agricultural production in Sierra Leone. Inoreases in labor productivity in
annual crop agriculture have been held back by lack of an affordable non-human
power source. Most agricultural field operations are carried out by hand
;iathods, although, particularly in the swampland and the savannah upland of
the northern regions, use of additional draught power would improve the timing
of operations and conditions for plant growth. Use of animal traction has
been hindered by the prevalence of tsetse over most of the country.  A project
carried out by NUC has succeeded in demonstrating the feasibility of using the
small indigenous N'dama cattle for cultivation and transportation operations,
with specially designed equipnent. This program is being expanded with ODA
and EEC support to include local fabrication of about 100 oxploughs and
toolbars. Use of large tractors has also been promoted, and MAY set up a
mechanical cultivation scheme or equipment fleet to carry out land preparation
for rice production. This operation has had many problems and it is proposed
to privatize the services (para 2.15).   The development of private sector
services has been inhibited by low prices charged in MAY scheme. Use of power
tillers has been Limited to date.  The Rokupr Rice Research Station has been
carrying out trials with the latter machines in the swamps for some time.
These indicate the feasibility of the tillers under Sierra Leonean conditions,
and they are likely to be particularly attractive for use in small lowland
swamp areas.  Consideration might be given to channeling agricultural credit
through dealers for purchase of these tillers.
2.25     Perennial Crops.  The major cash crops in the country, coffee and
cocoa, are perennials.  Almost 100,000 ha of these crops exist, almost all of
which are of low-yielding, unimproved materials and nuch of which is over-
aged.  Oil palm is also an important crop and is mainly harvested from semi-
wild groves of palms which are found over much of the country, although about
15,000 ha oil palms have been developed in smallholdings and public sector
plantations, of which sorme 30%, formerly under the control of SLPMB, is now
semi-abandoned.   Generally, management of the public sector oil palm planta-
tions has been inefficient (para. 2.17).  Some efforts have been made to
rehabilitate or replant coffee and cocoa.  There is a need to increase the
availability of improved planting material for coffee, cocoa, and oil palm to
enable an expansion of the rehabilitation program.



- 14 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Project Strategy
3.01     The preceding analysis has shown that the agricultural sector in
Sierra Leone faces a three-fold set of problems at the present time which
require to be addressed.  These are:  firstly, a need to streamline the
institutional framework for the sector so as to improve the management of
ongoing development efforts and to concentrate efforts of the Mi1inistry in
areas where public sector input is essential; secondly, the severe foreign
exchange shortage haB reduced the availability of spare parts, fuel, fertil-
izers, and other essentiaL inputs required to sustain existing levels of
production; and thirdly, there is a continuing need to enhance the productive
potential of the sector through appropriate investments.  As discussed in
paras 1.13-1.15, it therefore appeared appropriate for IDA!IFAD to focus on
sectoral support to address these issues rather than to continue with a
narrower project approach.
3.02     The proposed project is national in scope and addresses these key
priorities of the sector.  It would combine elements of sectoral reform,
principally institutional reorganization, with import fiaiancing aad specific
investment items. These three sets of components are closely related.
Reorganization cannot take place in an operatioaal vacuum or where basic
operational needs are not available. At the same time, existin.g organiza-
tional arrangements are hampering the effectiveness of ongoing programs.  ahe
most important of the proposed reforas have either been taken prior to
negotiations/board presentation or are linked to credit disbursements through
a monitorable action program.
3.03     At appraisal, Government gave its full support to the proposed
sectoral approach.  T   early positive initiatives which Government has taken
on devaluation, farm  rices for rice, cocoa aad coffee, privatization of the
Gambia-Mattru Oil Pa   Company and the MAY tractor fleet, and the favorable
reception to reorgan zation, provide a promising prospect for reform. A major
reorientation, as i proposed here, will require more than the three years of
the proposed projec to achieve its full impact. However, the project, with
its strong institu ionfal and policy focus, would provide the basis for a more
coherent subseque  program of externally funded activities, either on a
sector or sub-eec or basis (e.g., irrigation, tree crops, forestry) or on a
specific area/pro ect basis.
B.  Brief Descri tion
3.04     The ma n features of the project would be:
(a) A Plan of Action to be undertaken by the Government of Sierra Leome
with the following principal elements:
(i) a rationalization of the institutional framework in the agri-
cultural sector through a merger of RAF and MNR; a reorgani-
zatlon of the merged ministry ( Ministry of Agriculture and



- 15 -
Natural Resources - MANR) based on decentralizaticn of field
operations to regioaal offices, integration of IADPs with this
structure; privatization of Ministry operations in mechanical
land preparation and oil palm production and processing;
(ii)  enhancement of Ministry operations through reorganization of
financial and accounting systems, establishment of staff
development and training units and developnent of appropriate
training programs, development of improved planning and
monitoring systems, reduction of the excessive daily-paid labor
force, and improvement ia coordination arrangements for research
and training; and
(iii) improvement of policy-making in agricultural pricing and
taxation through formalisation of an interministerial committee
in this area and development of an appropriate data base and
analytic capability in MANR.
(b) Financing under the project is primarily designed to support this
series of measures and to strengthen on-going programs and would
include:
(i) Institutional Support
-   provision of essential vehicles, office and field equipment,
and supplies for KANR; and
-   consultancy services for implenentation of new planning,
management, financial and accounting systems-, support of
newly created Staff Development and Training Units, and in-
service training of NANR staff.
(ii) Sectoral Support
-   provision of foreign exchange for financing key imports for
the sector, including fertilizer; spare parts for tractor
rehabilitation; tractors and implements; power tillers; ox-
ploughs; livestock drugs; repairs; and equipment for the
Daru Oil Kill; and
-   establishment of an Agricultural Development Fund into which
leone funds obtained from the sale of key imports would be
placed.
(iii) Program Support
-   planting of 4,400 ha of coffee, 1,900 ha oil palm, and fruit
trees; rehabilitation of 1,000 ha of old coffee;



- 16 -
provision of professional services and equipment to
establish a Drainage and Irrigation Unit and provide in-
service training; execution of an investigation/demonstra-
tion program of swamp development over 500 ha; collection of
hydrological data in areas for potential swamp development;
financing the foreign exchange requirements of the extension
of Magbosi IADP by some 12 months to end 1986; and
provision of foreign exchange to cover external coasts of
small sub-projects to be identified, prepared and
implemented by MANR.
C. Detailed Features
1.   Plan of Action
3.05     The series of measures which have been or will be taken over the life
of the project are summarized in the Tables on page 17-19. This Table
distinguishes between those actions which have already been taken since
Government decided to undertake a major reorganization of the Kinistry and the
IADPs, and steps to be taken in future, through the project period. These
steps are divided into three categories: studies, program development, and
actions, Studies are designed to provide the necessary analytical base where
this does not exist; program development consists of the formulation of
specific goals and targets and of plans for achieving them; and actions are
specific measures undertaken by Government in order to implement these plans.
Disbursement of funds for importation under the Sectoral Support component
would be linked to satisfactory implementation of specific dated actions under
this Plan of Action. These dated actions are summarized on page 23.
2.   Institutional Support
3.06     Vehicles and Equipment.  The work of the Ministry is currently
greatly hampered by lack of vehicles, office supplies and operating equip-
ment. A preliminary estimate of US$1.3 million has been made (US$150,000 for
each region and each headquarters division) to provide for basic upgrading of
these facilities of the reorganized ministry, i.e., a total of approximately
60 vehicles plus basic field and office equipment.
3.07     Professional Services.  There are three broad objectives of providing
technical assistance under this Project: (a) to assist the MANR in its
reorganization to develop appropriate management, financial and staff devel-
opment systems; (b) to strengthen lANR's capacity in economic and policy
analysis and the required data base; and (c) to meet specific technical needs,
e.g., in small-scale irrigation and extension training.



PIMN  F A
T. Rationalization of Inteniational Prais,rk
FIR T                                 AMCI1N AL1REA   M                                        SE    TO    TAME
I. -trger of m   ard M1R                    Ppprved by President. December M983
2. Rarganization of KWR                      (LtLine Stnture of Mintstry agread
in principte by Cabinet.
3. Rea]JInnt of Staff                        Outline staffing pattem within above       kction. MWer sawve of Mlnistry In process and to be
stuue  has bese agreed.                    campleted by Septelber 30. 1984.
4. Integration of IADPs                      1. Wrksop hld Febxryfthri to              Actien. Eastern Wion nerger to be fully operationl by Octobr 1,
prepare beaiquarters staff al MIF and lR   1984.
ard Eastern region staff of mdnistries
ano EIADP for reorgaization.
2. Oda Regional officer for Eastern         P       D   a    . By Jue 30, 1985, integration of the rmainig
Region appointed. To be responsible for    six tDPs shIrn  have -mmenced or plans to do sa 1 l;ter then
unnagree"t of EIADP.                       Cctober 1, 1986, hbae been prepared, foloJng dlscfsons with the
relevant donor agencies. .                                                   1
5. Priwatizatinm of Tractor Fleet            Minstry has identified 100 tractors        Actiom.  RPinirg fifty tracors to be ola by July ], 1984 in
whicd are In caitable amition for          existing oc,tim
repair and sale. Fifty have bese           Action. EstblAs1u,t of joint ventue for eales and back-op
rebabilitated and sold to fanirrs.         serv3ce of tractors ad equpmt tader terns and cm-itins
acceptable to ML
6. Privatizatfir of Daru Oil Palm OD.                                                   Action. Fstabliduwnt of a joint veltur  eapmy to take mer
operations acceptable to LA.



" aw UllO
II. qRrt   irtut
1. Reanrgaizaim and Fiacial and             Ctract bas bees awated to Famell,           Action. bplemntatiuns t be cmlaxted by Septauiez 30, 19B6.
kAtiLng System               Krr, and Foster for thleta   stl
of finaIal M           ag n    acaxmMting
sstems in FWIK,. T1brk camenced July
1, 1983. Draft first phase report on
exdsting system, with desigi of proposed
tw systeQ to iqpruwe a SL system and
incorporate IIADs, delivered Dec. 15, 1983.
2. Persoorn  nogamnt and ftaining
(a)  Institutional Akrsnganmc.                                                      Action. Staff Deuelopzut and Trainig Ulrbts to be ostablimAed in
by Septater 30, 1984.
Actim. Nationl  8richtu]tul 5b1ainrg lbrkdig Ixbg to be
establis'ed by Septceber 3D. 194.
(b) Radtcticr of Daily-4ge Labor                                                    Actine. BReiditure in real tens to be redued by 35Z frmn leel
Tenditure                                                                      of July 1983:
(i) E O0tber 1, 1984         1(z
(ii) By Otobe 1, 198          1t
(i)  ByOctobr 1, 1986          10!
(iv) ByOctuhs 1, 1987          S2
(c) Persomel Brahatian Sysee n                                    t. Ssten to be de                                          l by Ae 30, 1983.
(d) Traing                                                                             De t   lb    ad Nana1 Resumo Trt
Pmgran to be drafted by Deacaer 31, 19B5.
3. Research and lteasim                                                                 Actio,.  E;tab iis-i of g1rwduwal Reserc (         iai
O=cUl by Septuber 3D, 1984.
Pmrm  .m       t  Preprtion of Natinl Agria-dcal
ReFseardi oblcy aid fla  by  raj,er 31, 19B5.
4. Plamn       adx! Manitorirg Sstem
(a)   lmi Angctionn  Oeatial. pies for the six aw regw s ca erfrg Pi
tD be prepared by Septeie 1984.
Acti-. ab-puject pr s  tD be prpae  by regp    ad
subditcel tO Ma  for aWwal for firmeig fmn Agr. Dev. Frd.
(b) 1mitorzig                                                                       Action. Intal fomnts for amu,tly eel quarterl-y qrI:ix
system  to be desiVd by DeTmber 1984.
5. TFte Reswrcs Deeslopit                                                               Action. Dr3inage ad irigation tbit to be esablished in Land
nd 4hter De      _t Divi  by Septmber 30, 1984.



l.t
Iii [Rt  lE  III
3   |- 61 -'           |



- 20 -
3.08     To assist in the reorganization of the Ministry, the following expert
staff and professional services would be needed: (a) a management advisor to
develop management systems and procedures for the Ministry; (b) a staff
development and training advisor to assist in defining manpower needs, avail-
able skills and training programs; (c) financial consultants to assist in
establishing agreed accounting and financial management systems; (d) a finan-
cial controller to be responsible for financial control of externally funded
projects; (e) a monitoring and evaluation adviser to develop improved manage-
ment and policy oriented data systems; (f) nine man-months assistance in
orientation, management and planning workshops for senior and middle manage-
ment and staff personnel at headquarters and regional levels, and other
training activities. These inputs would total 153 man-months, of which 63
man-months would be financed under the ongoing UNDP-financed Integrated
Agricultural Development Project (SIL/80/004) (Annex 3-1).
3.09     Assistance in the area of economic and policy analysis is being
provided under the latter UNDP project to PEMSU (Planning Division) coraprising
two positions until mid-1986, which would be supplemented under the proposed
project. This combined support would comprise: (a) a senior planning and
economic advisor to strengthen the division's capacity to undertake agricul-
tural policy analysis and sectoral and project planning; (b) an economist in
pricing and marketing to establish a section responsible for this work; and
(c) 24 man-months of short-term assistance for specific planning studies.
Positions (a) and (b) are new and recruitment is currently underway. Staff
are expected to be in post in May/June 1984. The project would fund these
inputs to the extent of 60 man-months over the project period, out of the
total provision of 96 man-months.
3.10     Additional assistance would be provided in specific technical areas
required to support principal project activities; (a) an irrigation engineer
to establish the Drainage and Irrigation Unit in the Land and Water Develop-
ment; (b) a rural credit adviser to monitor IADP credit operations; (c) an
extension training adviser to strengthen and develop extension methods in the
reorganised ministry and IADPs; and (d) a rural banking adviser to assist BSL
in establishing pilot rural banks. This assistance would total 120 man-
months. In addition, a total of 36 man-months of short-term assistance would
be provided for hydrological investigations, work with farmers associations,
and other specific tasks.
3.11     Total assistance to be financed under the project would amount to 306
man-months. At negotiations, assurances were obtained from Government that
all these positions would be held by suitably qualified and experienced
individuals acceptable to IDA (para 8.02(a)).
3.12     Seventeen additional man-months of short-term technical assistance
are being provided to MANR during the pre-project period January-September
1984 (financed under the PPF) in order to ensure as smooth a transition as
possible during the initial period of reorganization. Initial emphasis has
been placed on orientation and planning workshops for senior and middle
management and staff personnel at headquarters and regional levels and imple-
mentation of the MANR manpower survey. Two consultants have been engaged for
the first series of workshops held in February/March. Emphasis would also be



- 21 -
placed on assisting MANR in the establishment of appropriate planning and
management systems, detailed analysis of existing budgets and manpower in all
externally funded projects, integration of Eastern IADP, and the preparation
of the initial regional work programs for the merged Ministry for implementa-
tion during FY1.
3.13     An important feature of technical assistance under the terms of the
Project would be integration of at least the central core of advisers into a
team with the senior management adviser acting as team leader. The team would
be required to develop Annual Technical Assistance Work Plans in conjunction
with the Annual Work Programs of the MANR. It is anticipated that a single
agency would be contracted to apply the required expertise. This approach
would also increase the flexibility of the project to respond to changing
manpower needs.
3.   Sectoral Support
3.14     Import Financing.  The project would finance the landed cost of key
imports reqaired to sustain Sierra Leone's principal agricultural development
programs:
(a) Fertilizer. It is estimated that the country's unfunded fertilizer
requirements will rise from 8,000 tons in 1985 to 13,500 tons in
1987. It is proposed under the project to provide financing for
8,000 tons per year. It is assumed that increased requirements above
this level would be met from other sources.
(b) Veterinary Supplies. Based on existing requirements of MNR, a total
of US$100,000 would be provided for imports of essential veterinary
suppli es.
(c) Operating Equipment. A total of US$50,000 per year would be provided
for essential spare parts for Ministry vehicles and equipment.
(d) Agricultural Machinery and Equipment. The project would provide
(from PPF funds) US$180,000 for spare parts required to provide an
adequate supply for 100 tractors from the current MAF fleet which
will be sold to the private sector. The project would finance basic
inicrt requirements amounting to 75 tractors of 65-75 hp, 35 small
tractors of 25 hp, to augment and replace the existing fleet, 300
power tillers, and land preparation implements and spare parts. This
quantity of equipment would provide for eventual replacement of the
existing ministry fleet by the private sector and allow for a modest
increase in the fleet, to permit up to 20,000 ha to be cultivated
mechanically per year. Testing of oxploughs under Sierra Leonean
conditions has been undertaken, and 100 of the preferred designs have
been fabricated. The project would provide components for fabrica-
tion of an additional 700 ploughs.



- 22 -
(e)  Daru Oil Mill.  The project would provide the foreign exchange cost
of the required fruit handling, laboratory, workshop and oil storage
facilities at the mill, and of required replacement parts, at an
estimated total cost of US$550,000.
3.15     Funding for importation of these materials and equipment for agricul-
tural production support would be released in three annual tranches at the
beginning of each project year (projected to begin in September). MANR would
submit to IDA a proposal annually, estimating requirements for the following
project year with appropriate supporting material for this program. It is
anticipated that expenditure for this purpose would be relatively uniform as
between project years, and IDA review would take this factor into considera-
tion. Release of funds for each of the tranohes would be contingent upon
fulfillment of agreed elements of the Action Program, as shown in the Table on
page 23, on which agreement was reached at negotiations (para 8.01).
4.   Program Support
3.16     Tree Crop Development.  During the three-year project period, the
tree crop area would be expanded through planting of 4,400 ha of coffee and
1,900 ha oil palm with high-yielding materials, and planting of 700 ha of
bananas/plantains and fruit trees with improved planting materials. 1,000 ha
of existing old coffee would be rehabilitated. The planting and rehabilita-
tion programs would be phased as shown in Annex 3-2. These programs would be
implemented in the Northern and Eastern Provinces where they would extend and
strengthen programs already initiated under the IDA-financed IADPs. Two
different approaches would be taken to the organization of the planting
programs:
(a)  Where satisfactory input supply, credit and extension arrangements
exist, farmers would receive a relatively low-cost package for up to
2 ha, comprising seedlings, planting materials for intercropping,
fertilizer, agricultural chemicals, credit and extension.
(b)  Larger farmers would be provided with similar inputs to those in (a)
above, on the basis of cash payment at cost. With coffee, some
100-200 farmers of this type would be selected, and with oil palm,
35-70 farmers. Each farmer would be entitled to purchase inputs for
up to 10-20 ha.
3.17     Planting criteria for soil, climate, topography, location, and farm
access would be established by MANR. Agreement to this effect was obtained at
negotiations (para 8.02(b)). Coffee and oil palm would be planted mainly in
Eastern Province; and also in Northern Province in areas where conditions are
suitable. Emphasis would be placed on intercropping coffee with
bananas/plantains and cocoyams, and oil palms with upland rice and groundnuts
during the early, non-bearing years. The oil palm planting program would be
based upon low-cost handpresses, inserted into an improved traditional on-farm
processing system. Fruit trees, citrus and mango, would be planted in
Northern Provinee as an extension of the ongoing program.



- 23 -
Summary of Conditions for Release for Punds for Productian Support
Para.    Ref. to Tables
Ref.     on Pages 17-19
Tranche 1 - October 1, 1984
1.  Reduction of Daily Wage Expenditure in MANR by 10%
from July 1983 level.                                        5.14     II. 2 (b)
2.  Completion of Operational Merger of Eastera IADP.            5.07      I.4
3.  Establishment of Pricing and Marketing Section in MANR   5.40          III.2
4. Establishment of National Agricultural Trainiiig
Working Group.                                               5.16     11.2 (a)
5. Establishment of National Agricultural
Research Coordinating Council.                               5.16     II.3
6. Reduction of fertilizer subsidy to 50%
of ex-warehouse cost.                                        5.42     III.5
Tranche 2 - October 1, 1985
1.  Reduction of Daily Wage Expenditure in NOAR by
20% from July 1983 level.                                    5.14     II.2 (b)
2.  Establishment of Staff Development and Training Unit.    5.12          II.2 (a)
3.  Establishment of Personnel Evaluation System.                5.12      II.2 (c)
4. Agreement on Program for Merger of IADPs
with Ministry.                                               5.07     I.4
5. Reduction of fertilizer subsidy to 40% of ex-
warehouse cost, applicable during the 1985                   5.42     III.5
cropping season.
Tranche 3 - October 1, 1986
1. Reduction of Daily Wage Expenditure in MANR by
30% from July 1983 level.                                    5.14     II.2 (b)
2. Initiation of merger of remaining IADPs
with Ministry.                                               5.07     I.4
3. Completion of National Agricultural
Training Program.                                            5.16     II.2 (d)
4. Completion of National Agricultural
Research Policy and Plan.                                    5.16     II.3
5. Completion of program of implementation
of financial and accounting Bystem.                          5.10     1I.1
6. Reduction of fertilizer subsidy to 20% of
ex-warehouse cost, applicable during the 1986
cropping system.                                             5.42     III.5



- 24 -
3.18     Existing nurseries operated by the 1ADPs wou.ld be utilized as central
facilities, where feasible, for receipt of high yielding seed, germination and
development of planting material.  Additional tree crop nurseries would be
established for coffee, oil palm, plantains/bananas, citrus and mango, only as
required for the above program. Under the project, the present trend for
small private nurseries would be encouraged, through subcontracting the pro-
duction of planting material from high yielding seed provided by the central
nurseries.
3.19     Swamp Development.  The primary objective of the proposed swamp
development component is to establish a central technical capability in MANR
in small-scale irrigation, so as to upgrade and support ongoing swamp develop-
ment efforts by the IADPs and MAF and the capability of field staff (para
2.23). The project would provide two irrigatioa engineers and basic equipment
required to establ-sh a Drainage and Irrigation Unit. This would include
survey, recording and office equipment, vehicles and minor construction equip-
meat. The project would also provide for pre-feasibility studies of potential
areas for larger water control programs, principally in the riverain grass-
lands.
3.20     The major field element in this effort would be limited investiga-
tion/demonstration program of swamp development covering about 500 ha in units
of 5-10 ha with sites in all six regions of the country. The program would
involve strict swamp selection criteria, to be finalized by the experts
financed by the project, aad detailed planning of whole swamp development.
The emphasis would be on designing systems, drawing upon experience to date,
which can be constructed by farmers with development phased over two or three
years, to spread the labor requiremeat, and in such a way as to reduce the
risk of flood damage. Construction of drains, bunds and peripheral canals
would be the responsibility of the farmer beneficiaries under the supervision
of MANE or IADP personnel. Th- project would provide cash loans to an amount
of about one-half of the value of the labor undertaken by the farmer. Should
any permanent concrete or masonry structure be necessary, this would be
carried out directly by NANR or IADP staff and the expense borne by the
project. Preliminary designs for two schemes have been agreed upon and
designs for schemes in each annual program would be prepared by September 30
of the year prior to their implementation (para 8.02(c)). Close monitoring of
costs and benefits would be undertaken.
3.21     Magbosi IADP Extension.  External funding of the IFAD-financed
Nagbosi project is due to terminate at end-1985.   This project creates
problems in integration as its boundaries do not coincide with existing admin-
istrative districts and agricultural regions. So as to provide a smooth
transition, the support for the essential agricultural services built up in
the Magbosi area, provision would be made under the Project for extension of
existing agricultural programs at about the same levels for an additional
12 months through December 1986 to coincide with funding for Northern IADP,
with which most of the area would be combined. In terms of crop development,
the incremental areas involved would be about 800 ha of upland rice, 400 ha of
swamp rice, 400 ha of groundnuts, and 100 ha of maize and other minor crops.
The cost of these programs was assessed at appraisal but an assurance was



- 25 -
obtained at negotiations that the Borrower would, no Later than September 30,
1984, furnish IDA and IFAD with detaiLed proposals for the extension of the
Magbosi IADP (para 8.02(d)).
3.22     Agricultural Development Fund.  This fund would be established as a
means of providing leone financing for agricultural development projects and
programs. The fund would comprise those leones received by Government from
the sale of imported materials described above, the foreign exchange for which
is to be provided by the project, and also the proceeds of the sale of the
existing RAF tractors and implements.
3.23     Subprojects.  Resources from the Fund would be used to support
agricultural programs of high developmental priority. These would include
small projects, targetted on local needs and particularly directed at
increasing fooi produotion, which would be prepared and implemented by MANR
(para 5.34). Because of the limitations on availability of foreign exchange
the project would provide a total of US$750,000 to meet foreign exchange costs
of these subprojects.
5.   Training
3.24     An important element of the action program (Tables on pages 17-19)
would be the development of Staff Development and Training Units and the
subsequent preparation of a training program for the Ministry by December 1985
(para 5.16).  A principal focus of the project would be upon in-service train-
ing related to the organizational and operational changes proposed within
MANR. All staff with management responsibilities would undertake workshop-
based training as a part of the process of reorganization. This started in
January 1984, finanoed under the PPF.  In addition, about 400 persons would
receive in-service training in design and implementation of swamp development
and water control schemes. The project would not provide for financing
substantial external study prior to the completion of the program for train-
ing. A total of 11 man-years of external courses would be funded in
accounting, irrigation engineering, and agricultural economics.
6.   Kid-term Review
3.25     Because of the nature of the proposed project, with its heavy
emphasis on institutional changes, it was agreed at negotiations that Govern-
ment, IDA and IFAD would carry out a aid-term review of implementation of the
project before June 30, 1986 (para 8.02(e)). This would involve an evaluation
of progress made in the attainment of the objectives of the project and
consideration of possible changes Ln its structure and implementation. As an
input to this review, Government would prepare by March 31, 1986 a report on
the progress of the project specifying any problems which may have arisen in
its execution.
D. Implementation Schedule
3.26     Project investments and technical assistance would be provided over a
three-year period. The implementation schedule for the Project appears as
Annex 3-3.



- 26 -
IV. PROJECT COST
A. Project Cost
4.01     Total project costs net of identifiable taxes are estimated at
US$28.9 million or Le 72.3 million of which US$22.8 million or 79% would be
foreign exchange requirements. Cost estimates are based on mid-1983 prices
updated to first quarter 1984 and include physical contingencies of 5% on
vehicles, equipment, farm inputs, operations and maintenance, 10% for building
repairs and 15% for swamp development works. Following current practLces, the
project would be exempt from all import duties.  Price contingencies applied
on baseline costs plus physical contingencies are compounded as follows:
Annual Rates                   1984       1985      1986       1987
Local Costs                    30.0       15.0      10.0        7.0
Foreign Costs                  7.5        7.0        6.0        6.0
4.02     The price escalation factor on local costs is ba6ed on the estLmated
annual inflation rate for Sierra Leone assuming a 10% depreciation of the
currency per annum after 1984. Project cost estimates are aumarized in the
Table below. El1timated project expenditures by year (during the implementa-
tion period) and component are shown in Annex 4-1, and by category and
component in Annex 4-2.
Project Cost Sumuny
(Leone Milion)      (UMIlion)           %       Total
Rbreiga   % Base
Local Fbreiga Total  Loml Foreiga TotaL.  Exchange   Cbsts
A. Institutional Spport   1.8  10.0  11.8    0.7   4.0  4.7      85       20
B. Sectorl Sipport       0.2  26.5  26.7    0.1  10.6  20.7      99       46
C. Pgrm  upport
Tree Crop Development  5.6   3.7   9.3    2.2   1.5  3.7     39       16
Swamp Developmnt    1.3   20   4.1    0.6  1.1   1.7         65       7
Magboi Eitension    1.0   1.1   2.1    0.4   0.4   0.8       49       4
Subprjects           -    1.   1.8       -    0.7  0.7    100         3
1). Proj. Prep. Facility    0.1   2.0  2.1    -    0.9   0.9     96        4
TDtal Basane Owts       10-0  47.9  57.9    4.0  19.2  23.2      81      100
P4xical Contingecies   0.4   2.0  2.4    0.1   0.8   0.9       82       4
Price (ontingancies   5.0   7.0  12.0    2.0   2.8   4.8       58      21
Total Project Costs     15.4  56.9  72.3    6.1  22.8  2B.9      79      125



27 -
B. Proposed Financing
4.03     External financing for the proposed project would be provided by IDA
and IFAD.  The proposed financing plan to sBown below.  The proposed IDA
credit of U5$21.5 million would be on standard terms and would finance 74% of
the total project costs.  The balance of project costs vould be met from an
IFAD loan of US$5.4 milLion (19% of project cost), Government US$1.2 miillion
(4%) and project beneficiaries US$0.8 million (3%). Beneficiaries of the tree
crop and swamp development components would contribute about 50% of the labor
input during the development phase, the balanoe being financed fron project
loans.  Along with the IFAD loan, the IDA credit would jointly cover 100% of
the total foreign exchange costs.  In addition, the credit/loan wou.d cover
about US$4.6 million of local costs. The extension of the Magbosi Project
would be finaaced by IFAD and Government.  A condition of IDA credit
effectiveness would be that all conditions precedent to th.e effectiveneas of
the IFAD loan have been fulfLlled (para 8.04(a)).
4.04     In view of financiaL constraints facing the Government of Sierra
Leone, it would be essential for project success to provide pre-financing for
certain categories of project expenditures.  An amount of US$500,000 financed
as an advance from IDA credit and IFAD loan, and comprising about three
months' expenditure on Locally procured items, would be deposited in a Special
Project Accouat at the Bank of Sierra Leone. Opening of the SpeciaL Project
Accouat would be a condition of effectiveness (para 8.04(b)).  The account
should be replenished upon receipt of a disbursement application supported
by:  (a) statement of account showing transaotions and balances certified by
the Central Bank; (b) a reconoiliation of withdrawals with statements of
expenditures and receipts for permitted expendttures; and (a) a reconciliation
of balances with disbursements by, and peading claims to, IDA.  An assurance
was obtained from Government at negotiations that the Special Project Account
would be operated under terms and conditions acceptable to EDA and I-BAD (para
8.02(f)).
Finanacng Plan
Total
Cost    IDA  TUAD   Govt.   Beneficiaries
A.  Tnstitutional Support            4.7    3.7    0.8    0.2
B.  Sectoral Support                10.7    8.6    2.0    0.1             -
C.  Program Support
Tree Crop Development         3.7    2.3    0.6    0.3          0.5
Swamp Development             1.7    1.2    0.3    0.1          0.1
Iagbosi Extension             0.8      -    0.6    0.2             -
Subprojects                   0.7    0.6    0.1       -
D.  Project Preparation Facility    0.9    0.9        -      -            -
Total Base Costs                23.2   17.5    4.4T    0
Physical Contingencies           0.9    0.7    0.2       -
Price Contingencies              4.8    5.5    0.8    0.3           0.2
Total Project Costs             28.9   21.5    5.4    1.2           0.8
Percentage Distribution          100      74     19      4            D



- 28 -
C. Procurement
4.05     All goods and services financed utnder the IDA credit aad IPAD loan
would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.  Procurement arrangernents
are summarized in the Table below:
Amount3 and Methods of Procurement
(US$6 millionT a!
Project Element                     LOB        Other    N.A   Total Cost
Civil Works                                     0.3      -         0.3
-       (0.2)      -        (0.2)
Vehicles and Equipment               7.3        0.7      -         8.0
(5-9)     (0.6)      -       (6.5)
Fertilizers & Chemicals              7.4        0.9      -         8.3
(6.1)     (0.6)      -       (6.7)
Planting Materials                   1.0        2.2      -         3.2
(0.8)     (1.8)      -       (2.6)
Incremental Operating EKpeases        -         1.7     2.8        4.5
-       (0.9)   (0.7)       (1.6)
Training & Tech. Assistance           -         3.7      -         3.7
-       (3-0)      -        (3-0)
PPF re-financing                      -         0.9      -         0.9
-       (0.9)      -        (0.9)
Total                               15.7       10.4     2.8       28.9
- (12.8)   (8.0) (0.7)    (21.5)
a/   Figures in parentheses show amounts financed froz ID)A funds.
4.06     Vehicles, equipment and fertilizers would be grouped wherever
possible into oontracts valued at US$50,000 or more and would be procured
through International Competittve Bidding (ICB). Contracts for small equip-
ment, tools, seeds and chemicals iavolving less than US$50,000, or where
specifications limit the number of poteatial bidders, e.g., for spare parts or
specialized equipment, would be procured through linited international
shopping with at least three price quotations. Planting material will be
produced under force account in IADP nurseries or by private nurseries under
sub-contracts.  Coffee and oil palm seed valued at about US$1.0 million would
be procured through ICB. Incremental operating erpenses include US$2.8
million for staff and labor costs, for which procurement is inapplicable.  The
remaining expenses of US$1.5 million are for fuel, mnaintenance, and supplies
which would be procured by local shopping. Consultants for technical assis-
tance would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines.  All contracts over
US$50,000 each will be subject to prior IDA review, which would cover 90% of
vehicl.es, equipment, chemicals and fertilizers.



- 29 -
D. Disbursements
4.07     Disbursements would be based on the following categories for the
following amounts:
Disbursement Categories of IDA Credit and IFAD Loan
UE$ Million      Percentaee of Ebcpndituzs
Category                      IDA Credit   I1AD Loan  -Fnanced by IDA and IRAD
Civil Wozks                        0.2        0.1    95% of total expenditures
Vehicles, Hquipwnat and            4.7         1.2   10C% of foreign expenditures
Fuzrint                                              and 80% of local expenditures
Fertilizers and Chemicals          6.7        1.6    10% of foreign expenditUre
Planting Material                  1.6        0.4   10C% of foreign ependitures
and 90% of local expenditures
Training and Technical             2.4        0.6   100% of total expenditures
Assistance
Incremental Operating xpenses a/   0.8        0.2    95% of total expenditures
Nagbosi. Etension                    -        0.8    10(% of foreiga expenditures
and 72 of local expendituxes c/
Initial Deposit in Special Account    0.4     0.1
PPF Refinancing                    0.9         -      1la% of total expenditures b/
Unallocated                        3.8        0.4
Total                    21.5         a
a/ Excltuing Msgbosi Extension to be fihnced by IFAD.
b/ PPF refiranced exclusively fran IDA Credit.
c/ Magbosi Extension financed exclusively fr m T-FAD Ioan.
4.08      A schedule of estimated disbursements is in Annex 4-3.  Given the
time slice nature of the project and its limited planned duration, the general
disbursement profile for West Africa was not used to prepare it. Disbursements
against vehicles and equipment, farm equipment, fertilizer, farm inputs,
salaries, and allowances of internationally recruited staff would be fully
documented. Other disbursements would be made against statements of expendi-
ture, which would be verified during project supervision, covering the follow-
ing local cost items: (a) civil works by force account or under contracts of
less than US$10,000 equivalent; (b) contracts of less than US$10,000 equiva-
lent for planting materials, equipment, vehicles and furniture; (c) incremen-
tal operating expenditures; and (d) local training programs. The Financial
Management Unit within the MANR (para 4.09) would be able to maintain adequate
records and accounts for disbursements againat statements of expenditure. In
addition, the project auditors' terms of reference would require them to
verify the statements of expenditure and would include a statement to this
effect in the annual statement of accounts. Disbursements into the Special
Project Account would be made according to the procedures discussed in para
4.09. Assurances were obtained from Government at negotiations that state-
ments of expenditures would be properly maintained and audited for all items
of expenditures not required to be documented and submitted for IDA disburse-
ment (para 8.02(g)).  Disbursements would be completed by 1989.



- 30 -
E. Accounts and Audit
4.09     The Accounting Section of the Planning, Evaluation, Monitoring, and
Services Unit (PEMSU) of MAF, as presently organized, would be transferred to
the Office of the Director, MANR, and redesignated as the Financial Management
Unit (PMU). That unit would continue to be responsible for administering the
accounts of the Project, as well as the IADPs, acoording to prooedures already
established, and for procurement of key imports. In addition, it would be
responsible for preparing budgets and estimates of quarterly cash requirements
for the Project based on appraisal estimates, but amended, where necessary, to
reflect changes in costs and project development polioies. The budgets would
then be submitted to KANR for approval. On the basis of the approved budget,
Government would make appropriate allocations in the MANR budget and release
the necessary funds to MANR quarterly in advanoe. An. internationally
recruited financial controller would oontinue to be employed to head the FMU.
4.10     Government would cause the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Sierra
Leone, and MANR to: (a) establish and maintain separate project-related
accounts, in acoordance with sound accounting practices already established
under the previous projects; (b) have the acoounts audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to IDA; and (c) submit certified copies of the
audited accounts and the auditor's report to IDA within six months of the end
of each project year. In addition to the annual auditing of accounts by
independent auditors, the internal audit unit, which would be established in
MANR's Permanent Secretary's office would: (i) conduct quarterly audits of
Project expenditures; and (ii) submit certified copies of the audited accounts
and quarterly auditor's report to IDA no later than the end of the following
quarter. Assurances were obtained at negotiations that Government would cause
MANR to make satisfactory accounting, auditing, and reporting arrangements and
would ensure that project progress reports and a project completion report are
submitted as specified by IDA (para 8.02(h)).
V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Ministry Reorganization
5.01     Proposed Organization. The proposals for the organization and
management of the Project take into account the integration of two Ministries
(MAP and MNR) into a single Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
(MANR), the internal reorganization of technical and staff divisions, the
creation of new divisions and staff units, the addition of new functions, the
divestiture of some established functions, the merger of all seven IADPs with
MANR, and revisions in the organizational and procedural links between MANR
and several other Government ministries and institutions. These proposals are
elaborated in Working Paper C1.
5.02     The structures of the existing Ministries are not appropriate to
carry out coordinated agricultural development programs (paras 2.03-2.07).
Existing headquarters management is excessively burdened with day-to-day field
operations and the expanded program, consequent upon incorporating the



- 31 -
IADP programs into other Ministry activities, could not be managed within the
existing structure. Under the Project, an expanded structure would be estab-
lished which would provide for decentralization of control over field opera-
tions and promote improvement of the planning and policy-making functions at
headquarters. The proposed structure is illustrated in Annex 5.
5.03     The basis of the organization of the combined Ministry would be the
creation of six regional offices, each under a Chief Regional Officer, who
would be responsible for day-to-day implementation of Ministry programs and
projects. 1/ At headquarters, the position of Director of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (DANR) would be created. Staff at headquarters would shift
their focus from current responsibility for day-to-day management of field
operations to an emphasis on policy formulation and planning and the develop-
ment of broadly defined implementation guidelines for staff at regional
levels.
5.04     Headquarters.  Under the proposed organization, the technical and
staff functions of the Ministry would be strengthened by:
(a) creation of Staff Development and Training Units;
(b)  the planning and policy analysis functions of PENSU would be enhanced
by making it a division reporting to the DANR rather than a separate
unit reporting to the Permanent Secretary; and
(c) creation of a Drainage and Irrigation Unit within the Land and Water
Development Division.
5.05     Chief Regional Officers would report to the Director of Agriculture
and Natural Resources. Chief Officers at headquarters would assume primary
responsibility for: (a) advising the Minister 2/ (through participation in
the Standing Committee chaired by the Director) on the technical requirements
of the Ministry's development plans; (b) drafting policy, planning, and imple-
mentation guidelines for Regional Officers; (c) providing technical assis-
tance requested by regional officers and other specialized units, both inside
and outside the Ministry; and (d) technical coordination and review of
regional operations; and (e) supervision of externally funded projects. An
important objective of reorganization would be to establish a systematic
policy formulation and planning process by releasing senior headquarters staff
from responsibility for day-to-day operational management tasks.
5.06     Regional Level.  Field implementation of Ministry operations would be
under the control of the Chief Regional Officer. The four basic divisions,
1/   The Western Area (the Freevown Peninsula) would be operated as a
separate unit from Ministry Headquarters in Freetown.
2/   This would not negate the role of the Permanent Secretary in
advising the Minister since advice, etc. from the Ministry would continue
to be channeled through the Permanent Secretary. The Permanent
Secretary, however, is not an executive position.



- 32 -
Agriculture, Forestry, Livestock, and Fisheries would be retained, eachi headed
by a Principal Officer. The Chief Regional Officer would be supported in a
staff role by a Regional Planning Officer and a Financial Officer, who would
be responasible for preparation of the region's operational plans and budgets,
and financial control.
5.07     This new structure, based on the decentralization of line management
and improved horizontal coordination at headquarters and regional level,
incorporates the more successful operational characteriatics of the IADPs.
This basiJ structure is being established. The IADPs would eventually be
merged with this structure. This merger is being undertaken first in Eastern
Province as from May 1984. Close collaboration between MAY regional staff and
the IADP has already begun. It is anticipated that the new combined unit will
be fully operational by September 1984. The experLence of this merger process
wili then be reviewed and a timetable for merger of the remaining IADPs with
the regional offices drawn up after discussion with the relevant financing
agencies before June 30, 1985. The mergers would be initiated before
October 1, 1986.
5.08     Costs.  The present senior staffing establishment of the two Mini-
stries is 32, which is grossly inadequate to effectively manage operations of
their size. It has been estimated that, following merger with the IADPs, a
senior management staffing of about 110 would be required, in line with the
agreed organizational structure (para 2.06). It should be emphasized, how-
ever, that the proposed structure is essentially a reorganization of the
existing entities and the new or enhanced elemeats are relatively modest (para
5.04), since regional management units essentially exist already in the form
of the IADPs. The estimated cost of an operational staff, based on this
structure at present salary levels, would be about US$2.3 million. In addi-
tion, support staff costs are estimated at US$1.8 million. This amount
cannot, however, be directly compared with the present cost, since some of the
positions and/or personnel included in this estimate are currently being
financed from the development budget through the IADPs or other projects.
These are either seconded Ministry staff or directly hired personnel. A
manpower survey is being undertaken by the Ministry as part of the Plan of
Action to determine the number of these personnel and their qualifications.
As a next step, an analysis will be carried out of the budgets of the IADPs
and other externally funded projects to more accurately determine the
recurrent budget implications of the merger of the IADPs with the Ministry.
It is estimated that operational staff costs additional to those currently
being met by MANR and the IADPs would be about US$300,000 per year.



- 33 -
5.09     The comparison of the estimated cost of the reorganized Ministry,
merged with the IADPs, with Lhe present expenditures of the Ministry and the
IADPs is shown below:
Estimated Recurrent Cost Implications of Reorganization
Estimated
E,xpenditure
Estimated 1983/84 Expenditures   Reorganized
MANR     IADPs   a/      Total      Ministry
(US$ millions)
Staff Salaries                  2.0          1.8          3.8         4.1
Daily Wage Payments             3.6            -          3.6         2.3 b/
Operations and Maintenance    2.2            1.6          3.8         4.2
Total                           7.8         3.4          11.2        10.6
a/  Estimated recurrent expenditure which would become a long-term
responsibility of MANR.
b/  Assuming achievement of initial 35% reduction in daily wage labor payments.
Estimated total development expenditure ina 1983/84 on IADPs and other projects
is US$18.8 million, of which it is estimated that US$3.4 million represents
expenditure of a recurrent nature, which would become the responsibility of
MANR as the IADPs are merged with it.  The MANR is committed under the Project
to reducing expenditure on daily paid labor by 35% over the project period.
This would yield adequate funds to cover the expected increase in saJa=ries and
to provide an additional US$400,000 for operations and maintenance necessary
to provide basic logistical support for the Ministry. An assurance was
obtained at negotiations that Government will ensure provision of adequate
resources to support the proposed Ministry organization (para 8.02(i)).
B. Operational Improvements
1.   Reorganization of FinancLal and Accounting Systems
5.10     The study of existing financial management and aceounting systems has
been carried out and a draft report submitted to Government in December 1983
(para 2.09). It will provide the design of a proposed new system which
includes the best compatible features of current Government Yinancial Regu-
lations and procedures used in the various IADPs. The Project would assist
Government in testing, demonstrating, and establishing a new decentralized
financial management and accounting system within the Ministry of Finance and
MANR by providing appropriate technical assistance and training to managers
and accounting and auditing staff within those two Ministries. Government has
reached agreement, in principle, with the consultant for the provision of such
technical assistance. The program of implementation of the proposed system
would be completed by October 1986.



- 34 -
2.   Staff Development
5.11     The new organization of MANR will necessitate a substantial change in
the Ministry's staffing pattern, including the broadening and rationalization
of professional career paths, reduction in the number of daily-wage staff
(para 2.05) and elimination of the Agricultural Technician grade (para 5e15).
Increased numbers will eventually be required in most grades other than
agricultural technicians (although many of these positions will be filled by
persons currently under contract with IADPs). The proposed staffing pattern,
including data on projected increases in numbers, is summarized in Working
Paper Cl.
5.12     Staff Develop.ent Unit   Expansion of planning, training, and
research units and the establishment of a decentralized management system will
require movement of personnel between technical and staff divisions during the
course of their careers. Therefore, a Staff Development Unit would be estab-
lished, reporting directly to the Permanent Secretary, with responsibility for
analyzing projected manpower requirements and trends, maintaining personnel
records (including annual evaluation reports by supervisors), and providing
liaison with the Establishment Secretary and Public Service Commission. Two
important undertakings during the three-year project period would be the
conduct of a comprehensive manpower survey and the design and establishment of
an annual personnel evaluation system within MANR.
5.13     Salary Scales.  By July 1, 1985, IADP project staff, in units merged
with MANR, would receive salary and benefits according to the Government's
established salary scales. In order to maintain an incentive for field
postings, Agricultural Instructors and Senior Agricultural Instruetors
assigned to work at chiefdom level or below would receive an additional field
allowance. This allowance would be set at a level sufficient to provide an
adequate inducement to these staff to remain in the field.
5.14     Reduction of Da_.7y-Wage Bill.  A fundamental condition for the
achievement of project objectives would be the phased reduction in real terms
of the MANR daily-wage bill by 35% over the project period. At negotiations
it was agreed that this would be achieved by October 1, 1987 (para 8.02(j)).
This would mean a staff reduction of about 3,000 (para 2.05). The financial
savings would be re-allocated to meet the recurrent costs required to
effectively operate and maintain MANR's facilities and equipment.
3.   Extension, Research and Training
5.15     Extension.  The reorganization of extension activities is, itself, a
major element of the organizational improvement within MANR. Given the lack
of resources available, the current extension approach outside the IADPs is
largely passive, in-service training is limited, and technical support and
guidance unsystematic. It is generally agreed that the Agricultural Tech-
nicians (ATs) currently employed do not have adequate training or experience
to serve effectively as frontline extension agents. It is proposed to event-
ually eliminate the AT position and to make the Agricultural Instructor (Al)
the basic field extension officer. Where feasible, existing ATs would be
given additional training to enable them to be promoted to the AI level. At



- 35 -
present, about 300 AIs and 500 ATe are in post in MAF and 200-300 in these
levels in the IADPs. A final staffing of 700-800 is anticipated at the field
level, which would provide on average about one field extension worker per 500
farm households. The Extension Training Adviser would operate at headquarters
level to aBsist with this evolution and together with the Training Unit to
design appropriate in-service training programs for extension agents.
5.16     Integration of Research and Training.  During the period of the
Project, Government would establish apprMpriate research priortties, establish
a comprehensive national applied agricultural research plan based on those
priorities and establish a program for the dissemination of research results
through appropriate pre-service and in-servioe training programs. To
accomplish these objectives, the following actions would be taken:
(a) A National Agricultural Research Coordinating Council (NARCC) would
be established containing staff from both research and extension, the
Ministry and IADPs. It would be responsible, through its secretariat
(Njala University College), for drafting a National Agriculture
Research Plan to be completed by December 31, 1985, with annual
revisions, on which annual Government funding for agricultural
research would be based.
(b) An Agricultural Training Working Group (ATWG) would also be estab-
lished. The Group would be responsible, through its secretariat (the
Training Division of the Staff Development Unit of MANR), for draft-
ing a comprehensive Agriculture and Natural Resources Training
Program (including pre-service and in-service) to be completed no
later than December 31, 1985 (Working Paper Cl). Government would
approve the new comprehensive training program by no later than
June 30, 1986 for lmplementation commencing in fiscal year 1986/87.
5.17     Although the Project would not provide direct financial assistance to
agricultural research, the above institutional reforms would have a direct
impact on the efficiency and effectiveness of the research effort. In addi-
tion, USAID's continuing strong interest in supporting agricultural research
and extension in Sierra Leone is expected to result in the provision of
technical assistance and other financial support for NUC and its research
planning responsibilities as the NARWG Secretariat. Those efforts would be
linked to the technical assistance for staff development and training to be
provided under the project, including the Training and Staff Development
Advisor, the Extension Training Advisor, and, in addition, to the on-the-job
training, short-term in-country, and training of trainers courses. That
assistance will, in turn, be linked to ODA-financed teohn cal assistance to
the Certificate Training Center of NUC. At negotiations, agreement was
reached on the implementation of the research and training reforms.
4.   Reporting, Monitoring and Ei'valuation
5.18     PEMSU would be responsible for overall project monitoring and
evaluation. Operational audit reports would be submitted quarterly to the
Permanent Secretary and distributed to the Director of MANR and the chiefs of
all divisions at headquarters and the six Chief Regional Officers.  A]l MANR



- 36 -
headquarters divisions, the six Chief Regional Officers, and the Secretariats
of the Research (NUC) and Training (Training Section, MANR) Councils and the
Interministerial Pricing Committee (MANR) would submit quarterly reports to
PEMSU through the Director of MANR. These would be based on monthly internal
progress reports prepared within each headquarters and regional division, and
secretariat and would include: (a) statistics on project components for
management information and evaluation needs; and (b) progress in meeting
targets set out in the annual work programs and budgets. In order to reduce
the amount of time devoted by managers to reporting requirements, internal
monthly reports and the first through third quarterly reports would be based
on an "Exoeption Reporting" format (Working Paper C1). The fourth quarterly
report, to be submitted within one month of the end of the fiscal year, would
provide a comprehensive review of performance for the entire year. Monthly
and quarterly reports would be supplemented by an "Action Requested"
information system to meet urgent implementation problems.
5.19     Initial formats for the monthly, quarterly, and action requested
reporting systems are being designed during the Planning and Management
workshops scheduled for the pre-project period (January-August 1984) and
financed under a PPF advance. Assistance in the revision of these formats,
based on experience, will be provided by the Monitoring and. Evaluation
Advisor, assisted by the Senior Management and Planning Advisors and the two
Senior Economists. PEMSU, through its Monitoring EvaluationL and Survey
Section would be responsible for specific problem-oriented and periodio
evaluation studies aind for preparation of the project completion report.
5.   Planning and Policy J nalysis
5.20     The key to the development of an effective planning system for MAWR
is, in the first instance, the improvement of capacity within PEMSU. Under
the reorganized Ministry, PEMSU will have overall responsibility for planning
and economic analysis. The objectives of PEMSU may, therefore, be swumarized
as to assist the Ministry in achieving its long-run objectives throuigh (a)
improving general understanding of the operation of the sector withLn the
economy; (b) formulation of policy guidelines; (a) design of a long-run
development strategy for the sector; and (d) support of other units in the
Ministry at national and regional level in the preparation of projects and
programs in support of this strategy. Achievement of this will require
changes in PEMSU's structure, staffing and operations. However, in the design
of the Project, general resource constraints within which the Ministry will
have to operate for the foreseeable future have also been taken into account.
This means that, although some improvement in local staffing may be possible,
this will be limited.  Therefore, PEMSU will focus its attention on four
priority areas: Sectoral Policy Analysis; Pricing and Marketing; Planning and
Budgeting; Monitoring, Evaluation and Survey.  Four sections would be estab-
lished within PEMSU, corresponding to these priority areas.
5.21     In line with the decentralization of responsibility for program
implementation, planning and budget preparation will also be decentralized.
Regions will be responsible for drawing up their own annual operating plans
and budgets, within the general guidelines set by the Ministry, and subject to
the latter's approval. Accordingly, planning officers vill be assigned to the



- 37 -
office of the Chief Regional Officer in each region. This office will also
take over responsibility for carrying out evaluation and survey activities
within the region.
5.22     An important element of the reorganization process will be the
preparation of the first series of regional operational plans and programs,
covering the fiscal year 1984/85. Technical assistance in the form of a
planning s,ecialist is being provided under the PPF to assist staff in the six
regions to draw up these initial plans during the period April-September 1984.
C. Project Implementation
5.23     Project Management.  Overall responsibility for implementation of the
Project would rest with MANR.  In conformity with the principle that the
management of externally financed projects within Sierra Leone's agriculture
sector should, as far as possible, be managed through the normal Ministry
structure, rather than through temporary project management units, no special
unit would be established for the management of the Project. Responsibility
for implementation of project activities would rest with the Director MANR.
The MANR Standing Committee (para 5.07) would act as overall steering
committee for the project.
5.24     Privatization of Machinery Services.  A committee under the chairman-
ship of the Director of Agricultural Engineering has been established to
oversee the sale of tractors and equipment from the Ministry's fleet. The
Committee has verified that 1CJ0 tractors are saleable and these have been
assembled at five regional centers. A Board of Inspection has been convened
in each region to inspect the tractors and fix a reserve price for each
tractor. Regional headquarters have publicized the proposal to sell the
tractors by tender and explained the procedure, with the object of maximising
the possibility of sale to local farmers or operators. Spare parts necessary
for service and repair of the tractors are being financed under the Project
Preparation Facility. About 50 tractors were identified as being fit for sale
following routine servicing, and sold by April 1984. The balance is to be
sold, with necessary spare parts being available from MANR, by June 30, 1984.
5.25     In order to provide essential back-up service to purchasers of these
tractors and to facilitate development of mechanical services for agriculture,
a joint venture company would be established between Government and the
private sector.  This company vould be established by September 30, 1984 with
majority private ownership. Acceptance by IDA of the form and manner of
privatization and the establishment of the new company would be a condition of
disbursement for this component (para 8.03(a)). The company would:
(a)  import and maintain adequate stocks of spare parts to service the
existing tractor fleet and import and sell agricultural machinery and
equipment;
(b)  operate facilities at two regional centers for major repair of
agricultural machinery sold by the company; and



- 38 -
(c)  cooperate with MANR and the IADPs in extension activities to assist
farmers in adopting labor-eaviag techniquee and in developing local
capabiLity- in operation and repair of agricultural machinery, i.e.,
encouraging development of small enterprises.
5.26     The company would essentially provide a limited field service and act
as a wholesaler.  Its principal objective would be to support the development
of mechanical services for agriculture. As such, it would operate more as
support to independent operators in aachinery%sales and service, rather than
develop a major network itself. It is anticipated that it would operate two
field centers in areas of principal dema*d. The field ceaters would be
equipped with facilities to undertake more extensive overhaul and repair work
than could be carried out directly by an operator or smalL repair shop. rn
Freetown, only an office and store would be required. Government might
provide, as part of its equity share, premises from which the company would
operate.  These would be handed over in a reasonable state of repair, and
separated from the existing MAF units. It is considered that there should be
little difficulty finding and, if aecessary, rehabilitating these premises in
Freetown or regional centers. A Mechanical Engineer, financed for five months
by British Aid and five months by Governmeat using PPF fuads, is assisting
with arrangements for the sale and repair of tractors and in ensuring adequate
back-up to farmers prior to the establishment of the service company. It is
anticipated that a member of the MANR Standing Committee would represent the
iinistry on the board of the joint venture.
5.27     The project would also finance the importation of parts for oxploughs
to be fabricated within Sierra Leone (para 2.24).  These ploughs are currently
being fabricated at the workshop of the Rolako Agricultural Station, Makeni,
under the direction of staff of the Work Oxea Project.  A proposal that the
joint venture company carry out the fabrication was rejected on the ground
that this activity would be an insufficient elemeat of its business and would
not receive adequate attention.  Rolako is also located in the major area of
interest in use of animal-drawn equipment, which would facilitate extension
activities. The present arrangements would therefore be continued.
5.28     Daru Oil Palm Company  Government would transfer the company to the
private sector under suitable arrangemeats for private management and equity
participation, but would remain a shareholder. A nunber of private investors
have expressed interest in involvement in the company. Experience in produc-
tion management and in vegetable oil production and marketing would be
essential attributes in the selection of private enterprises. Acceptance by
IDA of the form and manner of privatizatioa and the estabLishment of the new
company would be a condition of disbursement for this component (para 8.03
(b)). rt is anticipated that the new company would adopt pricing policies
which would encourage delivery of fresh fruit bunches (f.f.b) by outgrowers to
the mill. Government would ensure that the Compamny would apply a formula
acceptable to IDA in calculating the price paid for f.f.b at the mill. Using
this formula the mill, from month to month or any other suitable time span,
would announce a price to be paid for f.f.b.  Governiment's initial proposals
for a pricing formula for oil palm fruit, or any changes therein, would be
reviewed as a part of periodic review of agricultural pricing (para 5.40). It
is anticipated that a member of the Standing Committee of MANR would be a
member of the board of the joint venture.



- 39 -
5.29     Tree Crop Development.  The tree crop development component is
designed to complement and expand the ongoing tree crop programs of the
Eastern and Northern IADPs.  It would therefore be iLplemented by these 1AnPs
or the successor Ministry Regional Offices who would continue to manage the
central nurseries, provide extension service, and arraage for distribution of
inputs and provision of credit through their Commercial Services Division (or
the Farmers Finance Company). A tree crop expert financed by the Commonwealth
Fund for Technical Cooperation (CFTC) began work in early 1983 in Eastern IADP
and will be responsible for general supervision of this component.
5.30     Swamp Development.  The swamp development program would similarly be
implemented through the IADPs or Regional Offices. IADPs staff would under-
take the initial identification and screening of potential sites, prepare
development plans and layouts for selected sites. Headquarters staff from the
Drainage and Irrigation Unit (DIU) would hold preliminary field workshops for
IADP regional staff in these topics, carry out a final review of selected
swamp areas, and review all plans and designs. Schemes requiring construction
of permanent structures with estimated costs of over Le 2,000 per ha (US$800)
would be rejected. Implementation would be directly- supervi.sed by IADP
regional staff with overall supervision froa DIU.  DIU staff would use these
schemes as foci of in-service training programs for IADP and Ministry staff.
Monitoring of labor and material inputs wouLd be undertaken with the
collaboration of IADP regional Monitoring and E9valuation Units.
5.31     Agricultural Development Fund.  The ADF into which would be placed
the leone proceeds of the sale of goods imported under the Sectoral Support
Component (para 8.02(k)) would be created by September 30, 1984. These
proceeds would be equivalent to US$3.0-3.5 million per year.  Por goods being
utilized by the joint-venture compaaies or other independent eintities, the
leone equivalent of the landed cost of the goods (at the exchange rate at the
time of delivery) would be paid into the ADF before the release of the goods.
For fertilizers being sold to farmers through IADPs, payment would be made
from the Farmers Revolving Funds managed by these projects. Where goods are
to be used directly by G3overnment, it would transfer equivalent leones into
the ADF.
5.32     The ADF would be administered by the Director, MANR, and managed on a
day-to-day basis by the Financial ControLler, unde,' the arrangements for
existing special funds. The AD? would be operated according to normal
accounting practices and would be audited by external auditors.
5.33     The proceeds of the fund would be utilized to finance the local costs
of agriculture projects and programs of high developmental priority. In this
connection it was agreed at negotiations that Goverunent would each year
prepare an agricultural development program showing, inter alia, the total
amounts allocated for agriculture for the coning financial year. This program
would be reviewed with IDA prior to implementation (para 8.02(1)). It would
set out developmental priorities for the agricultural sector and iadicate the
expected use of the ADF.



- 40 -
5.34     Subprojects.  In view of the focus of the project on strengthening
MANR to enable it to plan and implement improved and better focussed agricul-
tural programs, one important use of the ADF resources would be to finance
small subprojects, targetted on local needs and emphasi5ing food productioa.
The identification and design of these subprojects would be carried out by the
regional offices, and would be coordinated by PEZSU with final approval by the
M:'nistry Standin- Committee.  In the first inatance, expenditure per region
would be limited to US$250,000 per year and individual subproject cost would
not exceed US$10),000 per year, and production oriented subprojects would be
required to meet an agreed economic rate of return.
5.35     It is expected that the most likely subprojects prepared for
financing from the fund would concern activities such as expansion of cash
vegetable production, promotion of nutrition-oriented vegetable production,
small-livestock, farm or village woodlots, pronotion of animal traction and
inland fisheries. Where appropriate, cost recovery would be incorporated into
the projects aad this criterion would be taken into account in project selec-
tion. It is anticipated that the foreign exchange component of these projects
would be small, but in order to ensure impLementation, the project has
provided for US$750,000 to meet these priority- requiremeats (para 3.23).
5.36     Credit.  Credit would be provided to farmers under the project for
tree crop and swamp developmeat activities.  The Farmers Finance Company (PFF)
would be responsible for credit and input supply in the Eastern Region, and
the Commercial Services Divisions (or their equivalent) of the IADPs in the
other areas. The existing credit administration and input systems would
apply. It is not anticipated that additional staff would be required, and
with the increased loan portfolio resulting from this project, FFC in partic-
uzlar would be strengthened financially.
5.37     The ongoing Northern and Eastern IADPs, which became effective in
September and October 1981 respectively, included proposals for improving the
efficiency and viability of FFC and CSD, both of which at the time of effec-
tiveness were extremely weak. A Credit Specialist has been recruited and has
developed new manuals for approval, disbursement and collection of loans,
introduced new accounting procedures, management inaformation systems, anad cost
controls. The impact of those measures, coupled with substantial increases ln
interest rates, is now being realized. Although the recovery performance is
still far from satisfactory, clearly it is improving (1982 seasonal loan
recoveries 90% and 77%, respectively, compared to 73% and 60% in 1981) and
with Government support, including taking action against Paramount Chiefs
several of whom are in default, that trend is expected to continue.
5.38     Credit for tree crop development would be provided in the form of
agricultural inputs, mainly fertilizer, insecticide and hired labor, and that
for swamp development in the form of tools and cash to cover hired labor. For
tree crops both seasonal and medium term credit would be provided to small
farmers, i.e., those planting less than 2 ha. Large farmers would be provided
with inputs against cash payments. Interest rates of these loans are



- 41 -
currently 20% p.a. for seasonal loans and 15% for developmental loans. 1/ The
farmers' contribution, mainly labor, would vary between 10% and 50% of total
investment cost. Loan repayment periods would be between four to eight years,
according to the incremental income to be derived from the investmient. When-
ever possible, loans would be issued to groups consisting of from five to
twenty farmers, who operate naturally together in their farming operations.
The group would obtain the benefits of pooled resources and would accept group
respoasibility for loan repayment through their group leader, who would be
elected from amonLg the group and who would be responsible for input collec-
tion. Debt reco eries would be enforced through the local courts in the
customary nanner   Agreement was reached with Government at negotiations that
interest rates would be reviewed1 annually and rates adjusted to the levels
deterained to be appropriate by Government and IDA (para 8.02(m)).
5.39     With the merger of the Eastern IADP with MANR, credit arrangements in
that area would not be affected since FFC operates as an. independent entity.
However, arrangements for future provision of credit and related input
supplies in other IADP areas remain to be determined. It was agreed at nego-
tiations that by September 1985 Government would carry out a study- of the
existing credit operations of the IADPs and prepare proposals for the future
development and improvement of the credit system and input supply, and for the
continued administration of existing credits in the event that the existing
arrangements were to be terminated (para 8.02(n)).
D. Pricing and Marketing
5.40     Pricing Policy Formulation.  A number of steps would be taken in
order to strengthen policy-making in the area of agricultural pricing and
taication, and to foster the development of an effective input supply and
marketing system which can support the process of commercialization of agri-
culture.  Systematic organizational and procedural links would be established
between the principal units responsible for agricultural pricing policy. This
would be achieved by the formalization of the Interministerial Committee on
Agricultural Pricing (ICAP). ICAP would be chaired by the Minister of
Finance, membership would include the Ministers of Agriculture and Natural
Resources, Planning and Economic Development, and Trade and Industry, and the
Chief Execu.tives of the Bana  of Sierra L3eoae, and S1PlB.  MAUR would serve as
ICAP's secretariat.  The Committee would have ultimate responsibility for
submitting formal recommendations on pricing policy to (abinet.  The MAN1R
would be required to report periodicalJly to this Comaittee on trends (e.g.
agricultural production, producer and conoumer (or international) prices for
major commodities), and make appropriate recommendations on agricultural
prices, both for inputs (where appropriate) and outputs and taxation. The
Committee would review these recommendations prior to their submission to
Cabinet.  A Pricing and Marketing section would be established in PMSLj/MANR
1/   The annual rate of inflation during 1980, 1981, and 1982 was 19%,
13%, 26% respectively; the expected rate of inflation for 1983, 1984,
1985 is 30%, 30%, and 25%.



- 42 -
by Septembcr 30, 1984 and would be responsible for preparation of these
reports. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the above pr'.oing and
incentive reforms would be implemented (para 8.02(o)).
5.41     General agreement ha3 been reached with Government oa prineiples for
agriculture p-icing. It was agreed at negotiations that prices payable to
producers for major crops, for which Government fixes purchase prices to be
paid by the SLPMB, would be reviewed at least once per year. rlhese prices
would be adjusted at times of the year and to levels necessary to maintain
adequate incentives to producers, taking into account, amoag other things,
international prices, the need to investigate short-run disruptive impact of
dumping (e.g., of rice), costs of agricultural inputs, and the effect of price
adjustments on other agricultural products (para 8.02(p)).  The doubling of
coffee and cocoa prices following the devaluation of July 1983 (para 2.20),
and the further increase of about 5% in that coffee price announced in garob
1984, reflect this approach. At negotiations it was also agreed that
Government would periodically review with IDA its prineiples and. procedu.res
for determining agricultural prices (para 8.02(q)),
5.42     In line with these produce pricing policies, steps are being taken to
reduce or eliminate general subsidies on inputs such as fertilizers and
machinery services. As of the beginni.ig of 1985, the price charged to small
farmers for fertilizer covered only 30%-35% of the cost of importation. At
negotiations agreement was reached that fertilizer prices would be raieed in
steps to reduce the degree of subsidy to 50%, 40% and 20% for the 1984, 1985
and 1986 seasons respectively and a final reduction of the subsidy to 10%
would be made by June 30, 1987 (para 8.02(r)). Fertilizer sold to commercial
farmers, e.g., that supplied to contract growers by the tobacco company, or
for sugar or oil palm estates, would be sold without subsidy throughout.
5.43     Marketing.  The long-term objective of Government is that the local.
marketing of agricultural products be in private hands. However, the over-
whelming subsistence nature of most agricultural productioa in the country has
resulted in marketed surplus being small and unit costs high. Through the
IADP programs, about 100 "'service centers" have been built, which cover much
of the country. These are primarily intended to facilitate input supply to
farmers. Some centers have been used to a limited extent to receive produce,
largely for in-kind repayment of loans. The evolutioL of these service
centers, as the IADPs and MANR are merged, is not yet clear aad preseat
experience in their operation is not adequate to allow a final daoision to be
made. A review will be undertaken in mid-1985, as part of the credit study
(para 5.3), by which time the probable evolution of the proposed rural bankiag
system and its potential to absorb the credit operations of IA])Ps should be
clearer. This will enable steps to be taken to place operation of the centers
on an independent footing by the time the merger of IADPs is completed.



- 43 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Production
1.   Production Technology
6.01     The emphasis in the production components of the project is upon (a)
the provision of technology appropriate to particular conditions and (b) the
introduction of new technologies which will intensify production per unit area
and reduce production and processing constraints.  The level of inputs
proposed in the tree crop technical packages is below that used in the past in
projects in Sierra Leone, for economic and practical reasons. Farmers would
receive a relatively low cost package comprising seedlings, planting materials
for intercropping, fertilizer, agricultural chemicals, credit and extension.
With regard to swamp developmeat, the general level of technological support
would be raised compared with the past in an effort to establish a system of
sustained swamp developaent. In the case of new technologies, intercropping
of coffee with plantains/bananas and cocoyams, and oil palms with upland rice
and groundnuts, would be practised. Improved mechanization services would
reduce labor and processing bottlenecks; handpresses would increase the
efficiency of on-farm oil palm processing and reduce the labor requirements.
6.02     In line with the more limited input levels, yield projections are
modest (Annex 6-1).  The technological reoommendations are based on experience
in IALPs, and in the case of coffee, on experience in similar situations in
West Africa.
6.03     Coffee.  The total planting program would be 4,400 ha, phased over
three years, of which 500 ha in the Eastern Province would be established
under a temporary shade of bananas/plantains and cocoyams, the remainder of
the area under thinned natural bush, preferably of age 6-8 years or a mixture
of thinned bush and senescent coffee trees. In areas of favorable soil
fertility, coffee would generally be planted following two years food cropping
and one year fallow in which bush is allowed to regenerate. With this system,
clearing costs for coffee planting are minimized. Site selection would be
according to criteria of soil, slope and climate, and wherever possible,
individual plantings would be grouped into contiguous blooks of about 10 ha.
Seedlings would be transplanted as advanced materials some 13-16 months after
the germinated seed stage, inclined at an angle of 30 degrees to induce
suckering and the development of a multiple stem bush. Spacing would be
3m x 3m triangular, which requires 1,280 plants/ha. To ensure good establish-
ment well ahead of the lengthy dry season, a "cut off" planting date of August
15 would be imposed. Fertilizer recommendations are 50 kg/ha urea in each of
years 1 and 2, applied in May/Jutne during the early rains, and any plantings
done after July 31 would not be fertilized.  Xajor emxa-sis would be placed
upon four weeding rounds per year, progressive thinning of shade, and the
development of the multiple stem technique, so as to allow the replacement of
the main stems of the coffee bushes as they become taller and less productive.
Renewal pruning would be carried out according to a five-year cycle commencing
in year 6. This will result in a yield decline until new stems are formed.
Improvements in pruning techniques, designed to minimize this temporary crop



- 44 -
reduction, are being developed under Eastern IADP III and applied in the
project. The coffee rehabilitation program of 500 ha would be based upon a
minimum input approach with farmers receiving coffee seedlings, a pruning saw
and modest cash compensation for temporary loss of crop following pruning,
necessary for rehabilitation.
6.n4     Ba,:anas/plantains and cocoyams would be grown as a mixed temporary
shade crop for coffee. They would be established one year before tree crop
planting at 640 banana/plantain suckers and 1,200 cocoyam sets per hectare.
Suckers would be planted at 5.2m x 3m spacing, the cocoyams planted diagonally
between the banana/plantain planting points. Planting material would be
obtained locally and multiplied by the project for distribution to farmers on
credit. Fertilizer would not be recommended.
6.05     Oil Palm.  The total planting program would comprise 1,900 ha phased
over three years. The project would make seeds available for intercropping
with upland rice in land of adequate fertility cleared from natural bush.
Intercropping would be followed by Pueraria leguminous cover. Wherever
feasible, individual plantings would be grouped into contiguous blocks to
facilitate group utilization of handpresses. Pre-heated ungerminated dura x
pisifera seed would be imported from an internationally recognized producer,
germinated by the project, and distributed to project or private pre-nurseries.
Pre-nursery seedlings would be distributed to village nurseries, managed by
farmer groups but supervised by the project, so as to reduce nursery and
transport costs. Palms would be field-planted at 12-15 months after the
germinated seed stage, fitted with wire collars against rodent damage at a
triangular spacing of 8.8m x 8.8m giving 148 plants/ha. The "Out off"
planting date would be August 15. Fertilizer would be applied for the first
four years in the field, but its justification thereafter would be reviewed
annually. Regular weeding to minimize competition for weeds and moisture
would be a key operation. As with coffee, emphasis would be upon a full stand
of high yielding materials and regular weeding.
6.06     Fruit Trees.  Under the Northern IADP Phase II project, a program of
750 ha of plantings of citrus, mango, cashew and guava is underway. The
project would provide a continuation of this program amounting to 200 ha in
project year 3 after the termination of the above program. Most farmers would
plant 50-200 trees with I ha as the upper limit, using the existing technical
package. Mango would be reserved for the steeper lands with citrus on the
gentler terrain.
6.07     Swamp Rice.  The proposed swamp development program of 500 ha
encompasses three swamp environments. Much swamp development has not been
sustained in the past, frequently because of poor layout, and the project will
introduce an improved level of technology in irrigation design and construc-
tion. For the level of annual programs envisaged, labor will not be an
overall constraint. The farmer, whose land is being developed, will be
responsible for construction of the head bund, main drain, and peripheral
canals. Close supervision of this work would be provided by staff of the
Drainage and Irrigation Unit and IADPs. Since addi%ional labor above that
available from the farmers will be necessary, and in most instances the work
will be spread over more than one season, technical support will concentrate



- 45 -
par'ticularly on organizing and phasing the work, as well as technical layout
and structure design. If in specific cases permanent concrete or masonry
structures are required, these will be constructed by the Drainage and Irriga-
tion Unit. Given the strict swamp selection criteria, careful planning and
intensive supervision provided in the project, growing conditions should be
fully satisfactovy. The cropping intensity at full development is anticipated
to be 150%, since most will be served by perennial streams. Production inputs
would be available on credit through the relevant IADPs based on the appro-
priate technical package for each area. Where feasible, land cultivation by
oxplough, or power tiller, would be introduced. Yields of paddy of 2,200
kg/ha for the main crop and for the dry season crop are projected to be
achieved three years after land developrnent is completed, when manual cultiva-
tion is used. Experience has indicated yields of 10-15% higher with
mechanical cultivation.
2.   Incremental Production
6.08     Annex 6-2 summarizes the area cropped, and production expected to
result from the tree crop and swamp development components over a 20-year
period.
6.09     Kechanization.  The various forms of mechanization of land prepara-
tion being supported under the project would primarily be utilized for rice
production. By the third project year, it is estimated that the tractor fleet
supported through the project would ha're a capacity to cultivate about
16,000 ha, represa'nting an increase of about 12,000 ha over the area now under
mechanical cultivation. It is estimated that only about 3,000 ha of this
additional area is now being cultivated by manual methods. In addition, power
tillers and oxploughs supplied under the project would have a capacity to
cultivate about 10,000 ha, of which it is estimated about one-half would
represent additional area brought into production. In total, the additional
area brought into cultivation of about 14,000 ha would produce about 21,000
tons of paddy (equivalent to about 14,000 tons of rice).
6.10     Fertilizer Importation.  It is anticipated that fertilizer imported
under the project will primarily be utilized for production of rice, sugar,
oil palm and tobacco. Approximately half the fertilizer would be utilized by
farmers for rice production, and would yield an additional 8,000 tons of paddy
annually (equivalent to 5,000 tons of rice). About 25% of imports would be
used for sugar production. Failure to supply fertilizer would reduce output
by about 3,000 tons of sugar annually. A further 10% of imported fertilizer
would be used in oil palm production where it is estimated to contribute about
15% of estate and organized smallholder output, equivalent to about 1,500 tons
of palx oil and 400 tons of kernels. The Aureole Tobacco Company is planning
to expand production froma about 600 tons in 1985 to 1400 tons in 1986 in order
to achieve 85% local self-sufficiency and permit exports of about 400 tons in
that year, and considers fertilizer essential to obtain this production.
B. Markets and Prices
6.11     There would not be difficulties in marketing the incremental output
resulting from the project (preliminary projected economic and financial
prices are shown in Annex 6-3 (palm oil/rice) and Annex 6-4 (coffee/palm



- 46 -
kernels). Incremental rice production is expected to be absorbed internally.
Consumption of rice has been projected to rise from its present level of
400,000 tons to about 500,000 tons by 1990. In 1982 imports were almost
100,000 tons and the incremental output generated by the project, while
significant, would only amount to one-quarter of this amount.
6.12     The incremental output of coffee and palm kernels is expected to be
marketed in Sierra Leone's traditional export markets without difficulty.
Sierra Leone is a member of the International Coffee Agreement and has a quota
of 16,000 tons, which is considerably in excess of its recent exports of less
than 10,000 tons. The project would result in incremental annual production
of about 2,800 tons at full development, which, together with the existing
programs totalling about 2,500 ha of new planting, would not result in the
country's exceeding its quota. Improved producer incentives will result in
some increased production from existing bushes, but a significant share of the
existing area is over-age and will not repay rehabilitation. Analysis has
shown that the current exchange rate of Le 2.5 = US$1.0 would be very
remunerative to Sierra Leonean growers at agreement prices, and would be
profitable at prices which are said to prevail outside the agreement (i.e.,
about 30% lower). Sierra Leone is an insignificant producer of coffee (less
than 1/4 of 1% of output), and any likely increase in production would not
affect world prices. Sierra Leone is also an insignificant producer of palm
kernel, and it is considered that the ineremental production could be marketed
vithout difficulty. Coffee and palm kernels would be marketed through the
SLPMB marketing system, which operates reasonably efficiently for these crops.
6.13     Palm oil is a part of the staple diet in many areas of the country,
and most of the area planted under the project would be by very small growers.
Most of the output would be processed by hand methods and used for home or
local consumption. Similarly, additional production of plantains and
cocoyams, grown in conjunction with coffee, would be sold for local consump-
tion and, given the relatively small scale of the program, is not expected to
adversely affect local markets.
C. Yinancial Analysis
6.14     Illustrative crop budgets for the major crops to be supported under
the project (coffee, oil palm and rice) appear in Annexes 6-5 through 6-7.
The financial returns to farmers are summarized in Annex 6-8. The wide
variations in returns reflect the differences in intensity of resource use
between the cash oriented production of coffee or rice production in riverain
areas using mechanical cultivation as compared to the wholly subsistence-
oriented production of rice in upland areas. Oil palm production uaing
village processing and swamp rice production are semi-commercial activities,
i.e., the family sells surplus only after domestic needs are met.
6.15     In all cases, the gross margin per manday as welJ  as per ha is
increased, even if family labor is costed at the market lage of Le 3.60
(US$1.44) per day. labor at peak seasons, rather than land, is the principal
constraint for many farmers, particularly in preparing land for rice crops,
which requires heavy manual labor. Therefore, use of animal or mechanical
traction can have a significant impact on permitting farmers to increase their



- 47 -
areas of production. In this context, a principal advantage of the improved
cultivation of upland rice may be the fact that because of higher yield the
family can meet its subsistence needs from a smaller plot of land, thus
reducing the need for heavy manual labor in land preparation -- labor, which
is more easily saleable off-farm than other family labor.
D. Cost Recovery
6.16     Imports of fertilizers, spare parts and equipment under sector
support elements of the project would be sold, directly or through inter-
mediaries, to farmers. Agreement was reached at negotiations on a timetable
for reduction of the suDsidy on fertilizers (para 5.42). The costs of
planting material, fertilizers and other inputs for tree crops would be fully
recovered from farmers. In the swamp development, about half the costs of
basic construction of drains, peripheral channels and bunds would be uet by
development loans which would be fully recovered from farmers. Swamps would
be selected so as to minimize the need for permanent concrete or masonry
structures. However, small permanent structures are expected to be required
in some schemes. Because of the instructional/investigational nature of the
component the costs of such structures would not be recovered from the
beneficiaries. The Government's cash flow resulting from the tree crop and
swamp development components is shown in Annex 6-9.
VII.  PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
7.01     The proposed project would coatribute significantly to the Govern-
ment's objectives of increasing domestic food production and agricultural
exports. These benefits would be of four major types:
(a)  streamlined institutional framework for public agricultural
development programs leading to improved management of these
programs;
(b)  strengthened private sector support services to agriculture in
machinery services and oil palm processing;
(a)  increased agricultural production during the life of the project
through provision of improved agricultural inputs, i.e., fertilizer,
spare parts for operation of machinery and equipment; and
(d)  increased production over the longer term resulting from inv'stments
financed by the project, i.e., tree crops, swamp developmenG, and
agricultural machinery.
7.02     Agricultural development programs involving an annual expenditure of
about US$20 million per year are being undertaken in the agricultural sector
in 1983/84. About 45% of this comprises investments in the IADPs, of which
IDA and IFAD are the principal financing agencies for three of the seven



- 48 -
underway.  The effectiveness of these programs is handicapped by weakness of
the national support institutions, particularly the Ministries of Agriculture
and Natural Resources, in evolving appropriate development strategies and
policies for the sector, in coordinating and managing the many programs
currently underway, and in providing technical support in certain areas, e.g.,
irrigation. The Plan of Action (Table on pages 17-18) is directed towards
strengthening the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources in these
areas. However, a major re-orientation, as is proposed here, will require
more than the three years of the project to achieve its full impact. The
major emphasis during the project would be on establishing the decentralized
structure for the combined ministry, its management and financial control
systems, and improved staff development and related training programs. This
would provide the basis for a more coherent subsequent program of externally
funded activities, either on a sector or sub-sector basis (e.g., irrigation,
tree crops, forestry) or on a specific area/project basis.
7.03     However, useful progress will not be achieved in improving manage-
ment, especially in staff development and training, unless progress is made in
reducing the present excessive levels of staffing in the support and day-wage
categories. Many of these persons are poorly qualified and motivated, and
cannot usefully be trained for a future role within the Ministry. Further-
more, savings in these expenditure categories are essential to permit greater
expenditure on operational staff and activities.
7.04     The project will also initiate steps to reduce the degree of Ministry
involvement in commercially-oriented activities. The sale of the Ministry
tractor fleet is being organized in such a way as to maximise the potential
for sale to local farmers, or to other individuals who will provide contract
services, and other steps are being taken to encourage further provision of
local repair services. This is an essential step in the development of appro-
priate commercial service support to agriculture. In the longer term, input
supply and credit activities should similarly be privatized. Tfhe project
would assist the Bank of Sierra Leone in its pilot efforts to establish rural
banks in the country geared to serving agriculture and related activities.
The appropriate future arrangements for input supply and credit, following
merger of IADPs, will be a major issue during implementation and in any
follow-up project.
7.05     Beneficiaries.  The direct production impact of the project has been
estimated above (paras 5.08-5.10). It is estimated that about 20,000 farm
families would benefit directly from the mechanization support element of the
project. About two-thirds of these would be farmers primarily dependent upon
rice, operating one to two hectares in the riverain coastal swamps and similar
areas, who would utilize the expanded mechanized contracting services for land
preparation. The other one-third would be largely subsistence farmers in the
northern and central regions, dependent upon upland or valley swamp rice, who
would utilize the expanded pool of ox-drawn equipment to allow them to improve
the timeliness or quality of land preparation. Beneficiaries of fertilizer
importation would be more nuwerous and widespread and total close to 20% of
all farmers annually, i.e., about 60,000. Of these, about 40,000 would be
producers of rice and other semi-subsistence crops served primarily by the
IADPs, about 5,000 tree crop producers and the balance producers of



- 49 -
vegetables, tobacco or other cash crops. l_ addition, the project would
assist about 8,000 farmers to establish, expand or rehabilitate tree crop
holdings. Of these, about 4,000 would be subsistence oriented oil palm
growers.
B. Economic Analysis
7.06     Several of the elements of the project do not lend themselves to
oonventional economic analysis, since neither the benefits likely to result
from changes, such as improved organization and utilization of existing
capacity, nor the speed at which they would materialize can be quantified with
any accuracy. The base cost of the institutional development component of
this type is US$6.1 million, or 27% of the project cost. A further 45% base
cost (US$10.3 million) is for importation of agricultural inputs. These will
be sold directly or through intermediaries to farmers. The principal use of
imported fertilizer would be for rice production. Under typical conditions in
Sierra Leone 100 kg of fertilizer per hectare results is aa increase in paddy
production of 150-200 kg/ha, a benefit/cost ratio of 2:1 or better, which is
considered to provide a reasonable inducement to farmers.
7.07     Economic analysis has been carried out for the coffee and oil palm
planting and small-scale irrigation components, which have a base cost of
US$5.7 million or 25% of project cost. The estimated economic rates of return
(ERR) are summarized in the table below.
Economic AnayBsis of Produztive Ccaponents
Economic Reate of Retura          Switoding Value
labor  lotal            Benefits
Cost  Cost up  Innefits  TAgged    % Cange in
Activity           Base Case up 2C%   2D%   down 2Cv  1 y sr   Benefits  Costs
percent
Coffee Flanting
(with intercropping)   43      40     36       35         33      -66    192
Coffee Planting
(no intercropping)    40      38      35      34         32      -67    202
Coffee Rehabilitation    55     50      48       46        41       -64    175
Oil Palm Planting        20     17      14       13         15      -22      28
CitrUB Plantirg         36      32      30       28         8       -55    124
Swamp Develolment        27      19     12        8         14      -16      19
SwaEp Development
(Power Tiller)        29      22     13       10         15      -18      21



- 50 -
7.08     The important assumptions underlying the analysis are:
(a) Benefits. For new planted coffee and oil palm, all production is
assu,ned to be incremental and is included as benefit. For rehabili-
tated coffee, it is assumed that the life of the rehabilitated trees
would be 10 years, and that without rehabilitation trees would
continue to yield for the same period, but at a reduced level. Areas
developed for individual crops are shown in Annex 3-2, production in
Annex 6-2, and prices in Annexes as 6-3 and 6-4.
(b) Shadow Pricing. All foreign exchange costs and benefits have been
estimated using an exchange rate of Le 2.50 = US$1.00. At present,
following devaluation, there remains an unofficial exchange rate for
the leone at a lower value than the official rate. This has been
fluctuating significantly in recent months. A shadow exchange rate
has not been used in the analysis both because of the uncertainty as
to its present value, and because its use would result in some
increase in the economic profitability of the activities under
review, which would therefore not affect their inclusion in the
project. In most of rural Sierra Leone, labor rather than land is
the critical factor in agricultural production. The enterprises
considered in the analysis are primarily market-oriented and the
effective choice for the farmer is between investment in the
agricultural activity or other source of cash income. Therefore in
the analysis labor has been costed at the prevailing market rate.
There is considerable uncertainty as to future market wage rates as
che full impact of the devaluation of the leone is felt and works
itself through to earnings. A basic rate of Le 3.6 per day has been
taken, with higher rates used for sensitivity analysis.
7.09     The estimated ERRs for these sub-compoaents range from 20% to 55%.
Returns to coffee production are high, but this refleets the level of export
taxes and "low input/low output" technology adopted, in particular for
rehabilitation, for which the initial "investment" by the farmer is small,
primarily the reduction in yield in the first year resulting from pruning the
tree. Forecast yields are relatively prudent, averaging under 500 kg/ha over
the main bearing life of the tree. These yields, however, would have to fall
by over 60% in order to reduce the ERR to 12% (the assumed opportunity cost of
capital). The ERR of the swamp development in the base case is satisfactory
at 27%, this return is relatively sensitive to changes in costs or benefits,
and the ERR would be reduced to 12% by a 30% increase in labor costs (i.e., to
about Le 4.75 per day) or by less than a 20% reduction in benefits. This
degree of sensitivity underscores the need for a closely monitored program
over a limited area to firm up low cost approaches to swamp development and to
improve the capability of extension staff to provide back-up technical
support, both in cropping and maintenance of the water control system. These
results indicate the importance of availability of improved inputs and appro-
priate technical support so that farmers can achieve adequate water control
and attain the relatively modest yield levels assumed, and underscores the
need to focus efforts on developing labor-saving practices if rice production
in these valley swamp areas is to make a significant contribution to the
country' s rice needs.



- 51 -
C. Environmental Impact
7.10     The Project's impact on the environment would be restricted to that
of the production activities, tree crop and swamp development, and cultivation
of rice lands. The effect of tree crop development would be positive, in that
a stable agricultural system would be imposed on lands presently under
shifting cultivation. Rice production and mechanized cultivation would be
restricted to flat, very gently sloping land, where soil erosion would not
present a hazard. Installation of an incinerator at Daru Oil Kill would allow
the utilization of waste products, and Daru Oil Palm Company would be provided
with environmental and safety guidelines relating to palm oil mills. Effluent
from improved traditional processing would be minimal and adequately disposed
of by channelling onto plantation fields.
D. Risks
7.10     The principle risk is that MANR may be unable to cope with the
proposed changes in organizational structure, functions and systems. The
revised operational functions have been agreed and the efforts of staff can
now be concentrated on implementation rather than reorganization. The
integration of Eastern IADP in 1984 will assist in the identification and
resolution of integration problems prior to integration of the aother IADPs due
to be completed by July 1986. Adequate technical assistance will be provided,
both in the pre-project period and during the project, to assist in planning,
implementation and monitoring of the proposed institutional development.
Within Government, there is a strong constituency in favor of institutional
and policy reform, manifested by the early positive initiatives taken on
devaluation and farm prices for rice, coffee and cocoa, the favorable recep-
tion given to the Agricultural Development V project preparation proposals for
reorganization (prepared by MAF) and the policy commitment of Government to
privatisation, where feasible, of agricultural production and services. The
linkage of fertilizer should be a strong inducement c this priority reform.
The system of monitorable action programs, annual woric prograas and reports
would further reduce the risks.
7.11     With regard to machinery services, the major risk is that private
interests may not accept Government's invitation to participate or there may
be delays in negotiating suitable arrangements with private partners. Satis-
factory progress in privatisation, however, was made by the time of negotia-
tions and completion of privatisation arrangements would be a condition of
disbursement for the component. In respect of privatisation of the Daru Oil
Mill, considerable interest has been expressed by local interests and
discussions are progressing with a suitable candidate.
7.12     There are no unusual risks in the tree crop component, which is an
expansion of ongoing programs, for which demand is strong. Swamp development
has proven to be a more risky activity. Because of this, the component is
focussed on strengthening the ability of the extension staff to provide
appropriate support to farmers, rather than as an expansion of existing
programs. It is considered that with close supervision from the Drainage and
Irrigation Unit, adequate standards will be achieved.



- 52 -
VIII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMME1DATIONS
8.01     At negotiations, agreement was reached on the timetable for
completion of major elements of the Action Plan. Release of funds for the
sectoral support component of the project would be contingent upon adherence
to the program as specified in para 3.15.
8.02     At negotiations agreement was reached with Govermment that it would:
(a)  employ consultants, experts and specialists whose qualifications,
experience and terme and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.11);
(b)  establish and observe tree crop planting criteria consistent with
sound tree crop development technlogies with respect to soil,
climate, topography, location and farm access (para. 3.17);
(c) prepare designs for swamp development schemes by September 30 of the
year prior to their implementation (para 3.20);
(d)  furnish IDA and IFAD with detailed proposals for extension of the
Magbosi Agricultural Development Project, by September 30, 1984 (para
3.21);
(u)  jointly with IDA and IFAD carry out a mLd-term review of the project
prior to June 30, 1986 (para 3.25);
(f) open a Special Project Account on terms and coonditions satisfactory
to IDA and IFAD (para 4.04);
(g)  properly maintain statements of expenditure for all items of
expenditure not required to be documented and submLtted for IDA or
IFAD disbursement (para 4.08);
(h)  cause MAKE to mako satisfactory accounting, auditing and reporting
arrangements and ensure that project progress reports and a project
completion report are submitted as specified by IDA. (para 4.10);
(i) provide adequate resources to support the proposed Ministry organi-
zation (para 5.09);
(j)  reduce MAIR's daily wage expenditures by 35% from the July 1983 level
by October 1, 1987 (para 5.14);
(it  establish an Agricultural Development Fund by September 30, 1984 into
which would be placed the leone proceeds of sales of goods procured
under the Sectoral Support Component (para 5.31);
(1) prepare each year an agricultural development program, to be reviewed
with IDA prior to implementation (para 5.33);



- 53 -
(m)  review annually the level of interest rates charged on credit
provided to farmer, and adjust rates to the levels determined to be
appropriate by the Borrower and IDA (para 5.38);
(n)  prepare a study of existing IADP credit operations and proposals for
development and improvement of the credit system and for continued
administration of existing credits (para 5.39);
(o)  continue -Jo maintain and operate the Inter-ministerial Committee or
Agricultural Pricing and establish the Pricing and Marketing Section
in PEMSU by September 30, 1984 (para 5.40);
(p) review agricultural prices at least annually and adjust them at times
of the year and to levels necessary to aaintain adequate incentives
to producers taking relevant factors into account (para 5.41);
(q) review periodically with IDA its principles and procedures for
detemining agricultural prices (psara 5.41);
(r)  reduce uhe subsidy on fertilizer to 10% of its ex-warehouse cost by
June 30, 1987 (para 5.42).
8.03     The following would be conditions of disbursement against
expenditures conceraing:
(a) Importation of agricultural machinery and equipment (para 3.14(d)).
Acceptance by IDA of the form of the joint venture company and its
establishment (para 5.25);
(b)  Importation of equipment for improvement of Daru Oil Mill (para
3.14(e)). Acceptance by IDA of the privatization of the Daru Oil
Palm Company and its establishment (para 5.28).
8.04     The following would be conditions of effectiveness:
(a)  fulfillment of conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD
loan had been fulfilled (para 4.03);
(b) opening of the Special Project Account (para 4.04).
8.05     Under these conditions the project would be suitable for an IDA
credit of SDR 20.3 million (US$21.5 million) equivalent.
WAPAD
May 1984



AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Provided to MMIANR
Under         Under
SIL           Proposed        Total        CounterpartlSupervisor
80/004        Project
(a) Reorganization and Management
Senior Management Advisor                                   24            12                36         Director/MAMR
Staff Development and Training                              -             12                12         Deputy P.S.
Financial Management Consultancy                            -             21                21         Director/NMAR
Financial Controller                                        2n            16                36          DirectorlMANR
Monitoring and Evaluation Advisor                           i1 7                            36          Chief, PEESu
Short-term assistance for training & Worishops                            12                12         Director, XANR
63            90               153
(b)  Economic Analysis and Planning
Senior Economic Advisor                                     18            18                36          Chief. PEMSU3
Economist (Pricing and Marketing)                           18            18               16           Chief. PMAS13
Planning Advisor                                            -             24                24          Chief, PEMSU
60               96
(c) Technical Support
Irrigatiou Enginet. a                                       -             36                36          Chief, LWDD
Rural Credit Advisor                                        -             36                36          Director, MANR
Extension Traulnng Advisor                                  -             24                24          Director, MANR
Rural Banking Advisor b/                                    -             24                24          Deputy Director, COSL
Short-tern Consultar-ies                                    -             36                36
156              156
TOTAL                                               __            306              405
a/    In man-months during project period.
bl    Rural Banking Advisor would assist Bank of Sierra Leone.
WAPAD
May iPSk



- 55 -                            Annex 3-2
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Tree Crop Planting Program (ha)
Project Year-----
Eastern IADP                                   1           2          3           Iotal
Coffee planting                                - a/      1,000      1,000         2,000
Coffee rehabilitation                         100F         400        500         1,000
Coffee planting (larger farmers)               -        1,000       1,000         2,000
Total coffee                             100        2,400       2,500         5,000
Total plantain/bananas                   250          250         -             500
Oil palm planting                             200          300        300           800
Oil palm planting (larger farmers)             -           400        300           700
Total oil palm                           200          700         600         1,500
Total Eastern IADP                       550        3,350       3,100         7,000
Northern IADP
Coffee planting                               100         100         200           400
Oil palm plant:;ng                            100          100        200           400
Fruit tree planting                            -_          - c        200           200
Total Northern IADP                      200          200         600         1,000
Total
Coffee                                        200       2,500       2,700         5,400
Oil palms                                     300          800        800         1,900
Plantains/bananas                             250         250         -             500
Fruit trees                                    -           -          200           200
Total tree crops                                                              M22 ____
a/ EIADP III program, 1,000 ha in Year 1.
b/ EIADP III program, 200 ha in Year 1.
c/ NIADP II program, 250 ha in Year I and 250 ha in Year 2.
Original Source: Eastern IADP and Appraisai Mission, June 1983.
WAPAD
May 1984



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
*- ---1984--    ---1985--- - -~ -    -----986                           -- -- -1987 - ---
1st  2nd  3rd  4th    1st  2nd  3rd  4th    Ist  2nd  3rd  4th    1st  2nd  3rd  4th
Reorganization and merger
Agreement on ministry structure                               *
Establishment of new structure                                     *
Merger of EIADP with Eastern Region                                *
tanagement workshops on reorganization
Review of experience in East and preparation of time-
table and agreement of form of merger of other IADPs
Merger of other IADPs
Personnel management
Establishment of staff development and training units                          *
Establishment of National Agric. Training working Group
Preparation of agriculture and natural resources train-
ing program                                                                   __ ____
Development of personnel evaluation system
Research
Establishment of National Agricultural Research Coordin-
ating Council                                                          *
Preparation of national agricultural research policy and
plan
X
Credit(tlput Supply
Preparation of proposals on future development of IADP
Credit and input Supply System
WAPAD
May 1984



- 57 -
Annex 4-1
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cost by Year and Component (Leones '000)
Component                                           PYl        PY2         PY3       Total
Institutional Support
Vehicles and Equipment                       2,975       1,070           -       4,045
Operations and Maintenance                     403         786         786       1,975
'echnical Assistance and Training            1,335       2,023       2,419       5,777
Subtotal                                 4,713       3,879      3,205      11,797
Sectoral Support
Fertilizer and Chemicals                     5,300       5,275       5,275      15,850
Agricultural Equipment                       3,061       2,624       3,229       8,914
Spare Parts                                    125         125         125         375
Daru Oil Mill                                1,569           -           -       1,569
Subtotal                                10,055       8,024       8,629     26,708
Program Support
Tree Crop Development
Coffee                                         238       2,727       3,316       6,281
Oil Palm                                       519         954       1,263       2,736
Fruit Trees                                      -           -         303         303
Subtotal                                   757       3,681      4,882       9,320
Swamp Development
Demonstration Program                           89         414         572       1,075
Vehicles and Equipment                         799          60          60         919
Operations and Maintenance                     111         161         162         434
Technical Assistance and Training              625         615         480       1,720
Subtotal                                 1,624       1,250       1,274      4,148
Magbosi Extension                                     -      1,521         552       2,073
Unidentified Sub-Projects                           250         750         750      1,750
Subtotal for Program Support             2,631       7,202       7,458     17,291
Project Preparation Facility                 2,125           -           - _2,125
Total Base Cost                             19,524      19,105      19,292      57,921
Physical Contingencies                         771         799         792       2,362
Price Contingencies                          1,695       4,259       6,023      11,977
Total Project Cost                           21,990     24,163      26,107      72,260
WAPAD
May 1984



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Cost by Category and Project Component, (Leones '000)
Institutional  Sectoral  Tree Crop    Swamp         Magbosi    Sub-       PPF
Category                     Development    Support   Development  Development  Extension  Projects  Refinancing   Total
Civil Works                                     -            -           431           -         -           -          431
Vehicles                        2,670           300          -           330           -         -           -        3,300
Furniture and Equipment         1,375         1,585          -           589           -         -          220       3,769
larm Equipment                     -         8,773          202           -           392       700       1,187      11,254
Fertilizers and Chemicals          -         15,850         620           -           156       350          -       16,976
Planting Materials                 -            -         5,283           -            -        700         163       6,146
Incremental Operating
Expenses                      1,975           -         3,214        1,158        1,526        -           -        7,873
Training and Technical
Assistance                    5,777          200           -         1,640           -         -          555       8,172
Total Base Costs           11,797       26,708        9,319        4,148        2,074     1,750      2,125       57,921
Physical Contingencies            334        1,325          305          243           67        88          -        2,362
Price Contingencies             2,203        4,096        3,572        1,098          697       311          -       11,977
Total Project Cost         14,334       32,129       13,196        5,489        2,838     2,149       2,125      72,260
WAPAD
May 1984



_ 59 -                               Annex 4-3
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursemer'tz-
(U$$ million)
IDA/IBRD
Fiscal Year           Quarter           Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement
FY85               2nd Quarter           0.7                          0.7
3rd Quarter           0.8                          1.5
4th Quarter           1.4                          2.9
FY86               Ist Quarter           1.6                          4.5
2nd Quarter           1.3                          5.8
3rd Quarter           1.4                          7.2
4th Quarter           1.6                          8.8
FY87               1st Quarter           1.3                         10.1
2nd Quarter           1.4                         11.5
3rd Quarter           1.6                         13.1
4th Quarter           1.4                         14.5
FY88               Ist Quarter           1.4                         15.9
2nd Quarter           1.5                         17.4
3rd Quarter           1.5                         18.9
4th Quarter           1.0                         19.9
FY89               lst Quarter            1.0                        20.9
2nd Quarter           0.6                         21.5
a/ Assuming credit effectiveness in September 1984.
WAPAD
May 1984



- Gb -
luw~~~-  I
63--
*~~~g    a~~~~   *t~~~ev ~~~~  ~ ~   a                                                -                    -tocm
r E-
43i
W - rouS -   c    odo^*,                                       -                         Ij I
(.} ~~~~~~~~~~-  -                                             -       -                      1 L1 
WAPAD
May 1984



Annex 5
_           ~
] .~
- 



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Crop Yield Projections
Crop                           1        2         3         4         5        6         7         8        9      10       11       12      13
Coffee-clean coffee kg/ha                       -       -        50       250       475       575       600      225      425      600     600      600      600
Coffee (intercropped)
clean coffee kglha                          -        -         -        50       250      475       575       600      225     425      600      600     600
Coffee (rehabilitation)
clean coffee kg/ha                         60      100       200       250       300      300       300       300      300     300       -        -       -
Oil palm tlf.f.b./ha                            -       -         -         2.0       3.9       5.6       6.9       7.4     7.4      7.4      7.4     7.4      7.4
-tlpalm oil/ha                                  -       -         -         0.24      0.49      0.72      0.91      1.0     1.0      1.0      1.0      1.0     1.0
-kg/palm kernels/ha                             -       -         -        50       100       160       230      230      230      230      230     230      230
Pla.itains-fresh fruit t/ha                     -        6.7      5.7       2.3      -          -          -       -        -         -        -       -        -
Cocoyams-fresh roots t/ha                       -        0.6      0.6       -        -          -          -       -        -         -        -       -        -
Citrus-fresh fruit tlha                         -       -         -         -         8.0      15.0      15.0     20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0    20.0
Mango-fresh fruit t/ha                          -       -         -         -        10.0      15.0      20.0      25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    25.0
Upland rice (paddy) t/ha                        1.0     _         _-                                       - _  _                     - _  _ 
Groundnuts (unshelled) kg/ha                    -     330         -         _ -                 -          - _     _        _         _ 
Swamp rice (manual cultivation)
(paddy) tlha a/                             1.5      1.75      2.0       2.2       2.2      2.2       2.2       2.2      2.2     2.2      2.2      2.2      2.2
Swamp rice (mechanical cultivation)
(paddy) t/ha a/                             1.5      2.0       2.25      2.5       2.5      2.5       2.5       2.5      2.5     2.5      2.5      2.5      2.5
at Double cropping will be assumed over 50% of the area in year a onwards.
WAPAi9
May 1984



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Project Production Summary
Production (tons)
Crop                    Area                                      --years---- -------                 --- -------- - -
(ha)                  1           2           3         4         5        10       15       20
Coffee
Planting             4,400                  -           -           5        130        682    2,156    2,156   2,156
Rehabilitation       1,000                -4          -16         -10         55        130      300       -        -
5,400                -4         -16           -5        185        812    2,456    2,156   2,156
Oil Palm
Palm Oil        )                                       -           -         72        339    1,900    1,900   1,900
Kernels              1,900                  -           -           -         15         70      437       437      437
Citrus                   100                  -           -           -          -          -    2,000    2,000   2,000
Mango                    100                  -           -           -          -          -    2,500    2,500   2,500
S'jamp Rice              500                180         702       1,324      1,635      1,750    1,750    L.750   1,750
WAPAD
May 1984



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Economic and Financial Prices - Palm Oil and Rice - 1984 Prices
Palm Oil                                                      Rice
---   - --  -    -     ---- -- - -- --------             
1985                        1990                           1985                        1990
Economic     Financial      Economic     Financial         Economic     Financial      Economic      Financial
C.I.F. Freetown  US$/ton.a/                575          575            617          617               397          397            490          490
Lefton                  1436         1436           1542         1542               993           993          1225          1225
Additional Port Handling &
Transport                                113          141            113          141                43           54             43            54
Wholesale Price                           1549         1577           1655         1683              1036          1047          1268         1279
Less Transportation                       -             -              -            -                   7             9             7             9
Mill Price                                                                                           1029         1038           1261          1270
Paddy Equiv. Price                        -             -              -            -                 669          675            820           825
Processing Cost                           -             -              -            -                  60            75            60            75
Transportation and Trader Margin b/        222          237            238          253               122           120           152           150
Farm Price                                1327         1340           1417         1430               487           480           608           600
at   Rice f.o.b Bangkok less 15% quality discount plus US$100 per ton freight. Palm oil c.i.f N.W.Europe.
b/  Rice 20% of delivered price to mill.  Palm oil 15Z of wholesale Drice.
WAPAD
May 1984



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Economic and Financial Prices - Coffee and Palm Kernels - 1984 Prices
C o f f e e                                             P a l m  K e r n e l s
_ _ _ - 1985  _ _          _ _ _ _ 1990                               1985  _      _               1990 
Economic     Financial      Economic    Financial            Economic      Financial      Economic      Financial
CIF price -  (USS/ton)               2735          2735            2809       2809                 350           350            369           369
Less 20% Quality Discount             547           547             562        562                 n/a           nla            nJa           n/a
Freight, Ins., Commission          150           150             150        150                  80            80             80            80
FOB Freetown US$Ston                 2038          2038            2097       2097                 270           270            289           289
F.O.B Freetown (Le/ton)              5095          5095            5243       5243                 675           675            723           723
Duty  l                               _            1528            -          1573                  -             68             -             72
Harbor Dues & Port Charges             15            15              15         15                  15            15             15            15
SLPMB                                  45            45              45         45                  40            40             40            40
cI
Transport to Freetown -                78            98              78         98                  60            75             60            75
Agent's Commission di                  191           191             197       197                   40           40             44            44
Transport (Farm to Agent)              27            34              27         34                  27            34             27            34
Farmgate Prices                      4739          3184             4881      3281                 493           403            537           443
a/   Coffee: New York; Palm Kernels: London
b/ Coffee, 30%; Palm Kernels, 602
c/   Coffee: 160 miles @ Le 0.61/mile; Palm Kernels 125 miles at Le 0.61/mile.
d/   Coffee: 62 of farmgate value. Palm Kernels 10% of farmgate value.
WAPAD
May 1984
(b



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Illustrative Crop Budget - Summary of Tree Crop Budgets
(Leones)
Without Coffee (Yx.7) - - - - - - - -Oil Pa                                                     Citrus
Without            WithOi   ar.Ctu
Project        Intercropping   No Intercropping   Rehabilitation        Without Project    With Project        Year 10
(Year 10)
Yield (kg/ha)                   120             575                  575               300                  a/                   b/        20,000
Farmgate Price (le/k-)            3.3             3.3                  3.3               3.3                                                     0.12
Gross gevenue per ha(le)        396            1898                 1898               990                  347                1516          2400
Cost of Materials                10              15                   15                15                   10                  139 cl       200
Loan Repayment                   -              466                  650                -                    -                   575
Sub-total                    10             481                 665               975                    10                 714           200                   '
Cross Margin                    386            1417                1233                975                  337                  802         2200
Labor Mandays                    20              84                   84                50                   75                  127            72
Gross Margin/manday              19.3            16.9                 14.7              19.5                  4.5                  6.3          30.5
a]   Yield 200 kg oil valued at Le 1405/ton and 0.25 tons kernels valued at Le 443iton.
'E   Yield of 1 ton of oil valued at Le 1405 per ton and 0.25 tons kernels valued at le 443 Per ton.
cJ   Fertili2er = Le 114: repairs to processing equipment = Le 25.
WAPAD
May 1984
1U
S
l



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Illustrative Farm Budgets
Farm Budget for Rice
Upland and Riverain Rice
Traditional Upland      Riverain Grasslands
Unit     Oxen      Manual        Manual             Existing   Improved
PHYSICAL
Output - Paddy                                kg        1600      1400             900             1500       2000
Inputs
Labor                                         Mandays   179        213             195              107         77
Seed                                          kg          70        70             70                70         70
Fertilizer 20:20:0                            kg         100       100              -               -          100
FINANCIAL
Value of Production                                      800       700             450              750       1000            I
COST OF PRODUCTION
Seeds                                                     63        63              44               44         63            4
Fertilizer                                                70        70                               -          70
Tractor Service                                                                                      -         250
Oxen Operating Cost af                                    95        -                                -  
Tools and Equipment b/                                    25        20              20               20         20
Interest - seasonal loan eI                               25        25               4              -           22
Total Costs (excluding hired labor)                        278       178              68               64         425
Gross Margin                                               .522      522             382              686         575
Gross Margin Per Manday                                    2.9       2.5             2.0              6.4         7.5
aJ Actual oxen operation, including time spent administering simple animal health services and grazing supervision.
11 Includes depreciation on cutlass, hoes, shovels, sickles, head pans and pedal threshers.
et Fertilizer loans calculated at 90% of total cost of fertilizer. Farmers are required to make a deposit of
10% of the fertilizer cost before receiving fertilizer on credit.  Interest is calculated at 20% over a 9-month             x
period.
WAPAD
May 1984



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Illustrative Farm Budgets
(per ha single crop)
Swamp Rice
Traditional Swam
Unit     Tractor      Power      Oxen     Manual            Manual
PHYSICAL
Output - Paddy                   kg       2500         2500      2500      2200              1300
Inputs - Labor                  Mandays   151.5         151.5     167.5    182                178
- Seed                   kg         70           70         70                          70
- Fertilizer 20-20-20   kg         100          100        100      100                 -
- Urea                   kg        100          100        100      100
FINANCIAL
Value of Production                       1250         1250      1250      1100               650
COST OF PRODUCTION
Seeds                                       63           63         63       63                44
Fertilizer                                 140          140       140       140                  -
Tractor/Tiller Service                     250          220         -        -
Oxen Operating Cost                         -            -        158        --
Tools and Equipment                         40           40        40        -                 20
Interest - development loan                 46           46        46        46                 -
seasonal loan                   22           22        22        22                  5
Total Costs (excluding hired labor)        561          531       469       271                 69
Gross Margin                               689          719       781       829               581
Gross MarginlManday                          4.6          4.8       4.7       4.6               3.1
WAyAD
May 1984



SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT I
Net Financial Returns to Farmers per Hectare
Without Project                 With Project                 Increase in             Irnerease in    Increase
Gross Margin                  Gross Margin                Gross Margin            Labor Input       in Net
Per ha    Per Manday        Per ha    Per Manday         Per ha    Per Manday            X  Per ha    Margin Per ha a/
Coffee - New Planting   7th Year              -           -              1432        17.0             1432       17.0                  -              -
Coffee - Rehabilitation 5th Year             3B6          19.2            975        19.5              589        0.3                  150            481
Oil Palm - New Planting 10th Year            337 bj        4.5            802         6.3              465         1.8                 191            278                    ol
Rice Swamp - Manual Cultivation              581           3.2            829         4.6              248         1.4                  53            320
Ox Cultivation                 561 '/        3.2            781         4.7              200         1.5                  41            327
Rice Upland  Manual Cultivation              382           2.0            522         2.5              140         0.5                   9             75
Ox Cultivation                 382 cJ        2.0            522         2.9              140        09                  (-9)           198
Rice Riverain  Tractor Cultivation           686 cl        6.4            585         7.6              -99         1.2                (-28)            27
a/  After valuing labor at Le .     per day.
bl Fruit gathered from existing scattered palm groves.
cj Manual cultivation
WAPAD                                                                                                                                                                     x
May 1984



SiERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT I
Government Cash Flow - Tree Crop and Swamp Development Componencs
PY1       fY2       .Y3         FY4        PFY5       YY6        PY7        ?Y8        P19        FY10        PYll        PY12-20
CASH INFLOW
IDA                                 307        1,179      1,676      -          -          -          -          -          -         -            _           _
IFA                           a,    375        1,682      2.170      -          -          -          -          -          -          -           -           -
Sales of Planting Materials-         -            747        710     -          -          -          -          _          _          _           _ 
Taxes - Coffee                      (6)          (25)        (8)    288         1,271      2,788     3,689      3,775      3,795      3,775       3,461       3,461
- ralm Kernels                                                  1             5        12         19         27         31         31          31          31
Loan Repayment b                     -            -           15    179         1,356      2,306     2,517      2,376      2,311      1,559          691       -
TOTAL INFLOW                         676        3L583       4,563    468         2X634      h106       6  ZZ      6^L18     6137       5-___       4-183          492
CASH OUTFLOW
Tree Crop Development-/E            596        2.827       3,983  1,431           879        528            -         -          -          -                 -
Swamp Development  cd                89          393         533    174         -         -             -       -          -          -           -           -        0
Recurrent Costs d                   -          -           -          10           70        241        430        430        430       430         430         430
Debt Service - IDA d
Interest                          1            8          19     24           24         24         24         24         24         24          24          24
Principal                      -          -           -        -           -          -            -        -          -          -              31          31
Debt Service - IFAD fV
Interest                          2           14          30     42           42         42         '.2        42         42         42          42          42
Principal                      -          -           -        -           -          -            -          -        -          -              42          42
TOTAL OUTFLOW                         28 3e2               44565  1,681         L2205        835        496        496        496        496         569         569
Net Surplus (Deficit)               (12)         341       (2)   (1,213)        1,619      4,271      5,729      5,682      5,641      4,869       3,614       2,923
a/   Revenue from cash sales of planting materials to large farmers.
b)   Loan repayment conditions are shown in Working Paper 6.
c/   Includes directly related extension and management costs.
dJ   Administration and extension.
e/   3/4% per annun service charge and principal repayable over 50 years with a 10-year grace period.  The repayment terms are 1%
per annum for the first 10 years of repayment and 3% per annum for the following 30 years.
f/   1% per annum service charge and the principal repayable over 50 years with a 10-year grace period.  The repayment terms
are 1% per annum for the first 10 years of repayment and 3% per annum for the following 30 years.
WAPA4)
May 1984



IBRD 17501
MAAURITANIA j                                12                                         11'                 SEPTEMBER  1983
SENEGAL    ~ ~    MAI
SENEGAL M >BNAZ            .-'_   NIGER                                        SIERRA  LEONE
HGAMJIEA7'.  -'??)/ -                                           ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
BICAU LGUNEA I        r                  Interior; Agriculture; Integrated  Agricultural Development Projects
Sir RR/'.)IOY 
t[ONE' /4  (.COOA$SrTG)H^ANI  *               Anricultural Region Boundaries (MAF)           .     International Boundaries
LIBERIA               B NTOGO              Provincial Boundaries (Ministryof Interior)    6     National Capital
-O-   District Boundaries (Ministry of Interior)        r     Provincial Capitols
IADP Boundaries (Integroted Agricultural            Rivers
Development Project)
[13                                            , -        .   -                                                       1'
ra n-mp ti  Im,o  5pWi,.d lby.p
Tho War cnr. sta 'I ,fONtaa_'
-Oda agd is oachust-Wly I, Iso   GUI  NEAii                                        'jI I,I
onh   alosI s,t    sof Th  W.an,d 1-J ,
.,sod r  hena rin t lbs 7nc       ,_adao0  j                              Ir AD"  
O.d10th. W,Of,0OI ~Wa"t'                                    -72/     KOINADUGU
C.oro,atl,, r7e d-n7rtbtso                         ,     _    ,v t              v
on IhiS psal do hot nIsfy. s,, hto  N _       K,o  la
pail al Tho Wawn 19-k 0na PO.  Jf                                            0                                     G U I N E A
lflO,,flf   I ,0000 CoW"or001.e            -..
ainy 1sdlopofll oYn sa agf slOB                           ,         ii  0                         RICT
01 IVI.15Y  CO low         f
SOch toaoanos   Of                                    NOT                     /             DISTRICT
.'C)       N       R  T  H   E  R   N  0           P,' R   O  V  I N  C  E 
OMBALI  DI'STRIC
9,eKambiag) egio p
's +<K                                                            0 *     I       ^           ,          
'Nh ~      ~          ~         ~         ~         '
.. N or t h Maen z    i
PORT  LOKOW  ee DISTRICTJ                                                                    KOr       DISTRICT
 , r   -    , f  gx        \      '         O~~~~~Sefadu   
:'4-yr X  2>North   Ce                                  n
FREETOWN                                                                    Cent..    )5ego
WNb   / (     g  0  t nffiX              s  cXs\           . >  S               , E\A   s   T  E  R  N        j        /    '
WESTERN                                                                                                Lti  4  ROL I  <,-E
AREA                                                                                                   \ \)' .:
AREA . ; > J bl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P  R O                          V  I NtC  E c {
MoyombaS                      E   I R  NII
e-8                  MOYAMBA              f                    E                   2 i  -
We s ter n                                                      EaBo  s- EoStq lf'n  ,/
DISTRICT                      80   DISTRICT           Kenemai          \     Y;
P,\R~        (\ L V   I N, C  E
.  ,  outhern                        Regionr<
Regi-nl -                 ,?                       I S T R IC T
BONTHE   DISTRIT R(Re Ion                                              lo 
Puiehun-                             LIBERIA
PUJEE'U
KILOMETERS 0     ZpO    40       6,0     80    100O                    .  1
7-      MILESO            Zo          4n0           60                                                                                  7
13 e                                       12                                         11



