Document of
The World Bank
FOR  OFAL USE ONLY
RePiw N.. P-3694-SL
REPORT AND RECOIMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
(N A
PROPOSED CREDIT OF SDR 20.3 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF SIERRA LEONE
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
May 24, 1984
This docuet ha a resricted isibul. ad my be sed by reciets nly in tde pef.n.mce of
dtir okiad dutie  Us cehjas my no oterwbe be discWod witswint Wed BaDk auihonlud.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1               =        Le 2.50
Leones 1.00        =        US$0.40
SDS 1              =        US$1.06
FISCAL YEAR
July 1  -   June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
IADP    Integrated Agricultural Development Project
IFAD    International Fund for Agricultural Development
lAF     Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
KMAR    Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources
.-DNR    Ministry of Natural Resources
PBMSU   Planning, Evaluation, Monitoring and Services Unit
SLPNB   Sierra Leone Produce Marketing Board



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:      Republic of Sierra Leone
Amount:        SDR 20.3 million (US$21.5 million equivalent)
Terms          Standard
Project
Description:   The project would directly contribute to Government's objec-
tives of increasing domestic food production and agricultural
exports. It would comprise: (a) an action program for
rationalization of the institutional framework in the agricul-
tural sector, including merger of ongoing integrated agricul-
tural development projects with the reorganized Ministry of
Agriculture and Natural Resources (MANR), privatization of
Ministry operations in agricultural mechanization and palm oil
processing, and improvements in operating systems in the MANR
and in agricultural policy-making; (b) significant reductions
in numbers of unskilled support staff in MANR; (c) financing of
improvements in operating facilities for MANE; (d) provision of
foreign exchange to finance key imports for the sector; (e)
support of tree crop and swamp development programs; and (f)
technical assistance. Provision of finance for imports would
be linked to progress in the action program.
Provision of key imports, principally fertilizers, spare parts
and agricultural equipment, and support of swamp development
and tree crop programs, would directly benefit about 80,000
farmers (about 25% of the total farm families), most of whom
have incomes close to the absolute poverty level of US$75 per
capita. The reorganization and strengthening of MANR would
also result in improved management of foreign aid flows to the
agricultural sector, which at present are widely dispersed and
poorly coordinated. Project risks include: inability of MAMR
to cope with the proposed changes in organizational structure,
functions and systems; and inadequate interest of the private
sector to participate in the privatization of services. These
risks are minimized by the steps already agreed, a comprehen-
sive package of technical assistance included in the project,
and the degree of interest of the private sector which is
already evident.
This document has a resticted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their officl duties. its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost 1/                          (US$ million)
Local    Foreign    Total
Institutional Support                 0.7       4.0        4.7
Sectoral Support                      0.1       10.6      10.7
Tree Crop Development                 2.2        1.5       3.7
Swamp Development                     0.6        1.1       1.7
Nagbosi Extension                     0.4       0.4        0.8
Sub-projects                           -        0.7        0.7
PPF Refinancing                                 0.9        0.9
Subtotal                           4.0       19.2      23.2
Physical Contingencies                0.1       0.8        0.9
Expected Price Contingencies          2.0        2.8       4.8
TOTAL                             6.1      22.8       28.9
Financing Plan                             (USS million)
IDA                                   3.3       18.2      21.5
IFAD                                  0.8       4.6        5.4
Government                            1.2        -         1.2
Beneficiaries                         0.8        -         0.8
TOTAL                             6.1      22.8       28.9
Estimated Disbursements (IDA Fl):
(us million)
1985     1986      1987      1988      1989
Annual                            2.9      5.9        5.7       5.4       1.6
Cumulative                        2.9      8.8       14.5      19.9      21.5
Rate of Return:  35% for tree crop and swamp development components (25% of
base project cost). Other elements do not lend themselves to
quantification of benefits.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 4B33-SL, dated Nay 24, 1984.
.ap: IBRD 17501
1/  Net of taxes and duties from which the project is exempt.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPKENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO SIERRA LEONE FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
1. *I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit to Sierra Leone for the equivalent of SDR 20.3 million (US$21.5
million equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance an Agricultural
Sector Support Project. The International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) would provide US$5.4 million equivalent of cofinancing for the project,
with IDA serving as cooperating institution of the IFAD loan.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.       An economic report entitled "Sierra Leone - Prospects for Growth and
Equity" (No. 3375-SL) of July 31, 1981 was distributed to the Executive Direc-
tors. The following discussion is based on that report and on the findings of
several updating missions which visited Sierra Leone during 1982 and 1983.
Country data sheets are contained in Annex I.
Structural Characteristics
3.       Sierra Leone has a population of 3.7 million (1982), growing presently
at 2.5 percent per annum. It is in the low-income category of the countries
of Sub-Saharan Africa. In the last few years real per capita incomes have
declined by nearly 2 percent per annum, and Sierra Leone has been classified
as a "least-developed" country by the U.N. The average per capita income was
about US$385 in 1982 and was unevenly distributed across sectors and regions.
The rural population (75 percent of the total) have per capita incomes far
below the national average; it is estimated that about 65 percent of them
exist below the absolute poverty level of US$75.
4.       Agriculture is the dominant sector providing employment to 65 percent
of the labor force. But its contribution to GDP is about 30 percent, implying
low productivity in the sector. Rice, the staple food, is grown primarily for
subsistence by more than BO percent of the farmers.  Even so, the country
faces increasing rice shortages. Coffee, cocoa and oil palm are the major
export crops.
5.       Mining has been a key sector in Sierra Leone.  Of the country's
mineral resources, diamonds are most important, having accounted for 40
percent of all exports in FY82. The other minerals exported are bauxite,
rutile, and gold. The manufacturing sector is small and consists largely of
import-substituting industries; it employs 11 percent of the labor force.



6.       Sierra Leone's sccial and economic infrastructure is not well devel-
oped. The road network is generally adequate, but feeder roads are often
lacking and road maintenance is pocr. The ccuntry has good water resources,
but its hydro-electric power potential has not been fully exploited.
Recent Economic Performance
7.       Between 1962 and 1972, the first decade of independence, production
and income rcse impressively. GDP grew nearly 5 percent a year, foreign
exchange earning. were adequate, and public revenue grew satisfactorily. The
Government did not face any serious limitation of financial resources. The
situation changed after 1972. Diamond output declined, mainly as a result of
the depletion of alluvial deposits; oil prices increased sharply; and there
was a general rise in import prices of manufactured goods. The situation
worsened further in 1975, when the country lost its second largest source of
export earnings: the only iron ore mine closed due to rising production costs
and the declining grade of the iron ore. As a result, the average annual
growth rate of real GDP dropped from 2.3 percent during 1970-75 to 1.8 percent
during 1975-80. Agricultural and mineral output, which together account for
35 percent of GDP and almost all the country's exports, has further declined
since 1980. With a population growth of about 2.5 percent, per capita real
iceme has been decreasing substantially. During 1980-82, inflation was 20-25
percent a year and it reached as high as 37 percent in 1983.
Fiscal Performance
8.       The slowdown in economic growth and the erosion of the export base
after 1973 contributed tc a marked deterioration in fiscal performance. While
public revenues increased 17 percent a year between FY73 and FY81, public
spending rose more rapidly at a rate of nearly 23 percent a year. Between
FY81 and FY82, public revenues actually declined slightly, while public spend-
ing continued to increase. The estimated budget deficit for FY83 was US$215
million, which was about 14 percent of GDP. Public expenditures are difficult
to reduce because nearly 50 percent of the current expenditures are for
salaries and wages. There is also heavy pressure on the current budget from
interest payments on outstanding debt.
Balance of Payments
9.       Sierra Leone's balance-of-payments situation has deteriorated stead-
ily since the early 70s as import bills rose, largely as a result of the sharp
increase in energy prices after 1973, and exports falling in value and
volume. The cost of petroleum imports jumped from US$8 million in 1971 to
US$87 million in FY82, claiming 65 percent of the country's export earnings.
The price of other imports also rose during this time. On the other hand,
stagnant production reduced the volume of exports. High demestic inflation
and the rise in domestic demand created pressure on imports, making things
even worse. The overall deficit increased from 5.4 percent of GDP in FY80 to
11 percent of GDP in FY82. At the end of December 1982, the outstanding
external debt of Sierra Lecne was US$420 million, or 30 percent of GDP.



-3-
Development Planning
10.      Development spending during the first Five-Year Plan (FY75-79) fell
far short of the target due mainly to fiscal management problems and foreign
exchange constraints. Because of the experience with the first Five-Year Plan
and the time needed to prepare the second Five-Year Plan, two interim invest-
ment plans -- one for FY79-81 and the other for FY82-84 -- were prepared.
There has also been a serious shortfall in implementing these plans. Another
three-year investment plan is now being finalized. An IDA Technical
Assistance Project has provided help for plan preparation, but progress has
been slow.
External Debt and Creditworthiness
11.      In the face of slow growth in public revenues and export receipts,
Sierra Leone has relied heavily since the mid-1970's on foreign borrowing to
finance its capital expenditures. Total external debt outstanding increased
from US$184.0 in 1975 to US$530.0 million in 1982, of which US$420 million was
disbursed. Of the total debt outstanding and disbursed, 29 percent was in
commercial credits, 39.5 percent in bilateral loans, and 31.5 percent in loans
and credits from international institutions. As of December 1982, the Bank
Group held about 10 percent of Sierra Leone's external debt outstanding and
disbursed. Assistance from bilateral government sources came mostly from the
Federal Republic of Germany, the People's Republic of China, the Netherlands,
and Japan. The maturity structure of Sierra Leone's external public debt has
deteriorated since the mid-1970's as a result of substantial borrowing through
suppliers' credits. Unable to service its external debt, the Government
approached its creditor countries through the Paris Club in September 1977 and
November 1979 and negotiated debt-relief agreements. The relief amounted to
an estimated US$39 million under the 1977 Agreement and US$37 million under
the 1979 Agreement. At present, Sierra Leone has arrears on the renegotiated
portion of both Paris Club consolidations as well as on other consolidated
debt to Paris Club members. The Paris Club met again on February 6 and 7,
1984 and further rescheduled the debts.
Development Issues
12.      Weak economic management is the most immediate issue.  Without
macroeconomic policy reforms, the economy cannot be put back on a growth
path. The reforms must include budgetary measures to increase revenue and
reduce spending; extra-budgetary expenditures have stopped, but overstaffing
is still a problem and the Government must reduce its work force and save in
its current expenditures on wages and salaries. The Government has taken
steps to correct prices, but further adjustment is needed, especially in
foreign exchange, to help exports and curb domestic demand. A tight monetary
policy, consistent with fiscal policy, is also needed to ease the inflationary
pressure and help stabilize the economy.
13.      In addition to these short-run policies, the Government has to
address several important structural issues. First, the economy at the moment
is highly dualistic. The agricultural sector is based on subsistence with low
productivity. A very small modern sector covers mining and some manufac-



- 4 -
turing. The dualism cr3ates inequities in living standards and incentives for
outmigration from the traditional sector, causing labor shortages during the
peak agricultural season and further losses in productivity in agriculture.
14.      Second, the economy has an exceptionally low rate of savings, esti-
mated at less than 2 percent of GDP for FY82. The rate of taxation is also
very low. Compared with other economies having a similar mining sector,
Sierra Leone's rate of taxes on mining is exceptionally low, an important
factor in the low rate of overall saving. While the saving rate is low the
investment structure has been such that the incremental capital-output ratio
for the economy has been quite high, at about 10 in the 1970s. This has been
due to heavy emphasis on infrastructure development and capital-intensive
projects. Third, the development of human resources has been poor. The
literacy rate for the country is only 15 percent; life expectancy is estimated
at about 47 years. Access to social services in rural areas is extremely
limited. Only 12 percent of the population has access to safe drinking
water. Sierra Leone has one of the highest infant mortality rates in the
world, about 200 per 1,000 live births during 1974-79. The primary school
enrollment ratio is low compared with other neighboring African countries.
The lack of educational and training opportunities is reflected in the
shortage of skilled manpower. Although Sierra Leone has a reasonably
competent administrative structure with adequate managerial and professional
skills, mid-level skills and the overall quality of labor have been poor.
Short-term economic management is needed to put the economy back on track.
Long-term growth will depend, however, on development of agriculture and of
human resources.
Recent Economic Reform Measures
15.      The Government recently has taken several bold macroeconomic
measures. It devalued the leone by 100 percent (in July 1983), contained
public expenditures (including a freeze on all extra-budgetary expenditures),
increased agricultural prices up to 100 percent, and prepared with the Bank a
plan to recrganize agricultural services. A Fund standby of SDR 50.2 million
was approved on February 3, 1984.
Future Prospects
16.      The next two to three years will be difficult for Sierra Leone.  The
earliest revival of economic growth will probably not be before 1985-86, even
with the new investments in mining and continued investments in agriculture.
Appropriate agricultural prices and intensified efforts to increase agricul-
tural production could increase export earnings from cocoa, coffee, and palm
oil. But the total export earnings is likely to change little during the next
few years. On the other hand, the cost of imports may still rise, with the
rate of increase depending on the demand management policies pursued by the
Government. In any case, the balance-of-payments will continue to be under
pressure. Further rescheduling of both official and private debt servicing
may be necessary. In the medium and long term, however, Sierra Leone could
both restore and sustain its creditworthiness as the Government implements
macroeconomic policies required to implement the IMF supported program to
improve the balance-of-payments.



- 5 -
17.      The future outlook of the mining sector is mixed.  The extent of
mineral deposits is not, however, fully known. The kimberlite underground
diamond mining project has good prospects, but it may take some time to
materialize. Large iron ore reserves have been discovered, but most of these
are of low grade and presently not economic to mine. Only one iron ore mine,
which had earlier ceaaed operation. because it was incurring losses, has now
reopened. Mining of rutile is operating well below capacity. Bauxite mining
has improved recently with the installation of new machinery and more bauxite
deposits have been discovered, but these are of low quality and will be
economic only if used to manufacture alumina. In recent years, the interest
in gold mining has revived but the total production remains very small.
18.      Sierra Leone's extremely difficult economic conditions and its
vulnerability to fluctuations in primary product export earnings make it
desirable that future debt service obligations be kept as low as possible.
Consequently, Sierra Leone will have to depend upon IDA resources for Bank
Group borrowing over the next few years. This is also consistent with the
country's relatively low per capita income. At the same time, to help ensure
a more adequate flow of foreign exchange into the country, it would be
appropriate to finance some local costs of projects.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
Bank Group Operations
19.      Bank and IDA operations in Sierra Leone to date have totalled
US$107.8 million. There have been five loans amounting to US$18.7 million and
twelve credits totalling US$89.1 million. IFC has provided a loan of US$2.1
million to Sierra Cement Manufacturing Company, Ltd. which is now fully
disbursed. Five loans and six credits are fully disbursed. Disbursement
performance under Bank loans and IDA credits was satisfactory in the past,
with disbursements amounting to more than 40 percent of loans and credits
outstanding at the beginning of each fiscal year from FY78 to FY81. This was
because foreign assistance, including cofinanciers' contributions, have
accounted for a high proportion of project coats and because the Government
provided counterpart resources promaptly. However, over the last two years,
the Government has been experiencing a severe shortage of resources for in-
vestment and this has delayed the execution of several projects in the agri-
cultural sector as well as the Second Highway Project. The Association is
maintaining a close dialcgue with the Government on provision of counterpart
funds so as to minimize delays in project execution. Bank and IDA operations
have been in support of agriculture (32 percent), education (28 percent),
power (20 percent) highways (18 percent) and techn-cal assistance (2
percent). Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of March 31, 1984.



-6-
Lending Strategy
20.      The principal objectives of Bank and IDA assistance to Sierra Leons
are to: (a) support improved economic management, including economic devel-
opment planning and project preparation; (b) stimulate the productive sectors
with a view to broadening the country's export base; (c) improve the country's
essential infrastructure, particularly roads and power, the inadequacy of
which presently constitutes a constraint upon the country's economic growth;
(d) raise the income levels and standard of living of the poorest section of
the population; and (e) broaden access to education, particularly in the rural
areas, and improve its quality. At the same time, the Bank and IDA seek to
encourage the adoption of appropriate sector pricing policies and to strength-
en the management of public sector corporationa wherever appropriate.
21.      With the gradual decline in the production of diamonds, it has become
increasingly important to develop the agricultural and manufacturing potential
of the economy. Bank Group-financed agricultural development projects have
provided improved extension services, feeder roads and farm inputs to small-
holder farmers. These activities were started in the Eastern area under the
first project in 1972, and expanded in the East and introduced in the North
under the second project. A third agricultural development project in the
East and a second for the Northern area were approved by the Executive Direc-
tors in FY81. These ongoing operations complement other integrated agricul-
tural development projects (IADPs) under way with the assistance of the Inter-
national Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) and the European Economic
Community (EEC). In late 1982, the Bank carried out a review of the agricul-
tural sector which determined the need for a broader reform of the whole
sector, for the provision of direct productive investments in rice, coffee and
oil palm, and for the smooth assimilation of the IADPs into the Ministry of
Agriculture. The proposed project is based on these premises.
22.      In infrastructure, the Bank Group's first highway project (Cr. 218-
SL/Ln 710-SL of October 1970) included sections of the country's main trunk
road system and a maintenance program, as well as studies for further improve-
ments of the road system. The second highway project (Credit 1129-SL of
October 1981) is being implemented to strengthen the country's capacity to
maintain its road network. A power sector engineering and technical
assistance project (Credit 1265-SL of July 1982) is helping to rehabilitate
existing thermal generation and distribution system facilities, support
institutional improvements in the power sector, and complete preparation of
the Bumbuna hydroelectric project.
23.      In education, the Bank Group's first and second education projects
(Cr. 170-SL of January 1970 and Cr. 573-Sl of July 1975, respectively)
supported the Government's priorities for skilled manpower by providing
assistance to improve secondary education and technical training. The third
education project (Cr. 1353-SL of May 1983) is assisting in the improvement of
the quality of primary education and increase in access to primary education
in rural areas. In December 1979, a technical assistance project (Cr. 970-SL)
was approved to strengthen the Government's capability in development
planning, preparation of development projects, training of local staff, and
monitoring and evaluation of public investment programs.



-7-
24.      As noted in Part I of this report, Sierra Leone has experienced
economic difficulties in the last few years. More recently, the Government
has embarked upon signifioant policy reforms to improve the situation and lay
foundations for oconomic recovery. The proposed project is an Important step
in this direction. Further progress in this area and general improvement in
the Government's management of the economy will be important determinants of
the level of future Bank Group operations in Sierra Leone.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Introduction
25.      Sierra Leone has a total area of 72,000 Km2.  Approximately 75
percent is considered to be potentially suitable for agricultural use
(including forest). Of this area about 80 peroent comprises uplands of
relatively low fertility and the remaining 20 percent more fertile land,
mainly swamps and valley bottoms, most of which would require some water
control to reach their full potential. Total precipitation over most of the
country, however, is high (2,000-3,000 mm), and conditions are generally
favorable for plant growth.
26.      The most important agricultural product is rice, the staple food.
There are virtually no large enterprises in the agricultural sector. Less
than 40 percent of total agricultural production enters the monetized economy
and this comes mostly from the eastern and southern areas of the country,
where climatic conditions have led to the development of tree crop production
for export. In the northern half of the country growing conditions are less
favorable, as the dry season becomes longer, and the cropping system is based
mainly on shifting cultivation of upland rice for subsistence.
27.      The value of total agricultural production (in constant prices)
increased only 1.1 percent annually during FY71-75 and this growth rate
slightly increased to about 2.2 percent during FY76-80. The relatively faster
rate of growth of agricultural output in the latter part of the 70s was from
the expansion in cultivated areas in response to some increase in producer
prices.
28.      Since then performance has deteriorated again and, for example, rice
imports have risen steadily to above 20 percent of total domestic requirements
in 1982/83. Notwithstanding the present somewhat unpromising situation, there
is considerable agricultural potential in the country. Less than 10 percent
of the swampland area suitable for agricultural use has been developed and
about 50 percent of the tree crep potential remains untouched. Furthermore,
the recovery of the economy greatly depends on the agricultural sector, since
in the medium-term it is the only foreseeable engine of growth.



-8-
Govornment Objective.
29.      Rooognizing the present state of Sierra Leone's economy, namely,
doclining commodity production, low levels of domestio savings, persistent
deficits in Government financial operations and balance of payments, the
Government is giving priority to tackling two major sote of problems. These
are: (a) short-term finanoial problems which need to be set right expedi-
tiously, and (b) structural constraints to be addressed in the oourse of
implementing the Second Development Plan and subsequent development efforts.
30.      In terms of the agricultural seotor, these objectives mean giving
priority to increasing production, so as to reduce imports of foods in whioh
the country has some comparative advantage, and to increase exporte of major
crops, and also to increasing efficienoy in operations of Government agenoies.
These objectives would be achieved through policies and program, that would
improve incentives to farmers, expedite completion of successful ongoing
investment projects, initiate new projects only where quick-yielding results
are expected, and streamline public services in agriculture, with privati-
zation of suitable activities.
Bank Group Operations in the Sector
31.      Bank Group operations in the agricultural sector, to date, have been
in support of the Government's earlier strategy of emphasis on integrated
agricultural (or rural) development projects (IADPs) designed to improve
delivery of extension and related services to farmers. The Bank Group con-
tributed to the financing of two IADPs through a phased approach under four
loans/credl.ts which were made between 1973 and 1981. The Eastern IADP is in
its third phase (Cr.323 - Phase I; Cr.568/Ln.1138 - Phase II; Cr.1094 - Phase
III), while the Northern is in its second (Cr.568/Ln.1138 - Phase I; Cr.1128 -
Phase II). IFAD is the sole external financier of the Magbosi IADP (for which
the Bank is the executing agency), and a co-financier of the Northern IADP
II.
32.      The Project Performance Audit Reports (PPARB) for Credit 323 (Report
No. 2066) and Credit 568/Loan 1138 (Report No. 4581) indicate that these
projects have been reasonably successful in meeting their physical targets of
crop devc1'pment and civil works. The crop programs have contributed to
increased food production, mainly in rice and palm oil, and the v-^oa program
is now coming into production.  They have been successful in cre"64ng an
awareness among farmers of the benefits of improved practices, as reflected in
the growing demand for oil palm, cocoa and coffee seedlings and for improved
rice seeds and fertilizers. However, the overall impact has been somewhat
below expectations. Yield increases have not been as high as originally
envisaged; higher yielding swamp farming has not been integrated into the
traditional farming systems, which are concentrated on the uplands; and
markedly improved technical packages have not been developed. The explanatory
factors include technical weaknesses due to inadequate research, as well as
organizational weaknesses as reflected in the quality of the extension
services. The institution-building efforts i.ave had mixed results. Positive
results were achieved in project management and financial control, but central
ministerial co-ordination has been weak and project spin-off thus reduced.



-9-
Sectoral Constraints
33.      The earlier emphasis on the area rather than sectoral/sub-sectoral
approach, has been justified on the basis of the need to concentrate scarce
resources directly on increasing production in specific areas with high
potential. While the IADPs have certainly cuntributed to the transfer of
substantial resources to the regions, and have been major sources of -
extension, credit and input supply services, they still remain isolated
operations partly dependent on foreign expertise and external supervision.
During earlier discussions on possible IDA lending operations, it was agreed
that as a subsequent phase of Sierra Leone's agricultural development
strategy, wider institutional improvements and incentive policies were
required to maintain and expand the achievements of the IADPs. Therefore,
more thorough sectoral analysis than has been possible within the framework of
the project approach utilized in the past was necessary. Accordingly, the
Bank, jointly with IFA]D, undertook a review of the agricultural sector,
focussing on incentive, technological, and institutional issues. On the basis
of the analysis and recommendations of that review, the proposed project was
designed, in conjunction with the Government, to assist in addressing the
major institutional, incentive and technological problems.
Institutional Framework
34.      Shortages of local funds, particularly acute in the past two years,
have adversely affected operations of the Ministry of Agriculture and Foresty
(MAF) and the Ministry of Natural Resources (XNR). Such shortages have not,
however, slowed expansion of the number of employees in these Ministries,
particularly that of daily wage categories. In 1982/83 the wages of daily-
paid categories accounted for 50 percent of recurrent costs while permanent
staff salaries accounted for a further 23 percent. The share of daily paid
labor has been rapidly increasing at the expense of operations and mainte-
nance, thus undermining the Ministries' ability to provide services to
farmers. In addition, because of the shortage of foreign exchange, the MAP
has been unable to import fertilizers or spare parts for the past 18 months
for use outside externally-financed projects. As a result the Ministry's
general field operations are at a virtual standstill.
35.      The core organizations of MAP and MNR are charged with providing
planning, extension, monitoring and evaluation, cultivation and agricultural
engineering, and regulatory services under central direction. These core
services are generally ineffective, due to an absence of clear objectives,
inappropriate priorities, inadequate funding of development programs, lack of
facilities, insufficient research, and extension staff who are poorly paid,
untrained, and poorly organized. In regions where there are IADPs, there are
normally two, virtually separate, extension services. The IADP staff are
better paid, with better logistical support, and are generally better trained
than the staff in the Ministries from whom a significant share of the staff
has been attracted. They have clearer objectives and work programs and are
consequently better managed. At the same time, the Government's counterpart
commitment to these externally funded projects has been a major contributing
factor to the shortage of resources for the Ministries' own operations. Under
Credit 1094-SL it was agreed that the Eastern IADP would be merged with MAF,



- 10 -
but no specific plan of action was included and implementation has been
delayed.
36.      The result of this overall situation has been a near eclipse of
MAF/MNR and a general malaise in the public services supporting agriculture,
which can only get worse unless specific steps are taken to tackle it. Head-
quarters weakness has resulted in inadequate coordination and supervision of
the various externally funded activities. The two Ministries have a develop-
ment budget for agriculture of Le 53 million (USS21 million) in 1983/84 of
which Le 11 million is from domestic sources and Le 42 million represents
external funding. This budget covers a total of 70 ongoing projects, of which
34 are receiving external funding. The IADPs represent about 44 percent of
the total development budget. Headquarters weakness has resulted in inade-
quate coordination and supervision of these various externally funded activi-
ties and the Ministries have not been able to develop a coherent overall
program for development of the sector. This results in large part from the
wholly inadequate level of staffing at senior levels in the two Hinistries.
Only 32 Principal Agricultural Officers or equivalent and above manage an
operational staff of 1360 plus support and laboring staff of over 10,000. For
an effectively staffed combined Ministry (MAF and M R), a staffing of about
110 in these management categories would be required. Even including IADP
staff, senior management is stretched far too thinly. At the same time, the
excessive manpower in the lowest grades complicates the management task.
37.      The Government is greatly concerned about MAF's deficient performance
and there is a widespread desire throughout MAF to improve the operating
environment. It has been agreed in principle that MAF and MNR would be
combined, and IADP staff and operations merged with the combined Ministry. It
is intended that the combined Ministry should be reorganized to develop an
organizational structure which is manageable, but at the same time flexible
enough to effectively implement programs and allow for change in a developing
situation. More specifically, the approach would place emphasis on (i) re-
ducing the scope of activities of the Ministerial organization and assisting
the private sector to develop its capacity to assume responsibility in commer-
cially oriented areas such as production (e.g., oil palm and rubber) and
provision of inputs (e.g., agricultural machinery, contracting services,
seeds, fertilizers and chemicals, and credit); (ii) establishing a more effi-
cient and flexible operational and financial management system; and (iii)
improving strategic and operational planning for the Ministry.
The Incentive Framework
38.      Past policies of the Go-ernment have had a serious effect on agri-
cultural production, mainly because of the exchange rate policy. The over-
valued leone imposed low producer pUices. In July 1983 the official rate was
adjusted from US$1 = Le 1.25 to US$1 = Le 2.5, and buying prices for the major
export crops were adjusted in line with the new exchange rate. Given the
limited level of commercialization of agriculture and the potential for local
monopsonistic situations to arise, there will remain a need, even after the
interim period of adjustment to the new exchange regime, for a mechanism of
guaranteed buying prices, in order to provide producers with some guidance and
security. In the past, the problem of low producer prices has been compounded



- 11 -
by delays in price adjustment. AB a result, price signals have often been too
late for producers to respond, and delayed announcements of price have caused
market disruptions. Interministerial review of proposals on agricultural
prices and taxes prior to submission to Cabinet has been uneven and XAF has
lacked an adequate data base on agricultural production and farm prices, or
the analytic capability to adequately fill its role in this area of agricul-
tural price fcrmulation. To stimulate use of fertilizers MAP and IADPs have
sold them at subsidized prices. Under Credit 1094-SL Government agreed to
phase out these subsidies. This process has, however, been disrupted by the
recent devaluation.
Technological Base
39.      Virtujally all production in Sierra Leone is undertaken by small-
holders, and production systems are characterized by low input/low output
traditional technologies. The major opportunities for improvement are judged
to be in lowland rice production, use of mechanical power for cultivation, and
improvement of perennial crops. Efforts have been made, principally within
the IADPs, to promote improvement and use of inland valley swamps for rice
cultivation, but in many cases the water control structures were poorly con-
structed and maintained. The reasons are complex, including a lack of
hydraulic engineering expertise in the country or of reliable hydrological
data; lack of expertise among farmers in the construction and maintenance of
small water-control structures; lack of technical support to farmers following
initial construction; socio-cultural factors; and labor constraints.
Increases in labor productivity in annual crop agriculture in Sierra Leone
have been hindered by lack of a non-human power source. Although climatic
conditions are not very favorable for cattle, efforts have been made in recent
years to develop suitable ox-drawn equipment and there is said to be increased
interest among farmers particularly in the north. Development of private
tractor services has been hindered by introduction of a highly subsidized but
inadequate and inefficient MAF operation which should be terminated.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
40.      Initial discussions on a fifth agricultural development project were
held in mid-i979, when Government recognized the priority of efforts to
address and alleviate the maJor constraints of the sector. In 1981, Huntings
Technical Services completed a major study on behalf of Government for insti-
tutional reform of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry (MAY) and the
Ministry of Natural Resources (CUR). The study was followed by a thorough
sectoral analysis carried out jointly by IDA and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (IFAD) in October/November 1982, which concluded that
there was a need for a broader institutional reform as well as provision for
direct productive investment in rice, coffee and oil palm. This project was
prepared by the Government and a Bank preparation mission and appraised in
June 1983. Negotiations were held in Washington, D. C. in April 1984; the
Sierra Leone delegation was led by Mr. Abass Bundu, Minister of Agriculture
and Natural Resources. A Staff Appraisal Report (No. 4833 SL, dated May 24,
1984) is being distributed separately. Significant events and special
conditions are summarized in Annex III and Annex IV.



- 12 -
Project Objectives
41.      The proposed project is national in scope and addresses the key
priorities of the sector. It would combine sectoral reform, principally
institutional reorganization, with financing of key imports for the sector and
specific investment items. These three sets of components are closely
related. Reorganization cannot take place in an operational vacuum or where
basic operaticnal needs are naot available. At the same time, existing
organizational arrangements are hampering the effectiveness of ongoing pro-
grams. The most important of the proposed reforms would be linked to credit
disbursements through a monitcrable action program (see Table 1 and Annex IV).
42.      The Government has provided its full support to the proposed sectoral
approach. The early positive initiatives which Government has taken on
devaluation, farm prices for rice, cocoa and coffee, privatization of the
Gambia-Mattru Oil Palm Company and the MAF tractor fleet, and the favorable
reception to reorganization, provide a promising prospect for reform. A major
reorientation, as is proposed here, will require more than the three years of
the proposed project to achieve its full impact. However, the project, with
its strong institutional and policy focus, would provide the basis for a more
coherent subsequent program of externally funded activities, either on a
sector or sub-sector basis (e.g., irrigation, tree crops, forestry) or on a
specific area/project basis.
Brief Description
43.      The main features of the project would be:
(a) A Plan of Action (outlined in Table 1 and Annex IV) to be undertaken
by the Government of Sierra Leone with the following principal
elements:
(i) a rationalization of the institutional framework in the agri-
cultural sector through a merger of MAF and MNR, a reorga-
nization of the merged Ministry of Agriculture and Natural
Resources (lAIR) based on decentralization of field operations
to six regional offices, merger of integrated agricultural
development projects (IADPs) with this structure, and
privatization of Ministry operations in mechanical land
preparation, and oil palm production and processing;
(ii) enhancement of Ministry operations through reorganization of
financial and accounting systems, establishment of staff devel-
opment and training units and development of appropriate pro-
grams, development of improved planning and monitoring systems,
reduction of daily-paid labor by at least 35 percent during the
project period, and improvement in coordination arrangements for
research and training;



13 -
(iii) improvement of policy-making in agricultural pricing and taxa-
tion through strengthening of an interministerial committee in
this area and development of an appropriate data base and
analytic capability in MANR.
(b) Financing, primarily designed to support institutional reforms and to
strengthen ongoing programs, would include:
(i) Institutional Support
-  Improvement of physical facilities and provision of essential
vehicles, office and field equipment, spare parts and supplies to
MANM;
-  Consultancy services (258 man-months) for implementation of new
planning, management, financial and accounting systems, support of
staff development and training, and in-service training for MANE
staff.
(ii) Sectoral Support
-  provision of foreign exchange for financing key imports for the
sector, including 24,000 tons of fertilizer over 3 years; spare
parts for tractor rehabilitation; 110 tractors; implements;
300 power tillers; ox-ploughs; livestock drugs; and equipment for
the improvement of Daru Oil Mill;
-  establishment of an Agricultural Development Fund into which leone
funds obtained from the sale of imports would be placed (para. 61).
(iii) Program Support
-  planting of 4,400 ha of coffee, 1,900 ha of oil palm, 700 ha of
bananas/plantains and fruit trees; and rehabilitation of 1,000 ha
of old coffee;
-  provision of professional services (48 man-months) and equipment
to establish a Drainage and Irrigation Unit in NANR; provide in-
service training and execution of a development and demonstration
program for intensified swamp development in over 500 ha
comprising about 65 schemes averaging about 8 ha, and collection
of hydrological data in areas for potential larger scale
irrigation and drainage for swamp development;
-  financing an extension of Magbosi IADP by some 12 months to end-
1986;
-  provision of foreign exchange for small sub-projects to be
prepared and implemented by HAIR.
In order to more fully allow the project to support the needs of MANR during
this period of change, Government, IDA and IFA]) will carry out a mid-term
review of the implementation of the project before June 30, 1986 to consider
possible changes in the structure and implementation of the project (Section
4.12 of the Development Credit Agreement).



NM (F te (
1. Rat ialbatLm of rntmaumttal Frudi
inIEIW                             IMCTI  11130 TN=                                    SID   NU TAM
1. Irumr of W   ard MU Hppna1s by PFesidst, wer 1983
2. Argarizatlin of WM                   Oatllm Stnmaure of MfIllstiy agtm
in prlncipt by Cdbfret.
3. PalIiu.t of Staft                   aOtlihm staffin pattem within dme        ktAim. Nmyuwr uniy of Unisry in pecmm ad to be
stnCtum 1hm been esd.                  auyleted aby Sqtatr 30) 198.
4. Tntepmtim of 11W.                     1. Ub,t*iops  ld  bnazyiTchri to       ktta. Hamme hqu.             to be fully cprtlmnOd by etobr le
pnatv tuuxt.ru  aff an WM  ad          1984.
wd Igtan regn staff of nidtrles
and E1 for KuIadaattim.
2. atlf  gial officer for eNtem         lh                 By b   mm 3D, 195, _t.aui of do infnlq
PLrn apolnte. Tb be rap.ible for    alz IDPa dmld hwe         ral or pm  to do        s  lor dm
"_t of E11W.                         Ortober I, 1986. hwe bun p       follf  diilm_  wh tdo
ebIrat dun _e1A.
5. Privatlzatim  of Ttctor Fleet        lUdattey hm Identifled lD trutom      kActl. 11nhb  fLfty trwtor  to be sold by       1,y 1  1981 In
iddd an In mitable axdltlmo for        edstls wditltm.
eepIr ad male. FNfty tow bee           ktf.n. buabUdint of joiat vemtu  for Wa  ad bsIy
rdhbilstated and sold to famrs.        sewrve of trecom I ad qufirt u         teun ad omfitfum
a:clptahle to ML                                                          >
6. PMvatizatfm of bmu Oil Pab Co.                                               ketim. btIlfImit of a joket vebu  amp" to tin  ovr
peratim aeptable to ML



11. Operatioral lbxp
1. Porgazatlm ard Finwita ad                CGmtract has beWm   mwed to Parrell,       ktim. Typleamtatiom  to be  amilated by Sept.er 30. 1986.
Iccntfg Systam                         lKrr, ad Foster for thxe_haae study
of finmciad  naq.st and acomtiin
syste  in MAFMR. lbrk e       dmm1 .huly
1, 1983. Draft first phas report an
edatir, system, with design of prose
now spstm to liwnre 0C;L  ystem and
Incorporate 1ADPs, delivered Tec. I5. 1983.
2. Persoel  _tt and TrainiB
(a)  Institutional Arr.nmtts                                                        ktion. Staff D.veIlpt ui Tainz  ldta to be intabledq   in
WQ&-y SepStber 30, 1984.
Action. Iatiml Agricultual  rainin  lbrkizGr Coup to be
establid  by Septeber 30, 1984.
0') RPhictiat of Daily-Wge Labor                                                   Actin. Bxpditure In eal te r   to be r3m d by 352 frm lewel
Dqmuliture                                                                     of Jaly 1983:
(i) b (toIer 1, 1984          ll
(ii) By (ttober to l985       lox
(iLL)  By   er 1. 1986         lI
(iv) By Ott*er 1, 1987         52
(c) Persornel BjalustiSc     n System                                                                t   ystm to be desiW    by Jlm 30, 1985.
(d) Training                                                                        rg       Dr     t.  Agriculture md Natural  Emsu        Training
Prcg.  to be drafted by Demer 31. 1985.
3, Phserch   d m    teinsiin                                                            Actim. EftdaIibt of Igriult ral  _eerdh Cotoinatizg
Gm=cil by Septaber 30, 1984.
P t                  PpatIon of Natiaml Agrialhual
%mseardh PolVcy wd Pla by          31, 1985.
4. Plainrg ad HbiFtoring System
(a) Plamin                                                                         kticm. q2eratlal plms for the uix now reglm  erize  M
to be prepaed by Septuber 1964.
ktiom. SUhprowt poposas to be prep   by rged md
adwitted to WIM for apprwal for finaic         fms Agr. DaI. FUind.
(b) NxltorLnf                                                                       ktim. Initial fonata for umhly ad quarterly reporting
systes to be desWed by Der 194.
5. Iatr  smirces Developmet                                                            Actio. Drainae Ud Irrigation Unit to be eastblid  In Lad
and later DOuelipit Divisim by Septad2er 30. 1984.



PIM OF A(IN
111. Agrliultural Pricirg, Credit ad Hirketing
1. Pricirg iid Pblicy Fbrmilaticn                                                   Acticn. Fouut1izatm of Tntenulnintrinl Ottee mc Apictl-
tural Pricing md Tmatlion udch wvld reviw aguiwlbgral
input ad pniroct prim at least cow a year.
2. Pricing                                Fixed prices for proozw.t of coffee       Actiol. Fatalidb t of PriciN mnd Ma1ating Sectim in MW
wi zco  by Sierra Lmim PronL             by S er 1984.  w   to repot perlxicaUy to ht-          d
HIrketing Board (S116) tere raias by     ctudttm an price md pmwtim trens.
further 5Z in lbrdi 1984.                ktion. (bvNnt to MMMe priM  for umm  On qrs  eeiIzlU.
3. Boral BHuk%                            Bwk of Sierrn Lema  has decided to prce"i    k       D et.  Final prnopal an fom md epezatpa of pilot
with estabLihrmtt of pilot rural bair.    but to be aixtted by Sqttber 30. 19W..
4. Cdi5t mn Tnput Supply                                                              xy. RevA  of perfoau. of J4W inpt mwly/cmdit astm
and  mmuudatimm  for its futur dne ent foUM     LW   zr
to be preprd  by Sqeiter 1985.
5. Fertilizer                                                                       Actiim. Fhrtlim  uidiy to be red  to IH  by Jam 30, 1987.           
Ti tuxl be 5alinted in p         (pmeza 60).



- 17 -
Project Cost and Financing
44.      Details of the project costs and financing are presented in the
Credit and Project Summary (page (ii)). Total project costs are estimated at
US$28.9 million, net of taxes and duties from which the project would be
exempt, of which US$22.8 million or 79 percent represents foreign exchange.
Project costs are based on unit prices in Sierra Leone indexed to the first
quarter of 1984. Physical contingencies of 15 percent on swamp development
works, 10 percent on other civil works, and 5 percent on all other items,
except international salaries, have been added to base costs. Price contin-
gencies were included and amount to US$4.8 million, or 21 percent of base
costs plus physical contingencies, assuming the following rates of price
increase:
1984      1985      1986       1987
Local Costs             30.0       15.0      10.0       7.0
Foreign Costs            7.5       7.0        6.0       6.0
45.      The financing plan provides for IDA funding of US$21.5 million (74
percent of the total cost).  In addition, IFAD would provide a loan of US$5.4
million (19 percent of the total cost). Government would contribute USS1.2
million (4 percent) and the beneficiaries of the tree-crop and swamp develop-
ment programs US$0.8 million (3 percent). A condition of credit effectiveness
would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan
had been fulfilled (Section 7.01(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). An
amount of US$500,000, financed as an advance from the IDA credit and IFAD loan
would be deposited in a special account at the Bank of Sierra Leone. The
Government would open and maintain the Special Account on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). Opening of the Special Account would be a condition of credit
effectiveness (Section 7.01(c) of the Development Credit Agreement).
46.      An advance equivalent to US$850,000 has been made under the project
preparation facility in order to ensure as smooth a transition as possible
during the period of reorganization. Technical assistance is being provided
to conduct orientation and planning workshops for senior and middle management
and staff personnel at headquarters and regional levels, and to assist MAR in
the establishment of appropriate planning and management systems, detailed
analysis of existing budgets and manpower in all externally funded projects
and prepare initial regional work programs for the merged Ministry. In addi-
tion, financing is being provided for essential spare parts and accessories
required for the KADR tractor fleet, which is being sold off.



- 18 -
Procurement
47.      All goods and services financed under the IDA credit and IFAD loan
would be procured in accordance with IDA guidelines. Procurement arrangements
are summarized in the table below:
Procurement Method
(US$ millionsT) T
Project Element                   ICB       Other    N.A.    Total Cost
Civil Works                                   0.3      -           0.3
-        (0.2)     -          (0.2)
Vehicles and Equipment            7.3         0.7      -           8.0
(5.9)      (0.6)     -          (6.5)
Fertilizers & Chemicals           7.4         0.9      -           8.3
(6.1)      (0.6)     -          (6-7)
Planting Materials                1.0         2.2      -           3.2
(0.8)      (1.8)     -          (2.6)
Incremental Operating Expenses    -           1.7     2.8         4.5
-        (0-9)   (0.7)        (1-6)
Training & Techn. Assistance       -          3.7      -           3.7
-        (3.0)     -          (3-0)
PPF re-financing                   -          0.9      -           0.9
-        (09.)     -          (0.9)
Total                      15.7       10.4      2.8        28.9
(12.8)      (8.0)   (0.7)       (21.5)
1/  Figures in parentheses show amounts to be procured from the proposed
credit.
48.      Vehicles, equipment and fertilizers would be grouped wherever possi-
ble into contracts valued at US$50,000 or more and would be procured through
international competitive bidding. Contracts for spare parts, tools, seeds,
and chemicals involving less than US$50,000 would be procured through limited
international shopping with at least three price quotations. Coffee and oil
palm seed valued at about US$1.0 million would be procured through ICB. Plant-
ing material would be produced from this seed under force account in IADP
nurseries or by private nurseries under subcontracts. Incremental operating
expenses include US$2.8 million for incremental staff and labor costs for



19 -
which procurement is inapplicable; the remaining expenses of US$1.7 million
are for fuel, maintenance and supplies which would be procured by local
shopping. Consultant services for technical assistance would be procured in
accordance with IDA guidelines. All contracts over US$50,000 each would be
subject to prior IDA review, which would cover 90 percent of vehicles,
equipment and fertilizers value.
Disbursements
49.      IDA and IFAD funds would be disbursed in the ratio of 4:1 for all
categories other than the PPF, which would be refinanced exclusively from the
IDA credit, and the Magbosi extension, which would be financed exclusively by
IFAD. For those items jointly financed, disbursements would be made on the
following basis: (i) 95 percent of expenditures for civil works; (ii)
100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent of local expenditures for
vehicles, equipment and furniture; (iii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for fertilizer and chemicals; (iv) 100 percent of foreign expenditures and
90 percent of local expenditures for planting materials; (v) 100 percent of
expenditures for training and technical assistance; and (vi) 95 percent of
incremental operating costs. Disbursements would be made against statements
of expenditure for civil works by force account, contracts of less than
US$100,000 equivalent for civil works, equipment, vehicles, furniture, and
planting materials, incremental operating expenses, and local training
programs. All other disbursements would be made against normal documentation.
Given the time slice elements of the project and its limited planned duration,
it is anticipated that its rate of disbursement would be more rapid than for
typical agricultural development projects. In addition the mid-term review
would take the rate of disbursement into account in proposing changes in
project content.
Accounts and Audit
50.      The Accounting Section of the Planning, Evaluation, Monitoring and
Services Unit (PEMSU) in MAF, as presently organized, would be transferred to
the Office of the Director, MAMR, and renamed the Financial Management Unit
(FMU).  The FMi would be responsible for administering the accounts of the
project as well as the IADPs according to procedures already established and
for procurement of key imports. Separate project accounts would be estab-
lished which would be audited annually by an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA.
Cost Recovery
51.      Inputs of fertilizers, agricultural equipment and related spares, and
the equipment for Daru Oil Mill would be sold to private farmers or the comp-
anies concerned. Sales of fertilizer to private farmers (about 50 percent of
total sales) are currently subsidized by 60-70 percent, while the commercial
farmers pay full prices. The fertilizer subsidies would be reduced to
10 percent of ex-warehouse cost by June 30, 1987 (Section 4.14 of the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement). The subsidies would be reduced in phases, as a
condition of three tranches of disbursements and as parts of the Action Plan
(see Annex IV). Sales of equipment, spares, and fertilizers to commercial and



- 20 -
parastatal entities would be at full cost. The costs of planting materials
and other inputs for tree crop development would be fully recovered from
farmers. These would be sold for cash to large farmere and on credit to small
farmers planting less than 2 ha. Under the swamp development component,
farmer beneficiaries would undertake the basic drainage, canal and bund
construction required; about half the labor cost would be covered by credit.
Because of the investigative nature of this component any small permanent
(masonry or concrete) structure required in individual schemes would be
financed directly by the project. This, however, is only expected to arise in
a small minority of schemes since the objective is to undertake only low cost,
replicable works.
Project Implementation
52.      The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Natural Resources (HANR). In conformity with the principle that the manage-
ment of externally financed projects within Sierra Leone's agricultural sector
should, as far as possible, be managed through the normal Ministry structure,
no special unit would be established to manage the project. Responsibility
for implementation of project activities would rest with the Director, MANR.
Tree crop and swamp development activities would be carried out directly by
MANR or by IADP staff until the merger of the IADPs with HANR is undertaken.
A new company, with Government as a minority shareholder, would be established
to handle imports of agricultural machinery, implements and spare parts for
sale to farmers and to provide limited repair service. A similar joint
venture would be established to take over the Daru Oil Hill. Creation of
these joint venture companies, under arrangements satisfactory to IDA, would
be a condition of disbursement for financing imports of agricultural
equipment, or of equipment for the oil mill (Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c) of
Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement).
53.      The proposals for the organization and management of the project are
based on the creation of a single Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Re-
sources (MANR), and include the internal reorganization of technical and staff
divisions, the creation of new divisions and staff units, the addition of new
functions, the divestiture of some established functions, the merger of all
seven IADPs with MANR, and revisions in the organizational and procedural
links between MANR and several other Government Ministries and institutions
(see para. 37).
54.      Under the project, an expanded MANR structure would be established,
which would provide for the decentralization of control over field operations
and promote improvement of the planning and policy making functions at head-
quarters. The basis of the organization of the combined Ministry would be the
creation of six regional offices, each headed by a Chief Regional Officer, who
would be responsible for day-to-day implementation of the Ministry program and
projects. At headquarters, the position of Director of Agriculture and
Natural Resources would be created. He would be responsible for supervision
of Chief Regional Officers, and IADPs would also report to him. Staff at
headquarters would shift their focus from current responsibility for manage-
ment of field operations to an emphasis on policy formulation and planning,
and the development of broadly defined implementation guidelines for staff at
regional levels.



- 21 -
55.      This now structure, based on the deoentralization of line management
and improved horizontal ooordination at headquarters and regional level,
incorporates the more successful operational charaoteristics of the IADPs.
The IADPo would eventually be merged with this structure. This merger has
been undertaken firat in Eastern Provinoo. It ia anticipated that the now
combined unit will be operational by September 1984. The experience of this
merger prooess will then be reviewed and a timetable for merger of the
remaining IADPo with the regional offices drawn up after disoussion with the
relevant financing agenoies before June 30, 1985. In order to complete the
merger, Chief Regional Officers would be appointed in all regions by Ootober
1, 1986 (Part C(2) of Annex to Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement).
56.      The new Ministry structure would require a greater complement of
senior staff than heretofore. However, a significant number of such
posltions, or their equivalents, exist in the IADPs and other externally
funded projects, and in some cases are filled by seconded MAP or MNR
personnel. A manpower survey is being carried out by the Ministry as part of
the action plan to determine the exact numbers, functions and experience of
personnel employed by the Ministry and the various projecta funded out of the
development budget. In 1983/84 estimated expenditure on salaries by MANR is
US$2.0 million and that of the IADPs, of a recurrent nature, is US$1.8 million.
It is estimated that an additional eventual staffing cost of about US$300,000
per year would be incurred by the reorganized Ministry, incorporating the
IADPs. In order to redress the present imbalance in expenditure and reduce
the excessive numbers of "temporary" workers (para 34), the Government would
reduce its day wage labor expenditure (estimated at US$3.6 million for
1983/84) by 35 percent by October 1, 1987 (Section 4.15 of the Development
Credit Agreement). Such reduction would be carried out in phases as parts of
the action program (see Annex IV). This would yield a saving of US$1.3
million. This saving would be more than adequate to cover additional salary
cost and provide an additional US$400,000 per year estimated to be necessary
for operations and maintenance to provide adequate logistical support to the
reorganized Ministry.
57.      Funding for importation of materials and equipment for agricultural
production support would be in three annual tranches, the first beginning
October 1, 1984. MANR would submit to IDA a proposal estimating total
requirements for the succeeding project year for approval. It is anticipated
that expenditures for this purpose would be relatively uniform between project
years, and IDA review would take this factor into consideration. Disbursement
of funds wculd be contingent upon fulfillment of agreed elements of the action
program (see Annex IV). The mid-term review of progress in implementation of
the action program would be undertaken prior to agreement on the third annual
tranche. Government would prepare a report by March 31, 1986 as an input to
this review (Section 4.12(b) of the Development Credit Agreement).
58.      Program Support Activities.  The tree crop development component is
designed to complement the ongoing tree crop programs of the Eastern and
Northern IADPs. It would therefore be implemented by these IADPs which would
continue to manage the central nurseries, provide extension service, and
manage distribution of inputs through their existing arrangements. The swamp



- 22 -
development program would similarly be Implemented through the IADPs or
regional offices. IADP staff would undertake the initial identification and
moreening of sites. Design and implementation would be carried out by IADP
staff, with close supervision from the Central Drainage and Irrigation Unit.
59.      Prioing_and Narketing.  Steps would be taken to strengthen polioy-
making in agricultural pricing and taxation and to develope an effective input
oupply and markoting system which oan aupport the process of oommorcialiuation
of agriculture. The Government would establish the Pricing and Market Unit in
MANR by September 30, 1984 (Section 4.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
This Unit would act as the secretariat of the Inter-Ministerial Committee on
Agricultural Pricing which has been established with responsibility for
submitting recommendations on pricing policy to the Cabinet. The Government
would review the producer prioes of agrioultural commodities at least once
every year and make necessary adjustments taking into acount, among other
things, international prices, costs of inputs, and the effeots on other
agricultural production. The principles and procedures for determining
agricultural input and output prices would be reviewed periodioally with IDA
(Section 4.06 of the Development Credit Agreement).
60.      To ensure adequate incentives, the Government intends to maintain
appropriate prices to producers, while reducing subsidies on inputs. Toward
this end, the Government already has reduced subsidy on fertilizer to 50
percent (para 51), and further reductions of 40 peroent, 20 percent and 10
percent would be made for 1985, 1986 and 1987 cropping seasons respectively.
61.      The Agricultural Development Fund.  A fund, consinting of leones
realized by thle Government from the sale of project-financed imported
materials, would be established no later than September 30, 1984 (Section 4.04
(a) of the Development Credit Agreement). The agricultural development fund,
which is expected to amount to leone equivalent of about US$3 million yearly,
would be used to finance the Government's high priority agricultural develop-
ment projects and programs. The Government would prepare an agricultural
development program each year showing, among other things, the overall amounts
allocated by the Government for agriculture that year and no later than
February 1 each year review the program with the Association (Section 4.04(b)
of the Development Credit Agreement). one important use of the agricultural
development fund resources would be to finance small sub-projects, targetted
on local needs. MANR's regional offices, with PEMSU's assistance would
identify and prepare sub-projects, the individual cost 3f which would not
exceed US$100,000 equivalent. A Standing Committee in MANR would give final
approval. The project provides US$750,000 to cover any foreign exchange
required.
Benefits and Justification
62.      The project would directly contribute to Government's objectives of
increasing domestic food production and agricultural exports by strengthening
institutions, particularly the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources,
in framing appropriate strategies and policiee as well as by increasing the
availability of agricultural inputs, spare parts and other essential imported
materials. The project, which is of relatively short duration and quick-
disbursing, would meet the immediate needs for equipment and supplies and,
more importantly, would undertake major organizational and policy reforms.



23 -
63.      Many of the benefits are qualitative in nature and do not lend
themselves to conventional economic analysis. The new Ministry of Agriculture
and Natural Resources will require more than the three years of the proposed
project to achieve its full impact. The major emphasis during this project
will be in establishing the decentralized structure and its management and
financial control systems, and improved staff development and related training
programs.
64.      The project would also initiate steps to reduce the degree of Mini-
stry involvement in commercially-oriented activities. The sale of the Mini-
stry tractor fleet is being organized in such a way as to marimise the poten-
tial for sale to local farmers or to other individuals who would provide
contract services, and other steps are being taken to encourage further pro-
vision of local repair services. This is an essential step in the development
of appropriate commercial service support to agriculture.
65.      It is estimated that the project would directly benefit about
25 percent of farm families in the country, or about 80,000 farmers in
total. About 10 percent of these would benefit from the tree crop and swamp
development, 25 percent from mechanization support, and 65 percent from use of
imported fertilizer only. Most of the families benefitting are primarily
dependent on rice and other semi-subsistence crop production and have incomes
close to the poverty level of US$75 per capita. The economic rate of return
is estimated to be 35 percent for the production support components of the
project, the cost of which is US$6.6 million, with returns on individual sub-
components ranging from 20 percent to 55 percent. Individual farm families
benefitting from these sub-components would, in most cases, double their
incomes from about US$500 to US$1,000 per year.
Risks
66.      Project risks include: inability of NANR to cope with the proposed
changes in organizational structure, functions and systems; lack of govern-
mental commitment to the organizational reforms; and inadequate response cf
the private sector to participation in the privatizatien of services. These
risks are minimized by the steps already agreed, a comprehensive package of
technical assistance included in the project, the linkage of import financing
to progress in the action plan, and the degree of interest of the private
sector in privatization which is already evident.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
67.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between Sierra Leone and IDA,
and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section
1(d) of the IDA Articles of Agreement are being distributed separately to the
Executive Directors.



- 24 -
68.      In addition to the special conditions of the Development Credit
Agreement, which are set forth in Section III of Annex III of this Report, the
conditions of Credit effectiveness would be: (a) fulfillment of all condi-
tions precedent to the effectiveness of the IFAD loan; (b) appointment of IDA
by IPAD as Cooperating Institution to administer the IFAD loan; and (c)
opening of the Special Account in the Bank of Sierra Leone.
69.      Disbursements of Credit allocations for agricultural machinery and
equipment and for fertilizer imports would be made in three tranches upon
fulfillment of the agreed action plan as set out in innex IV of this Report.
Additional conditions of disbursements would include: (a) establishment of a
joint venture mechnical service company as a conditioii of disbursement under
Category 2(a) for agricultural machinery and equipment including spare parts;
and (b) arrangemants for private management and equity participation in the
Daru Oil Palm Company as a condition of disbursement under Category 2(b) for
oil palm mill, machinery and equipment including spare parts (paragraph 4(c)
and 4(d) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit Agreement).
70.      I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the Arti-
cles of Agreement of IDA.
PART VI - RECOKMENDATION
71.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
Nay 24, 1984



-25-                                                   AMN I
Pap 1 of 5
TAS L   3A
'g,,b  '17b              -m  'oo                     X       1 ,
S    TI?                (NIB?.  Slut I? STZII6SIWE) NA
1,I          u7       a D4        amt*          .        evRrtsorm       a
a  (ill   X. US
TOlTL                              71.7       71.7        71.7
MRWN.UR.AL                        ^3.0        zo.s        39..
Gom      Swi    CUss)                   ..      170.0       320.0             254.0                   L147.9
maENT serumv    mE anIaL
CEILoAS or cao  QWALRNT)          212.0      221.0       111.0              n.m          n             .2
POPIIUATiCE.-UA  (TOUSAS)   2105.0           202.0      3574.0
UR          r WULAnU is 0 TOTAL)   13.0        I.1        22.1              19.5                     26.
POPULATION IN  EAR 2000 ClI.L)                           Li
StalZ0UAf eOFULATZW CHL)                                19.8
EAR STAonRT IrC. REWID                                2140
IOPULAITZC DENSIT
PER s3. eq.                      30.2       37.5        48.4              29.5                     50.5
is Sq. inX. AnI. LAW              0.z2      72.3        DP.I                a                     lx.4
POIUTACI ACE S5rUI   I)
0-10 uS                         41.7       43.0        44.2              45.0                     4s.
L-" us                          55.0       13.8        52.               52.1                     51.2
18 ADOVE                          3.3        3.2         3.2               2.0                      2.8
POULaT  tOaf RAT CE
TOTL                              L.$         2.2        2.4               2.8                      2.4
URaN                             s5.3        5.5         4.4               0.2                      5.3
QW sit RATE (rim TimOs)            40.9       45.1        45.6              41.9                     A.
CMn=  lEAK RKM  (Pa 1DS2)          26.9       22.1        16.0              19.2                    13.2
CROtis- uzouacrio  mC               3.0        3.0         3.0               3:2                      3.2
FAR=2 ?LAIUKII
AcCIS. AS    (1A 5)                ....
usi  CZ or MSD ..                  ..         ....
FOO  'e1D       . cerN             -
ISD fX OIco sW O. PER CAPIrA
(l949-71-LO0)                        0         9.0        76.0              87.0                     95.7
PLEf CAIPITA SUPPLY Or
CALCIZE  CI Of RRQIRRIffn)       11.0        D7.0       89.0              884)                     97.1
camES Coma EAY)                  41.0       43.0        43.0              11.2                    5n.0
F01 MM ANIMAL A  PULSE          13.0        13.0        M.Ore             8.1                     11.2
CHILD (ACM  I-4) DEAMS RATE        57.4       55.5         8.7 125.7                                 23.0
LinE Eu*ECT. AT DII CYURS)         37.2       42.1        47.5              47..                     51.9
LIWAnr NT. RAZE CPE  Tw1US)       233.8      227.0       200.5 3126.0                               111.
ACCESS To SAME WATE  CII?)
TOTAL                              ..        12.          ..              24.7                     25.4
U                                  ..        75.0         .               5.6 S0.5
mUiL                               *-         1.0         *-              183                      u.3
ACCs ID EM1RA DISPOSAL
(C OF pOaATuM)
TOrAL                              ..          ..         ..              2Mt1
URBA                               ..          ..         ..              *5.7
RURAL                              ..          ..         ..             21.9
FOPULATIW  PER SItCIA           20020.0    1870.0    1U2.0               27420.0                  U1216
POP. Ma HISic PERSON             2900.014    3800.0     2130.0            3456.2                   22Z2.0
lOP. Pa IIoSPIfTL WA
AL                            s120.0       1100.0         ..            1183.2                   1075.4
UR                             z270.0       300.0         ..             30.0                     002.3.
RU                                 ..         ..          ..            3177.5                   3to.7
AsU15516 PEatlOifrrL  E              ..         ...
AVERAE SZE OF UWSELO
TOTAL                              ..          .5
UuaN                               ..         5.7
RURAL                              ..         .7
ANItA .10. OF PLSS /IM
TOTAL                              ..          ..
URBI                               ..        2.11.
mInk                               ..          .. -. ..
AtCess wC ShELt. (C OF OUELLUES)
TOrAL                              ..          ..
eSD                                ..          ..         ..         .      ...
RURAL                             2../         ...



- 26 -                                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
T A b L & 3A
SIERRA LEONE            - SCIAL INDICAIS DaT  SHIEST
SIUR  LEONE BOUEPUR                           E   OMS (MEICK  ANUAGK) ta
mm                 (NM~ous  -EK   UT     ) A1
7b fEll             LOW INWSI              KIIIS&  Ill
1%.16011    1970/b-1 ESTENATS&;-_    AURlCA S. OF LUAA      AFRI   S. or UMBR
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRZaAY:   TOTAL                    23.0        33.0        39.0               63.9                       97.2
HALE                    30.0        40.0          ..               73.6                      103.1
FEMALE                  15.0        26.0          .                51.6                       88.5
SECONDIAT: IOTAL                    2.0         9.0        12.0                12.5                      17.2
PALE                     3.U       1.0          ..                16.7                       23.5
FDNALE                   2.0         5.0         ..                 L.                        14.2
VOCATIONAL (2 OF SECONDRY)            7.2         1.5         1.4                 7.3                       5.2
PruPL-rEc    tAT1O
PRIST                              36.0        32.0        32.0               46.4                       62.9
SLCOMNY                            17.0        20.0        19.0/f             25.1                       23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE CZ)               6.7/b      15.0v       15.0/c              36.5                      37.1
a_
PASSENGE CARS/THOUSAND POP            2.3         6.7         6.0/1               3.3                      1B.8
RADIo REcELVEVS/TNDUSAND POP          4.2        14.9        96.4               45.3                       97.8
TV RECEIVERS/THOUSAND PV              0.2/h       1.1         5.H                 2.2                      18.4
NEUSPAPQI CDAILI GENER
INTEREST-) CIRCULATION
PEA TUOMUSAN  POPULATION             6.9        16.7         3.0                4.7                       18.2
CIEMtA AWNUAL ATTENDANC/CAPITA        U.2         0.1          ..                 1.0                       0.6
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (TOIS)            911.0      l05b.0      L124.0
FEMALE (PERNT)                     J6.6        35.8        34.7               34.5                       36.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              18.0        71.0        65.0                76.9                      56.6
INUUSTRY (PERCENT)                 12.0        15.0        19.0                9.8                       17.5
PARTICIPATION MATE (PERCT)
rorTL                              42.1        39.2        36.2                40.9                      37.0
'ALE-                              54.7        51.5        4".1                53.0                      47.1
FEMALE                             30.U        27.5        24.7               28.9                       27.0
ECNOMHIC DEPEBDENa LATIo              1.1         11          1.3                 1.2                       1.3
immD ISAon
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
KEEXIVED BY
uwHaSSr 52OF oIUSEHOLDS                        27 al         .
IIHCGEST 202 OF HOUSENOLDS                     525
LwbEsr 2O; Of aousEULwOS                        5 6 N
uOWsr *GZ Or HOUSEihlLOS                       15 17          '                
fETE  UAST  GOUS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTME POERTY IENCO
LEVEL (USj PER CAPITA)
MLBA.                                                     105.U               165.9                    534.2
IURAL                                                      75.0               o7 .                      255.9
LSTIlATISD KEIATLVE PVERIY lIlC
LEVEL (USS PQ CAPITA)
URsA..                                                     19d.0              100.6 oeLn.
RURAL                                                       40.0               64.6                     188.
STIMATID POP. bELUW ABSOLUTE
POVME     INCOME aVEL (Z)
URBAN                                                                           39 5
RURAL                                 _                     65.0                 90.0
NOT AVAILABIZ
NOT APPLICABLE
N OTES
/s  The grop averdges for each Lndleator are populatLon-weLiuted arithmetic mse.  Cowerag. of cBmtrtas mm" the
Indtcatora depends on Availability of data sod tI at unitorn.
lb  Unless otherwise noted. -Dft-. for 1960- refer to any year between 1959 and  1961a   ata for 1970- btws   1969 ad
1971; and data for Mlost Recent EstIsteC between 1979 and 1981.
Ic  1977; Id 1962; Ie 1967; If 1975; I  1973; /h 1963; /1 1976; |1 19b9.
may 1963



-27-                                                                     AN=E I
Page 3 of 5
iN=ITofMm 09 11IL tInmn
4.5-0111  141  .1ddo o.10. I.dl-hOom    . 40..4llOIolIa  -o..mom        d WY21 4311......  me.1.... 011110... t-   f-Tf  o    -    oom--   elA
110-.E.... -  bop.o.  11)  Id...    oedo.01  ad l.oop 09 -k obj-..   -J017.. (21 0- 1..113o. edeactoo          110.1. 10. 11  105o3150 
%J.:9 000 40  10--1100 304001  310.eal lb. 0...Oog   oo- 00.01.1   .     So10 143N101 4F.9.4.  1k ftd. soo31 S140. O   04 30 oo0 000. 0015OkJ
W101c04 1.1..M1 to _..o4 . R-    1dS0.  1 10ft o.k.1. . *1.10d           - osI," .3014.m.  0 .00.    110 .1-t3.0ad dom .43  .1t   -J1 &  or8..   .4   1.4111  J.4.
7.1011 _16411.0131t 1091114 1.04g-oo 00000.4114 0.30.0  mISC.  me  1U .%KEIh"-%                          T- '1  .1mm  m            0 t    a"low med1o3.4
00 dl0 .1..                                                                   N R.;rP                      1 "- 0 lp.3I.41.34w 4 hi adwo  00 9101uam
lo 101...4   M1.mo11.  .4Ug..1,1p0.1111   0                                                     011001000       51001  l00l 9103 -ft.1 de   0.0.
3010 .0m   4.1..d  od! m.                                                                         sloboIO    01-14.k. .0d4 .-o-ooI - 9.p.3oom..  b..d
--"'0510  0010  -  00114 500011t- (lift4-U  10.10)                    1.l0bl111.Im. 0co1.l. M-t"  000 soeteloolk-o meomm,1    maim0
3050. ~~gig. .04 lost 4.10.  ~~br   t oo-o -  101..   111101  p1.44.4e  pB30131117.010430
100 0me 001 11130. lo101 ~0lo"1410. 1111.ot* Ie."o4 10.111 0d
in   = 01 MM CPM  - .-I wopp.    --pt r......   -0o L                            ad3.01 eadd0.00 mep-boo-417 U1011.4 bl . 0k3781311 (100 I, . 035
P---Y  t    -4 ltimi p. P0100.. *lo.0  5._ ad4 by&-.  .13..                     adiod-ot1 *  .... .60.11.. .ft.) 01111 WS9. I.-powtoot ...mo3od o .04
A0 5.11-cod10  ooe.1.1.0.17) &- &ARo.W   of ..3.qi.IO   p01 -Pt.91                      ao-Sol. Just1. .0.4.0  .04-d.-3 l0311..  0  adl.m80100p1m
3115. 3013.    300 4m01c.                                                               0110 00p.10m. sat.    No W   1pww-113010  l..o. .04 1.1
kopMoL..300  ..0    10013103. -L  00ho   .0411-ft,  cm.01.17O0os
%w wa!        O - Ad -C J.17 ag 1140. 1970p..o3.0410.111. 111o.040 oad                                     00  1.03
Y.101000-IiiIji!W9l0]ppW. -1        0001 .313;30.30.04ms ~i                                  0    W!      N1o  -9 103.    'M1.  13.00w.4.1..
41110.014041113.. of d.1-  od.11  0I9. -ota10.90ad111t17.7 4010             01-6d3t3311                      Ppodo
104  Sj.    maddedWh. 004 -100 00101  .011.l111 00  001 1110 1-..P313410 Pl.tIOmlp1s
o-ol10d1.   ft 91110.130   y aeoeo0 11.1101W  1010 00130-1 mo..101,010..0   901ospt1.    00..0.141,1.0.1~
p1.0.1. 00.0..4131  .001.p0 11      00- L. .0.0.4.11  00.1t7d*p.-                    9 p.63-. I 101 S ENWF mo .11  .101 0  1. M1 01.9804 .0.M0110.01.
1103. 0s01  0.0. .0  1.01. mb  0p.1..1  .1o111330501  1.of 018.4. -%.op..do-1.0114.                  14..9.310*l.1.  0
001.  1000.1   1.d. 3.0.1111   p"1-1101    10.  11..- 1.,,o-...o0   p0
0m1k1011010k    1.0.. m-L bk 40.1 .010. -01. 0101. M.010
.ll -11.m. .0.000. The. 10 -%I-".. .0y oi.ft ..117  .. .-tiL4t1010330.01 so80                                         -        00. ...         .1
40.11011  10 9l 0.0.011-dooott  1 0.110  1901110    0                                                      0.110  11351m0 ooL."    -  t
ad           -10111.0  p191.0  110011 -.1p. Vb.   mtoo....                             -,19-lO  .1   I      .1kP4.1   00  0.e p.lo-ommd of V.0911113.
1050011.  .1=   0.1-t1-0.1d4  110 1001.1r 10. P1.3.110  1bloo-l.- 91.07 oIs-.4 1.10100011171004..14... 1-13
1.11111  10011pl.-o 0.3                                                                o01I.01 .010..1  40.1  I-a.&31. -, 0oo            . m-    p..o-,
10.101010001 100030   .1..0    701   00. 11L-"..017                                    1111      9.611000 -1011.0-101 ... 10cIl o .0 ddowM .-
p9310 11 _I     .11k     L. -.010 d                                                  8.M1-0..0a-.111  .01001  - 1 W10 W 010410.t. - 1p010  mo.0.I ".0041
1010. 3013. me41too401.                                                          p.911. .0117 .1 12 ft 17 9101 oo1 M",3 1.l.  mod41om  --a -
P0.. 0 o1001.iW   100  - C-p.944 -. 0100  f01 0504101103 L004                           M101017 0
001,1 3000 1        2IO.04 l 401.                                                 0010130.1 01.3-.  (p... .  1001)-wo-cloo-1 losltomlo.
0090.11. 4. 1001110 (1100)  C013410 (0-14 7-0)...1...        . Uq (13-            10004      Mi1me3 14.11.      0  111p1.4l.0s          P-.19001  304.9.04l
P-pole.     o 111091100. 0.e.130-20. 00oold-a....4    101.1..
001t.31.0 @1.-11 M.o ("-M00) - .0o.           1~ se-tio 1011. .10                     041  3.1.  00 110    - UmoIo4w 0401  (1053.  -a00  10d 011.2) d
qp.10008.1  01000.31-0  0   00f.0p1015040010.199110    41   01.4..
@104. 1141011(0   kft4                 1.  11. v-111000d .1 .34-
C1oo0.1  .p30ft.  300  Ol.0    01 4-t.                                             101010-d9720rde- .
@14 0.100.(.o  1004     01140m0y1 ..4.  0490                                         10.1.  00 Ol11004-..0101- ..o101.093. 00
0.1311.  300  00 .403110                                                            100. M101om   11;..10.001 ..-.0                                 ad..0
-e-U1,.0.. .0 w17  3...0if        00  00.  4m--360 101.-mti 00                       100001  ..0   0(.      110.1.00410100130r  00.30410                .
minI-.7                                                                               3110_7   -.--&   9  w.190   0l.1.4et  M.1g-00 P-L. 30 111, 04M3 101  l100141.1010 -e   0041.
lut.3                                                                                  H=03.-01010  ..4111.01      103100   90.311  .0  ..41341  1.. 1.11t0 -oo .07 -1110 10.oo- I. ..of 0d.1
P--B-                                                                       C---  b`_"`~~~~~~~~~~~3 101., (011.00  1001010. - ?v 101311  ff- 10004.-0  U
7.039P2.01-10.(.1011.9    m0 000)    0bo01. 301114                 .11.  901310  10000  p.1111-;.o..4.P-to..04131003.,
11.003 010313 .M33110I. 0   011301--I010   .0p9~   -030  -. 1. r30d1o3
P-                   01cII                     1- 0.13Il- - 14. .11  .4W1 `4A3101,0  i 40000.4                : 911 .119-1 10011-  6ls,0  *0.    1  I ..3
9.0  .0  w0013o4. p.- %-I.. C--A11o   00l-           1017a   (..I.                  C1    0.101.40.01@.1..  0,     0  0011  am. 09
100100.1.4I  0.00) *1*00.111000.03.1100(01                                       330  0o,I C.,  L 4 001...3..t0olIn0 40-I. 1.001  -
c.041 z. .4131s..040                l .406  p104t110 09 .0. eo-otr7 1.                01.0 r..
b.04 .001.0  00011.01104010 9131 03011; 31301-11. 3101. .043ies
401..                                                             LW 11010~~~~~~~~~.             4 =              . tddt~           -1
00110.110d 0.1w11 0 .o..  (1k. a.0. ooos31m.   -I-   F. -       -C.p10 d1.0                wod.[o i1L O V1.17!1 - If doco.intl1030   000   .1             00
4.v. 0.110-1  t.C."lo  P_-.91 .  me000-10  11..100. 140. 1.1000100  130.    0010110 1a.0010.001. 11310 0101~                                         1.0- 
L o.7 .-4 h1kmJo 1011.0009130. 00140                    ody1l.4  .10..               1.-01110 -00  3013  - 3063  L~4s190.               90  d 
003100010 .0 91101-6. k9m1. 009 100.01                                                ea11.1..1.3    1100-   a-010 1.1.1-10l0 01 91100 10  1.1.1 1.0. 9o.1.
030110010          --R13.10 I- 90100  00) 17ft-L.13  F13 P.  -PI-000                    0030 1011111 deee           ...1   ..l1   ..0.,  01.  0
01t1.117 .010C.111 0 p.0    me WP3L4 ol 03.   100000  0p 1d1.b.3.R1 401i.3100 -Te 09   -M. .1.1113300  03 0m0   00
001 004_a 4113111  01 -    p'..00Io  b04 M1D.3P-. 39   01.01.100110JL080.1- o.o   -  10101 1..  H.001.0011130  .1..1
9.  .11.51 . - .113  (1o1.0   o 4... me 9103ad10 1 -01.01.1     - 1.9              31-t3 0.4a0  4010.-We          ol   p"oi,C.   do    vli
1.1- 0pya7. 09 004  b.10 4. - 11.011  09 9.1p. 0 ..10  00                             lug0.  13133110. ed  M 31.1.1   Tb- .11 001  04oa 13 -  901130391110...do 
Uoo.00 0.11 000.0130  000111041 1--    10 pI 1140  -d 0300 A-3~1  1030.l 010 100010  0. 11. 0030L.04 10I. 3.10. t1.1.    a
01014W-I F- 10.  10  10091 013 96-$17    10.101  9001042  1..111                              . 0501003!E6 -!!  011 Z1.1  ool 110p.o1tl..-   d .043.1.110   -1104
11331 103   1401.310-I. 1970                 -7 13 1040 05.    1001.o p91.10 -1                                                           ) 04II14  00
Ctdol. 11. .loo04p1.1111000 p.1  40, 103l. 01 14  01
ew -t.1- (.. 10001  101140 [i. b11 501109 1        01 00.11.0.1.911.                  9011.1..11010  000.10010  .00.141001011010
3W13o  400 4.11.4 1100  II. lohOol 305. 307_Id 3003  Z1..        -00.L-1..
010323                                                                     1111077 10.1.?    0..9-o -I -S                     e                  -
-~ur;1.1.00.1, 3111*10.013 -   100. 0  0.1I1  A....1                                    P_.Y0130  7 1l~7~   00011000I11    .00   91.17100.
31..01.13  11  11011).004 ts. 0.o.34.11  II 311.11   at.6 -                        P.-I0.1.40..30.11011 -210.0  on..1 1-1  U 111.91.~o104 f-t.  1.-
I00   1011  113 01l.0. -.41,..0 .111110.me.110 0.0    - 1.-"0 0 1014011..                             f   ba.   a    1 sit  ....
o1...1.3010  0.10 -00do0d 00  310.t :S01.10   -1`1.110   9lo  004                  00103  M.11t0900117 0000  00. 1BEi 01.0014o 000IM  p.1.
03101   p30  09100.1   11.1  -10.1033 y tp.931.b. hooo.0                           -4.00 -1010  09t 1. .0.1.0.  0.r.4104101   .o
110 07 3 9.311.411  -131~   0010p1 004.1    WAba.     -                                                          B-S WSWl"O.K
011000-                                                                                                                                  son1 1..3~.10.1101102    .0..1. 0



- 28 -
AdNEX I
SIGRRA LbONb                                  Page 4 of 5
ECONONIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1982/83 1/                          ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTR ts 1972/73 constant prices)
1965/69-             1970/71-           1978/79-
US$ Pln.          X            1970/71              1977/78            1982183 6/
GNP at Mark-t Prices            1554.2          100.0            7.4                  0.9                1.2
Groom Domestic Investment        135.4            8.7            1.1                 -1.2               -9.1
Crosm Notional Saving             38.6            2.5             -                  -6.8              -13.0
Current Account Balance        -135.7            -8.7             -                    _                  _
Exports of Goods, NFS            194.0           12.5          -2.0                  -2.0
Imports of Goods. NFS           297.0            19.1            1.5                 -0.6
OUTPUT. LABOR FORCE MND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1982/83 1/
Value Added                   Labor Force                  V.A. Per Workar
us$             X000                                       US$              X
Agriculture                       451.4        31.7             890         65.0               507.2        48.8
Industry, lining.                 283.8        20.0             233         17.0             1218.2         117.3
Construction
Services                          686.8        48.3              246        18.0              2791.9        268.8
Unallocated                        -            -               -            _
GOP Factor Cost                  1422.1       100.0            1.369       100.0              103.8
GDP Market Price                 1580.0
GhVZRNIENT FINANCE
Central Govern_ent
(Le Mln.)            GODP (Warket P.)
1978179-
1982/83 1/     1982/83 1/     1982/83
Current Recelpts                        181.3            9.1            13.9
Current Expenditure                     261.6           13.1            16.0
Current Surplus                         -80.3           -4.0            -2.1
Devlopment Expenditure                  100.0            5.0             5.3
Extra budgetary Expendltures             89.4            4.5             4.5
Overall Deficit                        -269.7          -13.5           -11.9
External Financing                       41.0            2.1             3.1
HONEY, CREDIT and PRICES              1975     1976     1977      1978     1979     1980     1981      1982     1983 51
(=l3on ale outstandingjend perlod)
Money and QuasL Money                 91.6    111.9    136.2    17%.3    214.5    260.8    267.6    419.6    516.9
Dank Credit to Public Sector 3/       56.7    107.3    119.7    182.4    252.5    333.3    463.9    636.2    865.9
Bank Credlt to Private Sector         41.1     43.7     46.8     64.9      71.0     90.4     99.3    113.7    125.1
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 2 of         16.0     18.2     18.3      22.0     23.0     21.0     18.4      23.6       -
GOP (n.p.)
General Price Index (1975 -          100.0    117.2    130.8    140.8    170.7    189.6    233.8    306.4    385.8
100) 4/
Annual Percentage Changes in:
General Price Index                   19.9     17.2      8.3      10.9     21.2     11.1      23.3     31.1     25.9
Bank Credit to Publlc Sector         146.5     89.2     11.6     52.4      38.4     32.0     39.2      37.1     36.1
Bank Credlt to Private Sector          3.5      6.3      7.1      38.6      9.4     28.0      9.2      14.5     10.0
NOTE:   All conversions to dollars Ln this table are at the averag  exchange rate prevailing durlng the period
covered.
I/      Estimates.
T/       Estliate of total labor force; unemployed are allocated at sector of their noreal occupation.
3/       Credit from bankLng system.
4|1      Consumer Price index (Freetown).
1/       End of Third Quarter.
6/       Results mat be used with care because only the GOP inflator is avallable.
February 1 1984



- 29 -
ANNEX I
s~A 1                                                Page 5 of 5
7TM aW AMi CMPUL VS
ULM= or P61238                                                                 mUoIms  man  (us1 Iullc) 7/.
1978/79-
197/79  1979/t0 1RD/81 Ullll/82  191/83 6/                       1973-75       1981/82       1962/833/
12act of Ga.(ES)I               158.9   230.5   165.    134.9   138.8         lil                99.1  74.1   113.5 67.   100.  73.4
1ots of Goa. (RM)              -28.2  -351.9  -2.5  -281.2  -236.2               Ua    @.    -U     WY2 -34
ftae Gap (daficit - -)         -     -3  21.4  -1 39.   -146.2   4.3             un am           14.3 10.7       -    -       -    -
WS (abt)                        -20.2   -26.2   -28.3   -30.4   -24.2           hoi.               -    -      11.3  6.6   22.6 16.5
boda             4.4  3.3    11.1  6.7   16.8  12.3
irnit Pincu (mm)                -27.2   -31.5   -26.1   -22.2   -25.8         A'1l  a            28.8 18.5    49.1 29.2   34.8 25.4
'wItu' N tau                       -       -        -       -       -           GAofMN 7                 8    f a4 512. 2t.   1 .
Othar Ftoc ftm    1/ (Nt)    -19.5   -17.6   -15.2   -16.5  -20.5                                 8.2  6.1    21.2  12.6   19.2  14.0
Ma TEza   *                      19.3    25.0    46.4    35.0    32.0       b     I. lAN    &    8.8  6.6       6.5  3.9    1.3  0.9
uBmi a  a&cu A        t        -170.  -171.   -160.0  -180.5   -W                 PNd.
AU 0 I   r         9.9  7.4      7.4  4.4    1.6  1.2
xz.ct Vo.UIS                     15.7    11.1      8.2   -0.6    13.0
Not *LT brtarl                   44.0    82.4      4.2   -6.9      0.8 Albo                     13f31 100.0   166.1 1ff.0  136.90
Dohz 3                         89.4   123.2    59.0    52.9    46.0
AotfEJon 2J/                   45.4   -40.8   -54.8   -9.8   -45.2
ACI                         597        .       .      73      13.6    i     2      1.4 -. 1e. I16             USS lIn.
cbota1 Gkao                        -       -       -         
other    Iu (Duc) 3/             44.9    14.7   -10.3    51.4    57.1                Eltc Obt. Iacl.  inait          42D.0
att(r Itm  no.i. Q                4.1     4.2      4.0      -       -                 xpkamsd ftion  Dekt
R    i.. ( rac   - )             124A   -0.5    46.6    33.7   -17.1                Tnal Otatmi  &  Msb             420.
QuumAmw5/                        38.8    46.7    3D.6    16.0      8.4
NC Arm                                                                            OM           RAMO MM PM 112/83 9/ s
PURL Ad MacoAf MOa~Cau                                                               Pabl ic DDbt fad. giaitwA       36.8
ToptU                                                                                _m tmin   Privaa Dmk            -
of Yild: Fdtzlau             34.3    47.2    57.3    87.3       -                 Wh  (lac.adh   &  Oltad         36S
of diich: Fuccolim                                                         l/Mf=  IaWD  (SlIt. 30. 1983) (LSUlmi USS):
im    Mt
RCE OF (RrM     (O -C
GatAtal  & D lubar           11.1     48.1
1ndiubwud                     -       40.9
Jawm-y 1984:              USC/I         PeC.dod  Or. Uabrad  It.1                                                       89.0
U1  1.00 - 2.45            1W/79-.95025
1979/80 * .952850
198D181 - .921050
1911/82 - .832325
1982/83 - .791975
1/   ItludI, Gominwe a... at otur surLms
s a         lt   a-d  elbt forq6v
NW duct ca capita, wd erroan ad a8.la.
4/ AUloctImi of 5Db
Eat  stwtcl yaw. IFS (Lim. LAd)
6/   .Dr.nm
J/    nc   ~ot
7,   RAo of DdI  Swien to E4aocE Good
Fduury 1. 1984



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 2
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN SIERRA LEONE
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1984)
Loan or                                                       US$ million
Credit                                                 Amount (less cancellations)
Number    Year   Borrower       Purpose               Bank   IDA I/  Undisbursed
Five Loans and Six Credits Fully Disbursed            18.70  31.11
970      1980   Sierra Leone  Technical Assistance    -      2.5          0.9
1094      1981    Sierra Leone  Eastern Agric.         -    12.0          4.2 2/
1128      1981    Sierra Leone  Northern Agric.         -     8.5         5.2 2/
1129      1982   Sierra Leone  Highways II             -    10.0          6.8 2/
1265      1982   Sierra Leone  Power Sector Engr.
and T.A.             -      5.0         2.8 2/
1353      1983   Sierra Leone  Education III            -    20.0         19.4 2/
Total                               18.70  89.11        39.7
of which has been repaid           8.12    .30
Total now outstanding               10.58  88.81
Amount sold           0.5
of which has
been repaid         0.5            0.0
Total now held
by Bank and IDA                   10.92  88.81
Total undisbursed                     0    39.7         39.7
1/  Prior to ezcbange adjustments.
2/  Computed at exchange rate applicable on March 31, 1984.
Note: The status of the projects listed in Part A is described in a separate report
on all Bank/IDA-financed p20jects in execution, which is updated twice yearl;y
and circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 2
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1984)
Fiscal Year   Obligator          Type of Business           Loan   Equity   Total
1980       Sierra Cement    Cement and Construc-          2.1       -       2.1
Manufacturing    tion materials
Company, Ltd.
(SERACEM)
Total Undisbursed                             0.0               0.0



- 32 -                          Annex III
Page 1 of 2
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  8 months.
(b)  Agency which prepared project:  Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry
(MAP) in conjunction with Bank staff.
(c)  Date of appraisal mission:  June 1983.
(d)  Date of completion of negotiations:  April 20, 1984.
(e)  Planned date of effectiveness:  September, 1984.
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  Credit disbursements for imports of fertilizer, chemicals and
agricultural machinery and equipment to be linked to monitoratble
action plan (para. 41).
(b) A mid-term review of the project to bs undertaken by Government, IDA
and IFAD before June 30, 1986 (para 43) and Government to prepare a
progress report for this review by March 31, 1986 (para 57).
(c)  Government to open and maintain a special account in the Bank of
Sierra Leone (para. 45).
(d)  Government to reduce fertilizer subBidies annually to 10 percent of
ex-warehouse cost by June 30, 1987 (para 51).
(e)  Creation of joint venture companies, under arrangements satisfactory
to IDA, to be a condition of disbursement for imports of agricultural
equipment or equipment for Daru Oil Mill (para 52).
(f)  Government to appoint Chief Regional Officers by October 1, 1986 to
complete merger of all integrated agricultural development projects
(para. 55).
(g)  Government to reduce MANR's daily wage expenditures annually so that
by October 1, 1987 they will be 35 percent below their July 1983
level by October 1, 1987 (para 56).
(h)  Government to establish a Pricing and Marketing Section in PEMSU
under the Ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources by September
30, 1984 (para. 59).



- 33 -
Annez III
Page 2jf 2
(i) Government to review principles and procedures for determining
agricultural Input and output prioes periodically with IDA (para 59).
(j) Government to establish agricultural development fund by
September 30, 1984 (para. 61).
(k)  Government to prepare an agricultural development program annually
for review with IDA prior to implementation (para 61).



- 34 -
Annex IV
Page 1 of 1
SIERRA LEONE
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR SUPPORT PROJECT
Summary of Conditions for Release for Funds for Production Support
(Paragraph 4(d) of and Annex to Schedule 1 of the
Development Credit Agreement)
Disbursements of the Credit allocations for agricultural machinery and
equipment, fertilizer and chemicals imports would be made in three tranches
upon completion of the following action programs by dates specified:
Tranche 1 - October 1, 1984
1. Reduction of Daily Wage Expenditure in MANR by 10% from July 1983 level.
2. Appointment of Chief Regional Officer to complete the operational merger
of Eastern IADP.
3. Establishment of Pricing and Marketing Section in MANR.
4. Establishment of National Agricultural Training Working Group.
5. Establishment of National Agricultural Research Coordinating Council.
6. Reduction of fertilizer subsidy to 50% of ex-warehouse cost.
Tranche 2 - October 1, 1985
1.  Reduction of Daily Wage Expenditure in MANR by 20% from July 1983 level.
2. Establishment of Staff Development and Training Unit.
3. Establishment of annual personnel evaluation system.
4. Agreement on program for merger of IADPs with Ministry.
5. Reduction of fertilizer subsidy to 40% of ex-warehouse cost, applicable
during the 1985 cropping season.
Tranche 3 - October 1, 1986
1. Reduction of Daily Wage Expenditure in MANR by 30% for July 1983 level.
2. Appointment of Chief Regional Officers in all regions to complete the
reorganization of the Ministry.
3. Completion of National Agricultural Training Program.
4. Completion of National Agricultural Research Policy and Plan.
5. Completion of program of implementation of financial and accounting
system.
6. Reduction of fertilizer subsidy to 20% of er-warehouse cost, applicable
during the 1986 season.



1Hw1', 1^-u1
A WYITANIA      I                                           S                I'.                itiit(t i)I
UNl^^71  S>=8txIERRA LEONE
1  UINAIA   -R ill.                                      ADMINISTRATIVE BOUNDARIES
sItoffi;,t) .     ltloe r   Interior; Agriculture; Integrated Agricultural Development Projects
LEONt #F  k      JC0TeAitN0EIA-Agricullural Region Boundares, IMAF)  ~ .ooo international Boundaries
LIUURIA        IT IININ              Provincial Boundaries (Minitry ofInterior)    *    National Capitol
T000O-   -  District Boundcries r Miniliry of lnleriarl       0    Provincial Capitol%
IADPBoundaries (integrated Agricultural      River.
Development Progeci)
r"rarr_i  ~        ~~~~~                        . -      * \*                                        to
rp m obuihr*ofI.upm.
maim Om a    -l"l,h
VW on     FrM      GUINEA of
n-r S aiSui Pra
omm."                                                        KOINADUOU
------Iiu    r*                                                 Ko          \0                 G U I N E A
WVmoo - m i &W am"
_._                  r                                                         DISTNorther  I
or  %N       R  T H  E  R  N            P  R  0  V  I N  C E
I.f           N 0 R N 1 R   i tl  I A
NORy  m OMBALI DISTRICT
K.ambia) :1               Region
~  >5>   W  ERN                  I A  ) P
IADP                     Moheni 
PORT LOKO Wester   ISTRI                      J.-                               KONO  DISTRICT
FREETOWNr  MACBOSI  North  Centrol  Region   Sfd
FREElowNrj         M AGB R O                                    J!=.
WESTERN                                                                                           , 1
AREA                                                                       P O        VNC
M OYA MB A                    S    "                               c- 
Moyamb   S O  U  TH  E  RN                         KE     EM
MOYAMBA   IADP                               o                Eost4           ;J    r
W   s te*rn                           Bo        9      E as t e,n       VI,- 
Southern    *               Region"?
Region                                     DISTRICT
BONTHE  DISTRICT           Region
0Puiehun                          LIBERIA
PUJEI4UN       r
DISTRICT  ,
NILOMENERS a  * 20     40    0     s 0    00
MILESO    '   io    '                lo 
13-                                  12-                                  11






