                                    Documentof
                                The WorldBank

                                                     Report No.: 29924




              PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                 MOZAMBIQUE

  ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
                                (CREDIT 1806-MZ)

                   URBAN HOUSEHOLDENERGY PROJECT
                                (CREDIT 2033-MZ)


                                September 15,2004




Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = Meticais (MT)

 1987                      US$1-00                  $   40.
 1988                      US$1  .oo                $  404.
 1989                      US$l  .oo                $12342.
1990                       US$1.oo                  $  813.
 1991                      US$1  .oo                $ 1040.
 1992                      US$1  .oo                $ 1748.
 1993                      US$l.oo                  $ 2724.
1994                       US$l.OO                  $ 5288.
1995                       US$l  .oo                $ 6537.
1996                       US$l.oo                  $10760.
1997                       US$l  .oo                $10983.
1998                       US$1  .oo                $11710.



Abbreviations and Acronyms

BADEA             Arab Bank for Economic Development inAfrica
BDM               Banco de Moqambique
BEU               Biomass EnergyUnit o f the Ministry o f Agriculture
BPD               Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
C M H             Mozambique Hydrocarbons Company (former ENH)
DNE               Direcqao Nacional de Energia
EDM               Electricidade de Moqambique
ESMAP             Energy Sector Management Assistance Program
FA0               UnitedNations Foodand Agriculture Organization
GOM               Govemment o f Mozambique
GWh               Gigawatt-hour
ICR               Implementation Completion Report
LPG               Liquified Petroleum Gas
Moqacor           Distribuidora de Combestiveis, S A R L , subsidiary o f PETROGALMoqambique
NDF               Nordic Development Fund
NDFW              National Directorate o f Forests andWildlife
NORAD             NorwegianAgency for Development Cooperation
OED               Operations Evaluation Department
Petromoc          Petr6leos de Moqambique, S A R L
PPAR              Project Performance Assessment Report
Prolec            UrbanElectrification Program
SIDA              Swedish International Development Agency


FiscalYear

Govemment:                January 1-December 31


Director-General, Operations Evaluation                     : Mr.Gregory K.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department                  : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
Manager, Sector, Thematic and Global Evaluation Group       : Mr.AlainBarbu
Task Manager                                                : Mr.Fernando Manibog

   OED Mission:Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellenceand independenceinevaluation.
 About this Report
       The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activitiesof the World Bank for two
 purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluation processand to verify that the Bank's work is
 producingthe expected results,andsecond,to helpdevelop improveddirections,policies,and proceduresthrough
 the disseminationof lessonsdrawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annually assesses about 25 percentof
 the Bank's lendingoperations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis given to those that are
 innovative,large, or complex;those that are relevantto upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which
 ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhave requestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generate

 studies.
 important lessons. The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselected for assessmentsupport larger evaluation

      A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion
 Report (a self-evaluation by the responsibleBank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare
 PPARs, OED staff examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit
 the borrowing country for onsite discussionswith project staff and beneficiaries.The PPAR thereby seeks to
 validate and augment the information provided inthe ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader
 OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary.The completed PPAR is then
 sent to the borrower for review; the borrower's comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's
 Board of Executive Directors.After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.
 Aboutthe OED RatingSystem
      The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work.
 The methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or
 sectoral approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is
 the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank,org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevanceof Objectives: The extentto which the project's objectives are consistent with the country's
 current development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate
 goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers,
 Operational Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy:The extent to which the project's objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency:The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible. This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainabilify:The resilience to risk of net benefits flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfifufionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a country or region
to make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human,financial, and natural resources through: (a)
better definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b)
better alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these
institutional arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a
project. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly unsatisfactory.
     BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supported implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements
for regular operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure
quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the
achievement of development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.


                                                                        ...
                                                                        111



 Contents

 PrincipalRatings           ................................................................................................................    v

 Key StaffResponsible                ........................................................................................................   v

 Preface   ..............................................................................................................................       ..
                                                                                                                                               vi1

 Summary      ...........................................................................................................................      xi

 Background        ........................................................................................................................     1

 The Project      .........................................................................................................................     2

         Project Objectives.,..................................................................................................                 2
         Project Costs and Financing ...................................................................................                        2
         ImplementationArrangements .................................................................................                           3
         ImplementationRecord............................................................................................ 4
                     EnergyTechnical Assistance andRehabilitationProject............................                                            4
                     UrbanHouseholdEnergyProject ................................................................ 4
 Ratings   ................................................................................................................................     5

         Energy TechnicalAssistance and Rehabilitation Project........................................                                          6
                     Outcome.......................................................................................................             6
                     Relevance o f Objectives ..............................................................................                    6
                    Efficacy........................................................................................................            7
                    Efficiency.....................................................................................................             8
                    InstitutionalDevelopment Impact................................................................                             8
                    Sustainability.,..............................................................................................
                                     . .                                                                                                        8
                    Bank Performance........................................................................................                   9
                    Borrower Performance.................................................................................                      9
         Urban Household Energy Project .........................................................................                             10
                    Outcome.....................................................................................................               10
                    Relevance of Objectives ..........................................................................                       ..11
                    Efficacy...................................................................................................... 12
                    Efficiency...................................................................................................             13
                    Institutional Development Impact..............................................................                            13
                    Sustainability..............................................................................................
                                     . .                                                                                                      14
                   Bank Performance......................................................................................                     15
                   Borrower Performance...............................................................................                        16

This reportwas preparedby RodJanssen(consultant). who assessedthe project inFebruary 2004 The                                           .
report was editedby William Hurlbut. andRose Gachinaprovidedadrmnistrative support.

                                                               iv


Findings. LessonsLearnedand                  Outlook         ....................................................................... 16

      Major Findings .....................................................................................................           16
      LessonsLearned.....................................................................................................            18
      Outlook ...................................................................................................................    18
Bibliography .....................................................................................................................   21

Annex A BasicData Sheet
        .                            ..............................................................................................  23

Annex B Borrower Comments
        .                                   .......................................................................................  27

                                                   V




 PrincipalRatings

ENERGY       TECHNICALASSISTANCE            AND REHABILITATIONPROJECT

                             ICR*                      ICR Review                 PPAR
                       "    ~    ~     -   ~  1   1    ~    ~    1                                   "ll_"ll~
Outcome                      Satisfactory             Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Sustainability               Likely                    Uncertain                  Likely
 Institutional               Partial                   Moderate                   Modest
Development Impact
Bank Performance             Satisfactory             Satisfactory                Satisfactory
Borrower Performance         Satisfactorv             N.A.                        Satisfactorv


URBAN      HOUSEHOLD       ENERGY      PROJECT

-                           /CR*                   -ICR    Review                 PPAR
                                                                                                            I
Outcome                     Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory              Moderately Satisfactory
Sustainability              Uncertain                 Uncertain                   Likely
Institutional               Partial                   N.A.                        Modest
Development Impact
Bank Performance            Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory              Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance        Unsatisfactory            Unsatisfactory              Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of
the Bank. The ICR Review and earlier Evaluation Memorandum are intermediate OED products that seek to
independently verify the findings of the ICR.
N.A. - not available


Key Staff Responsible

TECHNICALASSISTANCEAND REHABILITATIONPROJECT

Project                     Task Managed              Division Chief/            Country Director
                            Leader                    Sector Director
Appraisal                   Mr. J. Besant-Jones       N.A                        N.A
Completion                  Mr. Mahesh Sharma         Mr. Jeffrey Racki          N.A


URBAN     HOUSEHOLD       ENERGY      PROJECT

Project                     Task Manager/            Division Chief/             Country Director
                            Leader                   Sector Director
Appraisal                   N.A                      N.A                         N.A
Completion                  Ms. Yuriko Sakairi       Mr. Mark Tomlinson          Ms. Phyllis Pomerantz


                                             vii


Preface

         This i s a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) on the Energy
Technical Assistance and RehabilitationProject and the UrbanHouseholdEnergy
Project. The former project was approved for a credit o fUS$20.0 million equivalent in
May 1987. The project's closing date o fDecember 31, 1992was extended two years to
December 31, 1994, at which time about US$1.5 millionequivalent was cancelled. The
UrbanHouseholdEnergyProject was approved for a credit ofUS$22.0 million
equivalent inJune 1989. The project's closing date o fDecember 31, 1996 was extended
two years to December 31, 1998, at which time US$2.3 million equivalent was cancelled.

        Cofinancing o fthe EnergyTechnical Assistance and Rehabilitationproject was
providedby the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD). Cofinancing
o f the UrbanHouseholdEnergyProject was providedby the Nordic Development Fund
(NDF) andthe Arab Bank for Economic DevelopmentinAfhca (BADEA).

        The two projects were selected for an OED assessmentinorder to look more
carefully at the performance and sustainability o fprojects implementedunder civil war
conditions, and also to include inthe overall PPARportfolio some projectswhere there has
been a substantial durationbetween project closing and the PPAR. Moreover, they provide
useful lessons that could inform the ongoing EnergyReform and Access Project (approved
on August 19,2003) -an Adaptable Program Loanthat i s the first phase o f the Energy
Reform and Access Program for Mozambique.

        For the Energy Technical Assistance andRehabilitationproject, the report i s based
on the Implementation CompletionReport (Report No. 14734), issuedJune 28, 1995; the
StaffAppraisal Report (Report No. 6647-MOZ) dated May 1, 1987; loan documents,
project files anddiscussionswith Bank staff. For the UrbanHousehold EnergyProject, the
report is basedonthe Implementation CompletionReport (Report no. 19449), issued June
17, 1999; the StaffAppraisal Report (Report No. 7611-MOZ), dated May 12, 1989; loan
documents, project files and discussions with Bank staff. An Operations Evaluation
Department(OED) missionvisitedMozambiquebetweenJanuary31andFebruary7,
2004. The missionhaddiscussions with government officials o fthe relevant ministriesand
agencies, representatives o fdonors, the major energycompanies, and other stakeholders.
Their cooperation and assistancei s gratefully acknowledged.

        Following standard OED practice, the draft assessment report was sent to the
Borrower for comments before it was finalized. The borrower's comments are attached as
Annex B.


                                                i x


  Summary

         The Energy Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Projectwas prepared and
 approved in 1987 inresponseto the civil conflict inMozambique. It was realizedthat,
 without rehabilitationof the energy infrastructure, energy services would deteriorate even
 more and that improvements were neededto both the infrastructure and the supply o f
 affordable energy services to support the economic recovery o fthe country. The project
 hadtwo objectives: to bringabout rapidly a sustained improvement inthe supply and
 distribution o f electricity andpetroleumproducts inthe main urban areas o f
 Mozambique; and to support economic recovery beyondthe short term by helpingenergy
 agencies to prepare plans for the sound development o f the power, petroleum, and
 household energylwood fuels subsectors.

         The project's outcome i s ratedsatisfactory. Following initial delays, the project
 was effective inproviding short-term improvements. These included funding urgent
 maintenance andrehabilitation o fthe power generation, transmission, and distribution
 system; providingneededtransportation equipmentto the major energy companies;
 supporting technical assistance for almost all aspects o fmanagement and operations as
 well as studies on various technical and policy issues. Together, these elements provided
 the foundation for a more robust energy systeminMozambique. The project's
 sustainabilityi s rated likely, given the project's effectiveness in establishing the
 foundation for the modernizationand restructuringprocess o f the energy companies. The
 successful maintenance and rehabilitationwas also instrumentalinensuringthat the
 energy system didnot collapse. The institutionaldevelopment impact i s ratedmodest
 becausethe energy companies made only minor improvements to their management and
 financial systems, which already started from a poor base. The Bank's performancei s
 ratedsatisfactory, as project development and supervision were good. However, the
 project was complex for the small, qualified staff available inMozambique. Support to
help the borrower meet conditions andvarious covenants, which were clearly difficult for
 the borrower, could have beenbetter. The borrower's performance i s ratedsatisfactory,
with the borrower's active and positiveparticipation inimplementation despite difficult
war conditions.

         The objectives o f the Urban Household Energy Project (UHEP), approved in
 1989,were to quickly enhance supply and significantly reduce energy costs for about 25
percent o f households inmain urban centers; to continue the institutional and financial
strengtheningo fthe principal energy supply companies that was initiated under the
EnergyTechnicalAssistance Project; and to slow significantly the deforestation around
the urban centers andto improve air quality.

         The project's outcome is rated moderately satisfactory: while some o fthe
objectives were not completely fulfilled, the project did provide long-term benefits that
are setting the energy sector on a strong foundation. Its sustainabilityi s rated likely
becausemany o f the project's reform components, particularly the energy legislation, are
having a positive and lasting impact: the energy markets are opening up to competition,
the energy companies have become more financially viable, the number o f new
electricity customers has increased, and the management o f wood fuels improved. The
institutional development impact i s rated modest. The major energy companies have

                                               X



shown strong improvements but some are still highly dependent on continuing technical
assistance. The Biomass EnergyUnitwas a success during the lifetime o f the project and
then was disbanded to be replacedby a different, community-based approach. The
National Directorate o f Energy(DNE)had difficulties coordinatingthe implementation
o f the project but came away from it stronger inbothpolicymakingandproject
implementation. The Bank's performance i s rated unsatisfactory becauseit allowed for
the project to become far too complex for the borrower to manage. There were also
problems with supervision inthe middlepart of the project, at which time it was
restructured twice, first to reflect the 1992 peace settlement and then in 1994as a result
o f the cyclone that devastated the country. The borrower's performance i s rated
satisfactory inhelpingachieve project outcomes despite a most difficult situation o f
armed conflict combinedwith project design flaws and capability shortcomings among
its localpartners.

         These projects provide useful lessonsfor future energyprojects andpolicies in
Mozambique and elsewhere:

     The objectives of short-term emergency assistance and mediumto long-term
     institutionaldevelopment andpolicy assistance are sufficiently different that they
     should be treated inseparate operations. The benefits o f energy sector reform needto
     be clearly explained to decision-makers, managers o f energy companies, opinion
     leaders and the population as a whole inorder to buildtheir ownership and support.
     Care mustbe given to adapt the scale and complexity o fprojects to ensure that the
    borrower has the capacity to both manage the projects and absorb the information and
     lessons that are derived from them.
    Banksupervision teams needto havethe necessaryrangeof expertise to deal
    effectiveIy with the major project components, such as power sector and biomass
    energy components.
    Moving a country from a traditional-he1based energy systemto one that provides
    modernenergy services to a significant portion of the population requires a long-term
    strategy that goes beyondthe specifics o f any one project.




                                                                         Gregory K.Ingram
                                                                           Director-General
                                                                     Operations Evaluation

                                               1


 Background

 1.      In1987, Mozambiquerequiredemergency assistanceto ensurethe availability
 and reliability o f electricity andpetroleumproducts. The country's civil war and lack of
 significant progress inthe energy sector since independence in 1975 meant that the sector
 infrastructure was ina poor condition. A Bank-financedsector assessment study,
 Mozambique: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector (January 1987), stated that
 rehabilitating existing energy sector assets and institutions was a priority. The prices of
 commercial energywere well below the economic cost o fmeeting demand and the prices
 for various energy products were inequitable: traditional fuels usedby the poor were
 muchmore costly than the commercialfuels usedby the relativelybetter offhouseholds
 (though the availability of commercial fuels was erratic). Mozambique was relatively
 well endowed with energy resources andthe long-term economic prospects were good
 once peace was restored to the country. TheIssues and Options study highlightedthat
 economic recovery would be adversely affected ifenergy supply systems were not in
 better condition.

 2.      Mozambique became a member o f the InternationalMonetary Fundand the
 World Bank in 1985. The first IDA credit financed part o f the government's 1985-86
program o f imports o f equipment, spare parts, and raw materials, as well as related
technical assistance for industry, transport, and agriculture.

 3.      Mozambique's then existing energy systemwas not sustainable. The country was
heavily dependent on biomass fuels; the availability o fpetroleumproducts was limited
andvery expensive; and distribution networks were poorly developed. Duringthe civil
war, the urban areas, which now have about one-third o f the total population, were
virtually cut off from the rest o fthe country. This resultedinsevere deforestation near the
urbanareas. Furthermore, avery small percentage ofthe populationhadaccessto
electricity, and eventhenonly with frequent electricity blackouts due to sabotage o f the
distributionnetwork. The civil conflict also disruptedtransportation routes o f coal and
petroleumproducts.

4.      It was inthis context that the World Bank was asked for assistance. The Energy
Technical Assistance and RehabilitationProject was the second IDA operation in
Mozambique and the first totally dedicated to the energy sector. The Urban Household
EnergyProject (UHEP) was IDA'Ssecond lendingoperation inthe energy sector of
Mozambique. Together the projects were to help rehabilitate the energy sector
infrastructure, help the urban areasrecover from the impacts o f the war, and improve
energy availability for the low-incomepopulation

5.      In2003, Mozambiquehadapopulationof 18.9 million, up from about 14million
whenthe project started. It is one o fthe poorest countries with a gross nationalincome
per capita o f $210 in2002. In2003, it ranked 170out of 175 inthe UnitedNation's
Development Program's Human Development Index. Energy consumptionper capita is
about two-thirds the average inall Africa and electricity consumptionper capita i s about
halfthe African average.

                                                2


 6.      The countryhas an area of 802,000 square kilometers, about the size o f Germany
 and Swedencombined. The transport network i s poorly developed, inlarge part because
 o fthe long distances and the relatively small populationdensity.

 7.      The main energycompanies, Electricidadede Moqambique(EDM) andPetroleos
 de Moqambique, SARL(Petromoc), are state owned. At the beginningofthe Bank-
 financed projects, EDMwas integratingthe country's three electric utilities (one for each
 region) into a single system. The first IDA lending operation was designed to provide
 some of the emergency technical assistance and rehabilitation to the energy
 infrastructure. The Energy Technical Assistance and RehabilitationProject was designed
 to build on that first credit. Unfortunately, the first credit was delayedby about two years
 andthe two projects were implementedintandem more than expected.

 8.      Now, Mozambique is showing strong improvements. Annual GDP growth i s
 strong - about 7 percent per year. Progress i s beingmade and a new IDA credit, focusing
 on electricity, i s starting in2004. The EnergyReform andAccess Project (approved on
August 19,2003), anAdaptable ProgramCredit, is the first phaseof the EnergyReform
 and Access Program for Mozambique.



The Projects

ProjectObjectives

9.       The Energy TechnicalAssistance andRehabilitationProjecthadtwo
objectives. First, the project sought to bringabout a rapid and sustained improvement in
the supply and distribution o f electricity andpetroleum products inthe mainurbanareas
o f Mozambique. The second objective was to support economic recovery beyond the
short-term byhelpingenergy agencies to prepare plans for the sound development o fthe
power, petroleum, and household energy/wood fbels subsectors.

10.      The UrbanHouseholdEnergyProjecthadthree main objectives. The first
objective was to quickly enhance supply and significantly reduce energy costs for about
25 percent o f households inmain urban centers, particularly Maputo, Beira, Nampula,
Nacala, and Quelimane. The second objective was to continue the institutional and
financial strengthening o f the principal energy supply companies that were initiated under
the Energy Technical Assistance Project. The third objective was to significantly slow the
deforestation around the urbancenters andto improve air quality.


ProjectCosts and Financing

11.     For the EnergyTechnical Assistance andRehabilitationProject, about US$20.1
million equivalent were disbursedandUS$1.5 million equivalent were cancelled at the

                                                       3


 time o f the project's closing (see project costs inAnnex A).' Almost halfo fthe funding
 was for technical assistance for the major energycompanies, particularly EDM.Funding
 was also provided for maintenance andrehabilitation o fthe power generation,
 transmission, anddistribution facilities andthe petroleum product distribution system.
 There was also support for connecting4,150 households to the gridandfor the purchase o f
 urgentlyneededtransportation equipment for EDMandPetromoc. What was not initially
 expectedwas financing for the LithuliBuilding,which was usedto house the expatriate
 experts.

 12.      Financing was primarily from the disbursed IDA credit o fUS$20.1 million
 equivalent. Cofinancing amounting to US$5.0 million equivalent was providedby the
 Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD). The credit was extended
 three times, and it closed two years after the original closing date.


 13.      For the UrbanHousehold EnergyProject, funding from the disbursedIDA credit o f
 US$20.35 million equivalent was for rehabilitation, reinforcement, and extension o fthe
 power distributionsysteminMaputo andeight other cities; loans for wiring housesto
 connect to the distribution system; theprovision o f stoves, lamps, and electric bulbs;
 reinforcement o fthe kerosene and LPG storage and distributionfacilities; rehabilitationo f
 the cable factor and awood fuel utilizationprogram. Financingwas alsoprovided for
 techcal assistance, institutional support, andpolicy support.

 14.      IDA financed almost halfofthe project. Cofinancing was providedbythe Nordic
 Development Fundand the Arab Bank for Economic Development inAfrica (BADEA).
 BADEA funds didnotbecome available untillate 1994due to EDM's delay inmeeting
 effectiveness conditions. The credit was closed inApril 1998 after two extensions, at
 which time US$2.3 million equivalent o f undisbursedamounts were cancelled.


 ImplementationArrangements

 15.      The EnergyTechnical Assistance and Rehabilitation Projectwas implemented
throughmultipleinstitutions: Electricidadede Moqambique (EDM), Empresa Nacional
Petroleos de Moqambique (Petromoc), Empressa de Hirocarbonetos (ENH), and the
MinistryofIndustryandEnergy(MIE).

 16.     Project coordination for UHEP was the responsibilityo f the National Directorate
o f Energy(DNE), supported by the Ministryo fMineral Resources and Energy (MMRE).'
The various components o f the project includedmany other organizations. For the
electricity component, organizations included EDM, the Prolec unit o fDNE, and a bank,
Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD). For the petroleum component Petromoc was


1.The Staff Appraisal Report indicates an IDA Credit amount o fUS$20 million equivalent. Taken
together, the amounts disbursedand cancelled at project closing sumup to a total that is greater than the
appraised amount due to fluctuations betweenthe US$ and SDR exchange rate. Ths also applies to the
second project int h s PPAR.
2. Originally the project was coordinated by the Ministryo f Industry and Energy (MIE). In 1994, the energy
functions and overall coordination were transferredto the Ministryo f MineralResources and Energy.

                                                4


 included. For the biomass component, the Ministryof Agriculture was the main
 organization.


 Implementation

 Energy TechnicalAssistance and Rehabilitation Project

 17.     Implementation o fthe EnergyTechnical Assistance and RehabilitationProject
 was delayed two years becauseEDMandPetromoc experienced difficulties incomplying
 with a condition o f disbursement for goods and becauseo f a shortage o f appropriate
 accommodation for the long-term expatriate specialists. BothEDMand Petromoc were
 requiredto prepare and submit financial statementsfor the years 1984 to 1987 andto
 forecast for 1988. Giventhe poor state o fthe companies' accounts, the financial
 statements were not prepared until late 1988. The subsequent delay was due to waiting
 for the accommodation to be completed. Not untilthere was accommodation could the
 specialists be appointed. The project was also affected by sabotage o f power transmission
 lines, which ultimately addedto the debt burdeno fEDM.

 18.     Implementationwas also affected by the ambitious schedule o f the project. The
 agenda included short-term andmedium-to long-termneeds and there was not enough
 staff with sufficient qualificationsto handleall the tasks. Also linkedto the design o f the
project, was the large scale o f the technical assistance (about 1,200 man-months o f
 expatriate support), which placeda significant burden on the qualified staff in
Mozambique.

 19.     Finally, several institutionalfactors hinderedimplementation. These included
decisions by the GOM over the patrimony o f EDM's and Petromoc's assets; a program
for clearing inter-enterprise arrears and for adjustingprices o f electricity and petroleum
products; the needto introduce a compensation scheme earlier inthe project cycle to
facilitate recruiting and retaining qualified staff; and streamlining the approvalprocess
for contracts by government authorities.


Urban Household Energy Project

20.      Meetingthe effectiveness conditions for the UHEPtook 10months because o f the
slow administrativeprocedures inthe government. The energy companies, EDMand
Petromoc, also delayed the project because o f their difficulties inmeetingthe conditions
o f credit disbursement, which would have started sooner ifthe government had facilitated
the compliance o f these companies. Inthe S A R it was agreed that EDMwould
implementa tariff increase inthe secondhalfo f 1989, that the government would initiate
paying o f f arrears o f accounts receivable during 1989, and that EDM's assets would be
properly valued with a view to government being able to establish the patrimony and
equityo fEDMbythe end o f 1990. The government, which didnot recognize
depreciation cost to bepart o ftariffs, was reluctant to increase tariff rates, thus affecting
EDM's financial viability. The settlement o f arrears was also irregular.

                                              5


 21.     Theproject was restructured in 1994, following amidtermreview in 1992, when
 the armed conflict inthe country was resolved. The review was conductedjointly with
 other donors. Several o f the components were modified, although the objectives were
 unchanged and the project designremained fundamentally the same. Effectively, the
 target for electrical connections was reduced from 40,000 to 4,000; the financing o f
 imported electricity bulbswas eliminated; the financing o f imported stoves, lamps, and
 solar panels was reduced by 50 percent because they were locally available; the coal
 program ,which included 50,000 stoves, was eliminatedbecause coal was no longer
 brought to Maputo after the peace agreement; a decentralized off-grid electrificationpilot
 project o f small towns was added; financing o fpre-payment electricity meters was added;
 and a pilot community-managed, natural woodland resource management program was
 includedin 1995 to produce biofuel more efficiently.

 22.     Following the amended Credit andProject Agreements, Mozambique was hit by a
 cyclone inMarch 1994 and the documents were amended again to include inthe project a
 component to cover the rehabilitation needs of the northernpower system.

 23.     The extension o fEDM's distributionnetwork was delayed twice. This was
 because funds from the Arab Bank for Economic Development inAfrica (BADEA) did
 not become available to'EDMuntillate 1994, givenEDM's failure to meet effectiveness
 conditions for the credit. The second delay was because EDMhadnot met the
 disbursementconditions for the IDA credit.



 Ratings
24.      The EnergyTechnicalAssistance and RehabilitationProjectwas evaluatedmore
than nineyears afier the project closed. Consequently, indiscussions with Bank projects
staff and Mozambique officials, little was rememberedabout this project or how its
results may have beenusedas a basis for further technical assistance and infrastructure
development. This project was designed as emergency support, so normal project
indicators were not developed, andthe context changed continually throughout the
implementation o f the project, largely because o f achievingpeace in 1992.

25.     The ICRwas quite critical o fthe UHEPinmanyrespects. The results overall at
the end o f the project were disappointing, but even thenthere were positive signs. Plus,
the UHEP could not have beenimplementedunder muchmore difficult conditions: the
country was not yet at peace and was still having a difficult time creating a more
economically and managerially competent administration, a legacy o f gaining
independenceonly inthe mid-1970s. Now that the war has been over for more than a
decade, the context for assessingthe performance o f projects inMozambique has
definitely changed.

26.     Almost 10 years since project closing, the ratings are also affected by the fact that
there have been many other relatedprojects (mainly technical assistance), but it i s still
possible to piece together the enduring results that are attributable to both these projects.

                                                6


 Energy Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project


 Outcome

 27.     The project's outcome i s rated satisfactory. Following initial delays, the project
 was effective inproviding short-term improvements to the energy supply industriesin
 order to ensure a more stable situationand allow Mozambiqueto bebetter prepared for
 economic recovery. Short-term solutions also requirea long-term framework and the
 technical assistanceprovided by the project was important instartingthe process for the
 main energy companies to be more financially viable, with better technical capability for
 the future.

 28.     Maintenance and rehabilitation o fthe power generation, transmission, and
 distribution system did occur, althoughwith some difficulties due to sabotage. Needed
 transportation equipment for the energy companies was provided. Technical assistance
 provided by expatriate specialists assisted both EDMand Petromoc inmanaging a
 number of areas: engineering, maintenance oftransport fleets, aviationfuelling facilities,
petroleumproduct movement, power supply facilities. Further technical assistance was
provided for the design and implementationo f financial and accounting systems,
management information systems, stock control, asset management, and manpower
development. Following this technical assistance, EDM, ENH, and Petromoc produced
 annual financial statements and continue to do so today. Furthertechnical assistancewas
provided for the design and implementationo f financial and accounting systems,
management information systems, stock control, asset management, and manpower
development. Following this technical assistance, EDM,ENH, and Petromoc produced
annual financial statements and continue to do so today.

29.      Overall, o f the 15 covenants, only six were complied with completely while four
were partially fulfilled andtwo hadhadsubstantial delays. Two other covenants related
to the financial performance o fEDMwere not met by the end o fthe credit but were to be
completed inlater corporate restructuring.


Relevance

30.     The relevance of the project's objectives i s rated substantial. The project was
developed as an emergency aid project to attempt to bringneeded infrastructure
improvements to the energy supply sector duringthe civil war. Maintaining and
expanding the electricity andpetroleumproduct infrastructurei s fully consistent with that
context. The project was designedto set the mainenergy industries on a firmer financial
and management footing, which could prepare them for later reforms that were starting to
take place inother countries and that would improve the overall functioning o f the energy
supplyindustry.Theproject also providedpolicy support to allow for the development of
more robust, balanced energypolicies. These are necessary for the development o f
sustainable energy strategies.

31.     The project i s fully consistent with thepriorities inthe CAS o f June 2000 (Report
No. 20521 MOZ). These priorities include: (i)    maintaining an enablingprivate sector

                                                 7


 environment; (ii)   developing infrastructure; and (iii)
                                                        promotingrural development and
 agriculture.

 32.      The specific sectoral targets ofthe government's PovertyReduction Strategy
 Paper are: to ensure that all district capitals and administrative posts are suppliedwith
 electricity; and to expand the national gridto connect rural areas. These sectoral targets
 are to help achieve the MillenniumDevelopment Goals o freducing child mortality,
 improving matemalhealth, and achieving universalprimary education. For this project,
 there cannot be any direct link with the MillenniumDevelopment Goals but it can be
 arguedthat the technical assistanceandrehabilitation are a necessarycondition beforethe
 energy sector can be inany position to provide assistance toward these goals.

 33.      The project is fully consistent with the Bank's objectives as outlined inthe Bank's
 2001 EnergyBusiness RenewalStrategy. The mainpriorities for the program include
 helpingthe poor directly, improving macroeconomic and fiscal balances (including
 protecting budgets for social programs that help the poor), promoting good govemance
 andprivate sector development, andprotecting the environment.

Efficacy

 34.      The efficacyof the project is rated substantial. For the mostpart, the objectives
o f the project were achieved. The primary objective o fthe project was to bring about
rapidly a sustained improvement inthe supply and distribution o f electricity and
petroleumproducts inthe main urban areas o fMozambique. One major project outcome
i s that inMaputo alone, 7,376 households were connected to the distribution system
between 1990 and 1992, thus contributing to economic recovery up to mediumterm.
Without t h s emergency support, the energy infrastructurewould have deteriorated even
more. The energy companies also had some basic needs from vehicles to technical
support to rehabilitating existinginfrastructure. Another important project outcome was
able to provide much o fthis urgentlyneededshort-term support.

35.       Secondarily, the project achieved the objective o f providing some technical,
analytical, and management assistance, which effectively set the foundation for energy
policy development and the better governance o fthe energy sector. Through technical
assistance, the project made important headway assisting both EDMandPetromoc in
managing a number o f areas: engineering, maintenance o f transport fleets, aviation
fuelling facilities, petroleumproduct movement, andpower supply facilities. There were
18 expatriate specialists (12 for EDMand 6 for Petromoc) for this, 4 more than originally
planned. It hadbeenhoped that the expatriate staffwould be able to double up and train
local staff, but this was only partially successful.

36.      The project also yieldeduseful outputs related to studies andpolicy formulation.
Least-cost development plans were prepared for EDMandPetromoc. A nationalurban
householdenergypolicy and implementationprogram was also prepared. A variety o f
other studies were undertaken, including a study on charcoal production technology, an
aerophotographic forest inventory o f southern Mozambique, a study o f fuel wood supply
options, a study o fpotential for fuel wood plantations, studies onpetroleum product

                                               8


 supply and distribution, and a development program for EDM.The fuel wood plantation
  study, however, was not completed.

 Efficiency

 37.     Basedon the economic and financialratesof return,the efficiencyof the
 projectis ratedmodest.The original intemal economic rate ofretum(IERR) was
 estimated at 27 percent, which appears to be reasonable. According to the ICR, this was
 based on expected quantifiable increases inelectricity consumption resulting from
 improvements inbothpower andpetroleumproduct supply and distribution. However,
 the ICRwas unable to provide an actual estimate becauseit felt it was impossibleto
 isolate the investments from other investments inthe sector and becausesabotage o f the
 electricity grid increased costs without increasing supply and distribution. The ICR
 concluded that the IERRwould be lower than the original estimate. There i s no reason to
 suggest it would be otherwise today.

Institutional Development Impact

 38.     The institutionaldevelopmentimpactis ratedmodest.A majorthrust oft h s
project was to support the institutionaldevelopment o fthe major energycompanies o f
Mozambique, through various forms o f technical assistance, particularly the design and
 implementation o f financial and accounting systems, management informationsystems,
 stock control, asset management, manpower development, as well as those related to policy
formation. The management systemswere very basic at the beginningo fthe project. For
example, annual financial reports hadnot beenpreparedbefore this project andthere was
no pressure from the government to do so. EDMalso argues that its priority was to
integrate the three regional companies that mergedto become EDMand one o fthe
problems was that eachregionalcompany had a different financialmanagement system
that affected compatibility. This projectwas important inassisting the management
modernization process as well as helpingto consolidate the corporate structure. (EDMdoes
not fully agree with the "modest" rating, pointingout that various management systems for
different areas were introduced inEDMinthe early 1990s,o fwhich the important ones
include: (a) the Project PlanningSoftware, which is reported as having improved
considerably the performance o fEDM's EngineeringDepartment inpreparingproduct
documents for donors; (b) the Stock Control Software, which has facilitated the
auditability o fEDM's accounts; and (c) the Performance Evaluation System, which has
provenuseful instaffmanagement.)

Sustainability

39.     The project's sustainabilityis ratedlikely. The technical assistanceprovidedby
the project laid the foundation for the future development o f the energy sector in
Mozambique. The investments made inrehabilitation and expansion were also keyto
further developinga system o fregular maintenance, which is fundamental to long-term
sustainability. The technical assistance was designedto help inthe restructuringprocess
o fthe energy companies, which has happened. EDMhas continuedto receivetechnical
assistance from bilateral donors, such as SIDA, NORAD, BADEA, KfW, Nordic

                                               9


 Development Fund, and the African Development Bank, buildingon the support
 providedby the IDA credit. A new IDA credit hasbeen approved and starts in2004.

 40.    The technical assistanceto support policy development was important becauseof
 the needto start developing long-term energypolicies. For example, G O M developed a
 comprehensive strategy for the development o fthe energy sector, consideredby the
 Council o f Ministers inJune 1999, aiming at increasing energy exports; promoting
 competition inthe generation and distribution o f electricity; increasingaccess to
 electricity through the creationo f decentralized power markets; increasing the use o f
 commercial forms o f energymore inrelation to wood fuels; increasing the efficient use
 o fbiomass fuels; and strengtheningthe institutionalcapacity o f the sector entities. The
 GOMusedthe results ofthe IDA-supportedproject as a foundation for future work. The
 DNEhas developed a goodcapabilityinpolicy analysis anddevelopment.

 41.    The provision oftransport equipment was seen as a short-term emergency
 measure and could not be expected to have a lasting effect.


Bank Performance

42.     The Bank performance is rated satisfactory. A good analytical base was
available for the development o f the project and this helpedinthe project's preparation.
One problem inthe project design was that there was so muchto do, seemingly at once,
that the project became very complex and heavily taxed the small group o f qualified staff
within the energy companies andthe govemment.

43.     The ICR raised concerns about the nature of conditionality, administering
conditionality, and the composition o f supervision missions. Concerning the nature o f
conditionality, the problemwas the lack o f data, inthe absence o f any financial
statements, to fully analyze the financial performance o f EDMandPetromoc and to
assess the adequacy o f energyprices to improve the financial prospects o f the companies.
Without such analysis, covenants were set on aproforma basis, whereas the ICR
indicates that an incremental approach to financial performance requirements shouldhave
beenadopted. Onthe issue of administering conditionality, no differentiationwas made
between procedural and substantive covenants, effectively giving equal weight to the two
types when substantive covenants were o f much greater long-term importance.

44.     Concerningthe composition o f the supervision missions, the ICRwas critical that
a power engineer was included inonly 2 o f 18 supervision missions, even though the
power sector represented a major component o f the project. Inthis evaluation, there was
no possibility o f exploring these points since no project staffremain, and the ICR's
conclusions have to be accepted.


Borrower Perform ance

45.     The borrower's performance is rated satisfactory. Despite the scale and
complexity o f the project, the borrower was able to producepositive results. The outcome
was only partially achieved as the borrower fully complied with only 6 o f the 15

                                               10


 covenants. The borrower showed good will and intentions, but the context made it
 difficult for the borrower to perfom any better.


 UrbanHouseholdEnergyProject

 Outcome

 46.     The project's outcome is ratedmoderatelysatisfactory,basedon its ratings of
 "substantial" for relevance, "substantial" for efficacy, and "modest" for efficiency. The
 ICRrated the outcome as unsatisfactory, but the assessment mission found that the
 project had some important positive benefits. As explained below, although the
 distribution network connections were significantly below targets, performance outcomes
 ranged from successful to highlysuccessful on the components related to electric meters,
 liquidfuels distribution, pilotingalternative energy, andreforms. Thus, while some o fthe
 objectives were not completely achieved, the overall result is positive, with many benefits
 for the future, including a strong foundation for further energy sector reforms.

 47.     The most noticeable partial achievement concerns the Prolec component where
 only 2,500 customers were connected to the distributionnetwork compared to the target
 of 4,000 (after revision from the original 40,000). This was a complex task, bringing
 together the electric utility, municipal planningauthorities, the lending institution Banco
 Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD) and DNE,representing the GOM. The loan
 programs to help new customers wire their homes and prepare for being connectedwas
 not successful inpart because the procedures were too complicated andBPD didnot have
 the capacity for such a venture. That should have been knownwhen the project was
 designed. M a n ynew customers instead wired their homes using their own resources.
 Another factor for the low level o f connections was that municipalities didnot prepare
urban plans inareas that were targeted for the connections and this preventednew
connections inthose areas. Another reason was that EDM,which should have been the
key player, lacked interest inthe component because it was not taking the lead role.

48.     The project financed pre-payment electric meters that provedhighly successful.
Bythe end o fthe project 5,000 metershadbeeninstalled anda hrther 15,000were inthe
installation stage. By 2004, 50,000 pre-payment meters hadbeen installed.

49.     The distribution system for kerosene and LPGthroughout the country has been
greatly enhanced through the UHEP. Overall, the expansion o f the liquid fuels
distribution system has worked well. A rural sales network was created providing 200-
liter drums, pumps, and trailers through soft loans. While the project providedthe
equipment, it was not responsible for ensuring that each o f the distributors received
kerosene supplies. This was not a problem for those who had stores and had supplies
come anyway. But for those who didnot have regular supplies coming, it often meant
having to travel long distances to pick up the kerosene. It is estimated that 50 percent o f
those who were subsidized duringthe project are still distributingpetroleum products
and, given the small dispersedmarket, this is consideredpositive. As well, virtually every
gasoline filling station has a pump for kerosene.

                                                11


 50.      Theproject also piloted off-grid, decentralized electrification for small villages.
 Electricity generatedby usingnatural gas from nearby gas fields was suppliedto the
 villages o f Vilankulo and Inhassoro. Initially 200 consumers were connected inVilankulo
 and 40 inInhassoro. After ninemonths, total connections increasedto 400.

 51.      Duringthe project, the BiomassEnergyUnit(BEU)was created at the Ministryof
 Agriculture and several studies were undertaken. This unit, and the analytical base that
 developed, provided an important foundation for future biomass energy work in
 Mozambique. A community-based biomass pilot project was implemented southwest o f
 Maputo in 1997. The project was delayed and cut to 10months from the original 24
 months. The project introduced sustainable forest management practices as well as more
 efficient technology for charcoal production. Efficiency improved 100percent as aresult
 o f the project.

 52.      EDM,Petromoc, andMoqacor allbenefitedfrom reforms introducedunderthe
 project andbecame more financially sustainable. None has amonopoly position
 anymore. Moqacor is now part o f the Portuguese company Petrogal. The company has 7
 percent o f the liquidfuels market and 78 percent o f the LPGmarket inMozambique. Its
 target i s to achieve 14-15 percent o f the liquid fuels market. Petromoc i s hnctioningwell
 under increased competition. I t is more efficient, havingreduced its staff significantly.
Petromoc i s 80 percent state-owned and 20 percent employee-owned. Privatization i s
continuing and the company i s working with the IFC to develop a privatization strategy.

 53.      Undertheproject, technical support ledto the adoptionofthe PetroleumLaw
liberalizedthe petroleum sector, opening the market to greater competition. For example,
in1990, Petromoc had83 percent ofthe liquidfuels market andit is downto 39 percent
now.

54.       Interms ofpolicyreforms, theprojectwas instrumentalinraisingelectricity
tariffs and having both electricity andpetroleum legislation developed and approved. The
 1997Electricity-Lawcreated the National ElectricityCouncil (CNELEC), which acts as
an arbitrator between the concessionaire andthe consumer. There i s no independent
regulator at this point. The law also took the monopolypositionaway from EDMfor
generation.

55.      All the covenants, bothproceduralandsubstantial, were eventually fulfilled,
although several had serious delays that slowedthe implementationprocess. A number o f
studies that were completed, ranging from financial management support to studies on
improvedwood stoves, electrification and distribution, restructuringinthe petroleum and
electricity sectors, integrated energy planning, support for the electricity law, and an LPG
study. There was also technical assistance for all components o f the project.


Relevance of Objectives

56.      The project's relevance is rated substantial. The project was designed to help
the urbanareas develop a more balanced, long-term, and cost-effectiveapproachto
energy supply. The project helpedrestructure the main energy companies inorder to
encourage greater competition and more stable energy supplies at lower cost. The project

                                                 12


  was also designed to increase the access to electricity through connecting more
  households to the distribution systems.

  57.     The project i s fully consistent with the priorities inthe Country Assistance
  Strategy o f June 2000 (Report No. 20521 MOZ). These priorities include: maintaining an
  enabling private sector environment; (ii)   developing infrastructure; and (iii)
                                                                                 promoting
  rural development and agriculture.

  58.     The specific sectoral targets o fthe government's Poverty Reduction Strategy
 Paper are to: ensure that all district capitals and administrative posts are supplied with
 electricity; and to expand the national grid to connect rural areas. These sectoral targets
  are to help the Millennium Development Goals o f reducing child mortality, improving
 maternal health, and achieving universal primary education. For this project, the link with
 the Millennium Development Goals mainly concerns access to electricity and modern
 energy, which will have an impact on health, education, and other targets.

 59.      The project is fblly consistent with the Bank's objectives as outlined inits Energy
 Business Renewal Strategy. The strategy's mainpriorities are to help the poor directly,
 improve macroeconomic and fiscal balances includingprotecting budgets for social
 programs that help the poor, promote good governance andprivate sector development
 andprotect the environment.


 Efjcacy

 60.     The project's efficacy is rated substantial, based on the achievement o f the
 project's most important objectives.

 61.     Interms o fbringinglow-cost commercial fuels to a largenumber o fhouseholds,
 the results were mixedbut overall fairly good. The distribution infrastructure for liquid
 fbels has improved and the increasedcompetition has helped to bringthe price down. The
pilot village electrification schemes were successful and more such schemes have been
 implemented since this project. However, the new electricity connections duringthe
project were below expectations (only about 2,500) even after the mid-term review.

62.      The capability and viability o f government agencies and major energy companies
were strengthened. EDM, Moqacor and Petromoc have been substantially strengthened
managerially and financially. Management systems have improved. This includes
financial management and human resource management. There i s significantly more
training available, for example. The three companies are exposed to greater competition
and this has obliged them to become more efficient. Inthe electricity sector, the project
financed prepayment meters, which ensured that EDMwould minimize the non-payment
problem. By the end of the project 5,000 electric meters hadbeen installed and a further
15,000 were inthe installation stage. This process has continued andby 2004, 50,000
prepayment meters hadbeen installed.

63.      The thirdmajor objective concerns slowing deforestation around urban areas and
helping to alleviate poverty through lower cost o f fuel, developing indigenous fuels, and
improving the institutional support. The Biomass Energy Unit was created under this

                                                13


 project to bothhelp forestry management and to help support the deployment o fmore
 efficient stoves and appliances. Many studies were conducted on charcoal production
 technology, aerophotographic forest inventory o f the regionnear Maputo, and fuel wood
 supplyoptions. The project endedbefore everythingwas on a firm foundation andthe
 Biomass EnergyUnitwas disbanded soon after the project closed. However, a more
 community-based management approach, which was starting to take shape at the end o f
 the UHEPproject, has moved forward through two subsequentprojects. The current one
 i s being fundedby the FAO.

 64.      The switchby urbanpopulations to lower-cost petroleumproducts didnot occur
 as expected since petroleumprices are still out o f reach o f most o f the poor. While
 cheaper on an energy-equivalent basis, people are requiredto buy and store minimum
 quantities o fkerosene or LPG. With wood or charcoal, they can buy intermittently based
 onwhat their cash flow can bear, eventhough it i s essentially more expensive.

 65.      Deforestationi s still a problem. There are some plantations around Maputo and
 other urbanareas that are important. However, inmany cases, the wood needed inurban
 areas i s coming from farther distances.


 Efficiency

 66.     Basedon the economic andfinancialratesofreturn,the efficiency ofthe
 projectis ratedmodest.The ICRstatedthat becauseof changesinthe project components
 from the SAR, that no ex-post ERRonthe project as awhole was possible. The main
 change that would affect the analysis was reducing the target for urbanhousehold electric
 connections from 40,000 to 4,000 andthenonly achieving about 2,500. The original ERR
 from the S A R was 50 percent. It appearsthat the original estimate was overly optimistic
 giventhe capacity ofthe GOMto managethe project, therole o fEDMandthe capacity of
the BancoPopular de Desenvolvimento to provide loans.

67.      For the investment insmall-rown electrification, the ICR did calculate an ex-post
ERRo f 11percent. There is no reasonto change this estimate. Some villages were
electrified but the demand for electricity remains low. The price o f electricity in
decentralized off-grid areas i s not subject to the national electricity price, which i s
uniform throughout the country andi s generally higher than the nationaltariff


Institutional Development Impact

68.      The institutionaldevelopmentimpactis ratedmodest.Thisproject has
contributedto the institutionaldevelopment o fthe energy sector. The energy companies
-EDM,Petromoc,andMoqacor-haveimprovedfinanciallyandmanagerially.
Petromoc and Moqacor are muchmore effective than they were previously because o f the
technical assistance they have received andthe rigors o fthe competitive liquid fuels
market. But this market i s small and there are no signs that it will grow significantly in
the short to medium-term: Fundamentally, Mozambique i s a poor country and the market
for liquid fuels i s not developingrapidly. EDMhas made improvementsbut they have
beenslow incoming and the company has continuedto relyon technical assistance. The
company still has the mentality o f a monopoly position, but it i s difficult to blameEDM.

                                               14


 There are many factors at play, including the difficulty increating a competitive
 electricity market and the reality i s that competitionwill be minimal. There i s separation
 o f accounts between generation, transmission, and distribution functions and that i s a
 positive step inthe restructuring process. EDMhas created a nationaltransmission
 department that could eventuallybe transformed into a separate company. Competitors
 are free to go into regions where EDMi s not present, which i s acceptable to EDM
 officials as they believe those regions are low-potential areas.

 69.     At the endofthe project, the BEUwas disbanded,replacedby a community-
 basedmanagement unit. The forestry engineers who usedto work inthe BEUnow
 mainly work inthe provinces and many believe that to be a better approach. The current
 work i s fundedby the Dutch and the FA0 through a five-year forestry development
 program. Phasetwo, funded by the FAO, started in2003. The project includes local
 participation. The community-based management approach built on the lessons leamed
 from the BEUand institutionally i s on a reasonably sound foundation.

 70.     Theproject was complex for DNEto manage. Givenall the difficulties in
 implementing the project, the organization maturedwell. This has provided long-term
 benefits to policymaking andproject management that are still evident today.

Sustainability

 71.     The project's overall sustainability is rated as likely. Many elements o fthe
project are sustainable, most particularlythe legislativeframework for electricity and
petroleum, which has already had a positive impact, for example, on the development of
the liquid fuels markets for kerosene and LPG. The transmission o f electricity i s still a
monopoly, but power generation has beenopened up to private investments. Therewill
be further restructuringusingthese laws as the base.

72.      While the initial increase inthe number o f electricity consumers was
disappointing duringthis project, improvements have taken place as a result o fproject
activities. The use o fprepayment meters funded through the credit have now expanded to
50,000 andwill continue to grow according to EDMofficials. The meters are beingused
by about 20 percent o fEDMcustomers. Today, EDMis connectingabout 25,000 a year
and there are about 230,000 customers intotal. Between 1997 and 2000, billed electricity
increased from 779.2 gigawatt hours to 1013 gigawatt             The bigproblem for EDM
i s expanding the network. EDMi s planningto spend $300 million over the next five
years for rural electrification. Most o fthe money i s coming from a variety o f foreign
sources. Five years ago total electricity losseswere inthe range o f 35-40 percent. Now
they are down to 23-24 percent and the company has plans to reduce them further.

73.     Improvingthe capacity o f the energy companies i s important for their long-term
sustainability. EDMhas two training centres inMaputo and inthe central region, and
there are several in-house programs. Engineeringand financial training at the senior
level, which must be done abroad, has beencoordinated with donors to ensure that
training i s provided for engineers and other highlyqualified personnel under donor-

3. EDMBrochure, 25 Anos, 1977-2002.

                                                   15


 fundedprojects. A large number of managers, economists, engineers andother staffhave
 benefitedfrom overseas training underbilateralcooperation programs with SIDA,
 NORAD, Electricidadede Portugal, and others. Petromoc also has started a training
 program. It has a humanresourcesprogram that provides scholarships to staff to
 complete university degrees. Since 2002, it hasprovided about 20 scholarships.

 74.      The financial andtechnicaVmanagement viability o fthe energycompanies is
 improving inpart due to this project and inpart due to further technical assistance from
 bilateral donors. It will be further enhancedby anew IDA credit. EDMstates that the
 price o f electricity i s still below the real cost but it i s primarily a government decisionto
 change prices. There are some basic rules for raisingprices, but they are very
 complicatedto implement.EDMi s also concemed about non-payments, which it i s
 obligatedto make good. This i s effectively a double penalty for the company and,
 effectively, a motivator to minimize non-payment.

 75.      The biomass energyprogramis sustainable now, althoughit i s debatable how
 much o fthis i s attributable to the UHEP project. Undoubtedly, the project was
 responsible for buildingup the capacity within the BEUand inthe local universitythat
 undertook most o f the related studies for the project. The BEUclosed soon after the end
 o f the project. The project had created expectations o f continuingresources for a long-
 term program, but the closing o f the project caused the operational money to end. Even
 before the end o f the project andthe closing o f the BEU, the new government in 1995
 was evolving its forestry policy approach to amore community-based management o f
 forests. A community-based approach requireda long-term commitment and the UHEP
 was almost at an end. The new approach was later funded by other donors and it
 continues today. Nevertheless, the new approach was based on the capacity developed
 through and the lessons o f the UHEP.

 76.     Switching from wood to liquid fuels has not proven completely successful. The
infrastructure for liquid fuels distributionis there and will have long-term benefits.
However, with price increases, people have switched back to wood and charcoal even if
they are more expensive. They can buy coal and charcoal invery small quantities,
according to what money they have available. It i s an advantage to individuals but not to
the country as a whole because it i s more costly for the latter. The environmental
implications o f either option are probablyminimal ifbetter forestry management i s in
place and more efficient stoves are used.


Bank Performance

77.      Bank performance is rated unsatisfactory. There were several problems with
the Bank performance. First, the project design was too complex; it included too many
organizations, and EDMwas not givenenough o f a centralrole (e.g., inProlec) to make
it more invested inthe project's success.

78.      Supervisionwas a problemduringparts o fthe implementation phase, especially
inthe early 1990swhenthere was frequenttumover ofBank staff. This affectedthe
continuity o f the project, particularly at a time when peace hadbeen restored and the
project was beingredefined. The biomass component certainly could have benefitedfrom

                                                16


 better, specialized supervision to avoid- or at leastminimize-the problems that
 occurred at the end o f the project and the complete revampingo f the approach taken
 afterwards. Bank performance inthe latter years o fthe project improved greatly, ensuring
 that the legislative elements, for one, were achieved.


Borrower Performance

 79.     Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. The ICR rated the borrower's
performance unsatisfactory and a case canbe made for that. However, it i s the view o f
this evaluation that the borrower's seeminglypoor performance was due inlargepart to
the designo f the project, the complexity o f which exceededthe capability o f the
borrower. The various elements requireda level o f coordinationand cooperation among
various partners that never fully developed. For example, EDMdidnot accept its role in
the Prolec component that was managedby DNE.Although inter-agency cooperation was
weak, eachindividual agency's level o fparticipation inthe project was good.

80.      The mainproblem comes downto designoftheproject. Although the designi s
obviously ajoint effort between the Bank andthe borrower, the borrower didnot have the
experience or capacity to realize that the project was more than it was capable o f
handling.Fromthe borrower's perspective, there was awar and the borrower wanted to
do everythingpossible to insulate the energy systemfrom the war's negative impacts.

81.      The borrower has to be faulted by the delays inmeetingthe substantial covenants
and for partial compliance at best at project closing. It i s hard to recreate the context at
the beginningo fthe project to understand the government's reluctance to facilitate the
meeting o f the financial covenants. At the time, the roles o fthe government and the state
energycompanies were poorly delineated and the state energy companies hadvery poor
management systems inplace. The Energy Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation
Project, which was to help inthe modernization o f management and financial systems for
these companies, was still underway.

82.     Essentially, after initial delays and failures, many o f the partners developed no
sense o f ownership inthe project and its aims. They became passive instead o f active
participants. The project was too complex for the small but good staff that was available
at DNE, which was coordinating the entire project. This was a major undertakingfor the
organization and the Prolec program involved good cooperation with EDMandthe
Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento.DNEdidnot have the necessary capacity to bringall
partners together adequately and that again, inpart, was a function o f the project design.
This should have beenforeseen duringthe project design stage.



Findings,Lessons Learned,and Outlook

Major Findings

83.     The Energy Technical Assistance and RehabilitationProject was an emergency
operation and has to be seen inthat context since most o f the implementationperiod

                                                17


  occurred before peacewas achieved. Implementationwas never going to be easy and this
 was exacerbated by delays to the beginningof the project becauseo f lack o fhousing for
  expatriate staff. This indicates the poor conditionthat Maputo, and Mozambique as a
 whole, was in.While not described as an emergency operation, the UHEP followed soon
  after the first project and was affected by the difficulties o f operating ina post-conflict
 country. Also, the UHEPwas designedto help urbanareas, which were least affected
 directly by the civil unrest but were forced to change their energyhabits because o fthe
 war. The urbanarea, like the rest o fthe country, is highlydependent on wood for fuel.
 Because o f the dangers involved inventuringtoo far away from the urban areas during
 the war, there was widespread deforestation closer to them. The project was designed to
 increase wood supply, improve the efficiency o fwood and charcoal use, increase the
 availability o f affordable liquid fuels, and to increase the penetrationo f electricity to new
 customers. To do so, a number o f reforms were also required. These included improving
 the financial andmanagerial capability ofthe main energy companies and increasing
 competition inorder to lower costs o f supply. This requiredsome legislative actions.

 84.      Together the two projectsprovided some buildingblocks for developing a sound
 energy infrastructure and balanced energypolicy. Bothprojectsprovided significant
 technical assistance to the energy companies and bothprovided support for getting those
 companies on a sound financial andmanagement foundation.

 85.      The UHEP, inparticular, movedbeyondthe energy infrastructure into policy
 development andprogram management. These are not easy for any country but were
particularlydifficult for Mozambiquewhere there was limitedhuman and financial
capacity and little tradition inpolicy development andproject management. It has been
 argued byPaul Stern4and others that energypolicies have to be seen as experiments
because even with the best planningone can still never be certain o f the outcome. This i s
definitelythe casewith the Prolec component ofthe UHEP, but canbe equallytrue for
other elements o f the projects.

86.      Overall, the technical assistancehas provenvery important. The most important
part o fthe legacy appears to be the annual preparation o fthe financial situation o fthe
energy companies, which continues today. One o fthe faults o f the technical assistance
was that there was too much to manage and absorb ina short period o ftime for a small
group o f officials. While it i s important to be ambitious, there are limitations. The staff o f
the energy companies and the DNEi s good but it i s still not large. The companyhas an
in-house training program and some engineeringand financial training at the senior level
i s undertaken abroad.

87.      Bothprojects providedneededassistance to EDMandPetromoc inparticular, but
also to other energy players. Inthe petroleum area, the market i s hnctioningquite well
and there is good competition. The problem is that the marketi s so small andthis makes
it difficult to investintheregions where there is little demandandthat is unlikelyto
change inthe foreseeable future.



4. Paul Stem and Elliot Aronson, editors, Energy Use: The Human Dimension, Washington, National
Research Council, 1984.

                                               18


 88.     Today, the staffo f these organizations i s better equipped to manage the
 companies. Nearly all EDMstaff are now Mozambicanand about 6% holduniversity
 degrees.

 89.     One issue that came up repeatedly duringthe assessmentmission was energy as a
public service. BothEDMandPetromoc officials expressedtheir public service
 obligations to provide energy throughout the country and at prices they do not necessarily
have full control over. EDMindicatedthat the price o f electricity was below its real cost
and that it was obliged to electrify some villages eventhough it was not inthe company's
interest to do so. It i s a delicate balancingact betweenproviding (subsidized) public
service and energy sector reform that has to be monitored carefully, especially inthe
context o f achieving poverty reduction goals.

90.      Although these projects had good objectives, they were too ambitious and too
complex, giventhe human capacity within the administrationand energy companies as
well as the context of civil war. Thewar endedduringthe implementationofthe Energy
Technical Assistance andRehabilitationProject and, as a result, some changes were
made to the project components. These changes responded to some of the implementation
problems, but the changes were too little, too late.

Lessons Learned

91.     The lessons from the experience ofthese projects reinforce those o f other OED
evaluations:

0   The objectives o f short-term emergency assistance and mediumto long-term
    institutional development and policy assistance are sufficiently different that they
    should be treated inseparate operations. The benefits o f energy sector reform needto
    bebetter explained to decision-makers, managers o f energy companies, opinion
    leaders and the population as a whole inorder to buildtheir ownership and support.
    Care must be givento adapt the scale and complexity o fprojects to ensure that the
    borrower has the capacity to both manage the projects and absorb the information and
    lessonsthat are derivedfrom them.
    Bank supervision teams needto have the necessary range o f expertise to deal
    effectively with the major project components. This was true for boththe power
    sector component and the biomass energy component o f this project.
0   Movinga country from a traditional-fuel based energy system to one that provides
    modern energy services to a significant portion o f the populationrequires a long-term
    strategy that goes beyond the specifics o f any one project.


Outlook

92.    For all their shortcomings, the projects were very important, giventhe
circumstances at the start o f implementation. Work continues to build on the technical
assistance from these projects. There are now projects with Denmark, Norway, and
Sweden, inparticular. There i s also a new IDA credit that recently started that will
continue with the development ofthe electricity system.

                                             19


93.     Mozambique i s undergoing major growth andthe energy companies are seen as
an important component for supporting such growth. Energy access i s still very low, yet
economic growth is demanding reliable energy supplies. Care needs to be given to ensure
that the larger social goals and poverty reduction are not lost inthe pressure to provide
modern energy to the growing new industries. With the support o f these two projects, the
policies are inplace and overall the outlook for the energy sector i s positive.


                                                21


Bibliography

EnergySector Assistance Program, Mozambique: Issues and Options in the Energy Sector,
       Report No. 6128-MOZ, UNDP/World Bank, January 1987

ESMAP,Mozambique: Household Electricity Utilization Study, ReportNo. 113/90,March 1990.

ESMAP,Mozambique: Sample Suwey of Low VoltageElectricity Customers, Report No. 195197,
       June 1997

OED, Powerfor Development,A Review of the WorldBank Group's Experience withPrivate
       Participation in the Electricity Sector, Washington, 2003.

Paul Stern and Elliot Aronson, editors, Energy Use: TheHuman Dimension, Washington,
       NationalResearch Council, 1984.

World Bank, A Brighter Future? Energy in Africa's Development, A Sector Strategy for the
       WorldBank Group, undated.

World Bank, Energy and MiningSector Board, The WorldBank Groups Energy Program -
       Poverty Reduction, Sustainability and Selectivity, December 2001.


                                               23                              Annex A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

ENERGYTECHNICAL          ASSISTANCE   AND REHABILITATIONPROJECT



Component                                   Appraisal        Actual*         Actual
                                                                          Percentage
                                                                             Share
PowerSystem Maintenanceand                     6.5            2.9            54.3
Rehabilitation

Transport Equipmentfor EDM                      1.8           1.5            82.3
PetroleumSystem Maintenance&                   3.1            3.1            118.9
Rehabilitation
Transport Equipmentfor Petromoc                3.1            0.6            18.7
TechnicalAssistance                            12.3           10.1           92.4
Lithuli Building                                              0.8
ProjectPreparationFacility                     1.I            1.I            100.0
Contingenciesand Interest During               3.9
Construction
Total Project Cost                             31.8           20.1           74.6
*IDA costs only



Source                        Appraisal Estimate    Actual

IDA                                 20.0             20.1
NORAD                                5.0             5.4
GOM and energy companies             6.8             NIA
Total                               31.8             25.5*
* Onlyforeign costs

CumulativeEstimatedandActual Disbursements(in US$million equivalent)
                  FY88     FY89      FY90       FY91     FY92      FY93  FY94      FY95
Appraisal          3.1     10.0      12.4       15.9      19.7     20.1
Estimate
Actual             2.6     2.6       3.3        6.7       11.9     17.2  18.9      20.1
Actual as % of    83.4     26.0      26.6       42.1     60.4      85.6  94.0     100.0
estimate

                                                  24                                                   Annex A



                                Original                             Actual
~ 1 1                                               -~                          ^,,"--I____
 Negotiations                   January 1987                         April 13-17, 1987
 Board Presentation             February 1987                        May 26,1987
 Effectiveness                  October 24, 1987                     November 30, 1987
 Closing Date                   December 31, 1992                    December 31, 1994




                  Acfual No.    Actual US$
-~ ~-            Staff Weeks      (000s)
 Pre-appraisal      23.9            NIA
 Appraisal          24.7            NIA
 Negotiations        5.9            NIA
 Supervision        87.1            NIA
 Completion          5.2            NIA
 Total              146.6           NIA

 Mission Data
                                                                                                Performance rating
                         (month/year)
                             Date        persons
                                           No. of   Specializationsrepresented             Implementation Development
                                                                                               status      objectives
 Appraisal through        July 1986          4                 ECN
 Board approval

 Supervision 1         September 1987        2              ECN, FNA                                        No 590
 Supervision2        February-March 1988     1                 FNA                               1              1
 Supervision3            August 1988         1                 FNA                               1              1
 Supervision4          November 1988         1                FNA                                1              1
Supervision5             April 1989          1                FNA                                1              1
Supervision6           November 1989         2                FNA                                2              2
Supervision7           April-May 1990        2             EGR, FNA                                         No 590
Supervision8          October-November
                            1990            3          EGR, ECN, FNA                             2              3

Supervision9        February-March 1991      1                FNA                                2              3
Supervision 10          October 1991        3          EGR, ECN, FNA                             2              3
Supervision 11           May 1992            1                ECN                                           No 590
Supervision 12          August 1992          1                FNA                                2              3
Supervision 13        October-November      2              ECN, FNA                              2              2
                            1992
Supervision 14           March 1993         2                 FNA                                           No 590
Supervision 15            July 1993         1                 FNA                                2              2
Supervisi6n 16      November-December       1                 FNA                                2              2
                            1993
Supervision 17        March-April 1994      1                 FNA                                2              2
ICR                      May 1995           1                 ECN
B Y :EGR=Power Engineer; FNA=FinancialAnalyst; ECN=Economist; OPN.

                                              25                                  Annex A



URBANHOUSEHOLDENERGYPROJECT



Component                      Appraisal                Actual               Actual
                                                                            Percentage
                                                                              Share
                                                            l_-l-ll_--.l - I - ~
                                                                         ~ - _
EDM                              20.60                  16.71                  81.I
Petromoc                          2.50                   6.24                 249.6
MOCACOR                           0.87                   0.33                  37.9
DOE                               9.36                  13.14                 140.4
Prolec                           11.61                   5.20                  44.8
Commercial Energy                4.37                   0.30                   6.9
Program
Fuel Imports                     30.0                    0.0                    0
Interest During                   1.49                  0.69                   46.3
Construction
Total Project Cost               80.8                   42.61                  52.7




Source                                     Appraisal Actual
               -                            Estimate
IDA                                          22.0      20.35
Government of Denmark                         3.0       0.0
Badea                                         10.0     8.19
Nordic Development Fund                      5.70      5.55
Moz. Companies                               8.90      3.08
GOM                                          1.20      5.43
Total Project Finance                        50.80     42.61
Commodity Aid Funds by SIDA, Norad and IDA   30.0      NIA
Total                                        80.80     NIA


CumulativeEstimatedand Actual Disbursements(in US$million equivalent)
                       FY90 FY91 FY92 FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98
Appraisal Estimate     3.8    5.9     10.8  14.8   18.3   20.6  21.8    22.0  -
Revised                3.2    3.2     5.2   6.6    8.8    10.7  13.0    16.9 22.0
Actual                 3.2    3.2     5.2   6.6    8.8    10.7  13.0    15.0 20.4
Actualas%ofestimate     84     54     48    45     48      52   60      68



                                Original                      Actual
Negotiations                    February 1989                 April 1989
Board Presentation              March 1989                     June 1989
Effectiveness                   December 1989                 April 1990
Closing Date                    December 31, 1996             April 30, 1998

                                                  26                                       Annex A



                             Actual No.   Actual US$
                            Staff Weeks     (OOOsl
 Preparation and Appraisal       41           90
Appraisal to the Board            6           14
 Board to Effectiveness          12           34
Supervision                      158         518
Completion                       229         799
Total                           446          1455


Mission Data
                                                                                    Performance rating
                       (monthbear)
                          Date       persons
                                      No. of      Specializations represented  Implementation Development
                                                                                   status      objectives
Supervision 1         November 1989     2                     FA                     S              S
Supervision2            May 1990        3                FA, PE, RE                  S              S
Supervision 3         November 1990     3                FA, EC, RE                  S              S
Supervision4           March 1991       1                     FA                     S              S
Supervision5           October 1991     3               FA, PtE, EC                 us              S
Supervision6           August 1992      1                     FA                    us              S
Supervision7          November 1992     2                  FA, EC                   us              S
Supervision8           March1993        2                     FA                     S              S
Supervision9            July 1993       1                     FA                     S              S
Supervision 10        December 1993     1                     FA                     S              S
Supervision 11         April 1994       1                     FA                     S              S
Supervision 12        December 1994     2                  FA, EC                    S              S
Supervision 13          June 1995       4             FA, EC, PtE, PE                S              S
Supervision 14       November 1995     4              FA, EC, PE, RE                 S              S
Supervision 15         March1996        3                FA, EC, PE                  S              S
Supervisi6n 16        October 1996      3                FA, EC, PE                  S              S
Supervision 17          June 1997       3               FA,. EC, RE                  S              S
Supervision 18        February 1998    2                   EC, RE                    S              S
ICR
 .~                    Mav 1998        3                FA.,EC.,RE                   S              S
KEY: FA=Financial Analyst; EC=Economist; PE=Power Engineer; PtE=Petroleum Engineer;
RE=Renewable Energy Specialist.

Performance Rating: S=Satisfactory; US=Unsatisfactory.

                                                           27                              Annex B


             Annex B. Borrower Comments




    World Bank
    OperationsEvaluation Department
    Att: Mr.Alain Barbu

    Washington DC   -U.S.A.

                                               __.._I
"aderCncia                        V o w Comunicaqia de                    Data
 143/cAf3004                                                          06/09/2004
Assunto: Re. Mozambique - Enerev Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Proiect
         lCredit 1806- M a
         Urban HouseholdE n e r w Proiect (Credit 2033 -MZ)
         c-ommentsto the Performance Assessment Report



    Dear Sir,


    We refer to your Draft Projcct Pbrformance Assessment Report submitted to us for
    comments onAugust 18,2004.


    As such, pleasedh dbellow the commcnts wc arc plcasedto submit to you:

     1. Inparagraph (24), page (S), it states that the Mozambique officials did not remembm
         anything about the project and virtually no one that worked on the project was
         around. We would like to mention that most of the former coordinators o f the EDM
         componcnts for both projects are still around and they would have given their
         contribution to the missionifwe were requiredto make them available;

     2.  Inparagraph(38), page (8), we wouldnot agree completely with therating. Ourpoint
         of view is that the Tnstitutional Dcvclopmcnt of EDMhas comprchcndcd an impact
         much more significant compared to the one described in the report. In fact, various
         management systems for different areas were introduced in EDM in the early 90's.
         Following arc some examples introduced between late 80's and early 90's: i)Thc
         ProjectPlanningSohare, which has improved considerably the performanceo f our
         Enginewing Dcpanmcnt at preparing the project documcnts for thc Donors; ii)the

                                                           28                            Annex B




    Stock Control Somare which has helpedthe accounts of EDMto become auditable;
    iii)the Perfonnancc Evaluation Systcmwhich has scrving as anextremelyuseful
    instrument for staffmanagement; and others;

3.  Inparagraph (39), page (8), we would only like to add NORAD, NDF, BADEA,
    KFW, BADto Donorscontinuingto deliver importantTechnical Assistance to EDM;

4.  Tn paragraph (73) we have two notes: i)Apart from the training centre of Maputo,
    EDMhas onemoretrainingcentreinthe central region, at Chimoio city, ii)of course
    most of the training courses for engineering andfinancial at the senior level do takc
    place abroad. What is not completely true inthe report is the difficulty to implement
    it. In fact, EDM has always managed to coordinate with Donors and to ensure
    training programs for engineers and other high qualificd personnel involved in
    projects hnded by various Donors over the years. A large numbcr of different high
    qualified senior staff including Managers. Economists, Engineers and others have
    benefited from ovcrsca training over thc ycars under bilateral cooperation with SIDA,
    NORAD, EDP from Porhrgaland others;

5.  The paragraph (88) states that EDM is today heavily dependant on cxpam'atc staff,
    which is not an updatedpicture. This is the situation the EDMusedto be in thc past.
    The real situation for today i s completely different, the whole 100% of personnel are
r                r                     \
    Mozambican and about G% of which are qualified and hold universitydegrees.


  Yours sincere




     Vicente I e unia Veloso
-- Chairman of E ecutive Board
        MF

