Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14734
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
NOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1806-MZ)
JUNE 28, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit            Meticais (MT)
MT I               =     US$ 0.0051
MT I               =     US$ 0.00012
US$ I                   MT 200'
US$ I                   MT 79062
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
SIDA        -      Swedish International Development Agency
EDM         -      Electricity Company of Mozambique
ENE         -      National Hydrocarbons Company
IDA         -      International Development Association
MIE         -      Ministry of Industry and Energy
NORAD       -      Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation
PETROMOC -         National Petroleum Supply Company
PPF         -      IDA's Project Preparation Facility
FISCAL YEAR
Government and Public Enterprises: Calendar Year
Conversion rate at appraisal
2 Current conversion rate



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1806-MZ)
CONTENTS
Page Number
PREFACE ......................................................................................................................................
EVALUATION SUMMARY ...........................................ii
PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ..........................................1I
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES .1
Statement of Objectives .1
Evaluation of Objectives                                                               1
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES                                  .2
Physical Aspects of the Sector                          .2
Operational Support                                .3
Institutional Devlopment                              .3
Planning and Policy Formulation                          .4
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY                                     .6
E.   IDA'S PERFORMANCE ........................7
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE                                       .8
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME                                      .8
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS                                       .9
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED                                       .9
PART   2: STATISTICAL   ANNEXES  ....................................................................11
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT .11
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS .12
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE .12
TABLE 4: CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS - CUMULATIVE AND ACTUAL .13
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .13
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT .13
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT .14
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ...........................................................        15
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING ........................................................... 13
TABLE 9:  ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...........................................................  16
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ........................       ................................... 17
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................. 19
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES - STAFF INPUTS ...........................................................  19
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES - MISSIONS ............................................................  20
APPENDICES
A. MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
B. BORROWER'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ICR
C. Map IBRD No.20093
This document has a resticted distzibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
ofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.   I






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1806-MZ)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Energy Technical Assistance and
Rehabilitation Project in Mozambique for which Credit 1806-MOZ in the amount of SDR 15.6 million
(US$20.0 million equivalent) was approved on May 26, 1987, and made effective on November 30,
1987.
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1994, two years later than was originally envisaged
after three extensions. Final disbursement took place on May 10, 1995, at which time a balance of
SDR 1.07 million was canceled. Cofinancing for the Project was provided by the Norwegian Agency
for Development Cooperation.
The ICR was prepared by Mahesh Sharma of the Southern Africa Energy and Infrastructure
Operations Division, Africa Region, and Mr. Robert Belk, Consultant. It was reviewed by Mr. Jefflrey
Racki, Division Chief, and Mr. Jaime Roman, Acting Operations Advisor. The Borrower provided
comments that are included as appendixes to the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun in March 1995 and the Associations completion mission
was fielded during May 8 to May 12, 1995. It is based on, inter alia, the Staff Appraisal Report; the
President's Report; the Credit and Project Agreements; Supervision reports; correspondence between
the Association and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda. The Borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by its own evaluation of the project's execution. The cofinancier did not submit
a separate evaluation of the project.






-ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECENICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit 1806-MZ)
EVALUATION SUtMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Project was the International Development Association's (IDA) second operaion in
Mozambique. It was prepared on the basis of a study on the Issues and Options in the Energy Sector
in Mozambique, which was canied out under the auspices of the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy
Assessment Program. The objectives of the Project reflect the priorities identified by that study and
were fully consistent with IDA's country assistance strategy, which was to support the key productive
and infrastructural sectors through rehabilitation of facilities and technical assistance.
Statement and Evaluation of Project Objectives
2.    The primary objective of the Project was to bring about rapidly a sustained improvement in the
supply and distribution of electricity and petroleum products in the main urban areas of the country. As
this was to be achieved through the rehabilitation of existing facilities and strengthening of relevant
institutions, it was conceived as an emergency-type operation. The Projects secondary objective was to
support economic recovery beyond the short-term by assisting energy agencies prepare plans for the
sound development of the power, petroleum, and household energy/woodfuels subsectors.
3.    For a country in the circumstances of Mozambique, the operation was complex. It was made
more so by the need to coordinate the large amount of the technical assistance provided under a
Project Preparation Facility and the operation to assist the Government of Mozambique (GoM) and the
beneficiaries - Electricidade de Mozambique (EDM), Empressa Nacional Petroleos de Mozambique
(PETROMOC), Empressa de Hidrocarbonetos (EINH) and the Ministry of Industry of Energy (MIE) -
in implementing the Project.
Implementation ELperience and Results
4.    Achievement of Project Objectives.  The achievement of the stated objectives, when
evaluated against the implementation experience of the components financed under the operation was
mixed. Physical aspects of the sector, including rehabilitation and maintenance, connection of
consumers to the power grid were ffilly implemented and all of the transport equipment was procured.
However, because of delays in start-up of the rehabilitation and maintenance components, their
contribution to improving the supply of electricity and petroleum products was not as rapid as



-iii-
envisaged. Likewise, a third of the vehicles procured by EDM have already been scrapped and
scavenged for parts.
5.    Operational Support, covering the services of 18 expatriate specialists was provided to both
EDM and PETROMOC. Although their appointment was delayed by about two years, the assistance
of the specialists enabled the two beneficiaries to implement the maintenance and rehabilitation
component and keep the power and petroleum product distribution facilities operational. The
expectation that such support would enable the staff of the two beneficiaries to acquire training in
selected aspects of utility operations, however, was not fully met. This was primarily because the
counterpart staff assigned to work with the specialist were either inadequately trained or fully qualified
but overstretched.
6.    Institutional Development component was partially implemented. Accounting, planning and
budgeting systems were installed at EDM, ENH and PETROMOC and training was provided, though
to a smaller number of their staff than planned. A manpower development program for EDM was
implemented, but mainly under financing from NORAD and to a lesser extent from SIDA. As for the
other institutional developments components, including management information systems for EDM
and PETROMOC and a manpower development program for PETROMOC, these were not
implemented. Also not completed was work on stock inventory and asset management.
7.    Planning and Policy Formulation component also was partially implemented. Studies on
petroleum product supply and distribution were carried and based on their results a development
program for PETROMOC was formulated. A development program was also prepared by EDM, but
only a few months before the revised closing date of the Credit. Hence, its contribution to the Project
was minimal. All of the studies, except the one on potential for fuel wood plantations, were completed.
A draft national urban household energy strategy paper was prepared and discussed in November
1992, but it has yet to be finalized.
8.    Factors Affecting Achievement of Objectives. Start-up of the Project was delayed by about
two years due to: (i) the difficulties experienced by EDM and PETROMOC in complying with a
condition of disbursement for goods; and (ii) the shortage of appropriate accommodations for the long
term expatriate specialists for operational support. The appointment of the long-term specialist had to
await the completion of the Lithuli building for which financing was made available under the Credit.
In addition to the delay in start-up, implementation was also affected by the broad-based agenda of the
Project as well as by the size and structure of the technical assistance provided. Whereas, the former
contributed to diluting the effectiveness of the country's scare qualified staff by spreading them thinly
over a multitude of task, the later added to the complexity of the operation and reduced accountability
along with the effectiveness of support.
9.    Part of the delay in complying with the condition of disbursement for goods is attributable to
GoM taking a longer time than expected for resolving the issue of patrimony of EDM's and
PETROMOC's assets. Other factors under the purview of the GoM that affected implementation
include delays in: (i) clearing inter-enterprise arrears and in adjusting the prices of electricity and



-iv-
petroleum products, which continued to have an adverse impact on the cash flow of EDM and
PETROMOC; (ii) introducing a compensation scheme; and (iii) streamlining procedures for the
approval of contracts and appointment of consultants. Achievement of the objectives also was affected
by a protracted delay in the submission of Audit reports by EDM, which resulted in disbursements
being suspended and further delayed the implementation of the Project.
10.   IDA's Performance in preparing and supervising the Project was satisfactory, though there are
a number of areas where it could have been better. Firstly, instead of setting targets on a profonna
basis, IDA could have adopted an incremental approach to financial performance requirements for
EDM and PETROMOC, especially as it was not possible to identify a priori the specific measures that
would be required to achieve these, given the paucity of data.  Secondly, in administering
conditionality, greater differentiation could have been made by IDA between procedural and
substantive conditionalities like submission of Audit reports and achievement of financial performance
targets. Thirdly, given the complexity of the operations, more attention could have been accorded to
ensuring that supervision missions were adequately staffed vis-a-vis the requirements of the operation
and that there was continuity in its management.
11.   Borrowers Performance was fully satisfactory until effectiveness. Thereafter, delays were
experienced in implementing actions required to comply with covenants and to address issues needed
to keep the operation on track. Notwithstanding these delays, the overall record of compliance was
satisfactory. Of the fifteen covenants, six were complied with fully, four partially and two after
substantial delays. Two others, covering the financial performance of EDM, were not met and the
status one could not be assessed during the life of the Project.
12.   Project Outcome was generally satisfactory. The objective of improving the supply of
electricity and petroleum products in the key urban areas was achieved, albeit with substantial delays.
The objective of institutional development and planning and policy formulation also was achieved, but
only moderately so when compared to the stated objectives, which clearly were ambitious.
13.   The ex-post intemal economic rate of return (IERR) for the Project cannot be estimated
on the same basis as the ex-ante IERR, because the measurable increases in electricity
consumption attributable to it cannot be isolated readily from those stemming from additional
investments in and technical support to the sector financed by SIDA and NORAD as well as IDA
(Credit 2033-MOZ) over the life of the Project. Nevertheless, the substantial delay in the
implementation of the Project and disruptions caused by sabotage attest to the fact that the ex-
post IERR would have been the lower than the ex-ante IERR of 27%.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Project Sustainability. The achievements of the Project in the petroleum sub-sector are
unquestionably sustainable, especially when viewed in the context of the reforms implemented in the
area of petroleum product prices and those envisaged with respect to the structure of the sub-sector



and ownership of PETROMOC. ENH also is expected to enter into a joint-venture with a private
sector company as a non-operating minority shareholder for the development of the Pande gas field,
whose development is being supported under the Gas Engineering Project.
14.   In the power sub-sector the improvements brought about in the supply of electricity by EDM
are clearly sustainable, but the financial viability of the utility remains problematic, despite recent
increases in tariffs. In order to address this, GoM needs to formulate and implement a comprehensive
program for restructuring the utility.
15.   Future Operations. No formal arrangements were made for following-up on the Project, as it
was considered to be an emergency type operation. However, the future operations of EDM and
PETROMOC will be monitored under the Urban Household Energy Project and of ENH under the
Gas Engineering Project.
Key Lessons Learned
16.   The main lessons learned are:
(a)   An emergency-type operation, such as this, can generate a good deal of "value-added",
provided that its agenda is modest and well focused;
(b)   Technical assistance is critical, but it should be tailored to the absorptive capacity of the
country; this is especially so for long-term assistance as it is normally aimed at capacity
building,
(c)    There are limits to what can be achieved through conditionality even when it is "right";
consequently, a condition should be introduced only when it can be monitored and fully
enforced; and
(d)   The frequency with which an operation is supervised is important, but equally
important is the composition of the team supervising it.



PART 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
1.    Statement of Objectives. The primary objective of the Project, as stated in the Staff
Appraisal Report, was to bring about rapidly a sustained improvement in the supply and distribution of
electricity and petroleum products in the main urban areas, especially Maputo, Beira, Nampula and
Nacala, the country's main trading and processing centers. As this was to be achieved through the
rehabilitation of facilities and strengthening of relevant institutions, it was conceived as an emergency-
type operation.
2.    A secondary objective of the Project was to support economic recovery beyond the short-term
by assisting energy agencies to prepare plans for the sound development of the power, petroleum, and
household energy/woodfuels subsectors.  These were to include cohesive programs for both
rehabilitating and expanding supply systems, while limiting premature or non-economic efforts on large
projects under consideration by Governent.
3.    Evaluation of Objectives.  The operation had its genesis in the Economic Action Program
(EAP), adopted by the Govemrnment of Mozambique (GoM) in 1984, when the economy was on the
verge of collapse and recovery was elusive. As a part of the EAP strategy, GoM applied to become,
and was accepted in 1985 as, a member of the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World
Bank. In support of EAP, the First Rehabilitation Credit (Credit 1610-MOZ) was approved in June
1985, by the International Development Association (IDA) to finance part of GoM's 1985/1986
program of imports of equipment, spare parts and raw materials, as well as related technical assistance
for industry, transport and agriculture.
4.    The Project was IDA's second operation in Mozambique. It was prepared on the basis of a
study on the Issues and Options in the Energy Sector in Mozambique, which was carried out under the
auspices of the joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program. The objectives of the Project
reflect the priorities identified by that study and were fully consistent with IDA's country assistance
strategy, which was to support Mozambique's key productive and infrastructural sectors through
rehabilitation of facilities and technical assistance.
5.    Though critical for the economy and the sector, the operation was corhplex in terms of
both scope and design, especially for a country in the circumstances of Mozambique. In terms of
scope, the Project involved multiple institutions including Electricidade de Mozambique (EDM),
Empressa Nacional Petroleos de Mozambique (PETROMOC), Empressa de Hidrocarbonetos
(ENH) and the Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE)3; and it covered almost all of the
subsectors of energy and was aimed at addressing the short-term and the medium-to-long-term
needs of the sector.
3 It is now the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources.



-2-
6.    As for the design of the Project, it was more akin to that of a traditional investment operation
than an emergency-type operation, particularly with respect to the structure of conditionality. In this
regard, the Project was better suited for a country where IDA had had extensive involvement with the
sector.
7.    The complexity of the operation was recognized by IDA during project preparation, as was the
demand that it would place on the skeletal trained staff at M4E and the operating entities, as they had
had little experience not only with IDA's guidelines and procedures, but also in managing an operation
the size of the Project. It was partly for this reason that substantial technical assistance was provided
under a Project Preparation Facility (PPF) and the operation. The size of the technical assistance itself
and the need for coordinating it, however, added to the complexity of the operation and, to an extent,
affected the overall outcome of the Project.
8.    The scope of the Project, despite its complexity, was formally modified once during
implementation to provide financing for the completion of an apartment building, as the shortage of
appropriate housing had become a key constraint to mobilizing expatriate consultants for operational
support. In addition, funds were reallocated among categories to take into account the requirements of
the entities as the Project progressed.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
9.    In support of the Project's objectives, financing was provided under the Credit for components
covering: (i) physical aspects of the sector; (ii) operational support; (iii) institutional development; and
(iv) planning and policy formulation. The achievement of the Project's objectives, when evaluated
against the implementation experience of these components, can be characterized as mixed, reflecting
that some components were fully implemented, others partially, and still some others not at all, as is
discussed below.
10.   Physical Aspects of the Sector covered under the operation included: (i) the maintenance and
rehabilitation of the power generation, transmission and distribution facilities and of the petroleum
product distribution system; (ii) connection of 4,150 households to the power grid; and (iii)
transportation equipment for EDM and PETROMOC.
11.   The maintenance and rehabilitation component, including the connection of households to the
national grid, was fully implemented by both EDM and PETROMOC. However, because of a delay of
over two years in start-up (paras 23 and 24) and disruptions caused by ongoing sabotage of
transmission lines, its contribution to improving the supply of electricity and petroleum products was
not as rapid as was originally envisaged.
12.   Likewise, all of the transportation equipment was procured by both beneficiaries.  This
included 31 tankers and trucks and 38 small vehicles, including combies, for PETROMOC and 8



- 3 -
trucks, 90 pick-ups, 6 minibuses, 3 tractors, 6 motorbikes and 43 mopeds for EDM. The bulk of the
transportation equipment purchased by PETROMOC is still in operation, whereas about a third of the
vehicles purchased by EDM have been scrapped, largely because they were subject to frequent
breakdowns, resulting from a combination of poor road conditions, inadequate maintenance and
shortages of spare parts. Most of the vehicles scrapped were scavenged for parts.
13.   Operational Support comprised the provision of services of fourteen expatriate specialists to
assist EDM and PETROMOC for a period of about three years in managing engineering and
maintenance of transport fleets, aviation fueling facilities, petroleum product movement and power
supply facilities. It was the expectation that such support would enable the staff of the two beneficiaries
to acquire training in selected aspects of utility operations.
14.   A total of eighteen expatriate specialists, four more than originally planned, were appointed,
though not all on a long-term basis. Of these, twelve were appointed by EDM in the areas of power
plant and distribution network operations and transport fleet management and six by PETROMOC.
Their appointment, however, was delayed by two years for reasons mentioned below. This delay, in a
sense, was fortuitous as their appointment generally coincided with the delivery of goods for the
physical aspects of the sector. The expatriate specialists, as a result, were able to provide EDM and
PETROMOC the assistance needed in implementing the maintenance and rehabilitation component and
keeping the facilities operational.
15.   Financing also was provided for expatriate support to EDM in the area of transmission
network operations. As the support envisaged under the Project was being provided to the utility
under financing from the Swedish Intemational Development Agency (SIDA), funds, earmarked under
the Credit for this component were reallocated. The support provided to EDM in the area of
distribution network operations also was realigned to complement the work being carried by SIDA
financed consultants.
16.   The expectation that support of expatriate specialists would enable the two beneficiaries to
train some of their staff, however, was not fully met. This was primarily because the counterpart staff
assigned to work with the specialist were either inadequately trained or fully qualified but
overstretched.
17.   Institutional Development covered technical assistance for the design and1 implementation of
financial and accounting systems, management information systems, stock control and asset
management, as well as for manpower development.
18.   The financial, accounting, planning and budgeting systems have been implemented and financial
statements have been produced on an annual basis by EDM, ENH and PETROMOC, albeit with
substantial delays especially by EDM. However, after eight years of support, financial management
remains weak and Audits, conducted in accordance with international standards on auditing, continue
to identify shortcomings in procedures, controls and practices.  Training was provided by the
consultants, but because of the shortage of qualified staff the number trained were fewer than planned.



- 4 -
19.   As for the management information systems for EDM and PETROMOC, these were not
implemented as priority was accorded to making the accounting, planning and budgeting systems
operational. Also not implemented was the manpower development program for PETROMOC,
because its allocation for the institutional development component had been fully utilized by the work
on accounting, planning and budgeting as well as by the support needed for the annual Audit of
accounts. In contrast, the manpower development program for EDM was implemented but under
financing mainly from NORAD and to a lesser extent from SIDA.
20.   Planning and Policy Formulation involved the preparation of least-cost development plans
for EDM and PETROMOC, and of a national urban household energy policy and implementation
program. To provide the inputs needed for the preparation of the latter, provision was made under the
operation for (i) a study of charcoal production technology; (ii) an aerophotographic forest inventory
of Southem Mozambique; (iii) a study of fuelwood supply options; and (iv) a study of potential for
fuelwood plantations.
21.   Studies on petroleum product supply and distribution were carried out under the operation and
based on their results a development program for PETROMOC was formulated. The program formed
the basis for realigning PETROMOC expenditures on rehabilitation of the existing system. A
development program was also prepared by EDM, but only a few months before the revised closing
date. However, neither were the investment ranked in order of economic merit nor were their
financing requirements and sources of financing identified.  Moreover, as the impact of the
development program on the financial viability was also not assessed, its contribution to the Project
was minimal.
22.   All of the studies, except the one on potential for fuelwood plantations, were completed. A
draft national urban household energy strategy paper was prepared and discussed in November 1992.
In addition recommending the use of coal and electricity as the least cost means for meeting the
demand for energy, the draft strategy highlighted the importance of setting the prices of energy
products, at a minimum, at parity with the economic cost of supply for promoting allocative and
operational efficiency. It also emphasized the need for addressing the market distortions, as these were
increasingly becoming a constraint to Mozambican appliance manufacturers. The draft strategy,
however, has yet to be finalized.
C.  IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
23.   Although the Credit was made effective only about a month later than was originally envisaged,
on November 30, 1987, instead of October 24, 1987, implementation took longer than planned due to
a number of factors. As was noted above, start-up of Project was delayed by about two years. The
initial delay of about a year was due to the difficulties experienced by EDM and PETROMOC in
complying with a condition of disbursement for goods. Under its provisions, both entities were
required to prepare and submit to the Association financial statements for the years 1984 to 1987 and



forecast statements for 1988. Financing for advance procurement of technical assistance for the
preparation of these statements was provided under a Project Preparation Facility. But, because the
accounts of EDM and PETROMOC were in an extremely poor state and the issue of the patrimony of
their assets took longer to resolve than expected, the consultants were unable to complete these until
September 1988 for PETROMOC and until November of that year for EDM.
24.   The subsequent delay was due to the shortage of appropriate accommodations for the long
term expatriate specialists for operational support. This was to be provided by EDM and PETROMOC
and financing was made available under the operation for renovating and furnishing houses for the
specialists. However, as accommodation that could be upgraded within the budgeted amount of
US$10,000/unit could not be found, GoM in 1989, requested IDA finance the completion of the
Luthuli building. IDA acceded to the request, but two years had lapsed before the work was
completed and the specialists were appointed.
25.   Another factor affecting the implementation of the Project was the disruptions caused by
ongoing sabotage of power transmission lines. It added to the debt burden of EDM, without the utility
being able to realize the revenues from the investments made.
26.   Yet another factor that had an impact on implementation was the ambitious agenda of the
Project. It covered a multiplicity of tasks aimed at addressing the short-term as well as the medium-to-
long-term needs of the sector, ranging from rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing infrastructure
to planning and policy formulation. This broad-based agenda diluted the effectiveness of the country's
scarce technically qualified staff in dealing with substantive issues as they were spread too thinly over a
multitude of tasks. GoM, as a result, was unable to involve itself fully as a real working partner on
critical issues to generate the commitment and ownership that is essential for both an intensive dialogue
and a successful outcome. In this regard, had the Project's agenda been less ambitious and more
focused, it would have allowed for the better deployment of scarce resources and generated a good
deal of value added.
27.   Still another factor was the size and structure of technical assistance provided for operational
support, institutional development and planning and policy formulation. In terms of size, the technical
assistance envisaged under the Project was large, amounting to over 1,200 man-months of expatriate
support and absorbing over one-half of the Credit. By virtue of its size and the need for coordinating
it, the technical assistance, instead of assisting GoM and the operating entities, as was originally
envisaged, added to the complexity of the operation and placed additional demands on the scarce
qualified staff which, as was noted diluted their effectiveness in dealing with substantive issues.
Moreover, despite its size and the circumstances of Mozambique, the technical assistance was
structured along lines that were the norm when the Project was processed. In particular, as a clear
distinction was not made between advisory, line management and training functions, it was assumed
that these were interchangeable. Because of this ambiguity, overall accountability was reduced along
with the effectiveness of the technical assistance, especiaDy with respect to transfer of skills.



- 6-
28.   In addition to the above, there are a number of other factors on which a timely actions by GoM
and/or the beneficiaries would have contributed to improving Project implementation. In particular,
factors under the purview of the GoM include:
(a)    decision on patrimony of EDMfs and PETROMOC's assets which, in part, contributed
to the overall delay in the preparation of the financial statements for these entities and,
in turn, their complying with the condition of disbursement for goods;
(b)   adoption of and adherence to a dated and monitorable program for clearing inter-
enterprise arrears and for adjusting the prices of electricity and petroleum products, as
these continued to have an adverse impact on the cash flow situation of both EDM and
PETROMOC;
(c)   introduction of a compensation scheme earlier in the project cycle would have allowed
the beneficiaries to recruit and retain qualified staff and, in tum, enhance the prospects
of technology transfer; and
(d)   streamlining the process of approval of contracts and consultants by the Ministry of
Finance and the Bank of Mozambique.
29.   As for the beneficiaries, EDM, in particular, could have taken the actions needed to comply
with the Audit requirements. Because of protracted delays in meeting this requirement, disbursements
were suspended by the IDA, which added to the delays in implementation. Timely preparation of the
investment program by EDM, could also have enhanced the prospects of agreement being reached on
measures required to achieve financial targets set under the operation.
D.   PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
30.   The achievements of the Project in the petroleum sub-sector are unquestionably sustainable,
especially when viewed in the context of policy reforms that have been implemented or are envisaged.
In particular, with the view to providing better incentives, the prices of petroleum products have been
partially liberalized and are now adjusted to reflect movements in international prices, based on an
agreed formula. On the institutional side, a decision has been made by GoM to privatize
PETROMOC's retail activities and to increase competition. Likewise, ENH is expected to enter into a
joint-venture with a private sector company as a non-operating minority shareholder for the
development of the Pande gas field, whose development is being supported under the Gas Engineering
Project (Credit 2629-MOZ).
31.   In the power sub-sector the improvements brought about in the supply of electricity by EDM
are clearly sustainable, but the financial viability of the utility remains problematic, despite recent
increases in tariffs. However, it is unclear whether the financial difficulties of EDM are due to the level
of tariff being low relative to its financial requirements, or to inefficiencies in its operations, or both.



- 7-
GoM needs to formulate and implement a comprehensive program for restructuning the utility,
comprising measures to improve the operational and financial performance of EDM, measures for
setting tariffs and arrangements whereby GoM's role as an owner-operator can be separated from its
public role of regulator.
E.   IDA'S PERFORMANCE
32.   Overall, IDA's performance in preparing and supervising the Project was satisfactory,
accommodating the reality of the operation as it evolved. However, there are a number of areas where
its performance could have been better. The first relates to the nature of conditionality. For instance,
during project preparation IDA was aware of the fact that, because of the paucity of data, it was not be
possible to analyze fully EDMs and PETROMOC's past financial performance, the adequacy of
present prices or to assess their future financial prospects until financial statements were prepared.
Despite this, covenants were introduced which required both EDM and PETROMOC to fund at least
20% of their investment programs from net income after debt servicing in FY89, and 30% from FY90
and to not incur debt which would reduce the ratio of net revenues to debt service requirements below
1.5 times. Instead of setting targets on a pro forma basis, as was the case in this instance, IDA should
have adopted an incremental approach to financial performrance requirements, especially as it was not
possible to identify a priori the measures required to achieve these.
33.   The second covers the approach to administering conditionality. EDM and PETROMOC were
both required, as a condition of disbursement for goods, to prepare and submit to IDA their actual and
forecast financial statements. Disbursements were withheld until this condition was met, despite a delay
in the preparation of these statements which was beyond the control of both the Government and the
beneficiaries. Also, when GoM was unable to comply with the dated covenant relating the issue of
patrimony of EDM's and PETROMOC's assets, the date was formally revised. Likewise, disbursements
were suspended for EDM when it failed to comply with the audit covenant. But when EDM was not
in compliance with the conditionalities on self-financing and debt service coverage, neither was it
enforced nor was it formally waived. In effect no differentiation was made between procedural and
substantive covenants. In so doing, IDA may have undermined the very reason for covenanting
financial perforrmance targets, that of introducing financial discipline.
34.   A third area where the IDA's performance could have been better was with respect to the
composition of the supervision missions. Over the life of the Project, eighteen supervision missions
were fielded by the Association. But, surprisingly, only two of these included a power engineer, even
though over one half of the Credit was allocated to EDM for improving the supply of electricity.
Clearly, more attention could have been accorded to ensuring that supervision missions were
adequately staffed
35.   Last, but not least, is the change in staff managing the operation. During the seven-year
implementation period, the task managers were changed three times, with each having to resume the
dialogue at a different stage of implementation stage. This resulted in lack of continuity.



- 8 -
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   Until effectiveness of the Credit, GoM's performance was fully satisfactory. A dynamic
individual to coordinate the operation was appointed at the Ministry of Energy and Industry. It was in
part due to his efforts that the Credit was made effective with minimal delay, despite the fact that it was
the IDA's second operation in Mozambique.
37.   After effectiveness, however, the Government was unable to sustain the momentum. Delays
were experienced in implementing actions required to comply with covenants to address issues needed
to keep the operation on track, including those relating to patrimony of EDM's and PETROMOC's
assets, and to the financial performance of EDM . Despite this, the overall record of compliance was
satisfactory. Of the fifteen covenants, six were complied with fully, four partially and two with
substantial delays. Two others, covering EDM's financial performance were not met and the status of
one could not be assessed during the life of the Project.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
38.   The overall outcome of the Project was generally satisfactory. It achieved its objective of
improving the supply of electricity and petroleum products in the key urban areas, albeit with
substantial delays. The objective of institutional strengthening and planning and policy
formulation also was achieved, but only moderately so when compared to the stated objectives.
These, as was noted earlier, were clearly ambitious for an emergency-type operation and for the
circumstances of Mozambique.
39.   The ex-post internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the Project cannot be estimated
on the same basis as the ex-ante IERR, because the measurable increases in electricity
consumption attributable to it cannot be isolated readily from those stemming from additional
investments in and technical support to the sector financed by SIDA and NORAD as well as IDA
(Credit 2033-MOZ) over the life of the Project. Nevertheless, the substantial delay in the
implementation of the Project and disruptions caused by sabotage attest to the fact that the ex-
post IERR would have been the lower than the ex-ante IERR of 27%.
I    FUTURE OPERATIONS
40.   No formal arrangements were made for following-up on the Project, as it was considered to be
an emergency type operation. However, the future operations of EDM and PETROMOC will be
monitored under the Urban Household Energy Project and of ENH under the Gas Engineering Project.



-9 -
J.  KEY LESSONS LEARNED
41.   The achievement of the Project's objectives was characterized above as mixed, when evaluated
against the implementation performance of the components financed under the Credit. This mixed
achievement is attributable to a combination of factors including the agenda of the Project, the size and
structure of technical assistance, adequacy of conditionality and quality of supervision. Experience
with these aspects of the Project constitute the key lessons learned. These are:
(a)    Had the agenda of the Project been less ambitious, it would have allowed GoM to
better deploy the country's scarce technically qualified staff and generate the
commitment and ownership that is essential for both and intensive dialogue and
successful outcome. In sum, an emergency-type operation, such as this, can generate a
good deal of "value-added", provided that its agenda is modest and well focused;
(b)    The size of the technical assistance provided under the Project was large and the need
for coordinating it added to the complexity of the operation. Moreover, as clear
distinction was not made between advisory, line management and training functions
overall accountability was reduced along with the effectiveness of the technical
assistance. This experience highlights the fact that technical assistance is critical, but it
should be tailored to the absorptive capacity of the country and should be structured to
enhance accountability and effectiveness. This is especially so for long-term assistance,
which is normally aimed at capacity building;
(c)    There are limits to what can be achieved through conditionality even when it is "right";
consequently, a conditionality should be introduced only when it can be monitored and
fully enforced, unlike the financial performance targets covenanted for EDM under the
Project. Specifically, establishing targets on a pro-forma basis is likely to undermine
the very reasons for which they are set, such as introducing financial discipline as was
the case with EDM; and
(d)   Frequency with which an operation is supervised is important, but equally important is
the composition of the team supervising it. The significance of this is underscore by the
fact that, although the power subsector was the single largest recipient of the funds
under the Project and was also the one where the financial, institution and technical
problems were the most acute, only two out of eighteen supervision missions over the
life of the operation included a power engineer. In retrospect, one cannot but assumed
that the quality of the dialogue and the overall outcome in the power subsector was
unaffected by the composition of missions.



-10-
PART 2: STATISTICAL ANNEXES
Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives      Substantial        Partial         Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies            O                O                O                X
Sector Policies                  EO                X                O                O
Financial Objectives              O                O                EO               X
Institutional Development         O                X                EO               O
Physical Objectives               X                O                O                O
Poverty Reduction                 O                E                O                X
Gender Concerns                   O                E                El               X
Other Social Objectives           O                El               El               X
Environnental Objectives          E                E                El               X
Public Sector Management          E                E                El               X
Private Sector Development        E                E                El               X
Other (specify)                   E                E                E                El
B. Project Sustainability           Likely                  Unlikely                  Uncertain
C   Bank Performance             Satiufary                 Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                    E                        X                         El
Preparation Assistance            E                        X                         El
Appraisal                         E                        X                         El
Supervision                       E                        X                         El
Highly
D. Borrower Performance          Sad7ficory                Satisfactory               Deficient
Preparation                       E                        X                         E
Implementation                    E                        X                         E
Covenant Compliance               E                        X                         E
Operation                         El                       X                         El
E. Assessment of Outcome         Satisractoy       Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory    Unsati&fatory
El               X                El               El



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title                    Purpose                Year of            Status
Approval
Preceding Operations
NONE
Following Operations
Household Energy Project       improve the availability of   June 8, 1989       Ongoing
Credit 2033-MOZ                fuel and appliances and there
by reduce the impact of
adjustment on middle and low
income urban population.
Gas Engineering Project        assist Government in          June 16, 1994      Ongoing
Credit 2629-MOZ                encouraging private sector
involvement in development of
the Pande Gas Field.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle           Date Planned           Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification/Preparation           NA                    April-May 1985
Pre-appraisal                        NA                    NA
Appraisal                            NA                    July 1986
Negotiations                         January 1987          April 13-17, 1987
Board Presentation                   February 1987         May 26, 1987
Signing                                                    June 24, 1987
Effectiveness                        October 24, 1987      November 30, 1987
Project Completion                   June 30, 1992
Credit Closing                       December 31, 1992     December 31, 1994



-12-
Table 4: Credit Disbursements - Cumulative and Actual
(SDR Million)
FY88    FY89    FY90    FY91    FY92    FY93    FY94    FY95
Appraisal Estimate  2.42   7.80     12.40    14.82    15.40    15.60    --        -
Actual            1.91     1.91     2.40     4.77     8.59      12.36    13.63    14.53
Actual as % of    79.0     24.5     19.3     32.2     55.7     79.2     87.4      93.1
Estimate
Date of Final                                  May 10, 1995
Disbursement
Cancellation: SDR 1.26 million canceled
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
For monitoring the implementation of the Project, target dates were specified for issuing the
bidding documents, awarding the contract and for completing the work on each component financed
under the Credit. These targets could not be maintained because of delays in complying with the
condition of disbursement and in mobilizing expatriate specialist due to the shortage of suitable
accommodations.
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
The Project was conceived as an emergency-type operations and, hence, indicators of
performance were not specified.



-13 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study                Purpose                 Status                  Impact
Petroleum Supply   Determine under what      Completed            Decision made to not restart
conditions refinery                           the refinery
operations could again be
economically viable.
Petroleum Product    Develop the optimal plan for  Completed      Investment program was
Distribution       the rationalization of                         prepared and expenditures
petroleum products to all                     under Credit realigned
parts of the country.
Power System       Establish clear operational   Not Implemented
rules and procedures for the
economic utilization of
different power sources for
meeting demand in the three
main grid systems of EDM
at least economic cost to
Mozambique.
Power Distribution    Enable EDM to establish  Completed          Investment program
general standards and                         formulated but has yet to be
procedures for its                            implemented systematically
distribution systems, and to
assess, evaluate, and review
all existing distribution
practices in EDM.
Household Energy    Prepare a national urban  First draft completed    No Impact
household energy policy and  but yet to be finalized
implementation plan
Fuelwood Supply    To identify the alternative    Completed       Provided inputs for urban
Options            sources of fuelwood supply                     household energy policy.
Aerophotographic    Establish a data base    Completed            No impact
forest inventory of
Southern
Mozambique
Charcoal Production   Assess the economic    Not implemented
Technology         viability of using alternative
technologies for charcoal
production
Potential for      Identify approaches to    Completed            No impact
fuelwood plantations  promoting fuelwood
plantations



- 14 -
Table 8A: Project Costs
Item                  Appraisal Estimate (SDR M)      Latest Estimate (SDR M)
Foreign  1 Local    Total    Foreign   [Local    Total
Costs     Costs               Costsc    j Costs
1. Power System Maintenance &         3.70      1.30      5.00      2.01    NA
Rehabilitation
2. Transport Equipment for EDM        1.30      0.08      1.38      1.07   NA
3. Petroleum System Maintenance &     1.85      0.50      2.30      2.20   NA
Rehabilitation                                                                  _
4. Transport Equipment for            2.30      0.10      2.40      0.43   NA
PETROMOC
5. Technical Assistance               7.9 0     1.70      9.60      7.30   NA
6. Lithuli Building                                                 0.69
8. Project Preparation Facility       0.85     --         0.85      0.85
Total Base Cost                      17.90      3.80     21.70     --
Contingencies                     1.60      0.40      2.00                =
Total Project Cost                   19.50      4.20     23.70
Interest During Implementation       --         1.10      1.10
Total Financing Required             19.50a     5.30     24.80     14.50b   NA       NA
a      Includes SDR 3.9 million provided by NORAD under parallel financing.
b.     Excludes funds provided by NORAD and $DR 1.07 million of the Credit that was canceled.
c.     Details relating to the utilization of NORAD funds not available.



- 15 -
Table BB: Project Financing I
Source              Appraisal Estimate (SDR M)     Latest Estimate (SDR M)
Foreign   Local    Total    Foreign    Local     Total
Costs    Costs              Costs     Costs
IDA                       15.60              15.60     14.50                14.50
NORAD                      3.90               3.90      3.90                 3.90
EDM                                 2.90      2.90               NA
PETROMOC                            2.10      2.10               NA
Government of Mozambique            0.30      0.28               NA
Total           19.50     5.30     24.80     18.40
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
The ex-ante internal economic rate of return (IERR) for the Project was estimated at
about 27%. It was based on quantifiable increases in electricity consumption stemming from
improvements in both power and petroleum product supply and distribution capability brought
about by investments and technical assistance financed under the Project.
The ex-post IERR for the Project cannot be estimated on the same basis, as the
measurable increases in electricity consumption attributable to it cannot be isolated readily from
those stemming from additional investments in the sector. Over the seven year life of the Project,
financing for such additional investments in and technical support to the sector was made available
not only by SIDA and NORAD but also by IDA itself under the Urban Household Energy Project
(Credit 2033-MOZ).
The substantial delay in the implementation of the Project and disruptions caused by
sabotage, nevertheless, attest to the fact that the ex-post IERR would have been the lower than
the ex-ante EERR.



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
MOZAMBIQUE
Energy Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project
Present        Orieinal          Revised
Covenant         st          Fulffllment       Fulfilment
Agreement          Secon             Type                           Date             Date                     Descriptin of Covenant                               Comments
Credit                   4.01            l              C                                            The Borrower to subt it to the Association audited
project accounts and statements of expeniditures within
six months after the end of each FY.
Credit                   4.03            5              C                                            The Borrower and the Association to carry out a semi-
annual review of electricity tariffs and petroleum
___________   _________                 __________                          ~~~~ ~~ ~~~~product pncea.
Credit                    4.04           2              CP           12/31/87                        TbeBorrowerto establish, not laterthan December31,   Valuation still inprogress in 1994.
1987, the patrimony of EDM's and PETROMOC's
assets.
Credit                   4.05            5             CP            12/31/87                        The Borrower to establish, not laterthan December 31,  PETROMOC confimied its plan in October
1987, compensation packages for EDM's and         1991. The Association was still concerned
PETROMOC's staff.                                 with EDM's progress in this area in July 1992.  -
Credit                   4.06            2                                                           The Borrower not to undertake investment in excess of   EDM finally submitted its Investment
USS3 rnillion equivalent which is not included in the  Program for 1991-1996.
agreed Energy Sector Priority Investment Program to
1991.
Projec                   2.06            5             CP                                            PETROMOC to submit to the Association the findings   Management Information System and
of the studies on the institutional development of  Institutional Study were not implemented
PETROMOC, and implement in accordance with
agreed time table new systems for managemnent,
accounting and planning, organization and manpower
______ ______ __   ___ ______ __   ___ ______ __   ___ ______ ____   _ ______ _____ develop mient
Project                  2.08            5              C                                            PETROMOC to keep a register of vehicles financed
under the Project indicating locations of these vehicles.
Project                  4.01            1             CD                                            PETROMOC to submnit its audited accounts within six   Substantially in compliance. IDA has
months of the end of its FY.                      accepted audited project accounts for years
ending 1992 as substitute for AFS audit
Projed                   4.02            2                                                           PETROMOC to generate intenal resioues of not less
tha 20% of its capital expenditures in 1989 and not
less than 30% of annual expenditures for each of the
next three years.



Cowd   ~Preet    O0bm                        Reb
Covatntd        sen          FulfiUhnat        Fulfi111mesat
Agreemet            Secton           Type                           Dae              Dae                      Descrlption of Coveant                               Co
Prcjed                   4.03            2             C                                             PETROMOC not to miur any debt unles its net
revenues wre at leat 1.5 times the estinmat  maximum
debt service requirements.
Projed                   2.06            5             CP                                            EDM to submit to the Association the findings of the  Management Infomnation System not
studies on the intitutional development of EDM and  implemented
implement in accordance with greed tine table new
syslems for fnuncial managt aconing and
planning organization and management.
Projed                   2.08            5              C                                            EDM to keep a registsr of vehicles financed under the
_________                             _       _________                          Project indicating locations ofthese vehicles.
Projed                   4.01            1             CD                                            EDM to submit its audited acoounts within six months    Subdsantialy in compliance. IDA has
of the end of its FY.                             accopted audited project accounts for years
ending 1992 as subsiute for AFS audit
Project                  4.02            2             NC                                            EDM to genate intenal resources of not less than  Not in compliance. EDM is not expected to be
20% of its capital expenditures in 1989 and not less  in compliance until its capital restructuring
than 30% of annual expenditures for each ofthe next    scheduled for 1994.
three years.                                                                                   .
Projed                   4.03            2             NC                                            EDM not to incur any debt unless its net revenues are    Not in compliance. EDM is not expected to be
at least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service   in compliance until its financial restrucuring
____________                         requirements.                                     scheduled for 1994.
Covenant Types:
1   =         Accounts/audits                                                            8   =         Indigenous people
2   =         Financial performance/revenue generation from beneficiaries                9   =         Monitoring, review, and reporting
3   =         Flow and utilization of project funds                                      10  =         Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9
4   =         Counterpart funding                                                        11  =         Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation
5   =         Management aspects of the project or executing agency                      12  =         Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional action
6    =        Environmental covenants                                                    13  =         Other
7   =         Involuntary resettlement
Present Status:
C = covenant complied with
CD = complied with afler delay
CP = complied with partially
NC = not complied with



- 18 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
There were no significant deviations in compliance with the Bank's Operational Manual
Statements under the Project.
Table 12: Bank Resources - Staff Inputs
|  Stage of project cycle    Plarnned              Revised                Actual
Weeks      US$       Weeks      US$        Weeks    US$
Preparation to appraisal  N/A       N/A        N/A        N/A         23.9      N/A
Appraisal                N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A         24.7      N/A
Negotiations through Board  N/A     N/A        N/A        N/A           5.9      N/A
approval
Supervision              N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A         87.1      N/A
Completion               N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A           5.2     N/A
TOTAL                    N/A        N/A        N/A        N/A         146.6     N/A
N/A - Not Available



- 19-
Table 13: Bank Resources - Missions
Stage of              Month/year      Number  Days   Specialized   Performance rating    Types of
project cycle                         of        in      staff skills                       problems
persons  field   represented
Impleme   Develop
ntation    ment
status    impact
Through appraisal                              _
Appraisal through     Jul 1986        4         14      ECN
Board approval
Supervision           Sep 1987        2         7       ECN, FNA                No 590
Feb-Mar 1988   1          12     FNA           I          1
Aug 1988        1        4       FNA           1          I
Nov 1988        1        8       FNA           1          1
Apr 1989        1        7       FNA           I          1
Nov 1989       2          14     FNA, FNA   2             2
Apr-May 1990  2           10     EGR, FNA                 No 590
Oct-Nov 1990   3          10     EGR, ECN,  2             3         LC, FP
FNA
Feb-Mar 1991   1          12     FNA          2           3         LC, FP
Oct 1991       3         7       EGR, ECN,  2             3         FP
FNA
May 1992        1         15     ECN                      No 590
Aug 1992        1        7       FNA          2           3         FP
Oct-Nov 1992   2          12     ECN, FNA   2             2
Mar 1993       2                 FNA, FNA                 No 590
Jul 1993        1         17     FNA          2           2
Nov-Dec 1993   1          16     FNA           2          2
Mar-Apr 1994   1          12     FNA          2           2
Completion            May 1995        I         5       ECO
Key:
EGR      Power Engineer
FNA    : Financial Analyst
ECN    : Economist
OPN      Operations Officer






Appendix A
MOZAMBIQUE
Aide Memoire of the Misssion for the Implementation
Completion Report for Credit 1806-MOZ
A World Bank mission, comprising Mahesh Sharma,
visited Mozambique from May 8 to 12, 1995, to finalize the
Bank's Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Energy
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project (Credit
1806-MOZ). The mission takes this opportunity to thank the
Government of Mozambique, the officials at the Ministry of
the Energy and Mineral Resources and the management and
staff of EDM, ENH and PETROMOC for their cooperation and
assistance. A list of persons met is appended as Attachment
I.
Based on the information collected by the mission,
Part I of the ICR (Project Implementation Assesment) was
updated (Attachment II) and reviewed with the Project
Coordinator. The mission received the Government's comments
on the report (Attachment III), and was advised that these
are subject to the Government having the option of reviewing
the report in the event it is subsequently revised and there
are substantive changes in its conclusions.
The mission also received a copy of the
Government's draft ICR (Attachment IV) for the Credit
prepared by the Project Coordinator. It has been submitted
to the relevant Ministries for clearance. The Project
Coordinator confirmed that the Government's ICR would be
finalized and made available to the mission upon its return
to Maputo on June 1, 1995 for the planned 'brain-storming'
session on the energy sector.



Appendix A
List of Persons Met
Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources
*    Mr. Manuel Ruas
Project Coordinator
Department of Energy
Empressa Nacional Petroleos de Mocambique
*    Mr. Aires Viola
Technical Director
*    Ms. Teresa Moreira
Financial and Planning Director
Electricidade de Mocambique
*    Mr. Rui Lousa
Adviser
*    Mr. Manuel Machiana
Economist
*    Mr. Dhiresh Amichanda
Accountant
*    Mr. Stephan Regard
Financial Adviser
Empressa de Hidrocarbonetos
*    Mr. Mario Marques
General Director
*    Ms. Miquelina Menezes
Finance Director
SwedPower
*    Mr. Staffan Troedsson
Chief Adviser
*    Goran Rundqvist
Resident Chief Adviser



Appendix B
REPUBLICA DE MOAMBIQUE
MINISTERIO DOS RECURSOS MINERAIS E ENERGIA
DEPARTAMENTO DE ENERGIA
Tel.,Fax.:420963; 420245; Tlx: 6292
Internet: mruask(iedoe.uern.mz
Av. 25 de Setembro, 1218 - 3 Andar
P.O.BOX 138]-Maputo-Mogambique
Ref: 0142/01/MRME/DOE/95
Maputo, 10 de Maio de 1995
Mr Mahesh Sharma
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department
W'orld Bank
Dear Mr Sharma
Ref.: Credit 1806-MOZ Implementation Completion Report
We have reviewed the Bank's Implementation Completion Report for Credit 1806-
MOZ and believe that, in general, it reflets a fairly accurate assessment of the
implementation experience of the Energy Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project.
However we have a number observations which are also reflected in the Government's
ICR.
First, we believe that the Bank's ICR should have focussed less on the arithmetic of
the life cycle of the Project, given that a fundamental change in attitude was required for
reorienting the policies and operations of the sector.
Second, relates to the issues of compensation package. As you well know, despite
delays, only two staff left the sector throughout the life of the Project. As for attracting
new recruits here the problem was one of availability of qualified people not compensation
package alone.
Third the Government has yet not decided to privatize PETROMOC. However a
decision has been made to restructure the sector. We clearly need to see what the outcome
of the restruturing is, before any decision on change of ownership of PETROMOC can be
made.
Best Regards,
Manuel Ruas
Coordenador do Projecto



Appendix B
IDA Credit 1806
Implementation Completion Report
Indice
Introductory comments
Project background
Project Objectives
The Project implementation and its achievements
Policy-related objectives
Pricing policies
Investment-related issues
Physical objectives and project implementation
EDM categories
Petromoc categories
Technical Assistance components
ENEI
Project coordination and comments on IDA's performance
Project Sustainability
Appendixes:
Summary of Assessments
Covenants compliance
Project life-cycle
Compliance with Project Objectives
Project Costs
Project Financing
Energy-pricing progress
Maputo, May, 1995



Appendix B
Introductory comments
This report reflects the Government's views on the project achievements and its implementation. The report
privileges a qualitative evaluation and the policy contents of the project. As it may be concluded the report
tends to disqualify the time-factor as a principal criteria for evaluating performances - this position reflects our
understanding that, exception made to pricing which is of immediate nature, a reasonable degree of flexibility
should be used when addressing policy issues and related covenants; not only most of the policy decisions do
not exclusively depend on the companies' willingness and preparedness, but it should also be taken into
account that time-dominated concerns should not affect the process of preparing and maturing complex issues.
Therefore, throughout the report much more importance was attached to the life-cycle of the project rather
than to pure calendar arithmetic.
To the extent of its adequacy, the report has been structured (though under a liberal interpretation) in
accordance with IDA standard guidelines for ICRs. The coordinator deliberately refrain from detailing some
important aspects of the project, in particular the evaluation of the financial performance of energy-companies,
project accounting and analytical exercises related with the financial covenants, because, in our view, these
aspects should be subject to detailed and thorough discussions between IDA and the agencies during the
preparation of ICR. In the same perspective, it is suggested that, in case of necessity, IDA should check and
judge on the adequacy of project-related data and monitoring systems which should have been implemented
by the companies as determined by the project.
Finally, we would like to state that this report envisages to contribute to the preparation of ICR by instigating
a critical discussion of the project results, and marginally to influence the manner how projects are evaluated.



Appendix B
IDA Credit 1806/moz
a critical review of project implementation
Background
During the mid-80s, Mocambique was facing yet another critical phase of its post-independence development;
in brief, the difficulties caused by the spreading armed conflict (which by then was about to enter into an even
more devastating stage in terms of infrastructure destruction and civil casualties), were compounded by the
overall failure of a 10-year attempt of managing an highly centralised and bureaucratic economic model.
Recognising the dead-end path of its fundamental policy concepts, the Government managed to reunite and
develop enough empathy to produce a dramatic turn-around of prevailing policies, in particular at economic
and public administration levels.
In simplistic terms, it can be said that such economic changes led to the termination of a period exclusively
dominated by bilateral assistance and ultimately to the introduction of Mogambique into the multilateral
financial circus - affiliation to IMF and IDA materialised by then.
Although not totally suffocated by the acute shortage of foreign-currency' - as a matter of fact the energy
sector (in particular the power industry) have always benefited from a candid financial support for TA and
infrastructure development from a cohesive group of donors - Scandinavian countries, France and Italy i.a. -
the energy sector was then facing the consequences of its fragile and un-sustainable growth and some strategic
misconceptions. Further to the necessity of addressing its in-house fragility - (i) corporate strategy, (ii)
economic and financial weakness, (iii) lack of energy policy integration  and (iii) manpower shortage - the
recognised importance of the energy sector (at macro and micro level) elevated it to a role of prime candidate
for comprehensive policy negotiations.
And so, during 1986 the conventional project cycle was ignited (assessment, project formulation, appraisal,
credit negotiations, etc.). Benefiting from the vast experience and knowledge of IDA's experts in assessing
"The Issues and Options in the Energy Sector" a common and comprehensive approach was carried out
(fortunately embodied by a strong mutual emnpathy) leading to the first IDA-financed sector program "Energy
Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project" eventually financed under IDA Credit 1806.
The Project Objectives
The project design drew extensively on the findings of the assessment report (itself a result of what once have
been qualified as ad-nausea discussions) and it become a common and undisputed reference for short-medium
term sector planning. The project "Energy Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation" was designed in a
relatively short period and their objectives were postulated as follows:
as the main project objective to bring about quickly a sustained improvement in the supply and
distribution of electricity and petroleum products in the main urban areas, especially Maputo, Beira,
Nampula and Nacala ivhere most of the country's trade and processing activities are carried out
and
As a matter of fact it should be stated that EDM at least was 'comfortable" in attracting financing (grants
and/or highly concessional loans) for infrastructure development and commodity assistance. The situation at
Petromoc was somewhat different due to the competitive nature of its core-business, and probably due to
marked differences in managerial attitude vis-a-vis funding capture and investment clarity.



Appendix B
as the secondary project objective to support economic recovery beyond the short-term by helping
energy agencies prepare plans for the sound development of subsector (power, petroleum and household
energy fuels.
"Thus the project has been conceived as an emergency-type operation for rehabilitation offacilities and
strengthening of the relevant institutions."
Similar levels of funding have been allocated for hardware components (System maintenance and rehabilitation
- US$ 9.5 million) and Technical Assistance (system operations, new managerial systems and preparation of
subsector development - US$ 10.5 million).
The objectives sought by the hardware component were focused on the most immediate material needs for
bringing the maintenance and operational levels to a satisfactory level, and in general they were based on the
findings established during the project identification and appraisal. Complementary, the Terms of Reference
(ToR) for TA- project components generally envisaged the establishment of lasting foundations for improving
the financial and operational management of companies' systems and the preparation of subsector development
programs.
As a natural reflection of the magnitude of the problems affecting the sector as well as the eventual
implications of changes to be introduced, IDA and GoM conveyed on the opportunity of giving the project
adequate policy-emphasis. Therefore, these institutions specifically reached agreements and established
covenants which, in summnary, were focused on a simple but fundamental target: to give back to the energy
sector corporate managerial common-sense together with a sustained restoration of basic economics. Thus,
further to the emphasis on the need to strengthen in-house managerial capabilities, IDA, GoM and energy-
companies agreed on the use of pricing mechanisms and investment requisites as pivotal policy instruments
for reshaping the companies' financial health in the short-medium term. A number of agreements and
covenants were thus established and, throughout the implementation of the project they naturally become the
principal issues of project reviews (Table 10 enunciates their respective status of compliance in a detailed
manner). To a large extent, these accompanying policy-objectives constituted, at least in the view of the
project coordinator, the most important objectives of the project.
The coming sections of this report address some of the issues raised during the implementation of the project,
and the extent to which the project objectives were achieved.
The Project Implementation and Its Achievements
Annex _  lists the project components and summarises their respective degree of compliance.
Notwithstanding the specific demands of the "physical project" - e.g. the implementation of components listed
as project categories - it is the opinion of project coordination that, in retrospective, this aspect constituted the
soft element of the project 2, Worth to mention is the fact that, to a large extent such softness reflects the high
quality of assessment, preparation and appraisal of the project. In our opinion this was a leading factor for the
overall satisfactory implementation of the project.
This is particularly true if allowance is made to "discounting" some observed delays against original timing
targets - though the project cycle for most components had been implemented within satisfactory timeframe, it
should be born in mind that the original time planning was impregnated with too much of an emphasis on
calendar arithmetic (ToR refinement + tendering + evaluation + execution = x months) and not based on
any previous experience concerning some crucial, unforseeable but highly influent domestic variables - i.a. the
performance of BoM, MoF, MoC, etc. and occasionally the lengthy and very bureaucratic regime of
consultation mechanisms with IDA for reviewing some documentation.
2 which does not mean that soft departure and implementation necessarily lead to success.



Appendix B
Policy-related objectives
Prior to the evaluation of the physical-projea achievements a critical review of the more important policy-
requirements and objectives shall be undertaken. In this perspective, the project accommodated three distinct
levels of policy requirements:
(i) the first level was of a formal nature and related with the necessity of establishing inter-governmental
formal mechanisms and interfaces conducive to meeting extensive legal requirements: approval, ratification,
etc. of legal documents; formulation of subsidiary loan agreements, interfacing procedures with BoM, MoF
and MoC in respect of financial flows, etc. Being the first sector program promoted by IDA (and multilateral)
IDA Credit 1806 grubbed up and paved its way within a fairly satisfactory timing 3, and greatly facilitated
routines for other coming projects.
(ii) secondly, the project managers had to promote extensive negotiations with GoM in relation to the adoption
of critical changes envisaging to reshape the commanding and highly centralised relationships then ruling the
behaviour of GoM and energy companies (and the consumers by extension). The principal policy objective at
this level was to develop institutional changes and re-focusing towards a more rational and integrated energy-
policy formulation.
It should be noted that in the absence of any prevailing (and consistent) theory and/or praxis of public
administration and accountability systems supporting the government's new policy-orientation, there was a
need to conceptualise and then alter the manner how parastatals were used to deal with the Government; thus,
EDM and Petromoc were induced to seek and establish greater and steadier autonomy for managing their
businesses, including i.a. their own pre-eminence in selecting and deciding on infrastructure investments,
changing the nature of their relationships with state-owned companies and government institutions
(outstanding bills p.e.); ruling the liaison with central budget, banking and credit policies, remuneration and
staff internal policies, causing the Government to clarify its policy related with the asset structure and
patrimony of parastatals; allowing the initiation of staff and personal related policies aiming rationalisation and
consistent remuneration; progressively defining more consistent and adequate procedures in respect of tariffs
and pricing mechanisms. Additionally, the growing recognition of the importance of household energy
motivated new efforts towards the improvement of interfacing between MIE and MoA as to permit the
harmonisation of policies and ultimately to increase the support to this sector - a critical review of this sector
was promoted resulting on the creation of a dedicated policy-making division within MoA which have won a
strong support from central government, In another perspective, the development of these new managerial
attitudes included, in the case of Petromoc, reformulating the commanding manner how the parastatal dealt
with other oil operators - these changes required clarification and progressive separation of functions usually
concentrated on Petromoc in an attempt to promote fairness and clarity within the business environment.
In this context of in-house progress, it is also worth mentioning the actions focused on improving the agency's
capability to procure goods and services in a fairly competitive manner (and accordant with IDA's
requirements) and the formal termination of the interference of state-institutions vis-a-vis the procurement.
While EDM had already an extensive procurement experience (though limited under tied-financing requisites
and/or by somewhat relaxed donor-terms), Petromoc - apart the purchasing of oil products which was almost
dominated by bilateral political terms - had not developed such capability. Therefore, a quite effective training
program has been developed (under PPF) to strengthen procurement know-how and standardise competitive
procedures - the results achieved were quite satisfactory and of lasting nature, and contributed to improve
significantly the agencies' preparedness to implement and manage the project andfuture operations.
These were some of the important aspects that have been subject to reformulation eventually contributing to
facilitate the implementation of the project and, more important, they have caused a comprehensive change of
relationships between GoM and energy-companies with a view to laying the foundations for departing from the
heavy centrally controlled economy towards the acquisition of adequate autonomy and responsibility accordant
with the changing economic climate. In brief, a new culture of management and of institutional interfacing
was introduced.
3credit negotiations (april 87); despite the delays caused by the Norwegian grant agreement, IDA formally
declared the IDA credit effective on Nov 87.



Appendix B
(iii) despite the gross-underestimate of the war-element (of critical influence in the operations and performance
of the energy-sector) the project's SAR still is a fair reflection of the prevailing social and economic scenario
(1987) - as a refreshing exercise project termiinators are thus invited to thoroughly review such a document. In
simplistic terms the environment under which the energy-sector was operating could be characterised as
follows: (i) the war (still in its escalating phase) was impeding the operation of the most economic domestic
energy resources; (ii) near-absolute external dependence on energy supply; (iii) deteriorated financial structure
of energy-operators; (iv) acute shortage of technical and managerial skills; (v) substantial subsidies
encompassing an exponential-shaped inflation; (vi) virtually worthless local currency; (vii) demand of so-
called modern energies sustained by dormant prices; (viii) energy for the poor at market-prices thus following
the traditional subsidy-patterns (from the poorest to the richest), (ix) strong mega-investments egos; (x) macro-
policy foundations for supporting the ERP were still under scrutiny thus rendering difficult the formulation
and approval of sector-policies in particular given the downstream impact of the energy sector.
In order to mitigate these problems and pave the way for future structural economic changes, GoM, the
energy-companies and IDA agreed that there was a need for immediate actions in terms of energy pricing and
investmnent-related contention. While some critical elements for substantiating long-term policies were not
yet available (most of the financial data were inappropriate and occasionally misleading) some basic actions
have been formulated.
The development of pricing policies
Basically, two broad objectives were established: (i) improve the adequacy of cash-generation as to meet the
companies' actual costs (amortisation excluded), to service new debt obligations under the proposed
on-lending terms, and to fund at least 20-30% of investment programs; (ii) the adjustment mechanisms should
be ignited whenever the principal price-determinant factors it so implied. It should be mentioned that these
objectives were to be achieved within a highly volatile macro-economic climate - inflation was three-digit and
local currency was about to enter in a dramatic devaluation process. Moreover, the consumer base (in
particular EDM's) was restrict thus implying that price changes surely had to cause tremendous effects on the
consumer ability-to pay. In the case of EDM, prudence had to be privileged as to avoid long-term distortions
in terms of price signals to investors given that the company was not operating its normal and more economic
systems.
The contents of IDA missions' aide-memoirs largely reflect the dramatic evolution of energy-prices, and the
important achievements in this respect. Notwithstanding some circumstantial delays and occasional
inappropriate price changes, it is fair to state that the main objectives were achieved. Furthermore the
following comments seem to be pertinent:
(i) prices were played at their limits in improving the companies' financial situation leading Petromoc to enjoy
a fairly comfortable situation and EDM to overcome a large number of financial dramas. As a complement, it
can be stated that some critical interfuel relative price distortions have been eliminated thus improving the
consumers' ability to select and decide on economic terms. In the case of EDM, it is doubtful to consider that
the improvement of its financial situation can continues to depend exclusively on price-oriented strategies -
indeed, there are strong signals that further increases (apart those derived from their adjustments vis-a-vis
inflation and currency devaluation) will become dangerously detrimental to the business. As a result, it seems
realistic and prudent to keep the current policy of quarterly-adjustment of tariffs (and its correspondent method
of calculation) until EDM resume operations of their most econornic systems, which then would hopefully
sustain a major restructuring of its tariff system likely to be based on marginal-cost concepts.
Therefore, notwithstanding its imperfections and some discrete (though almost irrelevant) drawbacks , it can
be concluded that the pricing policy was satisfactorily implemented and caused highly positive benefits for the
companies while at macro-level the government have also collected their portion of benefits by reducing and
ultimately annulling the subsidies that used to flow to support the then dormant prices (a comprehensive
database on price adjustments is available if necessary). Not so marginally, it should be stated that, consumer-
wise the downstream effects of these pricing policies are yet to be evaluated in the sense that the resulting



Appendix B
price adjustments of basic commodities and services do not seem to be fairly digestible by the large consumer
segment (domestic and small-medium industries).
(ii) another critical aspect of the pricing policies was the adoption of formal and effective mechanisms for
implementing (and approving) the price adjustments. While the very nature and methodology for adjusting
prices have been approved by GoM in the early stages of the project, inflation-based concerns dictated its
original reluctance to accept an automatic adjustment system. However, convincing efforts promoted by EDM
and supported by DoEIMIE led to its later approval - as a result, automatic adjustment can now be ignited
whenever the principal price influences it so justify (GoM only requires to be informed in advance). The case
for Petromoc is yet of a different nature (due to its tax implications) but there are strong signals that a formal
approval shall be agreed upon during 1995.
In summary, there is now a case of 6/7 years of continuous tariff and petroleum-products price adjustment
(and almost 4/5 years of zero-subsidies) which have caused "habituation' to consumers and government, and
concomitantly much more stringent financial discipline from energy-companies. Budget preparation by
companies and institutions "anticipating 20-25% quarterly price increases became a rule of thumb", thus
signifying that, again, a new "cultural" element has steadily been added to local economics.
Investment-related issues
The case for investments, in particular the compliance with the related covenants is somewhat complex as, for
instance, it differs whether its analysis focus on economic or financial perspectives. Originally, the adoption of
this covenant envisaged to introduce economic rational into the public investment energy-policy. It is worth
mentioning that until 1985 the prevailing investment policy was political-oriented and, despite its grandness of
purposes, it was seldom based and conditioned by economic criteria. The flow of grants and highly
concessional loans from international sources (determined by long-term market interests and occasionally of
political nature) helped to disguise a situation of unsustainable inflation and virtual state-bankruptcy, and
ultimately contributed to reinforce the notion of "cheap money". As a matter of fact, state-owned companies
were instigated to emulate as big-investment spenders, and ultimately most of the companies concentrate their
scarce human and technical resources on investments thus irreversibly damaging their capital structure and,
equally negative, neglecting their operational and mnaintenance requirements (with some perversion, cheap
money was not made available for such activities). Again, and regardless of their grandiose purposes, those
were the times when the cost of money was thought as of marginal importance. Obviously, the situation was
untenable and lasted for a short period. Then came the times of attempting to restore economic soundness and
the scrutiny of investments based on conventional economic and financial criteria became a must.
It was within this context that the investment-related covenants with IDA were agreed. Their principal
objective were thus to lead energy-companies to prioritise investments in accordance with their economic
merits (and whenever possible to adopt least-cost investment programs). The strict objective of the covenant
was therefore to set-up the investment decision framework, and to improve the financial discipline by limiting
further investments (if not stoping, given that the companies were operating under operational deficit). The
companies were thus invited to consult with IDA whenever investments costing more than US$ 3 million were
to be implemented, and a self-funding policy was also imposed. Additionally, criteria for meeting the debt-
service requirements were established.
However, the practical implementation of these covenants presuppose that some critical financial data should
be available as to function as alert-signals and monitoring indicators. Unfortunately, the consulting firms hired
to perform financial services did not managed to produce such elements (partly because of reasons explicited
below) thus rendering difficult to follow up on this covenant. Moreover, so far the government hasn't yet
defined a clear policy related with the on-lending terms of external concessional financing (bilateral sources)
thus causing difficulties in evaluating consistently and with objectivity the compliance of these covenants
(some of these definitions are made a posteriori). Therefore, prior to the clarification of some important
financial issues (asset evaluation, on-lending terms, etc.) it is virtually impossible to judge in quantitative
terms the performance of the companies in relation to these covenants.
However, it should be stated that IDA, further to the financial follow-up of the companies, have closely
monitored their investment programs generally judging them as economically justified which implicitly leads



Appendix B
to the conclusion that the principal criteria for investment policy are met. The project coordinator fully
subscribes this position and suggests that a qualitative satisfactory judgement of the covenant be adopted.
The physical objectives and the project implementation
As it can be concluded from Table 5: Project Implementation Targets (see also annex 4.5 - SAR) thirty-three
(33) project components out of thirty-seven (37) originally planned have been implemented during the life-
cycle of the project. The exceptions being:
EDM (i) Stock Control & Asset Management (ii) Management Information Systems; (iii) Manpower Training
& Development - these studies have been postponed indefinitely due to lack of funds. While the funds for
studies (ii) and (iii) have been affected by unexpected expenditures caused by necessary extensions of services
of other financial components, Stock Control & Asset Management failed to materialise because the originally
committed funds (from CETEL/Portugal) were not allocated as expected. Indeed, this situation had very
negative implications in the timing of financial re-structuring of EDM as it should have originated crucial
input for other components.
Petromoc (i) Management Information Systems - the component was postponed indefinitely due to shortage of
project funds.
In respect of the vast majority of the project components it can be concluded that they have been satisfactorily
implemented (original ToR and agreed changes have been achieved though with some delays due to reasons
already referred to).
The hardware components have permitted to re-gain operational and technical preparedness for securing and
improving the energy supply to the main consumption centres whose economic activity was of critical
importance for the country's economy and trade. Notwithstanding the continued prevalence of war effects, the
statistics evidence a steady energy supply (and in some areas even some sustained growth). As far as TA
components are concerned, and despite its slower impact, it became evident that as a result of project dynamics
the energy-companies re-inforced their organisational efforts and actively supported the introduction of new
financial and accounting systems. Substantial achievements were obtained in relation to billing and collecting,
and close monitoring of non-technical losses became a permanent concem. The preparation of subsector
development programs generally resulted in better focused planning strategy and more clear business targets.
Despite some flaws, the operational assistance generally contributed to improve the technical preparedness of
the companies although its sustainability impact remain controversial. Specifically, the following comments
seem to be relevant for evaluating the project objectives:
EDM Categories
Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation - The role of IDA financing was limited to CIF supply of
materials and equipment, being EDM responsible for actual execution of the related installation works. Grosso
modo, the supply occurred during the 1989/90 and the whole set of installation works followed
immediately thereafter during a period not longer than one-year. Connection of households to the power
systems in the proposed cities developed for instance in Maputo at a the following pace: 1990 (2,570), 1991
(2,704), 1992 (2,102) total (7,376). Data for Beira, Nampula and Nacala are available from EDM and largely
outnumbered the originally planned connections.
The materials and equipment under this component have serviced maintenance and rehabilitation of the main
power systems which were in great need (distribution in Maputo, Beira and Nampula; transmission in Central-
Northem system, radio communications for the principal operational areas, spares for Maputo PS). Despite the
non-existence of detailed records, available statistics evidence increase in electricity sales and improvement of
system reliability.
New Transportation Equipment - The supply of vehicles (type and quantities as planned) materialised
throughout 1990 and they were immediately put into operation, thus permitting substantial operational gains,



Appendix B
improved transportation logistics (extremely important for restoring systems affected by war sabotage and
destruction, and increased productivity in installation works.
Overall, it can be stated that EDM has done all their possible efforts to match the original implementation
timetable. As a matter of fact, with the exception of two components, tenders (ICB, LCB and DC) have been
issued during 1988 counting on a normal timing from BoM, MoC and MoF (for issuing the necessary Letters
of Import and of Credit as well as the management of credit special accounts). However, the performance of
these institutions did not match the expectations and the related contracts have been signed throughout 1989,
thus implying abnormal implementation delays for the project. In summary, it can be concluded that the
hardware-related components of EDM project have been integrally finalized with less than one-year delay
against their planning estimate.
PETROMOC categories
Systems Maintenance and Operation - Thirty-six (36) contracts have been signed following Tenders issued
during 1990/91 and 92. With the exception of two project components - Aviation Equipments and part of
Service Station equipment - which have been withdrawn after consultations with IDA (items were no longer
necessary), these contracts extensively covered the original project requirements. Consequently, installation
works for the supplied materials and equipment were carried out mainly during 1992, and such a substantial
delay caused a negative impact in the economics of Petromoc project objectives.
New Transportation Equipment - Due to unexpected difficulties related with the technical specifications and
Tender evaluation, Petromoc was unable to sign the related contracts prior to May and August 1991. These
delays have significantly affected the company's ability to improve the product distribution by road, thus
causing downstream supply constraints. Cynics are however right to say that, to an extent, Petromoc was
unwilling to submit a highly-valuable asset to the aleatory risks of inter-city trips (insurance did not cover
war-inflicted damages in vehicles). The vehicles have been commissioned throughout 1992 and 93.
Notwithstanding the substantial delays caused by exogenous institutions (BoM, MoC, MoF, etc.) it is fair to
conclude that the principal reasons underlying the observed implementation delays were originated by
Petromoc's unpreparedness to develop a this large procurement program. Once resolved the issues related
with the documentary support and basic processual techniques for procuring under ICB, LCB, SL, DC, etc
(developed under a common training program with EDM and DoE during the initial phase of the project)
Petromoc had yet to resolve a much more difficult task - starting on the general indications provided by the
project, Petromoc had to develop a technical inventory of maintenance and rehabilitation requirements, and
ultimately to prepare and up-date a large and comprehensive technical specifications databank for
substantiating the procurement. These difficulties were compounded by delays with the recruitment of
Technical Assistance to support this activity of the project. However, despite the delays, it can be concluded
that further to the accomplishment of a major task - tech data bank - a sound basis of procurement culture has
been instilled within Petromoc which would eventually be of great benefit for the company. Overall, the
hardware components of Petromoc project have been almost integrally implemented though with a delay of
about two-three years.
Technical Assistance Components
This project component was by far the most demanding component, among other reasons because its
underlying logistics (approx. 1,110 man.month) and counterpart requirements. IDA's approval to finance the
rehabilitation of Luthuli Building (housing for experts) was instrumental for implementing the project, in-so-
far that alternative lodging costs for consultants were economic unbearable and, to a large extent, virtually
inexistent. Along the project implementation, the agencies consulted with IDA as to carry out some of TA
components under alternative financing - eventually, whenever such alternative financing was secure and
effectively less-expensive, IDA agreed to make use of it subject to the full compliance of the original Terms of
Reference. In general, the ToR designed during the appraisal have not been subject to major changes, and with
minor exceptions (FAPS components were adjusted in line with management requirements) the TA
components matched the project objectives. Overall, the Technical Assistance proved to be more expensive



Appendix B
than anticipated which led to the reduction of scope in marginal aspects whenever contingencies were not
available.
As far as the achievement of the objectives are concemed, the following comments are worth mentioning:
TA to prepare subsector Development Programs
The proposed studies included in the project focused on rather conventional issues - least-cost-programs, short-
medium term supply options, optimisation of operational conducts and standards, inventories, technology
assessments, etc. - and extensive preparatory work have been carried out during the appraisal, thus removing
in anticipation any relevant implementation difficulties. The only pending issue to be dealt with was of a
planning nature (study sequences) as the outcome of some studies was supposed to serve as input for others. In
another perspective, the conventional nature of these studies facilitated the competitiveness of the consultants'
selection process as well as their prices.
In respect of household energy-related studies it should be noted that they were of crucial importance for
medium-long term strategy formulation and covered a broad range of planning issues - as a result it was agreed
with IDA to postpone the formulation of the household energy policy paper as to have it as a culmination of
the preceding studies (fuelwood plantation review, charcoal technology assessments, forest inventory, etc.).
Such a policy paper continues however to be due, although its formulation is likely to happen within the
framework of IDA credit 2033.
The three studies developed at Petromoc - distribution, bunkering and supply study - constituted a planning
reference for the sector as they permitted to better substantiate some crucial business policy options which are
now under implementation or at least causing some action and business interactivity within the oil-sector.
As far as EDM is concerned, most of the topics covered in the proposed studies - Operational study and
Manpower development - were already constituency of undergoing assistance provided by traditional partners
(Swedpower and EDP). To an extent, their development faced the risk of provoking technical redundancy and
cost duplication - thus it was agreed to drop the studies while assurance was obtained to guarantee that the
critical topics were assessed within parallel-financed actions. Highly negative were however the circumstances
affecting the component "Stock Control & Asset Management' - a combination of misallocation of funds and
resource conflicts caused by the financier (CETEL - Portugal) together with tremendous delays registered on
GoM's policy-decision related with the definition of EDM asset-basis impeded any action in this respect.
Given the importance of the component it is expected that EDM can remedy the situation soon.
Thus, in summary, it can be concluded that TA to prepare subsector development programs proceeded in a
satisfactory manner, and that their planned objectives and cost-estimates were achieved timely fashion.
Marginally, it should be stated that IDA did not showed visible initiative to review with the agencies the
outcome of most of the studies.
TA for System Operations
Irrespective of some delays, these components have been implemented in accordance with the proposed
programs as shown in Table 5. As discussed during the project identification and appraisal, these components
proved to be of controversial nature in terrms of their efficacy. The subsequent comments on these issues are a
reflection of the coordinator's views formed during the implementation of the project and by exchanging
opinions with the agencies' managers and staff in charge of the assisted sectors.
These TA components were conceived as respondent to the acute shortage of skilled staff in EDM and
Petromoc which was assumed as the determinant factor of the fast decline of operational and management
quality standards and overall technical safety. Elaborating on the poor results of their preceding recruitment
policy (ineffective transference of know-how, lack of residual knowledge, unsustained development, etc) both
companies firmly expressed to IDA their willingness to alter such policy with a view to concentrate the
recruitment on consulting firms (rather than individuals) and to impinge line-responsibilities to the recruits.



Appendix B
And yet, this new approach did not produce far better results. Problems started with the difficulties of
formulating stringent and adequate evaluation criteria to support the selection of firms and experts for such
functions. Additionally, as it is not a normal policy of reputed utilities to compete for these kind of services,
the chances of recruiting suitable staff were reduced thus forcing EDM and Petromoc to rely on conventional
consulting firms, which by nature do not exactly qualify for such services with in-house resources, but rather
they tend to develop sub-contracting relationships. Therefore, the fact that the obvious sources for such staff
(reputed utilities) remained unavailable ignited, since the very beginning of the process, an escalation of
dilutions which ultimately may have compromised the process.
At the following stage, the efficacy of this assistance, in particular the production of lasting results, largely
depend on the provision of suitable and committed counterparts. Typically, the counterparts are scarce
commodity thus difficulting the implementation of a top objective of the assistance - training and ad-hoc
education of skills; typically, this catch-22 situation usually develops as a justification for low-performance of
Technical Assistants.
In another perspective, often the very reasons justifying the concept of TA - necessity of ensuring a lasting
presence (3 years), broad terms of reference, sustained development, etc. - tend to react against itself. For
instance, it is not uncommon that the achievement of objectives established in ToR largely depend on inputs
from other low-performing i.a. commercial, management, and other technical sectors thus creating a chain of
'justified" inefficiency; scarce counterparts (when existent) tend to react' against very-costly TA, etc. To
overcome these problems it would have require extraordinary staff qualities and commitment which are the
exception and not the rule.
However, the most critical single factor in this type of assistance is the presumption to assign line-
responsibilities to the recruited experts. This situation rapidly tends to create unsolvable problems arising from
the rather artificial nature of the expert's position. Despite his functional line insertion the expert, whose
responsibilities are seldom matched by his organisational authority, naturally tends to refrain his interfacing
within the company. Additionally, the "wrongs nature of the daily problems which are brought to his attention
(a characteristic of inefficient organisations) contribute to his de-focusing on important problems. Typically,
after the first months of the contract, the expert tends to minimise if not annul his line-responsibilities.
In the specific case of this project, very few exceptions (if any) to this rule have occurred. As a general
standard, the experts recruited to perform line-functions under the project tended to minimise their
responsibilities towards the line-management, and emphasised their dependence on the contract-manager (their
firm's local representative)..
Finally, it is the opinion of the coordination that the issue of operational assistance need to be carefully
addressed as to improve its cost-effectiveness. It remains to be seen whether the shortage of skilled resources
should be resolved by the injection of external resources. For instance, while the training, and in particular
operational and managerial specific training, surely remains as the activity of highest return in the medium-
long term, it should also be considered whether the formulation of a service-oriented approach remains
feasible or not - rather than attempting to resolving problems and needs by injecting staff, the option of
defining service-products and therefore buying services should be considered. For instance, in a mere
theoretical exercise it is possible to decompose a substantial part of the Terms of Reference for operational
assistance in a number of discrete products which have permitted to formulate a different methodology for
achieving the very same results.
A posteriori, it seems that the companies have reached similar conclusions as they have eventually opted for
concentrating efforts and resources on their core-business - operation and management of energy-flows - thus
discharging subsidiaries activities (construction, maintenance, designing, etc.) to the private sector. Such a
reformulation and rationalisation of their business activities is likely to produce important changes on the type
of operational assistance eventually required. In summary, given the flaws usually arising with extensive
operational assistance it seems to be a fair conclusion that prior to enunciating and supporting extensive (and
quasi-perennial) very-costly TA programs the agencies and financiers should rather concentrate on the
evaluation of the possibilities for discharging direct responsibilities on non-core activities thus relying on the
competitiveness of the private sector as service-providers.



Appendix B
TA for New Management and Financial Systems
Overall, these project component have been implemented in accordance with the planned objectives and in a
very satisfactory manner. The most important activity was the one related with new Financial and Accounting
systems which have been thoroughly monitored all along its implementation (changes and amelioration in ToR
have been introduced after consultations with IDA).
ENH
The project covered the implementation of Technical Assistance for establishing New Financial and
Accounting Systems as well as some Organisational and Manpower development initiatives. The inclusion of
these components in the project was considered important given the fact that ENH was by then preparing its
transition into a de facto company (departing from a government's department).
After some difficulties in reformulating the original Terms of Reference (which were considered as requiring
up-dating and not covering some important aspects of company's development) the respective Tenders were
issued. Again, unforeseen difficulties (tender evaluation and final selection of consultants) caused substantial
delays, and ultimately the commencement of the services occurred in late 1992. As to accommodate the
postponements to permitting the conclusion of the services, a specific closing date was established for ENH -
December 1994. To an extent, these delays induced some problems vis-a-vis the re-allocation of funds within
category 4C as well as from other project categories.
The services were completed in a satisfactory manner and contributed to strengthen the company in a
particularly important phase of its development. Interaction with ENH permitted to improve the relationship
between IDA and ENH which have ultimately led to the preparation of a specific project oriented towards the
planning and development of the natural gas in Mocambique.
Project Coordination and some comments on IDA's performance
The role of project coordination was assigned to the head of DoE - Department of Energy which during the
period 1986-90 remained as a one-person-based "institution". This precarious situation was the a result of the
acute shortage of skilled and experienced staff, limited operational budget and notorious individualistic
tendencies. Therefore, the performance of the department was sustained by ad-hoc inputs from the energy-
companies' staff, and problem-oriented external technical assistance.
The actual coordination of the project meant i.a. a permanent effort to assist and motivate the beneficiaries to
timely implementation, and complementary a great deal of policy-formulation and implicit inter-governmental
- with special emphasis on energy-pricing and management of parastatals. Throughout the project, monitoring
reports have been issued with the necessary frequency and fortunately, substantial empathy was achieved with
the various task-managers and other IDA experts. At local level, the coordination was established via
permanent contacts and wrap-up monthly meetings (chaired by the Minister).
In 1990, a new head of DoE was appointed, and the department received substantial support from permanent
experts whose recruitment became possible due to the availability of funds and new working methods,
Overall, and modesty apart, it can be concluded that the coordination was satisfactorily carried out - however,
the final evaluation of the project shall be the acid test. In another context, the fact that the project had not
fully disbursed the financing made available should be regarded as a negative factor - however, not
underestimating the case, efforts by IDA to accommodate ENH requirements (as a measure to use this project
as a kind of PPF for the gas development project) caused substantial confusion in terms of earmarking funds
and managing the orientation of un-allocated funds.
In retrospective, the most difficult task of coordination was by far the harmonisation and compatibilization
with BoM in respect of the flow of financial information and actual management of finds held in accounts
under BoM responsibility. The information made available by BoM was very often inaccurate and released
with unacceptable delays. Additionally, the interface between IDA and BoM in respect of overall project-



Appendix B
accounting and issuing of letters of credit (guaranteed by IDA), as well as the management of subsidiary loan
agreements remained deficient throughout the project. In a later stage, new processual mechanisms
foradministering the Special Accounts slightly improved the situation.
A final observation about IDA's performance relates with the necessity of avoiding systematic changes of
staff-in-charge of supervising the project. In addition to the fact that newcomers have to spend a great deal of
time with their own familiarisation with the project issues (thus rendering the process much more costly and
inefficient); additionally, it is not infrequent that those changes imply the re-discussion of some issues (and
some fastidious repetitions) which were already in the decision-pipeline - despite the objectivity of most of the
issues, it is common-sense that persons do matter!. Not so marginally, in a number of cases the beneficiaries
have noticed that, after all, information and data do not circulate within IDA with the necessary efficiency and
velocity.
Project Sustainability
With the purpose of evaluating the project sustainability, we shall differentiate the following scope of project
objectives and achievements:
(a) physical perspective - the project emphasised the importance of upgrading the quality of facilities'
maintenance together with economically-justified rehabilitation as to bring energy supply and distribution and
operational reliability to a satisfactory level. To the extent that these project objectives were substantially
achieved it can be concluded that a reasonable degree of sustainability resulted as implicit. Indeed, due to the
quality of the intervention and its relative comprehensives it is fairly expected that the related facilities shall
continue to potentiate good technical and economic performance in the medium-term. Moreover, it is
important to state that the companies have recognised the necessity of appropriating adequate self-generated
funds as to continue to embark on a large maintenance and rehabilitation policy. In particular, current EDM
policy of quarterly earmnarking (in a privileged manner) substantial amounts of funds for pursuing a systematic
and comprehensive maintenance and rehabilitation at distribution level should be emphasized (these programs
which have started in southern region are about to be extended into central and northern regions and are
implemented by tendering these activities amongst the private sector).
In another perspective, the overwhelming focus of household electrification under IDA credit 2033 (which
includes refinement of related technical and economic standards) is an evident reflection of a sustained policy
initiated under this project.
Conditions are also in place to expect that the intense allocation of resources and the quality (and commitment)
which have generally been brought into the design and establishment of companies' new financial, accounting
and planning systems and their overall institutional strengthening shall certainly produce lasting effects thus
sustaining (and improving) their positive performance. Despite its relative complexity, the preparation of
subsector development programs has permitted companies to give more substance to their strategy formulation
and in particular significantly improved the methodological and technical knowledge of their staff who is now
capable of proceeding with up-dating routines of existing plans and ultimately to the application of these
tooling in other area-planning activities.
However, as far as the operational assistance is concerned it is not without controversy that sustainability can
be considered as satisfactorily achieved. As a matter of fact, for reasons already appointed, the performance of
these services do not seem to have conducted to lasting know-how transfer and formulation of basic technical
routines. Except for EDM - Transmission Systems assistance which have been designed as to privilege
advisory positions rather than in-line operations, these components should be qualified as unsatisfactory in
terms of their likely sustainability.
As a final observation, experience suggests than despite the institutional nature of the project activities, their
results and likely sustainability are somehow dependent on the continuous commitment and long-term
permanence of key staff, to the extent that companies are still fragile and in the infancy of their restructuring
programs. Therefore, in order to materialise the large potential for sustained development and to protect the
substantial investments already done, it is fundamental that the companies proceed with adequate staff-policies
with a view to retain and attract skilled personal. Again, persons do matter!



TAB1 .XLS                                           Appendix B
ICR
IDA lBO/irnoz
Table 1      Summrary of Asessrmants hI th perspective of Project Coordinator
A      Achieveent of Objectives                   i    *atict      iEfactorsI          Eis                High unsat
Macro policies
Sector Policies
Financial Objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives
Poverty reduction
Gander Issues
Other social objectives
Environmental objectives
Public sector management
Private sector Development
Other
H      Project Sustainobiiity                                      J           li kely                  j     ain
C      Bank Prlorrmance                                                   Satistactory                     Dent
Identification
Preparation Assistance
Appraisal
Supervision
D      Borrower performance                                         tiitist |           stactory ||
Preparation
Implementation
Covenant Compliance
E      Assasrnent Outcome                       [nitiSf ||             factorv      [     aisfact |       Hnsat
Obsy:        Changes of evaluation criteria for A envisages to render it more appropriate
Page 1



Appendix B
Enrg TehoMfs Altme rond Netbdib eon Projet
IDA Cret 1SOO
Coiriencs with Covennt,
Agent    ftef 1(LeIldocG)       Deecrlrdon                           Sttue                          Comments
DoE       OCA section 4.01      audit parts c & 0               complied                starting with FY 1909 7
DoE       DCA section 4.03 (Il  pricing review                  complied                price reviews were conducted whenever
IDA conducted field-suparv.ione
permanent review hae occeured.
DoE. PET    DCA section 4.03 lb)  pet products prices             complied                 smnce proteet become effective
DCA section 4.04     patrimony
GoM. EDM                   .tdm                                    Part-al compriance      first definition we the possible in that stage.
subaquen refinom.nts were effected
by slow progress of FAPS.
GoM. PET                                     petromoc              complied                ditto for EDM.
EDM, PET    OCA section 4.06      compensrtion packages            compliod                fern than thre skilled pereons lrtt the sector.
more than 1?2 iatversity.fevel tctrwcnisr were ecruiated
DoE. EDM. PET  OCA section 4.06      censultation                    complied                consultations wer carried out during euPero-iion.
The borrower did not cause a single invee ment.
EOM       OCA section 4.07      housing                         compled                  building available in time.
DoE       OCA schedule 3        houreholdenergy poper           pertial cumplience      several partial studies were conducted. though
a comprehensIve study rermins to be done.
PET       proj egi section 2.06   etudies                       comrplied
PET       proj egr sect 2.07    counterpwrte                    complied
PET       proj egr sction 2.00   vehickee                       complied
PET       proi apr section 4.01   audit                         complied                starting on 1990. soon a. permitted byFAPS
PET       proi egr sction 4.02   c_h generation                 complied
PET       proi a' section 4.03   debt service                   complied
PET       Proi apr section 4.06   timeteblee                    complied
EOM       Proj mgr section 2.06   studies                       complied                 Tol contents of the propored studiee
have been covered by i-house studies with
the sasiince of sweapower nd EDF.
EDO       proi agr msetion 2.07   counterparts                  complied
EDM       proi ar section 2.08   vehicles                       complied
EOM       proj aer section 3.04   stock inventory               not complied
EDM       proj agr section 4.01   udit                          partial compliance       vsarting on 1991, toon ao FAPS so permitted.
EOM       proj apr seclion 4.0213 financial covenants           conditional compliance    see tart comment on terms tor grants/concese loans.
EOM       proj 6pr section 4.06   timetable                     limited compliance       to the aeent permitted by the Quality
I_____________________________                          of  TA    iuppolled  0stAdies



TAB3.XLS
Table 3    Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle                        Date planrved           Dtctuatl||
Identification                                                         mid 86
Preparation                                                            Jan-87
Appraisal                                                              Apr-87
Negotiations                                                           Apr-87
Board presentation                                                     May-87
Signing                                                                Jun-87
Effectiveness                                                          Nov-87
Project Completion                                Dec-92               Dec-93
Last Disbursement                                                        7 7 ? ?  v       -9S;
Page 1



Appendix B
Table 6    Implementation of Project Components
Activities                                                       r-                         weliz     |*   Ir-x 
|.ie eep.tif .           im0.mt7
Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation
EDM     |Inventory of StocksOrc8
Distribution System materials & equipment                        Dc 90                1989-90
Distribution metering labs                                       Sep-881                1990
Maputo PS rehabilitation                                         Sf -89                13fl9-90
Transmissioro system maintenance                                  Jun.90               1989-90
Vehicle rehabilitation and spare parts                            Mr-                   1991
Radio network                                                    Dec-89                 1989
EDM New Trmnsport equipment                                               |  Jun-90|               1989 90 |
Petroleum Product handling nd Distribution
Systems Maintenance and Rehabilitation
PETROMOC Pipelines                                                           Dec-89                 1991
Maintenance Equipment                                             Jun-89               1991-92
Laboratory Equipment                                             Dec-88                 1991
Termiinai and depot equ,pmerit                                   Mar-90                 1991
Safety equipment                                                 Dec-88                 1991
Aviation equipment                                               Dec-88
Service Station equipment                                        Jun-89                 loc 92
Petromoc New Transport equipment                                          | J.901                  1991-92J9
Technical Assistance for System operations
'EDM      jTA ior transport Management                                       Jun-90                19192
TA for transmission Operations                                   Jun g901989-91
TA foes Distribution Operations                                  Jun-9                  909
TA for MPS operations                                            Juf0                   99-9
Technical Assistance for new management
Financial systems end Manpower training
EDM        Financial, Accounting & Planning systemaX  Jun-91
Stock control & Asset Management                              [ un-91
Management Information System                                    Jun-91
Manpower Training & Development                                Jun-91                 chal  91
Petromoc   Technical Training program                                        Jun-91               199091
Financial. Accounting & Pianning systems                         Jun                   1988-93
Organization. Management, Training                               Jun-1                 1991-93
& manpower development                                 Ull91
Mannaement Information System                                    Jun-91
ENH    IFinancia Accountinv  Plansilrlr;syetemi   Ju  971                 1  992 93
|Organization & Manpower development          |  JT  1  |-           |  idem
Tochniical Assistance to Prepre Subo*ctor
Development Programs
EDM        Operations study                                                  Sep-88|
|Distrtibution study                          |  ~~~~~Sep 88|
DoE        Household Energy Planning
Ch-rcoal production studs                              Juel 88
Acrophotographic forest invenmory                      Dec-BB
Fuel Supply Optionr study                              Jun-89
Fuelwood plantation review                             Sep-88
Household policy paper                                 Dec-B9
Obav -    |-. .        - not implemnented - see text



Table 8A:    Estimated Prolect Costs
Implementation Completion Report
last estim & allocation (SDR M)                         Actual Estim (SOR Ml
IAgency       FiFnSourCe   |categrY   |ACtivity                                   Local         Foreign                            Local       Foreign
Costs          Costs           Total            Costs        Costs           Total
EDM               IDA           1      Power Svstem Maintenance                   1,359,375      1,462,000       2,821,375                      1,850.000
& Rehabilitation
EDM           Norad / par              Power System Maintenance                     200.000      2,162,162       2,362.162                      2,162,162
& Rehabilitation
|EDM              IDA            2      Transport Equipment tor EDM                   78,125      1,146,000       1,224,125|                     1,156,978
Petromoc          IDA           3      Petroleum System Maintenance                 546,875      3,803,000       4.349,875                      4,537,021
& Rehabilitation        |
|Petromoc      Norad/loint             Transport Equipment for Petromoc      |      100,000      2 2,270,270 |   2,370,270                      2,270,270
JEOM              IDA          4 - A    TA - FAPS, Operations, Studies              850,000       4,395,000       5,245,000]                     3,858,412
|Petromoc         IDA          4 - 8    TA - FAPS, Operations, Studies               700,000      2.647,000       3,347,000|                     2,607,613
DoE/ENH           IDA         4 - C    TA - FAPS, Operations, Studies               100,000       1,243,000      1,343,000                      1,345,380
IEDM  _           IDA           5      Civil Works * Lut Building                   150,000        726,000         876,000                        691.596
IDA                  un-allocated                                  50.000        178,000         228,000
Total        4,134,375    20,032,432       24.166,807 I                   20,479.4321   7   -
Obsv:        Precised data to be obtained trom BoM anl EDM/Petromoc because:
SOR forex and methodology for last disbursements were not made available by BoM
local costs are yet being assessed by companies,



Table 8B:    Project Financing
Implementation Completion Report
appraisal estimate (SDR M)               Actual (SDR M}
Local    Foreign                    Local     Foreign
Source:                                      Costs  |  Costs        Total        Costs  ICosts   I  Total
IDA                                                  15,600,000 15,600,000                15,600,000
Cofinancing institutions - Norad
joint financing                2,310,000  2,310,000                 2,270,270
paralell financing              1,600,000   1,600,000               2,162,162
Domestic contribution
EDM                  ##N##                 2,906,250
Petromoc             #######,              2,093,750
Gov Moqambique       281,250                 281,250
Total      #####N  19,510,000 24,791,250                 20,032,432



IBRD 20093
{                        {oz  ~~~~~~~~~~                                          ~       ~      ~~34-    380'  , 
|                j           . (                   ~~~~~~~TANZANIA               ,
/        ~~~~M-O,n.bo do Priow0
ZAMBIA
0 Pombo
|MALAWI                Lichingo                               
-14-                 '   ~~~~~LILONGWE      \      X1-
-14'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
\   \l   0. Cuamba                            Nocala
Moatize                     1:                                  *Mombiq.A
-4o   >  , ~      Swto        Coal Mine                                     A lt o tc u
/  Agoch.
Moc,bo
?         ~~~~~Dona An          a    iCuooolo
HARARE                                       'a ~> 4       V ionb1-
t'am~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~B
ZIMABABWEt              X,.  ,.^
Pelrobumi elp    g                   /)MOZAMBIQUE
M8                  D                          EXISTING ENERGY
" Mmw    3ea        SUPPLY FACILITIES
Existing Power Transmission Lines:
i533 kV dc Line
275 kV Line
220 kV Line
110 kV Line
Under Construction:
//  -     220 kV Line
To Harare >,  //                   'en, Ir >                     _ __ _    110 kV Line
-22'                   ~---   Number of Transmission Lines                                                           220
-     Thermal Power Plants
,     Hydro Power Plants
*     Substations
o"                                            -    Petroleum Pipeline
Wells with Gas Discovery or
\   \  MojAt.0             w       Gas Shows
SOUTH           1',                           4 ibomn.                   )      Coal Mine
Railroads
AFRICA                       ci,okw.                                      o    Towns
69,nd   National Capitals
clill1i \                           -       Region Boundaries for Power Supply
// /iacia~X,oi.-X                            ->-  International Boundaries
~~~~~~Km I rt                                O                                   100       200      300
gm Ao v MW teom                                   KILOMETERS
/          D    I    t W{,tbn
SWAZILAND    *  APUTo                                            0a.*            o.0O-
a;t Malola                                     rorwoirree/   a~n/rcra                      26-
-26         MBABANE      Cr.de Oil,'.-,._i0.0                              1
FEBRUARY 1987









IMA,GING
Report No:       147 3;4
TYpeL" ILCR



