Do_mm of
The World Bank
FOR OFMICJAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6647-MOZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
M4OZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 1, 1987
Energy Division
Eastern and Southern Africa Pro3ects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance   |
of their officieJ duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(April 1987)
US$ I = 200 Meticais (MT)
MT 1 = US$0.005
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CARBOMOC - National Coal Company
DC       - Direct current
DOE      - Department of Energy
DWT      - Dead weight tonnes
EDM      - Electricity Company of Mozambique
ENH      - National Hydrocarbons Company
ENIEL    - National Company for Electrical Installations
ESCOM    - Electricity Supply Commission (RSA)
GDP      - Gross Domestic Product
HCB      - Hidroelectrica de Cabora Bassa
ICB      - International Competitive Bidding
IDA      - International Development Association
KfW      - Kreditanstalt fUr Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LCB      - Local Competitive Bidding
LRMC     - Long-run marginal cost
LPG      - Liquid petroleum gas
MIE      - Ministry of Industry and Energy
MMR      - Ministry of Mineral Resources
PETROMOC - National Petroleum Supply Company
PPF      - IDA's Project Preparation Facility
ODA      - Overseas Development Administration (UK)
RSA      - Republic of South Africa
SADCC    - Southern Africa Development Coordination Conference
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
B/D      - barrels per day
GWh      - gigawatt hour
ha       - hectare
kgoe     - kilograms of oil equivalent
km       - kilometer
kV       - kilovolt
kW       - kilowatt
kWh      - kilowatt hour
m        - meter
MT       - metical (plural: met'cais)
MW       - megawatt
r.o.m.   - run-of-mine
t        - tonnes
toe      - tonnes of oil equivalent
t/y      - tonnes/year
FISCAL YEAR
Government and Public Enterprises: Calendar Year



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Credit and Pr2oect Summarg
Borrower:          The People's Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiaries:     Electricidado  de  Mogambique  (EDM),  Empresa  Nacional
Petroleos  de  Mo9ambique  E.E.   (PETROMOC),   Empresa
Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos (EHH), Ministry of Industry
and Energy (MIE)
Amount:            IDA Credit SDR 15.6 million (US$20 million equivalent)
Terms:             Standard
Onlending Terms:   For hardware components, US$5.0 million of the Credit
would be onlent to PETROMOC at 110% of the prevailing
Bank loar. rate at the time of Board presentation, and
US$4.5 million would be onlent to EDI  at the prevailing
Bank loan rate.   For technical assistance components,
US$3.7 million would be onlent to PETR'MOC and US$5.1
million to EDM at an annual fee of 1.75%.  The onlent
funds would be repaid over 20 years with 5 years grace
period.   EDM  and  PETROMOC would  carry  the foreign
exchange risk.  The balance of US$1.7 million would be
for the MIE and the ENH components to cover studies and
technical assistance.
Project            The project consists of. rehabilitation of EDM's and
Description:       PETROMOC's facilities to meet current demands reliably
by providing vehicles and special-purpose maintenance
and distribution equipment, rehabilitation work in
Maputo Power  Station and on power transmission and
distribution  networks,   petroleum  product  handling
equipment, and connection of 4,150 households to the
power systems in Maputo, Beira, Nampula and Nacala; (ii)
provision of operational support for three years by
fourteen specialists in managing transport fleets and
operating power and netroleum facilities, and (iii)
technical assistance to EDM, PETROMOC, MIE and ENH to
design and implement management and financial systems
and for manpower training and to prepare subsector
development plans for power, petroleum and household
energy.  The project would be coordinated by the MIE,
and executed by EDM, PETROMOC and ENH.
This document ha a rsticted distribution and may be used by recii;ents only in the performane
of their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoization.



- (ii) -
Project          The economic benefits from the project would be increased
Benefits:        agro-indu3trial   and   industrial   production   through
quick-acting  relief  on  constraints  on  improving  the
reliability of electricity and petroleum product supply to
processing and manufacturing plants. Some of these plants
produce the country's principal agro-industrial export
products. The project would lay the basis for additional
economic benefits for the medium and long-term by
developing sound sector development programs. The project
would also yield social benefits by improving energy
supply to urban households, notably the connection of
4,150 houses to the electricity systems, by more efficient
distribution of diesel oil to electricity generators in
towns not connected to the transmission systems and by
more efficient distribution of kerosene and LPG.
Project Risks:   The main risk would be a delay in project implementation
from lack of i'anagement resources in EDM and PETROMOC.
The project provides for expatriate support to these
entities for management and operations. There would also
be a risk of potential disruption to economic activity by
armed bands, although they have not penetrated the cities
of Maputo, Beira, Nampula, Nacala and Quelimane, where the
project activities are concentrated. The risk of loss of
the vehicles funded under the project will be ameliorated
by stringent vehicle registry and situation reports
supervised during project execution.



- (il) -
Estimated Project Cost:
Porei8n  Local     Total
_(US$ -a=lon)
Power Systes                           4.75       1.74      6.49
Maintenance & Rehabilitation
Transport Equipment for 1DM            1  74      0,10       1.84
Petroleum System                       2.35       0.70       3.05
Maintenance & Rehabilitation
Transport Equipment for PETROMOC       2,95       0.14      S.09
Technical Assistance for               3.17       0.32       3.49
Systems Operations
Technical Assistance for               5.82       1.79       7.61
new anagnemet and finanieal
systems and manpower training
Technical Assistance to prepare        1.10       0.08       1.18
subsector development programs
Project Preparation Facility           1.10         -        1.10
Base Costs                            22.98       4.87     27.85
Physical Contingenciee                 0.36       0.10       0.46
Price Contingencies                    1.66       0.42      2.08
Total Project Costs                   25.00       5.39      30.39
Interest During Implementation          -         1.37      1.37
Total Financing Required              25.00       6.76      31.76
-    _ _ -
Note:  The imported goods would be exempt from duties and taxes.
Proposed Financing Plan:
Foreign     Local     Total
- (US$ illion)-
IDA                                  20.00           -     20.00
Government of Norway                  5.00           -       5.00
EDM                                    -          3.72       3.72
PETROKOC                               -          2.68       2.68
Government of Mosambique               -          0.36       0.36
Total                            25.00        6.76     31.76
Disbursements of IDA Credit          FT88   FY89   FY90   FY91   FY92   FY93
_______________________     -      -     (  I   ilr3nW  n)   -- -
Annual                      3.1    6.9    5.9    3.1    0.8    0.2
Cumulative                  3.1   10.0   15.9   19.0   19.8   20.0
Sconmic Rate of Return: 272
Krz IIRD 20093, Mrambique - Existiug Energy Supply Facilities,
February, 1987.



MOZAMBIQUE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Psge No,
I.      THE ENERGY SECTOR.......,..............................   , 1
Sector Prioritieso.....,....,........ ,...................    1
Sector Organizationoooooo.oo.oo.ooo.oooooooooooooo.....oo   1
Present Situatio     t uooa           t     i    on... .......................0.000  2
Disruption to Energy Supplyp            p    ly.oooo..o.o.oooo..oo.o  2
Shortage of Foreign Exchangec h a n ge.o............00000  2
Backlog of Maintenance and Rehabilitation.oooo.....   2
Shortage of Trained Mapp o w e r                          3
Institutional Weaknesses***                  o* o000    3
Economic Policy Reform.ooor.0.. 0. 0000... 00000,0000,0000.0  3
Woodfuels and Household Energye            r     gy................ooo.o.o   4
Energy Resourceso......o ............,.........0..........e   5
Energy Supply and Consuuption..........................***    6
Energy Traderad.e............,...o.........e.o......    7
Electricity Supply and Consumption......oooo.o.....o.   7
Petroleum Products Supply and Consumptiono....0000...   7
Coal Supply and Consumptionsumption..................   8
Energy Pricing....r     i       c      i      ng..o...........o.o.ooooo..o..o....   8
Government Strategy in the Energy Sector ,.............00   9
Bank's Role in the Energy Sector       c to..e.... or............   10
Experience with Past Lending      n    d    i     ng................oo..o  11
II.     THE POWER AND PETROLEUM SUBSECTORS,.........0..0..,0.00.O  11
A.  The Power Subsector ................. ...**..............  11
Organization of the Power Subsectorsector...........o 11
Power Supply Facilities.oeo                              12
Past Power Supply and Consumption.........,...oo.oooo 13
Projected Power Supply and Demand m....a n do.......   14
Power Development Strategy.ot at.... eogy.....o ,   15
Donor Assistance to the Power Subsector...........,.   16
B.  The Petroleum Sub     re c t o r    17
Organization of the Petroleum Supply Subsect-r.,.oo.o 17
Petroleum Supply Facilities,..oo..........,...t$ es..    18
Petroleum Products Supply and Demand...o............o  18
Petroleum Supply Development Strategyoat......,egy...   19
This report was prepared by J. Besant-Jones from the findings of an
appraisal mission which visited Mozambique in July 1986 and consisted of
J. Besant-Jones (mission leader), H. Chaves (power engineer), E. Roumani
(financial analyst/institutional specialist) and J. Shillingford (petroleum
engineer).



- (v) -
Page No.
III. THE BORROWER AND THE EXECUTING AGENCIES....................  20
The Borrower and the Executing Agenciesencl......e s***......   20
Institutional Developmente........................ ..........o  20
Manpower Development and Trainin3.............,.............  21
Electricity Supply Manpower and Training .....  ee...,,   21
Petroleum Supply Manpower and Training...............   22
Accounts and Auditing     .................. .              23
EDM's Billing and Collection ... ..,...........o............    23
IV. THE PROJECT ......................  24
Project Preparation ................... 0..00..00.0.00 ..00.0  24
Project Objectives ,........,*.........,.* , 0000000000.0  24
Project Description  o..o....** .***.so*oo.o.o......o. 000000  24
Project Implementation .o....a ......ooo..o000o000o000000ooo 25
Project Cost Estimate oooo..........,......i..0,,0...,.0.*00 26
Financing Plan  *000000000000000000000*0000000 ..*.  28
Procurement ...........ooo ..o .o*.o..o.oo.*...* *..o.oo.o.  29
Disbursements   .oo..o.ooo..o. oo..o..o..o.o.......... 000 00* 0   31
Project Monitoring and Evaluation *oo.o........oo.......o.o.  31
Risks and Environment .....................................  31
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND COST RECOVERY.O.00    V E RY..0000.........0 32
EDM's Past Financial Position.                              32
Power Tariffs oo.oooooo.o....oo**oo*ooo**o*o***o**ooo**   33
Petroleum Product Pricing .0.0oo0.0.o.0..o. oeoo... 00,000000  35
VI.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                                       36
VII. AGREEMENTS tO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..0...0000.00.0 36



List of Annexes
Annex
1.1 Energy Balance: 1984
2.1  Installed Power Generating Capacity in 19$5
2.2 Production, Imports and Exports of Electricity in 1978-1985
2.3 EDM: Power System Study - Terms of Reference
2.4 Consumption of Energy and Non-Energy Petroleum Products
1979-1985
2.5  PETROMOC: Petroleum Supply Study - Terms of Reference
2.6  PETROMOC: Petroleum Distribution Study - Terms of Reference
3.1 EDM: Financial, Accounting, Planning and Budgeting Systems -
Terms of Reference
3,2 EDM: Stork Control and Asset Management - Terms of Reference
3.3 EDM: Management Information System - Terms of Reference
3.4  PETROMOC: Organization, Management Training and Manpower
Development - Terms of Reference
3.5  EDM: Maputo Power Station Assistance - Terms of Reference
3.6  EDM: Transmission System Assistance - Terms of Reference
3.7 EDM Distribution Study and Technical Assistance - Terms of
Reference
3.8 EDM: Manpower Development and Training - Terms of Reference
3.9 PETROM.OC: Technical Training Program - Terms of Reference
4.1 Project Description
4.2 Implementation Schedule
4.3 Project Cost Estimate
4.   Estimated Schedule at Disbursewents
4.5 Project Monitoring Guidelines
5.1 Petroleum Product Pricing Structure
6.1 Estimate of Economic Rate of Return
7.1 Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
Map: IBRD 20093, Mozambigue - Existing Energy Supply Facilities,
February 1987.



I. THE ENERGY SECTOR
Sector P.iorities
1.01             The recently completed report on the energy sector in
Mozambique 1/ identified the following priorities:   (i) to increase the
reliability of meeting essential demands for energy, particularly petroleum
fuels  .o key economic consumers;  (ii)  to strengthen the institutional
performance of the main energy supply agencies; (iii) to increase the
availability of household energy to urban areas, particularly woodfuels,
and also karosene and electricity; (iv) to prepare sound investment
programs to meet Mozambican energy needs, including exploitation of
indigenous energy resources (hydroelectricity, forests. coal and natural
gas) where economically justified; and (v) to establish priorities for
preparation work among large export-oriented projects based on indigenous
energy resources.   Government agrees with these priorities which accord
with Government's main objective of improving operational efficiency In the
short and medium term for the energy sector.
Sector Organization
1.02         The supply of commercial energy products (petroleum products,
electricity, coal and gas) is the responsibility of public sector
agencies. The supply of woodfuels is carried out by private producers and
traders.    The  Ministry  of  Industry  and  Energy  (MIE)  has  overall
responsibility for implementing energy policies in Mozambique, and it is
responsible for the two main operating encerprises in the electricity and
petroleum supply sub-sectors, namely Electricidade de Mocambique (EDM) and
the National Petroleum Supply Company (PETROMOC). The Department of Energy
(DOE) in MIE is responsible for advice and coordination on policy and
overall sector development.   The Ministry of Mineral Resources (MMR) is
responsible for petroleum, gas and coal exploratlon, development and
production through the operating enterprises, the National Hydrocarbons
Company (ENH) for petroleum and gas, and the National Coal Company
(CARBOMOC) for coal production. The Ministry of Agriculture is involved in
woodfuel matters through the Directorate of Forestry.
1.03         Government organizations responsible for implementing national
economic policies  affect the energy sector.   The Bank of Mozambique
controls foreign exchange and domestic credit, the Ministry of Finance is
responsible for budgetary .llocations, taxation and pricing policies, and
the Ministry of Planning has formal responsibility for inter-sectoral
priorities  and  resource requirements.    The Ministry of Labor has an
important bearing on the energy sector through its responsibility for labor
legislation, as do the Council of Ministers and National Wages and Prices
Commission who fix or regulate the prices of important goods and services,
including those for electricity, coal and petroleum products.
I/ 'Mozambique:   Issues and Options in the Energy Sector", January 1987.
Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program.



-2-
Present Situation
1.04          Recent trends in the energy sector of Mozambique reflect the
prevailing conditions throughout the economy, particularly disruption to
economic activity by armed bands, acute scarcity of foreign exchange and
trained manpower, and shortcomings in management and operational capability
and in financial performance. The cont..1uous decline in economic activity
since 1981, as indicated in estimates of GDP, has been both cause and
effect of a 40% drop in the consumption of commercial energy (petroleum
products, electricity and coal) between 1981 and 1984.
1.05   Disruption to Energy Supply.  Acts of sabotage and attacks on the
local populace by armed bands have severely disrupted energy production and
supply, especially for electricity transmission since 1981 and for coal
transportation since 1983.   Consequently,  the two major facilities for
producing energy in Mozambique, the Cahora Bassa hydroelectric power
station and the coal mines at Moatize, are virtually out of operation at
present. The direct annual cost to Mozambique of this disruption is about
US$20 million in terms of foregone earnings from exported energy and
additional costs of imported energy.   The activities of armed bands are
disrupting supplies of woodfuels to urban areas with grave socio-econom!c
consequences  for  the  urban  population.    These  activities  are  also
preventing the exploration and development of natural gas resources and the
implementation  of  major  new  developments   to  exploit  Mozambique's
considerable energy resources.
1.06    Shortage of Foreign Exchange.  Shortages of foreign exchange have
periodically interrupted the supply of petroleum  products  since  1983.
PETROMOC has not been able to purchase petroleum products on the best terms
with the small and unpredictable amounts of foreign exchange that are put
at its disposal.   As a result,  procurement  costs are increased.   To
increase the efficiency of procurement and stabilize the supply of
petroleum products to key consumers, Government has created a Petroleum
Fund which is operated by P3TROMOC at the Bank of Mozambique.  The project
includes technical assistance to PETROMOC for evaluating alternative
procurement and/or financing procedures (para 2.29).  In 1984 anSI 1985, the
consumption of petroleum products was about 25% below the level in the
period 1970-1982 due to supply constraints and reduced economic activity.
1.07   Racklog of Maintenance and Rehabilitation.  Lack of foreign exchange
has contributed to a decline in operational efficiency of power and
petroleum facilities by causing shortages of spare parts, materials and
equipment required for system operation, maintenance and rehabilitation.
These constraints are particularly evident in the distribution systems for
electricity and petroleum products.   The power distribution systems have
only been kept in operation through donor support for imported goods from
Norway,  Sweden  and  Holland.    The  petroleum  product  handling  and
distribution  facilities  need  to  be  rehabilitated  immediately.    The
transport fleets of EDM and PETROMOC need to be strengthened for efficient
operations. In the main urban areas, there are frequant power outages and
inefficient distribution of petroleum products, whilst many areas of the
country do not receive any petroleum supplies or electricity from local
diesel generation. One of the results is loss of agroindustrial production
and interruption of other productive activities.



- 3 -
1.08   Shortage of Trained Manpower,  The shortage of trained manpower that
resulted from the exodus of Portuguese managers and technicians in the mid
1970s has been a major impediment to the implementation of Government's
policy of improving the operating performance of the sector institutions
and supporting sustained economic development. At Independence, Government
was faced with a national illiteracy rate of about 98%, and it has had to
allocate a substantial proportion of its scarce resources to education.
However, past and expected future levels of output of trained personnel in
Mozambique are still too low relative to the needs of the economy and the
sector. There is also a shortage of teachers and educational materials.
In addition, emigration of skilled manpower has been and still is
occurring, Consequently, there is a reliance on expatriate workers for the
operation of energy supply facilities, who are generally provided under
bilateral arrangements.  The proposed project will take over this support
from completed bilateral programs, and expand the support in so.v areas of
operations and management. Government has attempted to stem the outflow of
skilled personnel by issuing a new labor law in December, 1985 that allows
enterprises to offer wages and incentives to motivate and retain such
personnel and to reduce staff le'rels.
1.09   Institutional Weaknesses.   The energy sector organizations were
created after the general collapse of institutions that occurred in the mid
19709 following the Portuguese exodus.   They have suffered  from the
economic difficulties that followed Independence, and thus have had to
operate with shortages of skilled manpower and deteriorating physical
facilities.   Scarce management resources are fully occupied in handling
routine matters, often on the basis of crisis - management, and they have
little  opportunity  to  tackle  fundamental  issues.    Consequently,  the
organizations have encountered major obstacles to developing and maturing
since their inception. Any lasting solution to break the vicious circle of
manpower and financial const'raints, weak administration and poor economic
performance will require mutlually reinforcing improvements in all areas.
Sustained improvement in economic performance also requires the resumption
of peaceful conditions in the countryside.
1.10         Although institutional development has progressed since the
energy agencies were established in the late 1970s, it is still inadequate
to deal with the demands of the new policy environment (para. 1.11). The
energy sector organizations share common instittitional and management
problems. Broadly, these problems fall into the following categories: (a)
inadequate financial data; (b) absence of operating, financial and
accounting systems; (c) lack of management information systems; (d) minimal
planning and budgeting; (e) absence of internal auditing; (f) little or no
technical and management training to remedy the shortage of trained
managers; (g) inadcquate computer facilities; and (h) little coordination
with related enterprises. These problems would be explicitly addressed in
the proposed project.
Economic Policy Reform
1.11      Government has recognized the need for reform of economic policy
with the aim, among others, of improving the performance of the productive



- 4 -
sectors of the economy.   Government had already started the process of
economic policy reform (increase in power tariffs by 120% in January 1986,
reform of labor legislation in December 1985) before i- announced its new
program of economic rehabilitation on January 30,  1987.           Under chis
program, the domestic currency (metical) was devalued fivefold against the
US dollar (from 40 to 200 MT/US$), compensatory increases were announced
for controlled prices of many strategic goods and services, including
electricity and petroleum products, and wages were increased generally by
50% with discretion given to managements to increasc them by up to an
additional 50% as bonuses for improved productivity or for particular
skills. The program also emphasizes the need to improve the management of
enterprises and their financial reporting.
Woodfuels and Household Energy
1.12         Shortages of energy supplies to urban households have been
causing socio-economic hardship, particularly since 1984, and there   is
evidence that some lower-income households are not able to afford
sufficient fuel to meet basic energy needs. Fuelwood is the principal fuel
for urban households, and charcoal and electricity are the only other
significant fuels presently used. The shortage of fuel is manifested by
escalating woodfuel costs as degradation of the natural forests and
savanna-land around towns becomes more acute and supplies are lost due to
the activities of armed bands.  Evidence of this problem is the ten-fold
increase in woodfuel prices in Maputo since the early 1980's compared to a
three-fold general price increase. Woodfuel prices are many times greater
than the prices of other fuels (para. 1.24). Restoring peaceful conditions
to the country would bring some relief to this situation, but augmenting
energy supplies  through the development of indigenous energy resources
(woodfuels, electricity, coal and natural gas) will take many years and
require large amounts of financial resources and skilled manpower, which
are extremely scarce  in  Mozambique.    For  the  short-term,  Government
considers that the only technically available option is to import kerosene
and liquid petroleum gap (LPG), but there was a shortage of these products
during 1985 and 1986 due to scarcity of foreign exchange.
1.13       The dominant issue for urban household energy policy is to meet
basic energy needs at least cost and with acceptable environmental
consequences.   Strategies are required both to increase the supply of
energy and to improve the efficiency of energy use.   In view of the
critical importance of household energy issues, Government agreed at Credit
negotiations to prepare a household energy policy paper under the
coordination of MIE by December 31, 1989.. The objective of the paper is to
propose the means for meeting the demand for urban household energy in a
comprehensive and consistent framework, specifying the roles of various
supply options and of demand management.   The paper would establish the
basis for designing affordable investment programs for household energy
supply (fuelwood, electricity, coal) and the role of imported petroleum
fuels (kerosene, LPG).   The paper would also propose w.asures for demand
management  (energy  prices,  incentives  for  conservation).        Essential
preparatory work would be inclided in the project, as described in paras.
1.14, 1.15 and 1.16.



-5-
1.14       The scope for improvements in the supply of household energy is
effectively limited to electricity and charcoal while attacks by armed
bands persist and hinder the supply of fuelwood, and while shortage of
foreign exchange restricts the availability of kerosene and LPG.   The
Bank's    energy  assessment  report  concluded  that  electricity  is  the
least-cost form of household energy in economic terms for Mozambique, even
though the expansion of electricity supply to urban households can make
only a limited contribution to increasing total urban energy supply. Thus,
the project includes a component to cover the foreign exchange costs of
providing materials, equipment and parts for connecting 4,150 households
(3,300 in Maputo, 550 in Nampula and Nacala, 300 in Beira) to the
electricity supply systems in areas where EDM has waiting lists for new
connections and whi-h are already covered by distribution networks 2/.
1.15        The economic benefits of improving the efficiency of charcoal
production would also be high in view of the overall shortage of woodfuel
resources  around  the  main  cities  and  the  constraints  on  transport
capacity.  Present charcoal production methods are inefficient due to lack
of knowledge about potentially appropriate methods that have been developed
in other countries.   The project includes a component to test charcoal
production methods and to define the appropriate methods for Mozambique,
and to prepare a program for increasing charcoal production by private
sector producers from both Government-owned fuelwood plantations and from
natural woodlands.
1.16         There is a need to review the major options for supplying
woodfuels to urban areas.  The principal options are Government fuelwood
plantations, community plantations, commercial (private sector) plantations
and programs of incentives for smallholders to grow trees.  The financial
and  economic  costs  of  production  vary  substantially    between  these
options. Apart from experience with Government fuelwood plantations, which
has been disappointing, there is a lack of solid technical and economic
data on these options in Mozambican conditions.   The project includes
components to rectify some of this deficiency in Southern Mozambique
through an aerophotographic survey of the forestry resources, a review of
the information available and required on land-use and management of
natural forests for woodfuels production, and a study of the options for
increasing woodfuel supply.
Energy Resources
1.17         Mozambique is well endowed with a variety of primary energy
resources.  A noticeable feature is the concentration of these resources
along the Zambezi Valley which is far (about 1,100 km) from the main
consumption center around Maputo.
(i) Hydroelectric power potential has been identified at over 100
sites on the numerous rivers in Mozambique, with a combined
average energy output of about 75,000 GWh/year for which an
indicative total for installed capacity is about 14,000 MW.
2/ This component would increase by about 6% the total number of
households connected to the electricity systems, and would effectively
bring electricity to about 1% more of total urban households.



-6-
About 15% of this potential has been developed at Cahora Bassa
(2,075 MW, 14,000 GWh/year of firm available energy). Government
has been promoting an extension to the Cahora Bassa capacity by
up to 1,200 MW for exr,-rt to neighboring countries, but the
prospects for obtaining commitments from these countries for
major power imports are not strong.
(ii)  Coal  deposits  exist  extensively  throughost  central-western
Mozambique with estimates of total geological reserves exceeding
3 billion tonnes of run-of-mine (r.o,m.) coal, of which proven
reserves amount to about 850 million tonnes. The only coalfield
presently being mined is located at Moatize in the Zambezi Valley
with proven reserves of about 87 million tonnes and possible
reserves  of  3bout  1,150  million  tonnes.        Government  is
considering a major expansion in coal production capacity to an
annual level of 6 million tonnes of saleable coal in two tranches
of 3 million tonnes The prospects for implementation depend on
the resolution of the security situation, raising large amounts
of capital and improvements to present estimates of the viability
of the investments.
(iii)  Petroleum and Gas exploration has been carried out extensively
for decades in Mozambique's large sedimentary basin, but the
hydrocarbon potential of Mozambique is still relatively unknown,
especially in the offshore areas.   An onshore commercial gas
discovery at the Pande Gas Field, located 30 km inland and about
550  km north of Maputo,  was made  in  1961.    Estimates  of
recoverable reserves are broad, lying in the range 0.4 to 1.3
trillion cubic feet. Goverment is examining the feasibility of
an ammonia plant using Pande gas as feedstock.   There are
indications of other substantial gas deposits.   Government has
been carrying out intensive promotion activities for petroleum
exploration, and has signed exploration and production contracts
with Shell, AMOCO and British Petroleum in the last two years.
(iv)  Forestry  reserves  in Mozambique  comprise  046 million ha  of
forests with high productive potential, 4 million ha with medium
productive potential, 15 million ha with low productive potential
and about 37 million ha of land with forestry potential.  From
rough estimates, the natural annual increase in volume of the
standing biomass balances the total national demand for forest
products.  However, there are major imbalances at the regional
level between demand and sustainable yield. There are critical
shortfalls in woodfuel resources around the main urban areas,
particularly  Maputo,  Beira  and  Nampula,  which  can  -I.y  be
addressed through long-term programs for increasing the supply of
woodfuels, improving energy utilization efficiency and developing
supplies of other forms of household energy.
Energy Supply and Consumption
1.18          In an average year of the early 1980's, the gross energy
available to Mozambique from all energy forms was about 3 million tonnes of
oil equivalent (toe) or roughly 250 kgoe per capita, of which about 80% was
from woodfuels.   Mozambique' a per capita energy consumption was at thc.



-7-
lower end  of  the average for Eastern Africa.  3/   Petroleum products
accounted for 70% to 75% of non-woodfuel energy, -prmary electricity for
15% to 20% and coal for 5% to 10%. In the early 1980s, the distribution of
consumption of these forms of energy was 27% in industry, 27% in
transportation, 31% in households and public institutions, and 15% in
agriculture and other sectors. An energy balance for 1984 is given in Annex
1.1
1.19       Energy Trade.  Energy's role in the country's foreign trade has
declined.  Power exports from the Cahora Bassa hydroelectric complex were
reduced in 1981 and halted in 1984 due to sabotage to transmission lines at
a cost to Mozambique in foregone foreign exchange earnings of about US$8.4
million annually.  National coal production is at a fraction of its level
in the late 1970's due to the severance of transport links from the coal
mines, and the country is losing revenues from coal exports of about US$4
million annually.  Imports of crude oil have been replaced by imports of
refined products, and the total volume and value of imported petroleum has
declined  substantially  since  1981.    With  the  closure  of  the Matola
refinery, excess refined products ceased to be exported during 1984. The
annual deficit on the trade of petroleum aad products fell from an average
of US$150 million in the period 1980-82 to about US$70 millior. in 1983 with
a further fall in 1984.  The net cost of petroleum consumption (deficit)
averaged about 21% of total imports and 45% of total exports in the period
1980-83.
1.20         Electricity Supply and Consumption. The supply of power in
Mozambique excluding exports from Cahora Bassa, increased from 586 GWh in
1978 to 648 GWh in 1983. It tnen declined to 545 GWh in 1985, equivalent
to a per capita consumption of about 40 kWh/year. The two major chinges in
the pattern of supply have been: (a) the advent of power from Cahora Bassa,
and (b) the activities of armed bands which have cut power supplies and
suppressed growth in consumption of power, particularly in the industrial
sector, and have even resulted in a reduction in total consumption in the
Beira area.   In 1978-1983, consumption increased in the Maputo area at
about 4%/year, whereas the consumption in the Beira area in 1985 was only
about half the level before 1982.   Consumption in the Maputo area also
declined from 1983 to 1985 by 13% due to supply interruptions. Consumption
of power in the northern region increased by about 50% between 1979 and
1985 with the advent of power from Cahora Bassa and construction of major
transmission lines. EDM estimates that it serves about 70,000 households
nationally, in which case only about 2.5% of the total population and 17%
of the urban population have access to electricity.
..21         retroleum Products Supply and Consumption.   ConsumptioA of
petroleum energy products fell by about 21% from 1978 to 1985, from 384,373
t to 303,820 t. The structure of supply, however, changed markedly. Up to
1980, Mozambique refined sizeable quantities of imported crude oil
(600,000-700,000 t/y), exported more than 200,000 t/y of products (mostly
gasoline and heavy fuels), and imported gas oil because of a mismatch
between refinery yield composition and the pattern of demand for products.
3/ For comparison, per capita energy consumption in neighboring countries
were about 760 kgoe for Zimbabwe, 560 kgoe for Malawi, 470 kgoe for
Tanzania, 350 kgoe for Uganda, and 270 kgoe for Ethiopia.



-8-
In recent years, in contrast, crude oil imports were drastically cut (to
250,000 t in 1983, 86,000 t in 1984 and zero in 1985), while product
imports rose substantially, from an average of about 100,000 t/y in
1978-1980 to about 200,000 t/y in 1982-84 and about 300,000 t in 1985.
Notwithstanding this increase, there have been acute shortages of kerosene,
LPG and gasoiine in 1985 and 1986.
1.22      Coal Supply and Consumption.  Mozambique's sole domestic source
of coal is from the Moatize underground coal mines near Tete which have
been active since the 1940s.   Production peaked in 1975 at 575,000 t
r.o.m. and then declined to 288,000 t in 1977 (due to underground gas and
coaldust explosions). Production has declined Lince 1981 due to shor:ager,
of materials and replacement parts and to disruption of the rail link to
Beira by acts o_ sabotage.  During 1978-82, 55% of production consisted of
coking coal.   Exports accounted for 56% of total production, of which
one-fifth was transported overland by rail and road to Malawi, and the rest
went to many countries via the port of Beira. There have been no sea-going
exports through Beira since 1982, and major rehabilitation work is required
to enable the railway line from the mine to carry substantial traffic.
Exports by road to Malawi have continued. SiLce 1983, most coal consumed
in Mozambique has been imported from the Republic of South Africa (RSA) at
low costs by world price standards for use in power generation (Maputo),
railway traction and cement production.
Energy Pricing
1.23         Government has a general policy of maintaining price stability
and enterpr4se viability, and in the past the emphasis has been on price
stability at the expense of enterprise viability. Financial performance of
energy enterprises, resource mobilization and market signals suffered
accordingly.    Electricity prices were not changed between the mid 1960s
and January 1986 when they were raised by an averag: of 120%. An increase
of about three-fold was announced at the same time as the five-fold
devaluation of the metical on January 30, 1987. Petroleum product prizes
were not changed between 1979 and the increase of about six-fold that was
announced on January 30, 1987.  The policy of keeping the metical grossly
overvalued helped to keep the official prices of petroleum products,
electricity and coal at artificially low levels in metical terms.   The
economic costs of meeting energy demand were nos generally considered in
setting energy prices, so that changes in import parity prices or the long
run marginal costs (LRMC) of meeting demand were not reflected in retail
energy prices.   Consequently, consumers of non-woodfuel energy products
were increasingly subsidized and given little price incentive for improving
the efficiency of energy consumption or for substitutions between fuels to
reduce costs where economically justified.
1.24        The prices of woodfuels are market determined and substantially
inflated because of supply constraints.    A comparison of the costs of
fuels to consumers which takes account of the conversion efficiencies of
energy appliances shows that woodfuels are much more costly than
electricity and kerosene, even after the large price increases for the
latter announced on January 30, 1987. For household cooking, charcoal is
about 5 times more expensive than kerosene and electricity on a useful
energy basis.  Likewise, fuelwood is about 2.5 times more expenr.ve than



kerosene and electricity, respectively.   These large price differentials
are not justifiable in terms of economic efficiency or social equity. The
prospects for eliminating the differentials depend on future increases in
the prices of non-woodfuel energy, possibly in line with exchange rate
movements, a-4 decreases in woodfuel  ?rices that should accompany any
improvement in tI.e security situation.
Government Strategy in the Energy Secto'
1.25       Government maintairis that its economic strategy is guided by
two complementary principles, to maintain the viability of productive
assets through rehabilitation and maintenance programs, and to promote
sustained  economic  development   through  exploitation  of  indigenous
resources.    Likewise,  issues  facing  energy  sector  planning  can  be
classified into those that focus on the short to medium term, and those
whose nature is essentially long term.  This distinction separates issues
of operational efficiency, institutional development and pricing from those
of exploitation of major resource potential. Development programs for the
energy subsectors need to be consistent with the shortage of trained
manpower and financial resources and the realities of the security
situation.  Under the circumstances the overriding issue is the need to
prioritize the claims on resources.   The Bank's energy sector report
recommended that priority should be given to short to medium term
developments with high economic returns.  The present state of insecurity
limits Government's scope for implementing major projects with long-term
objectives.
1.26      Government has not prepared least-cost development programs for
meeting demand for energy products.   Instead, over the last few years,
Government has expended substantial amounts of scarce financial and
manpower resources on the preparation and promotion of large energy and
energy-intenslvr projects.  This work forms part of Government's strategy
to place Mozambique in a position to exploit regional and international
market opportunities once the security situation improves and markets can
be assured at viable prices.   Some of these projects involve massive
investments relative to the size of the economy.  The combined investment
on these projects amount to about US$2,150 million in constant price terms
of the early 1980s. 4/    This amount compares to about US$1,540 million
for total public investment, and to about US$335 million for investment in
the energy sector for the period 1980-1985, and to a national external debt
of about US$2,900 million at the end of 1985.
1.27       The Bank's energy sector report concluded that the strategy of
large-scale development of known energy resources specifically for export
by Mozambique has not been shown to be economically justifiable at present,
arising from _onstraints or lack of competitiveness in export markets and
from inadequate project preparation. A major change in circumstances would
be required to reverse this general conclusion, such as a substantial and
sustained increast in commodity prices as well as an improvement in the
country's security situation. The justification for continuing substantial
4/ The major energy developments currently being promoted or prepared by
Government are Cahora Bassa Stage 2 (US$512 million), Moatize Coal
(US$979 million for Phases 1 and 2 (to 6 million tonnes/year and
including associated infrastructure), Pande Gas Field (US$20 milliou),
an ammonia plant (US$280 million) and an aluminum plant (US$360
million).



- 10 -
expenditure on resource exploration and project identification under the
presently unfavorable economic, financial and security circumstances needs
to be reviewed in light of the consequential diversion of vscarce resources
from the immediate priorities of improving the efficieacy of existing
operating assets and the financial performance of supply agencies.   The
case of petroleum exploration, financed largely from foreign resources, was
considered an exception.
1.28             The Bank's energy sector report recommends a five-year
development program for the sector with priority for rehabilitating
operating   facilities   and   technical   assistance   for   institutional
strengthening,  operational  support,  manpower  development  and  system
planning.   The estimated cost of this program is US$175 million (1985
prices), of which US$80 million is for the power and petroleum supply
subsectors.   The report also concluded that Government should prepare
energy development programs to support economic recovery in the medium
term,   Technical assistance to the energy agencies is included in the
proposed project to prepare plans for the sound development of the power,
petroleum and household/energy woodfuel subsectors in accordance with
objectives recommended in the sector report. The programs will cover both
rehabilitation and expansion of energy supply systems, while limiting
premature or non-economic efforts on large projects.
Bank's Role in the Energy Sector
1.29      The project would support the Bank's overall country assistance
strategy of supporting the key productive and infrastructural sectors,
namely agriculture, industry, transport and energy, through rehabilitation
of facilities and technical assistance.  Bank support in the first three
sectors is being provided through the First Rehabilitation Credit
(1610-MOZ) and the forthcoming Second Rehabilitation Credit.  The energy
project would complement these two operations.
1.30      The priority for the Bank's role in the energy sector is to help
maintain the momentum of policy and institutional reform (para. 1.11) by
assisting energy agencies to implement the necessary reforms in the sector
find mobilize resources to improve the reliability of energy supplies to key
economic consumers. The project would asnist in the reform of pricing and
investment policies by assisting in the production of reliable financial
information and in preparing least-cost development programs in the
electricity  and  petroleum  sub-sectors  and  for  household  energy.
Institutional reform is to be attained by assisting in the design and
installation of efficient management and financial systems and by training
programs.    The reliability of energy supplies is to be  improved  by
rehabilitating energy supply and distribution facilities coupled with the
assistance for institutional strengthening and development planning.
Mobilizing and directing donor support to the immediate rehabilitation and
institutional strengthening priorities would be based on the Bank's energy
sector report which provides the basis for Government and the donors to
agree on a support program.  Government agreed at Credit negotiations to
(i) exchange views with the Association on the results of studies for
subsectoral development financed under the project and on the implications
for the energy sector investment program; and (ii) not to enter into
commitments for energy investments of more than US$3 million which are



- 11 -
outside the Bank's recommended five-year development prolram (para. 1.28)
without prior consultation with IDA.   This program was adopted as the
agreed investment program at negotiations.
Experience with Past Lending
1.31        The projoct would be the Bank's first operation in the energy
sector and the second operation of any type in Mozambique, and the Bank's
experience in the sector is limited to its work on the sector report and
preparation for the project.  The Bank's first operation in the country,
the First Rehabilitation Credit, was appraised in May 1985, and was
designed to finance priority imports for the agricultural, industrial and
transportation sectors.   The opera .on has progressed satisfactorily with
US$24.6 million out of the total Credit of US$ 42 million disbursed by
end-1986. About US$2 million of additional co-financing has been provided
by the Governments of Norway and Italy since Credit effectiveness.
II. THE POWER AND PETROLEUM SUBSECTORS
A. The Power Subsector
Organization of the Power Subsector
2.01          Electricidade de Mozambique (EDM), which reports to the MIE,
was created in 1977 and given the exclusive responsibility in the country
for the public supply of electricity including generation, transmission and
distribution of power. Empresa Nacional de Installagoes Electricas (ENIEL)
is responsible for the construction of major public works, and it reports
to the Ministry of Construction and Waters. ELECTROMOC is responsible for
the construction of other works in the power sector, and it reports to the
Ministry of Industry and Energy. Electrical work in houses is carried out
by private sector organizations that are approved by EDM.
2.02        The Cahora Bassa hydroelectric complex on the Zambezi river is
owned and operated by Hidroelectrica de Cabora Bassa (HCB), 5/ a company
largely owned and controlled by Portuguese interests (82%) with a minority
share (18%) held by Mozambican interests.  The complex started commercial
operations in 1977 and was completed in 1979. It was constructed primarily
to export low-cost power to RSA. The installed capacity of 2,075 MW makes
Cahora Bassa the largest power generating complex in Africa. The complex
is linked by a 1,400 km transmission system operated at 533 kV with direct
current to RSA.  During the first few years of operation, the system was
subject to a large number of line faults. Since 1980 the lines have been
sabotaged, putting the link out of service for long periods, notably from
1984 until the present, Major replacement work is required tc restore the
lines to service.   Neither Government of Mozambique nor EDM has any
obligation for servicing the debt from Cahora Bassa.
5/ The spelling of Cahora Bassa with a letter 'b" in the word Cahora
reflects the normal usage pre-Independence, and thus it became the
legal nomenclature for HCB.   After Independence,  the spelling was
changed with an "hw replacing the "b".



- 12 -
2.03        Under parallel arrangements to the Cahora Bassa supply contract
between HCB and the South African Electriclty Supply Commission (ESCOM),
HCB can supply EDM with up to 200 MW at two locations, namely at
Komatipoort on the border with RSA to supply EDM's Southern system (Maputo)
through the ESCOM system, and directly from Cahora Bassa to EDM's
Central-Northern  system.    This  source  is  the  lowest  cost  supply for
Mozambique when available. 6/  Thus, the benefits to Mozambique from the
project are availability of Free power (up to 200 MW) and receipt of about
US$4 million/year when the supply to RSA is firm and fully available. In
the second half of 1985 EDM contracted with HCB and ESCOM to be supplied
with a maximum demand of 86 MW (69 MW at Komatipoort, 17 MW directly from
Cahora Bassa).  EDM also has an agreement with ESCOM to take power from
ESCOM's system for EDM's Southern system when the lines between Cahora
Bassa and RSA are out of operation.  Since HCB has been unable to supply
ESCOM with power from Cahora Bassa since 1983, the contracted supply at
Komatiport has been by ESCOM to EDM. 7/
Power Supply Facilities
2.04         The total installed generating capacity under EDM's control
(interconnected and isolated systems) in 1985 was approximately 250 MW
excluding the entitlement from Cahora Bassa and the capacity of the link
for ESCOM power imports (Annex 2.1).  The principal generating capacities
are coal-fired steam units and gas turbines in Maputo Power Station (112 MW
installed) and two hydroelectric stations in the central region to serve
the Beira area (100 MW installed). The available capacity is no more than
210MW since generating units at the main stations have been derated due to
advanced age and poor condition. EDM's system also contains about 3,000 km
of high and medium voltage transmission lines and about 1,300 substations
in three independent systems (Southern, Central and Central-Northern). The
275 kV transmission link between EDM's system in southern Mozambique and
ESCOM's system can be used to transmit up to 120 MW of Cahora Bassa power
to the Maputo area, but the maximum off-take is limited to 80MW by the
available substation capacity at Maputo. The main power supply facilities
in Mozambique are shown on Map IBRD 20093.
2.05        " e main issues facing EDM are the backlog of maintenance work
on power facilities and EDM's difficulties in carrying out operations
efficiently.   There are extensive power outages which cause substantial
economic cost through lost industrial and agroindustrial production. Some
of the power shortages have been caused by acts of sabotage to power
transmission facilities, but power shortages have also been caused by
deterioration in supply facilities.   Only urgent maintenance work on the
EDM system has been carried out in recent years with assistance from
Norway, Italy and Holland for supply of imported materials and skilled
manpower.
6/ Under the renegotiated contracts in 1984, the cost of power from Cahora
Bassa to Mozambique would be equivalent to 0.65US/kWh at 65% load
factor.
7/ ESCOM's bulk tariff in 1986 was Rand cents 4/kWh (1.7 US/kWh) at 65%
load factor.



- 13 -
2.06         EDM has insufficient maintenance and transport equipment which
hinders the efficiency of system operations and the delivery of fuel to
isolated load centers. Armed warfare in the countryside has also prevented
fuel deliveries to these centers.   There is a 30% shortfall in EDM's 
capacity required to transport maintenance crews, materials and fuel.
Priorities for maintenance are to overhaul the coal-fired generating units
in Maputo Power Stotion, reinforce the transmission lines from RSA to
Maputo and from the central hydroelectric stations to Beira, upgrade
transmission equipment and substation transformer capacity in Maputo, and
carry out maintenance work on distribution systems.  These priorities are
included in the project and in proposed German assistance for Maputo Power
Station.     A  long-term  program  for  overhauling  the  standards  for
distribution systems would be prepared under the project to ra.donalize
repairs, replacement and system development.
2.07          Shortages of equipment and material due to lack of foreign
currency have severely resLricted the rate at which houses are connected to
the public electricity system, and EDM has a substantial backlog of
requests for connections.   These shortages result in substantial cost to
the national economy since electricity is a low-cost source of energy for
the residential sector.   Under the project,  4,150 households would be
connected to the electricity supply system (para. 1.14).
Past Power Supply and Consumption
2.08       The supply of power in Mozambique, excluding exports from Cahora
Bassa, has remained at around 620 GWh/year since 1978.  However, there have
been two major changes in the pattern of supply. First, there has been the
advent of power from Cahora Bassa, although the statistics show the major
disruption to exports to RSA since 1981 due to sabotage of the transmission
lines from Cahora Bassa.   Second,  the activities of armed bands have
resulted In a reduction in consumption, mainly in the Beira area.
Production and consumption of power during recent years are summarized in
Table 2.1 and detailed in Annex 2.2.   Consumption according to economic
sector is broadly as follows: industry and mining 40X, agriculture and
agro-industries 10, government and commercial 20%, and residential 30X.
Table 2.1: Production, h orts and ftqErt of P,mr In 1Mub7ique 1978-1985
(Gh)
1978  1979   1980  1981   1982  1983  1984  1985
Production In Mzanbiem:
- C(dra Bass             8,028 11,542 10,809  3,035  2,540  5,643   109  285
- E5 a facilities          331   320   304   332   303   310   289   265
8,359 11,862 11,113  3,367  2,843  5,953   396  530
hports by E4M(frmm RA       80   111    28   236   295   291   282  229
9upply tD ECK from private
sources In Mozawbique      -    -       -      1      3      2      1   -
Net Exports (to RSA)     7,170 10,352  9,594  2,601  2,152  4,835    0   160
MLt 9upply to M,zumbique   586   594   595   619   626   637   623  545
Source: EW (see mn  2.2 of this report).



- 14 -
2.09        Over the period 197b-1983, the average annual rate of growth in
corsumption on EDM's Southern System was about 4%, whereas the consumption
in the Central System in 1985 was only about half the level before 1982 due
to sabotage to the power supply system. Con'aumption in the Southern System
also declined from 1983 to 1985 due to sapply interruptions.   The main
source of power to the Maputo area since 1981 has been bulk supply from
ESCOM (65% in 1985) to replace the lost power from Cahora Bassa.
Consumption of power in the Northern Region increased by about 50% between
1979 and 1985 with the advent of power from Cahora Bassa and the
construction of the Center-North Line.
2.10          The present security problems,  the poor condition of the
coal-fired generating units at Maputo power station and the limited
sub-transmission capacity in the Maputo area dictate EDM's current
operating strategy for meeting demand in Maputo.   The least-cost merit
order of supply to meet the demand in Maputo when there is no supply from
Cahora Bassa to RSA is to use ESCOM's bulk supply at the highest possible
load factor. EDM has to keep some of the coal units on spinning reserve
8/, meet demands in excess of its supply from RSA by operating the coal
units and gas turbines, and minimize the risks of breakdowns on the units
at Maputo power station in their present condition.
2.11       In view of the strategic importance of the coal units as being
the only significant power supply source to Maputo in the event of
disruption  to  transmitted  supplies,  as  well  as  for  supplementing
transmitted power, EDM has sought assistance from Kreditanstalt far
Wiederaufbau (YfW, of Germany) for the rehabilitation of the three
coal-fired 15 MW units (of German manufacture) and from the Overseas
Development Administration (ODA, of UK)) for the two 6.5 MW coal-fired
units (of British manufacture).   Both agencies have agreed to finance
inspection work. The 15 MW units are critical to the role of the station,
but substantial rehabilitation to ancillary equipment in the station is
also required for reliable operation. KfW is planning to include financing
for the rehabilitation of the 15 MW units and ancillary equipment in its
1987 and 1988 assistance program to Mozambique. The project also includes
a component for rehabilitation work in the station that would be
complementary to the rehabilitation of the generating units.
Projected Power Supply and Demand
2.12      EDM has low-cost power sources for its main systems by virtue of
its own hydropower facilities and the terms on which it can import power
from HCB and ESCOM and steam coal from RSA.   The power supply capacity
available to EDM on its main systems is much greater than the present
demand from these load centers.  Total capacity available to EDM on its
8/ EDM paid the equivalent of Rands 37/t (US$ 15.7/t) for RSA coal
delivered to Maputo, so that the fuel cost of power produced from the
coal units was equivalent to about 1.5 US4/kWh. Coal from RSA to Maputo
has been much cheaper than coal supplied from Mozambique's mines in
Moatize. In addition, coal supplies from Moatize to Beira by rail and
thence to Maputo by barge have been curtailed since 1983 by sabotage
and deterioration of the railway track.



- 15 -
interconnected systems is about 461 MW 9/ to serve a total present demand
on the systems of about 115 MW. IO/ Similarly, total energy available was
about 3,600 GWh/y compared to energy demand of about 530 GWh/y on the
interconnected systems in 1985 (Annex 2.2). Since the Cahora Bassa supply
was not available to the Southern Region, the relative surplus was much
greater in the Central and Central-Northern Regions than in the Southern
Region.  Similarly, actual availability of power to the Beira area in the
Central Region has been much less than at the power stations due to
sabotage to transmission lines.
2.13       Demand forecasting in Mozambique at present is subject to great
uncertainty about future economic activity in general and rhe timing of
restoration of peace in particular.   EDM has outlined a scenario for the
evolution of domestic demand for power on its maiu systems that is based on
a slow economic recovery and cessation of acts of sabotage in the near
future. Under this scenario, the combined demand on the three main systems
would increase from about 115 MW in 1985 to 143 MW in 1990 and 180 MW in
1995, equivalent to an average annual growth rate of about 5X.  On this
basis, EDM's presently available generating capacity on the three main
systems (461 MW, - para. 2.12) would be sufficient to meet domestic
requirements until beyond the year 2000 provided that these facilities are
kept in working order through adequate maintenance and cessation of
sabotage.
Power Development Strategy
2.14        With the completion of the Center-North Line in 1986, EDM has
approached the end of its strategic transmission development program
to connect load centers in the Central-Northern Regions with Cahora Bassa.
The Centr-l-North and Central Systems are scheduled to be connected by
1988/1989 through the commissioning of a new substation at Chimoio which
will link the 220 kV Center-South Line (Cahora Bassa/Tete to Chimoio) with
the Central System.  The program for the Center-North Line was started in
1980 to meet forecast new power demands from substantial industrial,
agricultural and agro-industrial development projects which have not yet
been realized, and for which there is presently no firm program.
2.15      EDM is presently constructing minor transmission works to connect
load centers in the Limpopo and Incomati river basins with Maputo by means
of a 110 kV transmission network. EDM is planning transmission spurs at
110 kV from the main Central-Northern Transmission System to serve sizeable
load centers such as Marromeu, Luabo and Gurus in the Center-North System,
and Pemba,  Cuamba, Angoche and Montepuez in the north.   EDM is also
planning  extensions   to  distribution  networks   along  the  northern
transmission line. The total cost of power investments in the period 1980
to 1985 was about MT 10 thousand million (US$250 million at the prevailing
exchange rate) of which 83% was incurred in foreign currencies financed
mainly by loans from Italy, Sweden and France.
9/ EDM's available capacity is: own generating capacity after derating due
to poor condition (Annex 2.1) on interconnected systems - 161 MW;
Cahora Bassa entitlement - 200 MW; import link from ESCOM (RSA) -
80 MW.
10/ 1985 demands on the interconnected systems: Southern - 70 MW: Central-
25 MW; Central-Northern - 20 MW.



- 16 -
2.16      Government is seeking to conclude agreements for exports supplied
from Mozambique's present entitlement to power from Cahora Bassa and the
central hydroelectric plants since these facilities are substantially
under-utilized.   There are reasonable prospects for exporting power to
Malawi, Eastern Zimbabwe and possibly, to Swaziland.  Government is also
seeking to develop the country's large and low-cost hydroelectric resources
as major export prospects and as the basis for developing in Mozambique
export-oriented energy-intensive industrial projects such as aluminum and
iron/steel plants (para. 1.26).
2.17          The least-cost means of meeting demand for power in EDM's
Southern. region needs to be evaluated to: (a) establish clear operational
rules and procedures for the utilization of different power sources for
meeting demand at least economic cost to Mozambique, and to estimate the
financial cost to EDM of meeting this demand; (b) establish the scope for
expansion of power service to urban households; (c) determine the future
role of the units in Maputo Power Station; (d) assess the required
upgrading of equipment on the RSA/Maputo transmission system and the Maputo
sub-transmission system; (e) evaluate EDM's proposed hydropower projects in
the Southern Region in relation to security of supply and imported power,
taking into account prospective increases in the costs of ESCOM's power and
the prospective availability of power from Cahora Bassa; and (f) quantify
the economic cost to Mozambique of power export commitments. The project
includes funds for a study of these issues, for which the terms of
reference were agreed during project appraisal (Annex 2.3).   Government
agreed at Credit negotiations to review with IDA the least-cost strategy
and investment program for meeting domestic power demand throughout
Mozambique, and particularly in the Souther- Region, on the basis of the
project-funded study.
2.18       Security of supply is an important issue which turns on whether
EDM should continue to rely on a single-circuit transmission line from RSA
for most of the supply to Maputo, or whether to construct a second circuit
to the line or a new line along a different route that runs near to sites
in Mozambique with hydroelectric potential. EDM also needs to consider the
strategic issue of being able to maintain power supply to key economic
consumers in the Southern Region in the event of a prolonged loss of supply
transmitted from  external  sources.    EDM,  vith  Swedish  and  Norwegian
assistance under SADCC auspices, is presently preparing a 14.5 MW
hydroelectric scheme at Corumana on the Sabie River, costing about US$11
million. The Bank's energy sector report concluded that the project would
not be economically justified under normal supply conditions, but
Government and EDM view it as part of a national strategy to reduce
dependence on external sources for power to the Southern Region.   The
study for EDM's Southern System (para. 2.17) would evaluate this project
under normal supply scenarios and as a back-up source of power.
Donor Assistance to the Power Subsector
2.19       EDM has received substantial donor assistance for the operation
and deve'lopment of its systems since the early 1980s. The principal donors
have been Norway and Sweden for surveying national hydroelectric potential
(Norway',, provision of skilled manpower for operating power supply
facilities, manpower training, provision of urgently required parts and



- 17 -
materials and development of new facilities, particularly under SADCC
arrangements (hydroelectric schemes in the Southern Region and the
interconnection of Mozambique's Central System with Zimbabwe's Eastern
System) as well ae transmission facilities (Sweden) and mini-hydro schemes
in northern Mozauibique (Norway).    Other donors  have also contributed
substantially, notably Italy and France for development of the transmission
systems, United Kingdom and Holland for supply of diesel generators for
isolated load centers, United Kingdom, Switzerland and German Federal
Republic for emergency rehabilitation of equipment in Maputo Power Station
in 1985, and the Germutn Democratic Republic for transmission development.
The Norwegian and Swedish aid programs are scheduled to continue, and other
donors, particularly Italy and the German Federal Republic, are actively
considering new assistanxce.  Government of Norway would be a cofinancier
with IDA in the proposed project, and KFW and IDA would coordinate closely
their proposed programs for Maputo Power Station (para. 2.11). The Bank's
energy sector report and, particularly, the least-cost power study (funded
under the project (para. 2.17) would provide the framework for future donor
assirtance to the power subsector.
B.   The Petroleum Subsector
Organization of the Petroleum Supply Subsector
2.20       The supply of petroleum products in Mozambique is carried out by
the national petroleum supply company, PETROMOC and by international oil
companies, principally British Petroleum and Mobil. PETROMOC markets about
70 "f the total supply and operates the publicly-owned crude oil refinery
at Matola, just outside Maputo.   The bottling and distribution of LPG is
carried out by a local company, Mocaeor.  Ministerial responsibility for
petroleum activities is divided between the Ministry of Industry and Energy
for supply of petroleum products to the domestic market and the Ministry of
Mineral Resources (MMR) for exploration and development of national
petroleum and gas resources. ENH, a parastatal organization that reports
to MMR, has executive responsibility for petroleum and gas exploration and
development, which is thus organized as a separate subsector from petroleum
supply.
2.21        PETROMOC is responsible for planning the country's petroleum
reouirements and for purchasing the major portion of these needs.   They
negotiate the terms of the purchase and sometimes negotiate and contract
for the ocean freight.    In carrying out  this  role  PETROMOC  has  to
coordinate with and seek the approval of the Ministry of Energy and
Industry, the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning and the Bank of
Mozambique.  About 60% of Mozambique's petroleum needs are presently
provided under a term contract which is financed by a loan on concessional
terms from East European countries, and the balance is acquired by ad hoc
purchases that resemble spot market operations.  Foreign exchange is made
available for these supplemental purchases in small amounts, so that
PETROMOC is not able to purchase on optimal terms. The scope for reducing
procurement costs would be investigated under the project-funded study into
petroleum supply (para. 2.29).



- 18 -
Petroleum Supply Facilities
2.22       PETROMOC operates a 25 year old crude oil refinery at Matola,
near Maputo. The refinery is a hydroskimmer with a precessing capacity of
17,000 B/D, so that the nominal refinery annual capacity is about
750,000 t/y. The maximum throughput in recent years was 710,000 t in 1980,
and subsequently it declined to the time of shutdown in mid 1984. In its
existing condition, the annual capacity of the refinery is much less than
750,000 t/y.  During 1983 and until the refinery was shut down in 1984,
PETROMOC was unable to obtain crude oil on a regularly scheduled basis due
to lack of foreign exchange, and the refinery had to operate at reduced
throughputs with frequent shutdowns.   Since mid-1984, it has been more
economic for Mozambique to purchase petroleum products on the international
market than to use the refinery.
2,23      The facilities for product unloading, distribution and tankage,
aviation refueling and at service stations are in poor condition, due
mainly to lack of foreign currency for importing replacement parts and
materials.  PETROMOC and the petroleum industry have been resourceful in
maintaining   operations   through   cennibalization   of   equipment   and
improvisation, but the scope for continuing in this fashion is extremely
limited.    The  international  oil  compAnies  have  not  supplied  their
Mozambican   affiliates   with   foreign  exchange   for  replacecient  or
rehabilitation of physical facilities.  The road tanker fleet for product
transport is about 30% below the level required to maintain a reliable
service. Furthermore, standards of safety for handling products have been
seriously affected, particularly the condition of PETROMOC's aviation
refueling facilities and its consequences for aviation safety through
contamination of aviation fuel.  There is acope for rationalizing storage
facilities, notably the excess capacity to domestic requirements in Maputo
relative to a shortage in Beira for international transit trade.
2.24       A 287 km 10-inch diameter pipeline links the Mozambique port of
Beira to Feruka in Zimbabwe.   It is currently used to supply clean
petroleum products to Zimbabwe.   The pipeline is owned and operated by
Companhia do Pipeline Mocambique-Zimbabwe Limitada which is owned equally
by Mozambican and foreign interests.   The pipeline is well-operated and
provides technically dependable transportation for petroleum products to
Zimbabwe, but it has to be protected from sabotage at substantial cost by
Mozambican and Zimbabwean military forces. The Port of Beira is able to
receive vessels of capacity up to only 20,000 DWT due to silting of the
access channel. There will be considerable reduction in freight costs (up
to US$5/t) when larger tankers can be received once the harbor access
channel has been deepened under the port rehabilitation program with Dutch
assistance.
Petroleum Products Supply and Demand
2,25      Presently Mozambique is experiencing acute shortages of petroleum
products due to lack of foreign exchange to finance imports of crude oil
and products. Traditionally, arrangements for the procurement of crude oil
supplies have been made through bilateral agreements with countries such as
USSR,  Angola  and  Algeria,    During  the  1979-1981  period,  internal
consumption of petroleum products was between 405,000 t and 435,000 t
annually. The lack of foreign exchange to finance procurement of petroleum



- 19 -
supplies has been the main cause of the decrease in internal consumption of
petroleum products from 420,000 t in 1982 to 300,000 t in 1984 and 312,000
t in 1985. Details of consumption by product are shown in Annex 2.4. The
adverse effects of this suppression of demand, requiring the introduction
ci rationing for petroleum products, has been mitigated by the general
decline in economic activity since 1982.
2.26       In the period 1980 to 1984, the composition of internal demand
for products averaged 58% for gas oil, 11% for fuel oil and 10% for motor
gasoline.    The  low  level  of  motor  gasoline  consumption  reflects  a
restriction on the growth of the number of motor cars in the country due to
the shortage of foreign exchange.  The extremely high ratio of gas-oil to
gasoline consumption (averaging 6 to 1 for 1980 to 1984) is not typical of
other East African countries, and it probably reflects the suppression of
the numbers of gasoline-using vehicles. The low percentage of demand for
fuel oil is typical of other Southern African countries where coal is a
strong competitor to fuel oil. This situation exists to a lesser extent in
Mbzambique, but the low demand for fuel oil is also probably due to the low
level of industrial activity in the country.
2.27        There has been a major imbalance between domestic demand for
petroleum products and the refinery product yield pattern. At high levels
of refinery capacity utilization, imports were required to balance the
supply and demand for gas oil and occasionally, jet fuel.   Under these
conditions, there was also a surplus of gasoline, some   of which was
exported to inland countries at prices near to international levels.
Remaining quantities of gasoline, and the surplus of fuel oil which was
also produced, were exported through trading companies.
Petroleum Supply Development Strategy
2.28      Government and PETROMOC face a decision about the future of the
refinery.  The realistic options are to reopen it after some unavoidable
expenditure on restarting, rehabilitation and possible modification, or to
close it down permanently.   Government wishes to retain flexibility in
acquiring crude oil and products, especially to take advantage of any
concessional  terms available for crude oil.   On the other hand, the
refinery is inefficient due to its age and outdated technology, shipping
costs for crude oil are high due to restricted access to Maputo harbnr, and
the refinery yield pattern does not mateh the pattern of domestic demands
for petroleum products.
2.29       The Bank's energy sector report concluded that PETROMOC should
obtain consultant assistance to evaluate the options for the refinery in
the context of determining the least-cost method of meeting the domestic
demand for petroleum products.  Those options would be evaluated in terms
of  (a)  the  impact  of  processing  different  crude  oils  on  products
demand/supply balances; (b) the impact of installing low-cost secondary
conversion units, in particular a vie-breaking/thermal cracking unit, on
domestic refining economics; and (c) the cost of meeting demand entirely by
imported products.  The evaluation would include a full technical audit of
the refinery to identify the potential for cost reductions and operational



- 20 -
improvements.   The project includes technical assistance to PETROMOC for
this evaluation, for which terms of reference were agreed during Project
appraisal (Annex 2.5). Government agreed at Credit negotiations to review
with IDA the least-cost strategy for meeting domestic petroleum demand on
the basis of the project-funded study.
2.30        Mozambique is well located for transit: of petroleum products
destined for Zimbabwe, Malawi, Botswaaa, Swaziland and RSA (Transvaal).  In
the past this trade was an important source of foreign exchange earnings
for Mozambique.    Presently, the main source of revenue  is  from  the
Beira-Feruka product pipeline. The storage facilities at Matola and Maputo
(including refinery tankage), Beira and Nacala could be operated as import
routes for inland countries.   Once se, 're conditions for cross-country
transportation have been restored, the potential for transhipment of more
than a million tonnes of products annually could earn for Mozambique
between US$5 million and US$10 million in foreign exchange.  The project
includes technical assistance to PETROMOC to assess the scope and needs for
rationalizing or expanding PETROMOC's distribution facilities to meet
domestic demands for petroleum products and for profitable transit trade.
Terms of reference for this assistance were agreed during project appraisal
(Annex 2.6).
III - THE BORROWER AND THE EXECUTING AGENCIES
The Borrower and the Executing Agencies
3.01       The Government of the People's Republic of Mozambique would be
the Borrower of the IDA Credit. The proceeds of the Credit would be cnlent
to EDM (US$9.6 million) and PETROMOC (US$8.7 million) as the executing
agencies. The Department of Energy in the Ministry of Industry and Energy
would manage US$0.8 million of the Credit for the household energy
components of the project, and it would work with the National Directorate
for Geography and Mapping. ENH would manage US$0.9 million of the Credit
for technical assistance.
Institutional Development
3.02        EDM, PETROMOC and ENH share the institutional and management
problems that affect energy sector organization generally (paras. 1.09 and
1.10), and which are experienced equally or more acutely throughout the
economy.     Many  of  the  institutional  and  management  problems  are
attributable to lack of staffing and resources at the middle and lower
management levels of the sector organizations.   With the minimal staff
resources  available,  only  the most  essential  operating  functions  are
undertaken.   Lack of financial resources for recruitment, training and
employment of appropriate personnel inhibits expansion of staff at these
levels, notwithstanding a grave shortage of suitable candidates.   The
organizations have targeted their limit.1d training resources at vital
technical areas, unavoidably neglecting management and administrative
training.    Nevertheless,  it is essential  for training efforts  to be
broadened, with the support of technical assistance, to include management
development.



- 21 -
3.03       Presently the management of these organizations is supported by
some assistance from expatriates financed frow bilateral aid program', A
major issue facing these organizations is how to find and develop skilled
and semi-skilled workers to reduce the need for and expense of expatriate
workers  and  to  establish  the  basl  for  long  term  Institutional
development.   The strategy for technical assistance In the project for
management development is based on two components: (a) short-term
aselstance required to sustain dally operations and support long term
developments; and (b) a long-ters program to develop managerlal skills and
systems In each organization.   The project Includes technical assistance
components to assist with overcoming institutlonal weaknesses. Operational
support for management of supply facllities would be provided under the
project through provision of fourteen expatriate specialists for three
years.   Technical assistance would also be provided for the design and
implementation of financial, accounting and planning systems, organization,
management and manpower needs and management Information systems. Terms of
reference for this assistance were agreed during project appraisal (Annexes
3.1, 3.2, 3.3 and 3.4).
Manpower Development and Trainln8
3.04       The low salaries and the lack of goods for purchase dissipate
staff morale and hinder efforts to motivate staff to work. full-time and
enthusiastically. In addition, the energy ageeles have lost many of their
skilled staff through emigration on account of low standards of living.
The end 1985 labor legislation and the wages policy announced as part of
the Economic Rehabilitation Program on January 30, 1987 give employers
scope to improve substantially the conditions of service for their staff.
Government agreed at Credit negotiations that 1DM and PITROIOC would
implement by not later than December 31, 1987 compensation packages to
retain skilled manpower.
3.05       Institutions in the energy sector have recognized the necessity
for developing their own training system.  In spite of the largo national
effort to improve the general level of literacy of the labor-force, the
sector institutions have had to concentrate on raising the general level of
education of recruits prior to training them in specifc skills. 1DM has a
small training center but It is too small for KDM's needs throughout the
country. PETROMOC has a small informal training system that needs to be
improved substantially, even If the refinery remains closed.   For the
foreseeable future, the challenge to these Institutions is to develop
low-cost and efficient training systems that meet their requirements, and
the project includes manpower development components to assist FDM and
PIT OKOC in this endeavor (para. 3.03).
3.06      glectrlclty_8uply Mgpower and TrainLig.  In mid-1985, 1DM was
employing about 3,800 staff of which about 1,000 were semi-skilled workers
(mainly electricians and mechanics), and 120 were skilled workers and staff
In engineering, professional, anagerial and technical grades,  The total
complement of senior staff is low for the scale of 1DM's operations. DDM
estimates that it will need about 160 additional skilled staff during the
next three years to maintain operations 11/ which are not available in
Mozambique.  The shortage has been alleviated by expatriate staff.   In
mid-1985 there were 80 expatriates mainly from Portugal, with some from
11/ Forty-three professional and managerial staff, 55 technicians, 26
accountants and 35 skilled workers.



-22-
Norway,  Sweden and Italy.   The only viable long-term solution to the
shortage of skilled manpower is to mount a major training effort which will
require substantial external support, and in the meantime to continue with
expatriate support. On the other hand, EDM appears to have more unskilled
staff for the number of consumers it supplies than is found in other
countries. The scope for shedding surplus unskilled staff in EDM would be
examined under the project-funded manpower training and development study
(para. 3.03).
3.07       EDM has received substantial support for training from Italy,
Norway and Sweden. The Italian assistance of about US$600,000 was to train
workers in installing and maintaining transmission and distribution lines
and transformers, and to provide staff for maintenance workshops,
laboratories and telecontrols for substations,   The Norwegisn assistance
financed  courses  and  teaching  materials  under  a  subcontract  with
Electricidade de Portugal. Sweden provided assistance valued at about US$1
million for training, providing engineers for the operation of the new
Central-Northern Transmission System, supporting EDM's engineers in the
Southern System and studying the feasibility of a system control center for
the Maputo area,   The project provides operational support to continue
technical assistance for operation of the Maputo Central Power Station, for
which terms of reference were agreed during project appraisal (Annex 3.5),
EDM's transmission and distribution systems including a review of
distribution standards (Annex 3.6 and 3.7), and for management of EDM's
transport fleet in view of the importance of strengthening immediately
EDM's operational capability.
3.08         EDM's training center, Centro de Formarao Profissional, is
located in Maputo and Is equipped to provide basic training.  About 120
electricians had been trained by 1985. EDM has also made a considerable
effort to improve the general educational standard of its workers.  EDM
will continue to require external assistance for running its training
center, which is presently understaffed for carrying out a program to
reduce EDM's shortage of qualified manpower. Technical assistance to EDM
is included in the project to prepare a manpower development program and to
identify future requirements  for implementing  the program.    Terms of
reference were agreed at project appraisal (Annex 3.8).
3.09        Petroleum Supply Manpower and Training. Out of a total labor
force of about 1,000, PETROMOC employs 360 at the refinery, of which 22 are
engineers,  technicians  and  supervisors.    When  the  refinery  was  in
operation, PETROMOC employed some expatriates mainly for maintenance,
process and administration purposes. PETROMOC estimates that it needs 35
additional staff in skilled grades for refinery operations. PETROMOC has a
small informal training system to improve the general level of education of
its workers. Technical assistance to PETROMOC is included in the project
for manpower training, mainly to support the handling and distribution of
petroleum  products.    Terms  of  reference  were  agreed  during  project
appraisal (Annex 3.9). The future of the refinery would be studied under
the project-funded study into the least-c..&t method of meeting the domestic
demand for petroleum products (pars. 2.29),   The project also includes
technical assistance to formulate and initiate a technical training program
for PETROMOC.



- 23 -
Accounts andt Auditing
3.10       Accounts for the present parastatal organizations have not been
satisfactorily prepared nor subject to external auditing. The decrees that
established the organizations stipulate that annual accounts should be
submitted to the parent ministry.   EDM has submitted outline income and
expenditure statements as part of the annual budget exercise, but the
standard has fallen well short of the level of international accounting
standards in terms of both the degree of detail and comprehensiveness.
PETROMOC has not produced financial accounts since 1979. Neither company
has been able to produce consolidated balance sheets because the Ministry
of Finance has yet to approve the valuations of inherited assets. Thus, it
has not been possible to obtain a satisfactory assessment of the past
financial performance of these organizations, ENH has not been required to
produce accounts since it has not engaged in trading, and it is treated as
part of its parent ministry (Ministry of Mineral Resources) for budget
purposes.
3.11        The quality of raw accounting data in EDM and PETROMOC needs
substantial improvement, yet the companies lack trained personnel,
equipment and suitable systems. EDM and PETROMOC need adequate financial
reports to improve planning and control of their operations, provide the
basis for determining sound pricing policies and for financial control
during future development programs. ENH will have to be able to present
adequate financial statements once it starts to undertake major investments
in developing Mozambique's petroleum and gas resources.   Therefore, the
project includes technical assistance to the three organizations to design
and implement financial, accounting and planning systems. The Association
would require Government to provide with the help of accountancy
organizations acceptable to IDA as a condition for disbursement for the
hardware components, income statements for the years 1985 and 1986 and
financial plans for 1987 and 1988 for EDM and PETROMOC. Furthermore, the
Association would require the signature of contracts for this assistance
with accountancy organizations as a condition of Credit effectiveness. The
foreign exchange cost of this assistance, estimated to be US$250,000, will
be funded from the PPF (para. 4.01). The condition for disbursement would
be applied separately to EDM and PETROMOC.
EDM's Billing and Collection
3.12        EDM has computerized the pr,duction of monthly scatements of
consumer accounts, yet there was a six-month backlog of billings in 1985.
EDM has reduced this backlog during 1986.  Outstanding debts owed to EDM
increased steadily from MT 530 million at end 1980 to MT 850 million (US$20
million) at end 1984, equivalent to about 10 months of billings in 1984.
EDM implements efficiently a disconnection policy for delinquent domestic
and other private consumers, but about 60% of the total debts were owed by
Government and public organizations* Government has been giving support to
EDM for collection of revenues, and by mid-1986 the outstanding collections
had been reduced to about six months of billings.  These data understate
the true rate of increase since EDM has a policy of writing off debts after
three years. EDM estimates that collections in some areas of Mozambique
are running at less than 50% of billings. EDM's systems for meter reading
and maintenance, billing and collection would be reviewed and strengthened



- 24 -
under the project's technical assistance component for financial,
accounting and planning systems, and the project includes materials and
equipment for improving the accuracy of meter reading (para. 4.04) and the
introduction of the new tariff structure (para. 5.05).
IV. THE PROJECT
Project Preparation
4.01           The composition of the proposed project was determined from
the priorities identified in the Bank's energy sector assessment report,
accounting for about 25% of the proposed program for 1987-1992 in the power
and petroleum supply sectors  (para.  1.28).   The schedules of plant,
equipment, spare parts and materials were drawn up by EDM and PETROMOC with
the assistance of consultants and the Association. The power distribution
and transmission components are based on detailed schedules which will be
reviewed after EDM has carried out an inventory of their current stocks to
the Association's satisfaction.   At Credit negotiations EDM agreed to
complete the inventory by December 31, 1987.  The transport components for
EDM are  based on the recommendations of a study by VIAKI,  Norwegian
transport consultants.   The technical assistance components were defined
and terms of reference were agreed for all of these components during the
appraisal of the project in July 1986 by staff from the Ministry of
Industry and Energy, EDM,  PETROMOC, ENH and members of the appraisal
mission. A Project Preparation Facility for US$1.1 million is being used
to finance advance procurement assistance (US$100,000, see  para. 4.13),
preparation of financial statements for EDM and PETROMOC (US$250,000, see
para 3.11) and the initial foreign exchange costs of technical assistance
to provide operational support to EDM and PETROMOC (US$750,000, see para.
4.07).
Project Objectives
4.02             The main project objective is to bring about quickly a
sustained improvement in the supply and distribution of electricity and
petroleum products in the main urban areas, especially Maputo, Beira,
Nampula and Nacala, where most of the country's trade and processing
activities are carried out.   Thus, the project has been conceived as an
emergency-type operation for rehabilitation of facilities and strengthening
of the relevant institutions.
4.03       The secondary project objective is to support economic recovery
beyond the short-term by helping energy agencies prepare plans for the
sound development of the power (para. 2.17), petroleum (para. 2.29) and
household energy/woodfuels (para. 1.13) subsectors, which would include
cohesive programs for both rehabilitating and expanding supply systems
while limiting premature or non-economic efforts on large projects under
consideration by Government (para. 1.27).
Project Description
4.04       The main featvres of the proposed project, summarized from the
description given in Annex 4.1, are as follows:



- 25 -
(a) power system maintenance and rehabilitation to distribution
systems in Maputo, Beira, Nampula and Nacala; connection of
4,150 houses to the power systems in Maputo, Beira, Nampula and
Nacala (para. 1.14); power transmission system maintenance
rehabilitation; equipment for meter laboratories;
(b) transportation equipment for EDM, including special-purpose
units for maintenance work, light vehicles and workshop
equipment;
(c)  petroleum    product   handling    and    distribution    system
maintenance and rehabilitation, including off-loading equipment
at Maputo and Quelimane and aviation fuel handling equipment;
(d)  transportation  equipment  for  PETROMOC  to  deliver  petroleum
products and maintain distribution facill:ties;
(e) operational support to EDM and PETROMOC through provision of
fourteen expatriate specialists for three years to manage the
operations, engineering and maintenance of transport fleets,
aviation fuelling facilities, petroleum product movement and
power supply facilities;
(f) institutional strengthening of EDM, PETROMOC and ENH through
technical assistance to design and implement management and
financial systems, prepare least-cost development programs and
carry out manpower training; and
(g) household energy planning through technical assistance to the
Department of Energy (DOE) in MIE to prepare a national
household energy policy (paras. 1.13 to 1.16).
Project Implementation
4.05       The proposed implementation period for the project is four years
(Annex 4.2) based on realistically achievable dates for starting project
components with adequate project management effort (para. 4.07). MIE would
be responsible for coordinating the project and has designated a project
coordinator  who  is  acceptable  to  the  Association.    Assistance  on
procurement and to familiarize local staff with the Bank's procurement
requirements would be provided under a PPF at the start of project
implementation (para. 4.14). EDM would be responsible for carrying out the
maintenance and rehabilitation components for the power system, and
likewise PETIOMOC for petroleum distribution.  EDM would use specialist
contractors for complex rehabilitation work, and would appoint counterpart
staff to work with the contractors. EDM would use its own staff for the
routine maintenance work, in some cases with technical assistance which
would also provide training. PETROMOC would carry out the maintenance and
rehabilitation work to its facilities with techiacal assistance from
expatriate advisers provided under the project.
4.06       Consultants acceptable to the Association would be appointed by
EDM and PETROMOC for project engineering and supervision services, by EDM,
PETROMOC and ENH to design and implement management and financial systems,
and by EDM, PETROMOC and MIE to prepare development programs.   It is



- 26 -
anticipated that most of the consultancy services would be provided by
organizations rather than independent expatriates. EDM, PETROMOC and ENH
would appoint counterpart staff to work with and receive training from the
consultants.    In view  of  the  large  number  of  technical  assistance
components in the project, Government would retain technical assistance for
project coodination (US$160,000) to be financed under the project.
4.07            To support the objective of strengthening immediately the
management and operating performance of EDM (para. 3.07) and PETROMOC
(para. 3.09), the estimated foreign exchange costs for the first 6 months
of technical assistance for transport fleet management and for operations
in the power and petroleum systems would be financed from an allocation of
US$0.75 million from the PPF (para. 4.01).   Government's agreement was
obtained at negotiations to use these expatriates for line management
functions   as  well   as   advisers.       Explicit   references   to  line
responsibilities  in  the  TORs  for  this  assistance  were  agreed  at
negotiations.    By the time that the Credit becomes effective,  it is
anticipated that EDM and PETROMOC would have prepared bidding documents for
the rehabilitation and maintenance components and for some of the technical
assistance components.
Project Cost Estimate
4.08               The estimated project cost (excluding US$1.4 million
equivalent of interest on onlent funds during project implementation)
totals US$30.4 million, of which US$25.0 million (82Z) is in foreign
exchange.   The total financing requirement including interest during the
implementation period,  is estimated to be about US$31.8 million.    A
breakdown of the estimated project cost by broad category is given in Table
4.1, and by each project component in Annex 4.3.



- 27 -
Table 4.1: Estimated Project Cost
(US$ million)
Foreign a/  Local      Total
Power System                           4.75        1.74      6.49
Maintenance & Rehabilitation
Transpvrt Equipment for EDM            1.74        0.10      1.84
Petroleum System                       2.35        0.70      3.05
Maintenance & Rehabilitation
Transport Equipment for PETROMOC       2.95        0.14      3.09
Technical Assistance for               3.17        0.32      3.49
Systems Operations
Technical Assistance for               5.82        1.79      7.61
new management and financial
systems and manpower training
Technical Assistance to prepare        1.10        0.08      1.18
subsector development prograus
Project Preparation Facility b/        1.10          -       1.10
Base Costs                            22.98        4.87     27.85
Physical Contingencies              0.36        0.10      0.46
Price Contingencies                 1.66        0.42      2.08
Total Project Costs                   25.00        5.39     30.39
Interest During Implementation          -          1.37      1.37
Total Financing Required              25.00        6.76     31.76
Note: a/  The imported goods would be exempt from duties and taxes.
/    PPP:   TA for procurement and financial statements US$0.35
million; TA for system operations US$0.75 million.
The local costs of about US$5.4 million excluade import duties and taxes
since 1DM and PETROMOC have exemption for imports of the proposed equipment
and materials.   The local cost estimate also Includes the additional
operating costs of the energy agencies Incurred through the project. The
project base costs are estimated  in end-1986 price terms.   Physical
contingencies of 10 of the base costs have been applied to the
rehabilitation components.   Price contingencies for foreign costs in US$
terms have been calculated from the following projected international rates
of inflation: 1987-1.1; 1988-6.9X; 1989-3.4%; 1990-2.31; 1991-2.3Z.  The
price contingency estimates for local costs in US$ terms are based on the
same rates, implying that the Moxaabican currency will maintain its



- 28 -
international purchasing power parity from 1987 throughout the period of
project implementation.   In effect, this assumes that adjustments to the
foreign exchange rate of the metical will be made in line with any
divergence between the rates of inflation in Mozambique and the average
rate internationally.
4.09      The project cost estimates for plant, equipment and materials are
based on current quotations from various manufacturers and suppliers,
mainly in Europe. The cost estimates for technical assistance are based on
man-month cost contracts which cover the man-month rates billed by
consulting firms for individuals, reimbursable items such as international
travel, and subsistence allowance for time spent in Mozambique.   The
average man-month cost for the budgeted 1,215 man-months 12/ of technical
assistance included in the project is about US<;,300.  Within this cost,
the highest rate is US$9,000 for senior specialists in financial systems
and petroleum economists, and the lowest rate is US$3,000 for junior
engineers.
Financing Plan
4.10        The total foreign cost component of the project, estimated at
US$25.0 million equivalent, would be financed by IDA (US$20.0 million
equivalent) and Government of Norway (US$5.0 million equivalent). Thus the
IDA contribution would finance 63% of the total project financing required
(US$31.8 million equivalent). The Norwegian contribution would be partly
as parallel financing to the IDA contribution, for the supply of power
system distribition materials (US$2.04 million equivalent), and partly as
joint financing with the IDA contribution. The proposed financing plan is
summarized in Table 4.2.
Table 4.2: Proposed Financing Plan
Foreign   Local      Total
{(US$ million)--
IDA                                   20.00         -       20.00
Government of Norway                   5.00         -        5.00
EDM                                     -         3.72       3.72
PETROMOC                                -         2.68       2.68
Government of Mozambique                -         0.36       0.36
Total                             25.00       6.76      31.76
4.11      Onlending of US$5.0 million of the Credit to PETROMOC to finance
the hardware components would be at 110% of the prevailing Bank loan rate
at the time of Board presentation, and similarly of US$4.5 million to EDM
at the prevailing Bank loan rate at the time of Board presentation, with
repayment terms of 20 years including five years of grace periods.
Onlending of US$3.7 million of the Credit to PETROMOC and US$5.1 million to
RDM to finance the technical assistance components would be at an annual
fee of 1.75% p.a. with 20 years repayment periods and five years grace
periods. The energy agencies would bear the foreign exchange risk which is
liable to be substantial in view of the present overvaluation of the
Mozambican currency's foreign exchange rate. The conclusion of onlending
12/ Technical assistance manmonths by implementing agency are: EDM - 749;
PETROMOC - 351; ENH - 81; DOE - 34 (Annex 4.1).



- 29 -
agreements for the IDA Credit between Government and EDM and PETROMOC would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness.   The remaining US$1.7 million of
the Credit would be allocated to ENH (US$0.9 million) and DOE (US$0.8
million) for technical assistance The local costs of the project and the
interest financed (about US$6.8 million equivalent) would be funded by EDM
(US$3.7 million), PETROMOC (US$2.7 million) and from Government's Central
Budget for the ENH and DOE components (US$0.4 million).
4.12      The proposed onlending interest rates for the hardware components
reflect the requirement that the beneficiaries of an IDA Credit should pay
the full cost of foreign capital to Government to be consistent with the
Bank's policy of adopting efficiency pricing on the basis of border
prices.     For  sectors  in  which  the  goods  are  or  can  be  traded
internationally, including petroleum products, the project entity should
bear the full effective cost of money payable in international capital
markets. Thus, the onlending rate for the hardware components to PETROMOC
would include a 10% mark-up on the standard Bank loan interest rate. For
public utilities, the Bank's policy is one of full cost recovery from
beneficiaries. Thua, the onlending rate for the hardware components to EDM
would be at the standard Bank loan rate.
4.13         The annual fee for the technical assistance components is
designed to cover the IDA credit service charge (0.75%) and a handling fee
for Government (1.0%).  Technical assistance for institution building for
relatively young enterprises (para. 1.09) would normally be considered as
an equity coitribution by Government.   However, in the present financial
situation of the public sector in Mozambique, it was considered appropriate
that there should be full cost recovery at non-commercial terms for these
two revenue-earning enterprises.   Since this concession would be applied
specifically to the initial phase of institutional development, Government
and the enterprises understand that IDA considers this concession to be
exceptional.
Procurement
4.14      Procurement for project components would be undertaken generally
by ICB in accordance with the Bank Group's standard procurement
guidelines. The exceptions would be (i) for power distribution equipment
and materials (US$2.0 million) which would not be IDA financed but supplied
under parallel financing according to the procurement policies and
procedures of Government of Norway, (ii) the purchase of spare parts for
the rehabilitation of EDM's transport fleet and the replenishment of some
of EDM's stocks of spare parts at Maputo Power Station and for transmission
systems (US$1.8 million), and the procurement of some of the parts and
equipment by PETROMOC for petroleum product handling facilities (US$0.2
million), and (iii) minor civil works which would be procured under
procedures  acceptable  to  the Association.    There would  be no  local
competitive bidding. Training and assistance to the staff of EDM, PETROMOC
and ENH in procurement would be provided by selected individual consultants
under the PPF (para. 4.01) to expedite the start-up of project
Implementation. Similarly, the advance work on financial reports for EDM
and PETROMOC (para. 3.11) would be prepared by consulting organizations
financed under the PPF.
4.15        All contracts of value greater than US$100,000 equivalent which
would be financed from the proposed credit would be subject to prior
approval  by the Association.    Consultants  services for the technical



- 30 -
assistance components would be procured in accordance with the Bank's
Guidelines  for the Use of  Consultants  (August  1981).    The  technical
assistance for management and financial systems would be divided into
sub-components 13/ for bidding purposes, and bidders would be given the
option to bid ior  all the components as a package or for individual
components.   Technical assistance to prepare development plans would be
procured separately for each study. The proposed procurement schedule ti
given in Table 4.3.
Table 4.3: Proposed Procurement Schedule
(USs llion)
Project Component                         Procurement Method             Total
ICB     LCB     Other      Not.       Cost
Methods  Applicable b/
Power System Maintenance           2.33     -        3.08     1.81       7.22
and Rehabilitation, and          (1.58) a/                  (1.23)    (2.81)
4,150 house connections
Transport Equipment for EDM        2.01      -        -        -         2.01
(1.64)                               (1.64)
Petroleum Product Handling         3.28     -                 0.22       3.50
and Dlstribution System          (2.14)                     (0.19)    (2.33)
Maintenance and Rehabilitation
Transport Equipment for            3.25     -         -        -         3.25
PETROMOC                         (2*70)                                (2.70)
Technical Assistance to 1DN         -       -         -       4.51       4.51
at4 PETROMOC for system                                     (3.64)    (3.64)
operations
Technical Assistance to EDM         -       -         -       8.64       8.64
PETROMOC and ENH for new                                    (5.86)    (5.86)
management and financial
systems and manpower training
Technical Assistance to             -       -         -       1.26       1.26
prepare subsector                                           (1.02)    (1.02)
development programs
Total                   10.87      -      3.08    16.44      30.39
(8.06)                    (11.94)   (20.00)
-           ---
Note:  a) Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts finaaced by the
IDA Credit.
b) Not  applicable  procurement  methods  cover  limited  I.C.LB
purchases off-the-shelf, negotiated contracts and engagement of
consultants.
13/  The components are:   (i) financial accounting and planning system;
(ii) organization, managent and manpower; (iii) stock control and
asset management; (iv) management Information systems.



- 31 -
Disbursements
4.16          The estimated disbursement period for the IDA Credit is six
years (Annex 4.4). The IDA Credit would be used to finance 87% of the
foreign costs of all the components in the project except for purchase of
maintenance equipment and materials for power distribution systems, which
would be financed from the Norwegian contribution. The broad breakdown for
the use of the IDA Credit would be US$9.5 million (47%) for equipment,
materials and rehabilitation, and US$10.5 million (53%) for technical
assistance,  IDA financed expenditures would be met through three special
accounts with initial deposits totalling the US$ equivalent of SDR 1.8
million.     All  expenditures  would  be  fully  documented  except  for
expenditures for equipment, materials and rehabilitation contracts of less
than US$100,000 equivalent, which will be reimbursed on the basis of
certified statements of expenditure (SO). Supporting documentation would
be available for inspection by supervision missions.
4.17          Disbursements are scheduled in accordance with the standard
profile for the Bank Group's energy projects in the Eastern and Southern
Africa Region, which is quicker than the equivalent profile for technical
assistance projects.  Most of the equipment, materials and assistance is
scheduled to be procured within the first year of the project program.
There is no standard profile for Bank projects in Mozambique. The project
is scheduled to be completed by June 30,  1991,  (Annex 4.2), and the
corresponding completion of disbursements is scheduled for December 31,
1992.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.18         The records and reports necessary to monitor progress of the
project, its evaluation and the preparation of a project completion report
were agreed during negotiations. The recommended monitoring guidelines for
project implementation are given in Annex 4.5.
Risks and Environment
4.19          There would be no special technical, commercial or financial
risks since the project consists largely of rehabilitating existing
facilities and technical assistance to improve the reliability of meeting
existing demand for electricity and petroleum products.   The main risk
would be delay in project implementation from lack of management resources
in EDM and PETROMOC.   The technical apsistance under the project would
provide support to the managements of EDM and PETROMOC to mitigate this
risk.    With  respect  to  security,  the  project  activities  4"ld  be
concentrated in areas which have been relatively free from the activities
of araed bands. It is expected that expatriates would be willing to take
up technical assistance assignments in these towns, especially in Maputo
where most of the technical assistance work would be located. Hard living
conditions in the towns other than Maputo may deter some potential
applicants for positions.   The assistance for operating the transmission
network would be concentrated in areas which have been relatively
unaffected by sabotage to the lines. The measures to reduce the risk of
delay are the Association's requirement that the technical assistance for
operations to the agencies be started according to an agreed timetable



- 32 -
(pars. 4e07) and the assistance for procurement (para. 4.14).  Use of the
vehicles  funded  under  the  project would  be monitored  during  project
execution by vehicle registry and situation reports prepared by EDM and
PETROMOC.
4.20      The physical environment would be unaffected by the project.  In
accordance with the Bank's environmental guidelines, polychlorinated
biphenyls would not be used in power plant rehabilitated under the project,
and all improvements to petroleum product handling, distribution and
transportation equipment would be designed to North American/Western
European safety standards.   Since the coal-burning generating units in
Maputo Power Station would ;e rehabilitated under separate financial
arrangements (para. 2.11) to the project, the Bank's guidelines on
emissions would not apply to this work,
V. FINANCIAL ASPECTS AND COST RECOVERY
5.01          Since EDM and PETROMOC have not prepared adequate annual
financial accounts, it will not be possible to analyze fully their past
financial performance, the adequacy of present prices or to assess their
future financial prospects until financial statements are prepared(para.
3.11).   Some general observations on EDM's past financial position are
drawn from EDM's outline income and expenditure statements.   Government
agreed at Credit negotiations to (i) establish the patrimony of EDM's and
PE7'ROMOC's assets by December 31, 1987 (para, 3.10); (ii) make EDM and
PETROMOC responsible for servicing their new debt obligations under the
proposed onlending terms (para. 4.11); (iii) enable EDM and PETROMOC to
fund at least 20% of their investment programs in FY89 and 30% from FY90;
(iv) require EDM nd PETROMOC not to incur debt which would reduce the ratio
of net revenues to debt service requirements below 1.5 times; (v) review
with IDA, EDM and PETROMOC the financial statements prepared under the PPF
(para. 3.11) and the financial structures of the enterprises by April 30,
1988, and the adequacy of the cash generation conditions by September 30,
1988; and (vi) submit to IDA audited annual accounts for EDM and PETROMOC
by June 30 of each year, starting with FY88. The project includes funds to
cover the estimated foreign exchange costs of the services of external
accounting organizationsto audit the accounts of EDM and PETROMOC for the
four years FY88 to FY91.
EDM's Past Financial Position
5.02       EDM's financial position deteriorated between 1980 and 1985.  A
major cause of the deterioration was Government's policy of not increasing
power tariffs before January 1986 when an increase averaging 120% was
implemented. The previous tariffs had been established in the mid-19609.
Other major problems are the large amount of unpaid bills and the six-month
backlog of billings (para. 3.12).   In 1985, cash receipts covered only
about 70% of cash expenses and about 50% of total operating costs
(including amortization). In 1986, arising from the tariff increase in
January 1986, cash receipts just covered total cash expenses according to
EDM's provisional accounts.   EDM estimates its annual losses excluding
amortization to have been MT 1.25 million (US$0.3 million at the prevailing
exchange rate) in 1984 and MT 1.45 million (US$0.34 million) in 1985.



- 33 -
5.03          The failure of prices  to cover the actual costs of the
enterprises has been accommodated through subsidies from the central budget
and credit from the banking system. EDM has had to draw extensively on its
credit with 'anco de Mogambique to cover its cash requirements, and at end
1984 EDM's account was in deficit by about MT 2,454 million (US$64.4
million at the prevailing exchange rate), equivalent to nearly 3 years of
revenues from annual billings of about MT 850 million (US$21.3 million) at
1984 tariff-. By end 1985, EDM's debit had increased to MT 3,881 million
(US$97 million).  The debit had not changed much by end 1986, by when it
was equivalent to about 2 years of annual billings at 1986 tariffs.
Optlons fGr rationalizing this situation, such as converting the debit to
long-term deibt, would be evaluated under the technical assistance for
financial systems (para. 3.03).   EDM's past accounts do not Include the
cost of servicing debt on capital since it has been Government policy not
to pass these costs to the operating enterprises.  Thus, for example, EDM
is not servicing from its revenues the repayments of the large foreign
loans for transmission development (para. 2.15).
5.04       Payments for imported power and fuel, which have averaged about
MT 700 million (US$17.5 million) annually from 1984 to 1986, are the
largest item of cash expenditure in EDM's operations and account for about
50% of total cash expenditure.   Thus EDM's cashflow position is highly
sensitive to changes in the prices of imported power and coal (from RSA)
and petroleum fuels and to any exchange rate movements.    The recent
five-fold devaluation of the Metical will increase EDM's cash expenditure
by about two and a half times just as a result of the increase in the cost
of imported power and fuel. However, the increase in electricity tariffs
announced on January 30, 1987 covers these cost increases.   Government
agreed at Credit negotiations to a semi-annual review of electricity prices
with the Association during project implementation.   Annual grants from
Norway and Holland (about US$1.7 million equivalent) have accounted for
most of EDM's foreign purchases for the import of materials and equipment
for operations.
Power Tariffs
5.05          The tariffs that EDM inherited in 1977 from the municipal
electricity supply entities had not been changed since the mid-1960s and
were  antiquated  and  complex.    Due to the development  of large cost
distortions, EDM's financial deficits increased. In addition, substantial
changes took place to EDM's supply arrangements following major investments
in transmission facilities. EDM submitted a proposal in late 1984 for a
major restructuring and increase in tariffs which Government approved in
late 1985 and implemented in January 1986. According to EDM, these tariffs
increased average revenue by about 120% to about MT 3.7/kWh (9.3 US/kWh at
the average  1986 exchange  rate).    The tariff  increases announced by
Government in the January 30, 1987 Economic Rehabilitation Program will
raise EDM's revenues approximately three-fold in meticais term to an
ave.age yield of about MT 11/kWh, although the equivalent value in US$
terms (5,5 US/kWh) has declined by about 40%. The main features of EDM's
tariffs announced on January 30, 1987 are summarized in Table 5.1.



- 34 -
Table 5.1 EDM'S Tariffs
- - - - Tariff Category---
Doseetik    Genersl    Medium 'Joltage    High Voltage
Supply Voltage     220V1380V   226V/380V      500V - 66kV     above 66 kV
Energy Charge
(MT/kWh)           7.6         18.0             8.5             8.5
Demand Charge
(MT/kW/month)      75 a/       75-125 a/        345             300
a/ The tariff is graded according to rating of load limiter, and the
average demand charge varies with the rating.
Source: EDM
5.06      EDM's present tariff structure reasonably teflects the structure
of the economic cost of meeting demand, although not the level, by
incorporating a maximum demand charge as well as an energy charge, defining
the main tariff categories according to the voltage level at which a
consumer is supplied, and including a charge for reactive energy. However,
the tariffs differ from the coats of meeting demand on EDM's systems in a
number of respects, notably the absence of differences in the level of
charges between the interconnected systems supplied from low-cost sources
and the isolated systems, 14/ and the much higher energy charge for the
low voltage general category compared to the energy charge for the
residential category.
5.07      A comparison between EDM's tariffs announced on January 30, 1987
at high voltage supply with ESCOM's 1985 bulk tariff and HCB's tariff for
Mozambique's entitlement to power from Cahora Bassa shows substantial
differences, as shown in Table 5.2.
Table 5.2 Comparison of EDM's Tariff with Bulk Supply Tariffs
1DM               ESCOM a/             HCB a/
Energy Charge (MT/kWh)         8.5                 1.65              0.25
Demand Charge (NT/kW/month)    300                 1(00                480
a/  Tariffs converted at 200NT/US$ equivalent.
Most of the supply to the Southern (Maputo) Region-the main consumption
center (60% of national consumption)-is presently supplied under ESCOM's
bulk tariff, and the region would be supplied presently under HCB's tariff
if the DC lines to RSA from Cahora Bassa were in operation. Thus, EDM's
tariff ought to reflect in part the structure and level of ESC0M's and
HCB's tariffs.   For 1DM's Central and Central-Northern Regions, and the
Southern Region once a firm supply Is resumed from Cahora Bassa to RSA, the
appropriate tariff structure would have a much lower relative charge for
energy than In EDM's tariff. EDM's demand charge is only about 302 of the
charge in ESCOM's bulk tariff.   Until the prospects for restoring power
from Cahora Bassa become firm, EDM's demand charge should reflect the cost
of powers from ESCOM, and thus be Increased by a factor of at least three.
14/ Power produced from Isolated generating plant accounted for 10 of
total power supplied to 1DM's systems in 1985 (Annex 2.2).



- 35 -
5.08      EDM generates most of its cash requirements from an energy charge
of between 7.6 and 18.0 MT/kWh on systems supplied with locally-produced
hydroelectricity in which energy costs to the utility are zero or supplied
by ESCON at 20% of EDM's energy charge (Table 5.2),, This enables EDM to
subsidize consumers on Isolated systems with energy costs that are triple
or more EDM's low voltage energy costs and which are in the range of 25 to
40 MT/kWh with gasoil costed at the import parity price and the post
January 30, 1987 exchange rate.
5.09           The project-funded  technical  assistance  for billing  and
collection (para 3.12) would include a study of EDM's tariffs that examines
the costs of meeting demand and of subsidizing specific consumer groups,
such as those in isolated centers, and EDM's financial requirements.Among
these requirements, Government agreed at Credit negotiations to enable EDM
to fund at least 20X of its investment program from net income after debt
servicing in FT89, ind 30X from FY90.   This requirement is designed to
control the demand on scarce investment resources for investment funds for
the power sector. The study's recommendations would take account of the
direct and possible indirect effects of the recent devaluation on EDM's
costs and the scope for reducing operating costs through efficiency
improvements,  including systems for accounting, management information,
meter reading and maintenance, billing and collection.   The study would
propose a mechanism for adjusting tariffs in response to changes In
production costs arising from factors such as devaluations and changes in
world fuel market prices.   The study would also estimate the cost of
implementing a new tariff system, particularly for new meters and operator
training, and specifically aasess the level of connection charges that are
appropriate to a policy of extending the use of electricity in households.
Petroleum Product Pricing
5.10      Pttroleum product retail prices were not changed between 1979 and
January 1987.  Their structure was based on the end-1979 world price for
crude oil and allocation of the joint cost of production from the refinery
which in effect, cross-subsidized other fuels from gasolines. The policy
for price setting has been that Government takes the full differential
between revenues and costs, and targets subsidles to specific consumer
categories. Petroleum product prices were increased by roughly six-fold at
the same time as the five-fold devaluation of the Netical on January 30,
1987. Current petroleum prices cover at least their economic costs at the
new official exchange rate, and the gasoline prices are over three times
their economic costs (Annex 5.1).
5,11          Product prices would be reviewed under the project-funded
technical assistance to PETRONOC for financial systems (para. 3.11).
Government agreed at Credit negotiations to maintain product prices at
least as high as prevailing import parity levels plus internal costs and
overheads, and to have a semi-annual review of petroleum product prices
with the Association during project implementation. Government agreed at
Credit negotiations to enable PETROMOC to fund at least 202 of its
investment program from net income after debt servicing in FY89, and 30%
from FY90.   The review would also cover (a) the need for an adjustment
mechanism to product prices to eliminate the need for a new decree to
change prices in response to significant changes in world market prices;
(b) the differentials between product prices to avoid Inducing distortions
from the optimal consumption patterns; and (c) PETROMOC's revenue
requlrements to cover operating and financial costs.



- 36 -
VI - PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
6.01       The main economic benefits from the project would be increased
agroindustrial and industrial production through quick-acting relief of
constraints on improving the reliability of electricity and petroleum
product supply to processing and manufacturing plants.   Some of these
plants produce the country's principal export products. The project would
lay the basis for additional economic benefits for the medium and long-term
by developing sound sector development programs.   The project would also
yield social benefits by improving energy supply to urban households,
including   the connection of 4,150 houses to the electricity systems in
Maputo, Beira, Nampula and Nacala, by more efficient distribution of diesel
oil to electricity generators in towns not connected to the transmission
systems and, when supplies are available, by more efficient distribution of
kerosene and LPG.
6.02      The overall economic rate of return on the project investments in
maintenance, rehabilitation, and new equipment and materials and in
technical assistance for operations and new management, financial and
operating system to improve petroleum and electricity supply is estimated
to be 27%.  The net present value of the project at a 10% opportunity cost
of capital is estimated at US$18.7 million. These returns apply to 92% of
total project costs. The remaining 8% of the costs covers the preparation
of development programs and institutional strengthening of ENH for which
the benefits would be substantial in the long term, but they are not
readily quantifiable.   Details of the assumptions and computation of the
economic  rate  of  return are given in Annex 6.1.   The benefits  are
quantified in terms of increased power delivered to consumers (84.5
GWh/year) from the power component and improved supply of fuel to isolated
thermal power plants from the petroleum component.   These benefits are
valued in economic terms at the equivalent of US cents 8.8/kWh based on the
average 1986 tariff rate (9,5 US/kWh) less the economic cost of the
additional energy supplied (average 0.7 US/kWh).   This estimate of the
economic rate of return is conservative since (i) economic benefits from
the project to other petroleum product users, notably for transport,
industry and agro-industry, are not included; and (ii) the valuation of
power benefits according to the existing tariff yield does not take account
of any additional price that consumers are willing to pay for electricity.
Neither of these benefits can be quantified reliably from the available
data.
VII. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01            As conditions  of  Credit  effectiveness,  the Association
would require the following actions:
(a)    Signature  of  contracts  for  assistance  to  prepare  financial
statements for EDM and PETROMOC (para. 3.11);
(b)    Effectiveness of the Norwegian financing agreements (para. 4.10);
and
(c)    Government  to  have  concluded  onlending  agreements  with  EDM
and PETROMOC for the IDA Credit (para. 4.11).



- 37 -
7.02      During negotiations the following agreements were reached:
(a)    The Ministry of Industry and Energy (MIE) to prepare a paper on
household energy policy by December 31, 1989, drawing on the
findings  of  the  project-funded  household  energy  planning
components (paras. 1.13 to 1.16).
(b)    Government  to  review  with  the  Association  the  results  of
studies for subsectoral development financed under the project
and the implications for the energy sector investment program
(para.   1.30), specifically for household energy (para. 1.13),
power (para. 2.17) and petroleum products (para. 2.29);
(c)    Government not to enter into commitments for energy investments
of more than US$ 3 million that are outside the agreed five-year
investment   program  without   prior   consultation  with   IDA
(para. 1.30);
(d)    EDM and PETROMOC to retain experts for operational support to
manage power and petroleum supply facilities (paras. 3.03 and
4.07);
(e)    EDM, PETROMOC and ENH to implement new systems for financial
management,  accounting and planning, stock control and asset
management and management information, and manpower training
and development with technical assistance provided under the
project according to terms of reference acceptable to IDA
(para. 3.03);
(f)    Government, EDM and PETROMOC to implement by not later than
December 31, 1987 compensation packages to retain skilled
manpower (para. 3.04);
(g)     EDM and PETROMOC to present to IDA financial statements as a
condition for disbursement on the components for maintenance and
rehabilitation of power and petroleum supply facilities and the
supply of vehicles to EDM and PETROMOC (para. 3.11);
(h)    EDM  to  carry  out  an  inventory  of  current  stocks  to  the
Association's satisfaction by December 31, 1987 (para 4.01);
(i)    EDM, PETROMOC, ENH and the MIE to appoint consultants acceptable
to the Association for project engineering and supervision
services, to design and implement management and financial
systems, and to prepare development programs (para. 4.06);
(j)    EDM, PETROMOC and ENH to provide staff as specified counterparts
to the expatriate experts retained for implementing the technical
assistance programs to implement financial, accounting and
planning systems, management information systems and for manpower
training (para. 4.06);



- 38 -
(k)   The MIE to prepare a project completion report (para. 4.18);
(1)   EDM and PETROMOC to keep a register of vehicles provided under
the project, with records of the locations of these vehicles,
that would be available for supervision by the Association
(para. 4.19);
(m)   Government to establish the patrimony of EDM's and PETROMOC's
assets by December 31, 1987 (para. 5.01);
(n)   EDM and PETROMOC not to incur debt which would reduce the ratio of
net revenues to debt service requirements below 1.5 times (para.
5.01);
(o)   EDM   and PETROMOC to review with IDA the financial statements
prepared under the PPF and the financial structures of the
enterprises by April 30, 1988, and the adequacy of the cash
generation conditions by September 30, 1988 (para. 5.01);
(p)   EDM and PETROMOC to submit annual accounts that have been audited
by accounting organizations acceptable to IDA to the Association
by June 30 of each year, starting with FY88 (para. 5.01);
(q)   Government to conduct with the Association a semi-annual review of
electricity   and   petroleum   product   prices   during   project
implementation (paras. 5.04 and 5.11);
(r)   EDM and PETROMOC to fund at least 20% of their investment programs
from net income after debt servicing in FY89, and 30% from FY90
(paras. 5.09 and 5.11);
(s)   Government to maintain petroleum product prices at least as high
as prevailing import parity levels plus internal costs and
overheads (para. 5.11).
7.04       With the above agreements, the project is suitable for an IDA
Credit  of  US$20.0 million.    The  Credit  would  be made  available  to
Government for a term of 50 years including a grace period of 10 years.
USS4.5 million from the Credit would be  onlent to EDM at the Bank loan
interest rate prevailing at the time of Board presentation, and US$5.1
million would be onlent at an annual fee of 1.75%. US$5.0 million would be
onlent to PETROMOC at 110% of the Bank loan rate prevailing at the time of
Board presentation, and US$3.7 million would be onlent at an annual fee of
1.75%.  All onlent funds would be repaid over 20 years with five years
grace period, and EDM and PETROMOC would bear the foreign exchange risk.
The onlendin- arrangements would be executed through subsidiary loan
agreements acceptable to the Association.   The remaining US$1.7 million
would be allocated to ENH and the MIE for technical assistance.



EAMXIQE
ENERGY 1WMCAL ASSLSTANE AND REMBILTLTION PW
EN1R! BALANCE: 1984 a/
(tbxsand toe)
Prh-ary Enrgy                                             Petroleun Products
Agric.          HydE       Crxie Char-  Elec-           Gas/  Kerosene/  Diesel Fbel           Lire
Fuelwood Residues 8oal Electricity   Oil  coad   tricity  LP  Naptha Jet Fuel   Oil   Oil Total  Totals
oss Supply
Producticn            2869      25      23       46                                                                          2963
hmports                                 41                88              24     2     19       59       152     6   238      391
Prlnuy Exports                          (9)                                                                                    (9)
Stockaianges                           (12)                (2)                          4      (12)       14    13   19         5
Total Avail. Supply     2869      25      43       46        86             24    2    23         47       166    19  257    3350
Qmverslm
PERtrleun Refining                                        (78)                   1    12        11        17    37   78         0
lkN-Energy Production                                      (2)                                                                  (2)
Berm Slops                                                 (1)                                                                  (1)
Cnarcoal ProdwUctim    (14)                                       14                                                            0
Electricity Geueration         (25)   (38)    (46)                        138                            (23)   (6)  (29)       0
Conmersion losses      (59)                                (5)          (100)                                                (164)
Trans. & Dlst. losses                                                    (13)                                                 (13)
Net Available Supply    2796               5                        14      49    3    35         58       160    50  306    3170
Secxmx(nwy ESxorts                                                                                        (2)  (27) (29)    (29)
Eaker Sales                                                                                     (4)       (3)   (5)  (12)    (12)         S
Net Domestic Cmapttion. 2796               5                        14      49    3    35         54       155    18  265    3129
-                                                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-h
F8 gus given ln    t s   epresent negative qutities.
Source: M!c/ tue: 18ue8 and Options in tbe Energy Sector. Joint World Baz*/UNDP Energy As3e  Progran, January 1987.



- 40 -
ANNEX 2.1
EN=  TECHNICAL ASSISTNC AND   ABIPRWI
UNTALUD PM    E :NIATING CAPACIT N I  1985
Location                Tme                   Omer           Installd Cepcit
2peated by ZIDM                                                           5b
M4aputo Cmntral Station   T                                        111.5 b
Cdca                     H                    mm                    48 cr
mavui.                   H                      m                   52 /
Nacala                   T                    mm1                   15.4
Nbapula                  T                    mmE                    5.0
Qseli1m                  T                    IDl                    8.5
T                     IREM                  5.4
Ltond.                   T                    113                    4.1
Inbaubane                T                     IEM                   2.9
Xai-xai                  T                     31K                   3.4
Lichinga                 T                     S1W                   2.6
Mocuba                   T                     UK1                   1.0
A.che                    T                     gm                    1.7
Tote                    7T                     loO                   10
GurUe                    T                     ESD                   0,4
Other lsolated plants    T                     Z13                   N.A.
Subtotal                                                       2623ib
PrivatelI Ouned Cpct
llragra                  T S.A, Incomti                             18.1
Apacareirs               T  Agucara de Ioxmblque                   15.0
-arromu                  T   Seu Sur                                 9.4
Luabo                    T  Seum Sgr                                13.3
Imoc  Grue               T  Private                                  7.3
Maputo                   T  Petromoc                                 4.2
xlnav..e                 T   S.o  Incousti                           3.6
lEoMapo                  T  C. Ind. Moapo                            3.0
cm                       T  Comupaha Aleodoes Mos.                   2.8
Bui                      T  (bapnhis di Buui                         2.5
Antene                   T  Fabrica Cms  Antems                      2.8
Maca                     T  Fabrics Cliimntos                        2.6
moatise                  T  Carbomc                                  2.2
lotepue                  T  Saagl                                    0.7
Smell bydroplmts         H  various: 9 plants
Subtotal                                                       87.6
Cahra Basa                  H   Hidroelectrica de  NOC              2,075 /
Cabora Basa
Total                                                             2,425.5
Votes: a/   T - Theal, H - hydroelectric
-     Available in Naputo: Coal-f red stem udits:  (3 xIS1M + 2 x 6.253;
derated to 501MW. Gas turbines: Broun Boveri - 37 MW derated to 32 NW
Rolls Roye:s 17 101 derated to 12 1N. Total avalable capacity at laputo
CeQtral Station  94 W.
/   Avalable 1Is as follon: Chicomba; 38 W; llavusi: 29 MW
/ Five turbines of 415 MWl; 5 gu.erators of 480 MVA; average anwual enrgya
capability: 11,900 a1h
lInforation not available.
Source: 1UK1



- 41-                                   ANiEX 2.2
EIW TEGICAL ASSIgrA  AND RARIXITA N PW
PFoDUCfl, IMPORIS AND WPELOWS OF MECIIC$Y IN 1978-1985 al
1978    1979    1980    1981       1982     1983     1984      1985
Production from Cahora Bassa:      8,028   11,542   10,809   3,035    2,540    5,643        109      285
- DelivervA to RSA (Apollo) b/      7,170   10,352   9,594    2,601    2,152   4,835         0        160
- Transidssion losses C/              636    1,027      952      305      293      649       0         24
- Taken by EiM d/                     175      163      263      50       25        37      51        51
Production from EDM's Stations:
-Xabputo Pwer Station                  73      62       63       95       83       97       87       123
- Central hydroe1ectric stations      175      173      158      157      131      128     135        88
- Isolated generating plant           83       87       83       80       89       85       67        54
331     320               33                3i       2
l=ported Power by ElM:
- frnm RSA (toMAputo) e/               78      109       26      234      293      290      280      228
- from a lawi                          2        2        2        2        2        1        2         1
- from private generstors              -        -        -         1       3        2        1         -
Total Supply to El's System           58695-    619                                                    5
Exportedbwer by  I ib (-                       -        -        -        -        3        -         -
Distribution of SWpply to EDP1s Systems in ft!!bg
- Southern Region                     333      342      349      368      391      405      377      352
-Oentral Pegion f/                    175      173      158      160     133       126     135        89
- Cntral-rthen(Tete) Region            66       66       76      79       88       93       98        92
- Iso1ated Load Centers                12       13       12      12        14      13        13       12
ai  Excludirig production and cousumqtion bym        of private generntizg facilities for their om  ume.
b/ Cahora Bassa Exports to RSA started in 1976 - 1226 GWh dellvered; 1977 -4241 GWh delivered.
Delivered quantities are net after deducting resepot of HC  powr to Km1
tbrough ESaMX's system.
c/ Cahora Bassa transmission losses are generally estimated at 9Z of sent out energy based on line
power ratings. Actual losses wre apparently different fron tbese estInates in seyea*rs.
d/  E4 entitlement taken wetly for Maputo throh ES#CD syste8, and a smll proportion directly
frmcn Cahora Bassa to Tete and to the Central-Worth line fron 1983.
e/  Inport8 paid at ESCDM bulk tariff by ElM!
f/   1980 conauAptlon by nfi load centers (GWh/year): Beira/Dondo/buzilMdfuhisw-102; Chdxo-30;
other centrs-13 after system losses (about 9% of sent out energy).
Source: EX



. ANNEX  2.3
- 42 -                                        Page I of 2
ZanyC TaN ICdL "SStSSUN M  UAWSLLTAT1OV PROJ=C?
wnS or M       ,RS=
Mtn  - meu USUM  sMDT
Obleclve of the Study
The Specific objective of the study are to estabilsh cleat
oprattonal rules nd procedues for the economc utilisation of different
pomer sources for eating demad in the three  ain grid aysem  of ON at
leat ecooamic coat to msabique, to *etinte the ttfancil coat to gm
of metig this deand and to propoe meures to ensure that dad can hO
oet in the event of major disruption to amo  of the supply aurcee.
Scone of Vork
The Scope of vtrk fot the Study is as tollows
(i)  Asses the preaet operating procedures and existing and planne
tactlitie  tor cystem operation oad load dispatch ad task
ecadomndttons for new fcwlitrle  required for *ysta
operation.
(i) Identify present and future operational needs and define a plan
for optimal system operation and poer supply Management
procedures.
(1ii)  getablits  the econoc and finantcol costa of the optiona
avalAble to Elt for supplying power to Its thr  Gain grid
aystens.
(iv)  Ideatity ebo organizational requitomat and the oesulting
traig  aeed to   pl_ent the propoed procedure. taking La
cositderation the anpower Planning, IMvelopeant and Treainng
Study prently beiag carried oAt by Mlt.
(v)  Prepe operating marua  for tohe proposed procedure..
(;i)  Ptopose contingency supply back-up and dmand managemnt muree
ad "aocisted capital development for meting reliably the
dAnd in Maputo ti the event of prolonpd lose of power ftm
sources outsido tApto.
Tem  of Reference
The Term  of Reference for the Study are a  follows
(i)  Reviw eW   evalaate the preseat an tfutur technical faclities
tn te thrte  mal grid system  ia detal until 198 ad i
general until 1992 itcluding the adeuacy of capecities and
operationa caonditi    of indv1dul system   o       _mponent to enae
the  Stes to met anticipeted reqire-iutae and Make
recomatioes fot repair and rplacen  inclad     uptading
AMC* necessary, spare, parts and ateriatt.
(it)  for the Mlapto ae, the cosultants  hall, n additto, preps
altertive     loc l 1Opy  Srcee to  _nt  the OitaSeg
pinn station capacity go coetr at leat coat the Peosibility of
total baa of power transmitted to the ar*e through the existing
netfottnered transniaioe sytem, The  _etMnded power    M
6sal be cosidered " a  astand-by back-up facility which wi  be
able to met the load L the ar. The -coesutats shl else
reco_aed load _mgemat measuift  ua8ig th  evisaged local
enerati  faclity ad system contol facilities.
(tit)  ZWeleste equpment atadads, defining ed Identifying
requirmets to bring up exidting so  pland facilities to tbeme
Standards.
l)  R         ad evl"ua  technical serVIce  ea8g8ed Ln the operatine
mad mintats e of the geeration an  trnSisenio    ftacilitie
including operational flo  dlagras  for the tbhre ma grid
*yte".  Wecannd agea  of inpoVeant So  as to assure
consistency tn oepstating ad monitortig the thre main grid
System.
(v) Prepare the neaaaary smaul, both in  nglihb and Portuguese,
describing In detal plant specitic proedres for,t
(a) switcbing and operation ordersn
(b) safety and work clearante
(c) records a  reeordeepting;
(d) work mtbods for anwlys ot unusual or unaticipated
ptebleco;
(a)ispasio  ed aingatemeel



-43 -                                     ANNEX 2.3
Page 2 of 2
(f) any other manuals recommended for operation purposes.
(vi) Define the overall responsibilities in detail and in particular
procedures for:
(a) unit commitment of generating plant;
(b) system load-frequency control;
(c) establishing optleal opetation rules and procedures for each
of the three main grid systems (the least cost dispatch);
(d) collection of regional power system data and preparation of
annual energy forecasts.
11.        On the basis of the findings and recommendations of the above
tasks, prepare short term and long term trafning programs In accordance
with required specialittes, on-the-job and outside Mozambique, with cost
estimates and scbedullg, taking into consideratlon EDM's Manpower
Planning, Developmaent and Training Study.
Reportlg Requirements
12.       The consultants shall submit the following reports:
(1)  an Inception Report, summariing organization and schedule of
future work, within 1 days following the starting date;
(il) a Progress Report giving statement of work performed, the
consultants' findings and any relevant facts which should be
reported at the consultants' discretion.Thls report shall be
presented halfway through the consultants' work period;
(Ill) a Draft Final Report showing all work performed, findings and
recommendations   of    the   consultants,   Including   maps,
schedules, instructions, drawings and diagrams. This report shall
be presented wlthin 15 days of completions of services; and
(iv) a Final Report Incorporating all approptiate comatnts from EDM
and the World Bank which shall be provided within 45 days of
receipt of the  Draft Final Report.   This  report shall be
presented within 15 days of receipt of comments.



aN~ Q?E  AV N N*R    EMM                       WEr,; l979 - L9
(tm)
-                              lg~~~~~~~~~~~~179  198  lssi        sig         19          198         198;
IR}                          12,681      13,394      lls09l      1(),2        71,7t(      3,215       4,S5
Avlatim  eaAt                 1,012       19113       19,273      1,ov          8bB         773         237
rz   Gimim                   389,974     37,955      34,2B       37J,431     4D.CD9      32,966      31,766
JP14eow                      60,(B       W9,463      71,a2       74,228      65,847      52,61;8     46,129
On  QUIlld                  217v990   2 0S         Z M2,436     2299,999    202,969      177,6S.2   1 98,515
1iA m                        53,666      51 086      49,M2       48,448      35,W25      24&94       V53
96tild                      W3B,7       4153        409,429     401,39       M,998      29,211      30,=D
PF alw ad *4aw7vCM                    8,54        7,Z3        5,817       4,%5t
Lube ODs12,370                    13,8s       12,59      12v60        11,6CB 
amam ~    ~      ~      7 W5                    811         7&          69J
9iltt                        MD,179      23,         M1,638      19,W         16,900      7,574 at    8,C0M  / 
3. M%dPetvolm Deriativm 4%,-W  X,7W     4sOU        4,5%        3%f,,M      2W,7ffi      311,=
Ahdti   GMDM4                                31         264         354          25         240
JP1                           69,551      7,781       4,516       4,99D       4,7:Z6      3,748
an (1                        43,92       211,73      15,666      17,876      10,476       1,n71
Dis    Ml                     71,92       6,5M        5,23        4,893       3,598       1,018
Elxil Qll            ~~~~~63,7                    P 6@    45,76       13,455       4,919
sdptotd               M,878                   746         73,D        32,26D      if1k
C. X*i (A +B)                           Mt;43D     541,t013    32,38B5     494$091      41*L%       311,4B7     311,820
Noaik*         Pt&t     t (Cwtn f4wmt wafA) 
3fX:                                                                                                      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4



._ s-        spIR     cZCu. ASSISTNCEAND REAILITATION PRWJECT _-A - 2.S
PETROKOC: PETROLEUM SUPPLY STUDY
O,JECTIV8S
The objectives of this study are to destodn  unar hat
conditions refinery operations could again be aconaeically viable, whether
by changes to crude oil Lnput, by moditfication and/or addition. to the
refinery equipmet, or by changes in operating, organizattonal or
coiprcial procedures.
SCOPB Of MOtE
(a)  Evaluate dometic petrolei  products demd estimates for purpose
of developing appropriate deman scenario. for years up to 2000,
as veil as the demand for poseible refinery expots, particularly
to neighbouring countries.
(b)  Detemine  hether product specifications now used to Nosabtqua
*re appropriate, conildering the possiblo coats and benfit.
Involved in a reductioa in certain specificatioa levels; fd thee
define suitable specifiations to be used in the study.
(C) Develop scnarioo fot the future evolutton of border prices of
orted cxude oils and petrohlum products, and of products to be
exported.
Cd)   stimbte the optum  production pattens processing a variety of
crude oIls that are expected to be available to Mosasbique. and
are most likely to result to a profitable operatioa whea
conidering yield structure, product quallty and cost delivered
to Maputo. Possible feedtocks considered should include
recontituted crude oilS   d/or condensates.
(e) 0o the basit of the optimal pattern ascertalned under (d), and
border prices under Sc), estimt the future economc viability
of the refinery ti it's preset configuration.
(f)  Evaluate the Impact of modifying existing equipmnt or Installing
new units, on retftiey viability. Speciflcally, considr a nw
thermaL cracker, convrson of the existing No.2 distillation unit
to tberma cracking, ad/or conversioa of the gs oil hydrofiner
to aild hydrocracilag of vacuuo gas oIl.
(S,)  Evaluate the ipct of cost Saving meas    open to the rfSinery,
Including eergy conosrvation  eaure, chaues to previous
operatint  procedure, an  orgnatlonal changes.
(h)  Impect the reftiney and estimate the cost asscated with
startlg it up again.
ti) Evaluate the imc    oan crude oil and petroleum product costs of
alte  ative procuremnt and/or finacing procedure.
Cj) Uhre ay ne  capital investments are found to be justifiable, the
return on li"tmets shoud be calcuted  and the slentivttiy of
the retur  to varition  Id the pramters of the analysis mbowU
be estimted.
ounuts
(a) Definitio  of product doe     scenarios up to the yer 2000, an
crude oil and product price scea rios.
(b)  Defiition of alternative s*pply scurto, inacluding product
.imports only, or domtic refining with balancing imorts and
(c)  Definitice of the optisa  sopply strstegsy  asuidg no major
tefiery capital expeniturs are made other thna t_we needd to
restart the refifey.
(d) Evaluation of the economic viability of each tn process
livtmnt considered, ad Is's effect on the optios strategy
defind undr (c).
(a)  tretatio  of reco_mendations aS to the sceically met
attrctive  verall upply, strateg  to Supply prodcts to
Nufblq"*
So durtin ci ths project will be app*romatly 6 sew, with
a esesmt seatf it of *9 mea-msnthe.



- 46 -                                   Al 2.6
EUT T3C-MIlCAL AUSIWU am          I          PROJECT
FUTROIOC: 13T1.LtSU UISTRIUUIIOU STUDY
(a) To devlop the opti  plea for the retionsLigatiou of storege
ot petroleum products to all parts of the eoutry.
(b) To develop reCoMtndations for the ratioaliration of storage
am handling facilittes of the petrolem companies Oprating to
Ilrosbique, and for the the mot  of fest ntegrtation of the
operations of the varios distributi ton comtpe.
(c) tvaluete the basi an  struture of freight tariff rates, by
mode_ eOaMIn  adeAOcy in coerndg espectiv  Qosts ot transport,
and recommad retionalilstion of tfreSbt tartiffe.
(d) To develop an overall operating plan for the distrtibution
copaies, optimising the um  of botb transportation and depot
tecilitise
(a) Identify opportualtie to lacrerse the transit of products to
inlad territories, with roultant benfits to Noralque.
bCOlt 0? YO
Ca) $MM a complete iveatory of all tetminaL and deot facilitie  io
'o4abique, to confir  storage capaciti, loading capcetties and
acess to tranportatto. Ispect thes  faeilities to eure all
""Pui   t  in the Inventory to serviceable.
hb) Using as a bais the demand scesarios developd in the Petroloum
Supply Study, estimate demad In each prvince up to tho year
*   000.
Ce) Detodere the preset  costs of.transportatic  of petroleum
Products In Htsabique, whethor by coastal tanke, rail or rood,
s qmll as the prnat capacity available in ecb maode.
(d) Determine tho optila (least cost) ovrl strateg  for the
supply of products to eah of the taminal or depot locations,
for two basic cass
i) AUl product Imported, and
ii)   etfiey is oprtion.
(e) Determine Is which cases duplicated terminal or depot facilities
would bent be lntegrated, and in these cesb   hw ouc Integration
V"ld bst be achieved.
'-)~~~~~~id                       of tbne t          $l tbG hfcltl lF Z
= ecnomi bane  to he dOrived, an  the returm  n Invest
propoed.  etemne tfe sesitivity of ths return to vartitons
in demd, or to varttais in the cwptal ad operating coots
"sociatd with the lvtmet.
(a) A detaled sury of all petrolem poduct terinal, depot ond
trampoet fatcliti.
(b) A comperso  of curret petrolm produet trmport costs with
tariffs, with recomamedations for ay chages to exsting tariffs
ed to procdues to be usd for futur  tariff 4djustent.
(c)   eomeeatioms for au  oveall pla for th  ratlonalliation of
existing distributio  facilites, nd for the future supply of
products to thee facilitis.
(d) ProposeR  for any ne  capital inetments requird to Implmnt
the abov  stiatepg, toether with economic Justifications for
suc  inestment.
Ul*~AND UORU
The durtime of the project *111 be appro*,mtely 6 msths, witb
a semoutat staff input of 10  saes-nths.



- 47 -                          ~~ANl 3. 1
- 47 MMUL                                    Page I of 2
"UBan TICUICAL ASSISTAN4CI MUt IttAII.ITATION PILOJECT
531: FINANCIL. ACCOUNTNG PLMIGADEDGTU   ITN
(Smiplarc Tts or AMe Com9nent I Ot VKTKWWCr and tNEI-
(a) Overhaul existing ftiancial, accounting and planning  nd budgeting
systems and it necessary . desgu and implament a set of integtraed
nw systems to enable gum to  earcise ftinancial control of
Its operationa.
(b) Oesgp and tiplement a set ot financial, accounting and planning
systems, giving parttiular attention to ZON's needs dotin d tn the
opeo .of tIe work.
(c) Update and finalite tha finaneial results of BON to establish
consolidated balane e sheets, income statements and sources and
wuce ot fundbs i an acceptable tornat and to comply with
govramemnt deese and locally acceptable accounting practices.
(d) Provid  on-the-job training for at least fifteen (15) tDo
personnel n the area" of financial, accounting and planning
system particularly during the preparation of the
aforesmnitonqd tfiancial statemeats.
(e) InAtitute a set of systems and procedures to tactilitate the
financial, accounting and planning functions of the company.
(f) Recommend and laplesent optimal computer utilization fot the
financial, accounting ad planing functions of the company.
(g) Design and t plmnt a sore efficient tariff structure, billing
and collection system for tsa with the objective ot controlUlng
accounts receivable  nd iprontgq revenues.
(h) examine the tent' 0e6l9 required to seat 5D011s inancital
objectives up to and includiag 1992.
SC_    OF 7 WORKl
(a) Rewiew and evaluate thL existing financial, accounting and
planning systems to deteriane their applicabiltty.
(b) Oesign ad implement all tha requiret  financial, accoating an8
platnnig systems to intclude at least the followingt
accounts payable and receivable
cash management
cost accounting and coat centers
internal auditing
budJet planning and coatrol
billing ad collection
a  wall a  a pltauing system ItWked to the company's budgeting
proce"s.  to addition, the conatltent  shoeld doslgn and impl_n t
any othes systems which will enable the company to extercie
ad_uate financiaL control ad generate the noecessay financal
data to asedst managueete decielonorimtIng. These s*ubystm sh-ud
be pert of the generaL accounting system of the company.
(c) Develop linhageo that integrate thes systems with the systems tot
tiventory ad stock conttol and tore asset valuatton and asqet
sMnagmant.
(d) Oevelop a set of manuals for eacb subsystes that are easy to use
and dtrectly applicable to EON.
(a) Develop a budget and budget control system compatible with the
general ccounting an  plnaning *syste  of the coupany. Ths
should liclude a system for monitortag project cost and
expenditures.
(t) Upda and prepare fitnl financial statemets for 131 for 1%$$ and
it.tiuate procedures for propeting 1986 results due by March
19d7.htis activity should  nclude the full-time paRtitpatioo of
EMU peronsn l s*ob that the company vill be abla to prapane
consotlted ftnantial statents without out*s4e aslstaune.
Ibis training compoaent shkuld Include tOe utilisution of
appropriate airecemputors
(5) ToSether with compay peremneal Institute oedaitDttattve systems
snd Proedres tor the finnttia   l * aceontin  and planti" ares.



- 48 -                                      ANN1EX 3.1
(b) C    trise all polsble flnalol, accountlag and planning                 Page 2 of 2
tog  the  s ot tI  system 3 recently acqired by the comy
aN  other  icttocOuters an  termials to be A"cured. This
lsilude  trainig SO   eronnel in the Opttl utillastion ot thts
hard""e.
(1) De"i  end reomnid an efficient billing  nd collection system.
Usable manuals an  training  ould be provided to 0JI personnel.
(j)  eview existing tariff Lvels Gal   p:ope modifications to these
levels to euable UKD to gSenerto the revenUe truiaed to covr
anticipated operating and capitsl ep_ditures up to and includlag
1992
OUTPUTS
The outcome and outputs of thi project componant are$
(a) Fnencia, aoccounting ad planning system  that acorately
teflect the operations, budgets and plans of SMN. To the
exteot possible, tbhse sbould be computerised.
(b) Distinct usable oaowal for each system*
t               (e) At least fit tem (15) and perhaps nore trained pesonnsel in
31 to utilize thes  eystems and effectively mnage the financal,
accounsting and planning activities of the company.
Cd) Computerliatlon ot tbhse *IymS and full utiliantion by eKI
personnel.
(a) A budget, basd on the com_y's plan for at les"t one fiscal
yer to be devloped jointly with SM usnageamnt and plasnnig
department.
(f)   P     _t    for tariff levels baed on the flnncial costs of
mee        the d_emd for poer by the variots cos_tm   categotres.
(g) A billing ad collection system integroted with the appropriate
finanlcl and accounting system  with usble  anuals.
It isto uetood that while the 9xiscipal output of this proiect componet
is an integrated set of fincile, accountig and plannin  and budgetin
syste  that are function    of equal iportance is the on-tbe-job trainin
to be ptride   by the conultants such that by the end of the project there
wll be St lest twsnty-five (IS) SM personnel odequtely trained in this
The conultantso aO  encoutod to propose their approaehes and
methodology for undertainAg this project. ther Staff allocation should
ioclude the requied wmber of bookk-pk    r and accountats to imlement
thes  oystem  IS UK's logiemal Centers is Iauto,  isas  and  ampul anA to
provide  ppo     te treainig to SOW staff.  Nowev r, It ti onvaged that
the projecc t    be divided Into twe phses. The first pbhe ot up to nine
(9) months will be dn4ieatd to the more lindiata neds of UK ia this
area wbhih tinludseveluatio  of esting sys I t , updating inancsial
rsulto for 1985 and prparin  those of 1986 *ad training at last fifteen
(15) numbers of the fintncalA On  accounting departaaet io tPas
sat'Lvit. The usecnd phas1e Wi  incorporate all the actvtie  requreO
for the d4esgn sad implemnttioa of all the fltoiala accouoting sad
planning  nd budgeting system, billing end collectio togetbhr with their
rpective training componet to additon, consultants will 1upl _emt the
optimal compute utilisatien for all systme and ttrai ao addltional
twenty-five (25) M personnel i this arms.
DURATION 6     _BORL
Tbe duration of this project will be over two years in accordane
with thi scebdules
- Phase I - NVne amoths from the beginning of tbh projeet.
- Phos I1 - Toasty-onM "onth following the en of the ftint phose.
IT  consultats staff input requireet is espetod to be about sevnty
(y0) ma-months. Coneultant4* an also expeted to bring three t  PC/A
or Itad aociatod  ottwr  for taeIr us  to be rellqished to
llO followiag the completion of the W pops   project.



- 49-
NOZI49Q- S                            ANNEX 3. 2
SNERG  TECHNICAL ASSI=AI_ID R8WILZ?ATION PRoJeT
TLENS OP R8znsENcu
SUN: ST=O  CNOL&ASTMANAGEMEN
(a) to implenent stock control and asset manaemet system  and
procedureQS fOr SO both at headquarter and its regional offlce.
(b) to determlie an approptlate value for SUNOs ""ts an
inventories.
(c) to laplemnt a system for optisi procurseet planing for
equipment.
(d) to provide training to SUN personel both at headquarter and in
the region  in stoek control ad asset manaement.
(e) to computerise thes systeas and proceduree and lntegrate them
with the general accounting system of the company.
scwPe OF IIOIU
(a) update the diagnosttc work prepred by EDP.
(b) surey all of SUM's assets nd i nventories, both at headquarten
nd In tim regions, with the purpose of Implementing a
codifitation and control system and deriving a monetawy valu tor
them.
(c) desip aod Implement system  and procdWures tfr as et maagment,
stock as4 liventory control and procuremeat of msterial.
'4) to the exteut possible, computerise thes system to easure
efficient opivations.
(e) develop and Implament a training program for at least fifteen (15)
UeN persone-l at hadquarters and an equal number tS the regions
in the use of th4se systee.
(f) Integrate thes  systems and procedures with the geeral and
financl l system of the company.
(g) provide an accrate monetary value for 1DM's a asts and
inventories which will appear in Its consolidated balance shet
for 1985 and subsequent years.
(') review, deftine and implemnat approptiate personnel and
adelaistrattve s stem  and procedures within the company for as*et
Sanagoemat, lnveatory control and proemaet.
(1) prepare usable memale for all thes  system and procadores.
OUTPUS8
Th outputo of thle component include:
(a) an inventory of all &I's equipmant, assets and other properties
thCrovgb a odern systen of coditication and control.
(b) a monetary valuation of all 8SU  asets and Inventories.
ac) a set of integrated system oad procedure tor inventory
control, aset mnageusat a4d procuremat. To the extt possible
theos should be co mterzled.
(d) a training program to permdt El to manage its assets, inventorie
aNd procuremeat more affectively and economically.
KrODOLG
Consultants  r soliCIted to present their approach  aend
methodology for undertaking this project.  owaver, it s envisaged that the
project will be divided Into three phasescoditlcatioa, aset aod ioventoty
valuation aad system  implemontetio. Tralniag Is to be conducted
oa-the-job tbroeahut thes phaoes.
SCDLS An  RhOURCh
It So estImated tha  %hi projct Ulu be conducted ever a
them  your period   lisiSI  VPpiestoy aevoty (70) men-mactm.



-50-                                       AN=E 3.3
MOZAMBI us
ZusRGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANC FAD REUHAlLlTATION PMUJECT
TERMS O REFERENCE
EDMs MANACM1ENT INFORMAnION STSTM4
(Similar TOR for Sane Component for PETROMOC)
OBJECTIVIS
The objective of this project component io to develop and
implement a basic management information system for 1D4 which will provide
aanagement with syatematic Information to carry out their functions in
operations, budgeting and planning more eff icintly.
SCOP8 OF ACTIVITIES
(a) A survey of-current and prospective information flows and needs
internal to the company and externally with government agencies,
clients and customars.
(b) An assessment of management information needs and reportinog
requir_ents.
(4) A basic HIS desiga tailored to the company's needs, current and,
prospectivo.
(d) A pilot program for lmplementation covering at least one fiscal
year.
(a) Computerization of the system with minimal hardware costs and
utlizxig work done so far in this area.
(f) Integration of the MIS system with other flnanclal, acoounting,
plannsng and operating systems of the company.
(g) Tratinng of at least ten (10) EDM personnel at headquarters and
fifteon (15) in the field in the use of this system.
OUTPUT
The outputs of this project component ares
(a) An operationaI easy to use MIS system tailored to company's need
which integrates headquarters and regiona. offices and depots.
(b) A system which incorporates all other systems in the company
lncludIng billing and collection.
(c) Computerliation of the system utlidzing existing hardware and
current activitie in the ED? areas and at a minimmm cost.
(4) A set of manuals to be used for traininS that can be easlly
utilized.
(e) A training program to ensure full utilizatLon by LDI personnal.
This project should be undertaken only upon the completion of at
least the first phase of the other technical assistDane cosponnts such as
financial and acountaig systems, planaing and budgeting. Tbis will ensur
the iacorpotation of these systems Into the HIS. Purchase of computer
hardest. must only be consideed after the design phase and after careful
assesment of SUK currest ad future needs with the objective of lnstalling
the best systems configuration for the company.
SCEEKULE.AND RESOURCES
This project shourd begion following completion of the first phae4
and mll Into the second phase of the financial systems component. This
will ensure tho integration of all other system Into the proposed MIS. In
addition, EM should utllixe its existiag data processing activlties as
fitst step in the deolsg and implementatlon of the proposed MIS. The
resources required for this assistance are envisaged to be about
tenty-seven (27) man-onths.



- 51 -                                        AN=1 3.4
tlOZIIIIIQylS                        ~~~~~Page   1 cof 2
ItRGY TECINIC.L ,SUTNCE MID .                       WLITION PROJECT
PETRCSIOCs O_OAIItZA0.  IANUI    TINING KMD AMNWIIO   DIVE PE
(S'-taIr Tom for DNt-Nbpower Ttrinag am Developmet am   a-MOgVAStOU
and Manpower Delopmnt cmpom_nte)
O8JECTIES
The objective of thi componet ares
(a) Streanlie an  rationalism the organlsatiowl structue of
PfTOC to ensure offictecy and eceneo   to pet@olGu  plaing,
development, distrlbution and operations.
(b) Provide adequate training to anagam_mt to enJure sooth
operations iad mndee manageset techniques througb a combination
of anag8emet and technical tradiAng. The latter will bh covered
to some anent by other studie  proposed  by this mission.
;' t pleewnt a manpower development progra which wiLl meet the
current and future manp_r needs of the compay on a Wor
ratloa l and proarmd bal4.
SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES
The scope of activities of thls project could be divided Into
three phases a dIagnostic, design snd Implementation phase and will
include the folloeings
(a) Rvlow and evaluate PBTRO#C'a ch4rter and objectives as
perceived by management and relevant governmnt ministries.
(b) Evaluate the coapany's orgAniaatloo structure detaIU1ng Its
strengths and weakenmsee.
(e) Recommynd orgaisatonlal provenenta.
(d) Evaluate PEtS0#DC's distribation centere and affiliates Ln terms
of organizational efftctiveness with the view of lacreoasng or
decreasing ceanraliataio of activiLtia.
(a) Evaluate ad recoamed a m*anaement training progra  both in
HaUpto and the moor distributioe ceeters.
Cf) Evaluate ad recommnad a manpower planig and iplentatlon
program for the short and medium tem.
Following this diagnostic phase, a deign and 1iplemntotlon phae should
begIn which will LaClude the tollowing activities:
Cs) Desge a mere rational and streamlinad orgmnlaitioal structure to
MET IOC's courent and toreseable level of operatios. te is
usgseeot  tliFlU                 with PEoNGWC's ms tsmat
(b) Impleet   se t of stw ad proedures to strengtnhe  the
imtitutionl and organinstoal capsblities of the company.
(I) Carry out a managemt  training prgam which dws upon training
seminas avalLable   4 _lesatisnlly ad others that tocus on
improving daly manaeamet Nd opeatse  ot a petrolem  .ompa.
Thin Should be desgnd asd Implemented jointly with the tecncal
training compont bich is part ot this program.
(j) Implement a Verso el aIl manpomer devselopmet program deeigned to
fultill the current and long-tor  mnpowe  needs of PFtRDOC.
The outputs ot thi component ares
(a) a  oet efficent and stecmliuned organisationl struture for the
company, flesible enoug  to absorb pesoible chag_   1i  the level
of the company's aetlvitie.
(b) ograls ation moanuls for eacb department of the copay outlining
in detail major functions, epottin  trquirements  Ortganlmstinal
relatioohipe, nystem  and proceduroe togther with methods for
msintaLinng ad u ting thee manualsl.



ANNEX 3.4
52-                                     Page 2  of 2
(c) personnel manuals detaillng personnel policies, hiring and
dismissing procedures, compensation and benefits policies.
(d) training program for at least three different levels of the
company top m geiment, middle management and technical personnel.
These should fill specific need identifled in the first phase of
the project.
(a) a manpowr developsent program, particularly in the areas of
procurement sd distribution, financial planning and control and
ganeral maagement.
NSTIODOLOGT
Consultants are encouraged to propose their approach to this
project compoe nt.&owevets it is Important that the project focas on
loplem_tation imd training. It Is suggested that a maximum number of
PETU.OIC personnl be trained in the  full utillzation of the implemented
.system and procedures.
!CKDULSR   SOURCES
The duration of this projsect is expected to be over two years. The
consultant input requireamut is of about forty-nine (49) man-months.



- 53 -
Annex 3.5
MOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
EDM: MAPUTO POWER STATION ASSISTANCE
OBJECTIVES
The main objective of the technical assistance to EDM for the
operation of its thermal power station In Maputo is to assist EDM's
generation management in improving the cperating procedures for the Maputo
Power Station in its technical and managerial aspects. The technicians
involved in this assistance will have line management responsibilities.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms of reference for this assistance are as follows:
(a) follow up the major rehabilitation work presently under way and to
be put in hand;
(b) assess future needs to complete power station rehabilitation;
(c) prepare adequate operations procedures and standards;
(d) prepare material stock levels for maintenance and operation
purposes;
(e) prepare adequate maintenance procedures and in its implementation;
(f) prepare power station workshop organization and job procedures;
(g) monitor coal and other fuel stocks as well as its standards;
(h) prepare and implement Maputo Power Station management procedures
in coordination with the actual company structure; and
(i) prepare and implement a training program for the power station
staff with emphasis on an on-the-job program.



- 54 -
ANNEX 3.6
MOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
EDM: TRANSMISSION SYSTEM ASSISTANCE
1. OBJECTIVES
The main objective of this transmission assistance is to assist
the Transmission Directorate of EDM to keep proper operation and
maintenance procedures and standards; the objective is also to advise the
Directorate to implement and consolidate its reorganization. The
technicians involved in this assistance will have line management
responsibilities.
2. TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms of reference for the transmission assistance are as
follows:
(a) Strengthen the technical capacity of the Transmission Department.
(b) Implement a performance follow-up program of the present installed
transmission equipment.
(c) Assess present operation and maintenance standards and propose
improvements.
(d) Evaluate the engineering condition of existing and new systems
interconnections in EDM's transmission department.
(e) Select equipment, materials and hardware adequate specifications
for EDM's present and future transmission systems in EDN's
transmission department.



NODZAMBlIOUs
ENORY TECHNIOrL MISMANCZ PROJECT                             ANN          3 7
TERMeS OF REFtERENCE3                              AIIIX3.
-Em  oi  -FUC                                      Page 2 ofI
eDH:  DISTRIBUTION STUDY AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
OBJECTIVES
The main objeectives of the distribution study are to enable EdM to
establish general atandards and procedures for its distribution systems,
and to assess, evaluate end review all existing aistribution practtees in
EdN. The technicians involved in this assistance will have line manegelent
responsibilities.
8C.OPE OF tORK
(a) Advise EdH9s distrtbution management on all distribution matters.
(b) Assess the present distribution standards in use throughout EdMis
systems.
(c)  Evaluate and review EdKis distribution standards and propose
improvements accordingly.
(d) Identify present and future distribution operating practices and
define a sound program for improving power supply to consumers.
(e)  Assess and review EdN's present distribution maintenance
procedures and propose improvements accordingly.
(t) Identify organtiational and technical requirements in EdHis
distribution sectors, and propose modifications where needed and
a training program to improve distribution related activities.
(g) Prepare distribution manuals, operating sheets, distribution
en8ineering charts and forms  distributton maps and graphs and
other distribution documents as needed.
Terms of Reference
(a) Advise EdHis distribution manager on all distribution system
daily practices and procedures;
(b) Carry out economdc ev#luation of new sedium and low voltage
lines, In terms of inovstment and operating costs versus
expected revenue.
Ce) Prepare urgently required designs for areas with critical
low-voltage condition and for areas to where new medium and/or
low voltage lines will be extended.
C4) Review existing criterta for future expansion of its urban and
rural distribution systems in terms of:
- Doad forecasting: utiliration equipwent, load characteristics
(load factor, diversity of coincidence factor, power factor),
survey of typical conauers - especially residential loads-by
sampling, including of mathematical check of the reliability
of the samp ing method, analysis of operating costs to
different classes of customers and types of services.
- Distribution planning   aximum circult rating, distribution
substation capacities and respective transformer ratings,
routine programs for Improving reliability of secondary
overhead lines, sizes and types of secondary conductors,
circuit length, street lighting types and respective control,
neutral ground practices.
- Dasign factors: operating limits to service voltage (preferred
and tolerable values, medium and low-voltage design voltage
spreads, voltage drop and regulation); basic impulse levels
(coordinating the cost effectiveness of porcelain and wood to
provide medium voltage line insulation, natural and industrial
contaminatton, lmpulse voltage requirements as determdned by
isokeramic level and leakage distance requirements as
deteomined by accumulation of dust, salt or industrial
deposits); thermal limitation in terms of conductors and
transformer loading; joint use of poles, in terms of sedium and
low-voltage and telepbone lines; tree triming, in terms of the
absolute need to coordinate lins design with coexistent trees,
structural censiderations, in terms of basis for pole lIne
construction, loading conditionas, strength of construction,
pole types  sags and tensions, utringing practlces, maxmum
spans, determinAtion of up-lift, guying practices clearances;
sbort circuit and lightning protection, in terms of selective
and coordinated use for circuit breakers, reclosers,
sectionalisers, fuses, lightning arresters.



- 56 -                                         ANNEX 3.7
- Economics: evaluation of costs, depreciation, return on                 Page 2 of 2
investment, operating costs, evaluation of losses (loss
factor), conductor econmeics.
(e) J.aseS the present condition of the overhead wedium and
low-voltage distribution lines in terms of voltage drops at
critical points and excessive outages of low-voltage lines caused
by lack of tree triming, badly strung conductors or extremely
long circutte. Propose urgent procedures for correcting these
problems.
(f) Propose measures aiming at the overall improvement of the
operational efficiency of the low-voltage overhead circuits.
(g) Evaluate the costs of EdM's typical overhead distribution design
concepts in terms of possible alternative solutions (large
distribution transformers with three/four different low-voltage
fused radial lines and many consumer connections versus
primary-fused ameller transformers with one unfused ring or
radial line and fever connections).
(h) Prepare practical, easy-to-use standard forms to facilitate
distribution design (voltage drop calculation sheet, tables with
conductor constants. cost estimation of distribution lines, etc.)
(i) Assist EdMN to prepare distribution maps (scale 1:5,000 or
1:10,000 for medium voltage lines; 1:1,000 for low-voltage lines)
with indications of pole type, conductors, transformers, grounds,
fuse svitches. ligtnaing arresters, guys, service entrance, etc.
J) Prepare operating and maintenance procedures for the distribution
system, including distribution substations (haviAg a mediu
voltage level in the secondary of the power transformers).
(k)  Assist FdM to conduct a survey of existing distribution lines.
Data collected should be displayed in the form of maps and
physical data reports, bv operational area. A consolidated
physical data report should afterwards be prepared afterwards.
(1) Prepare practical construction standards for medium and
low-voltage lines, street lighting, transformer installation,
grounding, clearances, guying, legends for maps.
(a)  Prepare easy-to-use technical recoimendations for irsediate use
on the design of medium and low-voltage lines (load studies,
diversity factors, medium voltage line and transformer location,
selection of conductor size, circuit length, initial transformer
loading, initial voltage drop).
(n) Assist tdM to prepare complete 'dossiers' containing all
pertinent data for EdM's distribution substations and
distribution lines.
(O) Prepare easy-to-use practical drawings and Instructions for
accelerating the process of connecting consumers.
(p) Prepare metering diagrams with precise instruction for the
connection of kWh meters.
(q) Prepare lists of required items for meter laboratories.
(r) Prepare instructions for meter testing, including periodic
testing of large consumption meters.
(s) Review metering practices, aiming at the reduction of the number
of moter ratings and reduction of medium voltage metering, and
propose improveaments.
(t) Prepare plans of typical meter sections (area required, lay-out,
etc.).
(v) Review the meter constants, beginning with large three-phase
consumers, especially those associated with PT's and/or CT's
(findings to be cosnunicated imeediately to the lnvoicing dept.
if applicable).
(w) The consultants should propose any suplementary tasks that wosld
improve PdA's distribution systems operation and the reliability
of power supply to consumers.
(x)  Training of  FM's steff should be a constant goal, and the
consultants should always have in mind the priority attached to
training of EdM's distribution personnel.



ANNEX 3.8
KOZAMBIQUE
eNBRGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
TEENS OF uFRFNCe
EDM: MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT TRAINING
O&JECTIEVBS
(a) Assist SDU to establish training programs and course curricula for
meeting manpower development requirements.
(b) Identlfy the physlcal facillties and training Instructors required
for the training programs.
(c) Assist EDM to set up an organizational structure for personnel
management and mapower trainiog and development.
(d) Institute the necessary administrative systems and procedures for
a personnel managseant plan including training.
(e) Rationalize the present organisation structure of eDM.
(f) Produce all the necessary manpower development and trainiag
manuals including job descriptions, systems and procedures.
SCOPE Oi ACTIVITIES
(a) Assist EDM to develop personnel policies for hiring and training
qualifted personnel.
(b) Survey EMD's existing manpower situation ln terms of skills,
locations and numbers.
(c) Assess EDM's manpower requlrements for euisting operations.
(d) Identify the additional manpower resources that EM requlres up to
1992.
(e) Assist EDM to develop the capability to forecast its manpower
requirements.
(f) Review the present organization structure and recommend
Improvemaent.
(8) Develop usable manuals for the personnel aangemaent ad training
functions.
(h) Prepare job descriptions of the principal positions ia EDK.
(i) Train EDM personnel in the systems and procedures of the
aforementioned activities.
OUTPUTS
Tha outputs of this compomnet ares
(a) Manpower traianig progra and *:ourso curricula.
(b) Schedule of traisnag faclities and instructors.
(c) EN personnel trained to lmplemat the new procedures.
(d) Manuals for manpower development, training and personanl
management procedures, including job descriptions.
(e) Recommendtions for organizational improvements and programs for
implemaetation.
SCODULE AND RESOURCES
Tbe duratloa of thls project Is three years. The consultant input
requiremant Is expected to be about fifty (50) man-months.



- 58-                           ANNEX 3 .9
eLaO  TECHNICAl  ASSISTANCE AND 2EUAIILITATION PROJECT
TismN or REVERENCE
PETROMOCi TECHNICAL TRAINING PROGRAM
OBJETI VES
The objectives of this compofAen ares
(a) To establish a promanent training ceotre for PETROHOC staff.
(b)  To provide lnitlal trainlng programs in the principle areas of oil
purchasing, distrlbution operations, maintenance of equipment, and
fire and safety procedures.
(e) To develop and iaplment aa lnternal technical auditing systes.
SCOPE Or WORK
(T) To provide for four senlor PETROMOC personnel to attend courses
overseas, over a period of approximately one month. Courses
proposed cover the subjects of crude oll sozpply, transportatlon,
refining, trading, supply planning, loss control petroleum
*asuremet, the use of micro-computers for tbh*a wmtlvitis.
(b)  To provi4le baslc equipment for a traiAnig centre, including
audio-visual equipment, software, copying equipment for course
materials, books aod miscellaneous supplies.
(c) To provide initial training courses for approxlnately 45 membrs
of PETROMOC's staff, In the areas of distrlbution operatlons,
equipent maintenance, safety, and the prevention and control of
petroleu ftires. This will include the supply of experienced
lastructors In each of the areas concerned, together with the
requisite course aterials and any supplemntary training aids.
(d) To proidel the services of three expatriates to assist nl the
training of PETROIOC staff ln the field. They will be experiened
In the followitg areast
_) Termidal and depot operations, including oil eas urnest, loss
control, tanker handl .ng, sampling and testing, documentationt
safety;
11) The operation of avistion fuelling facilltles and the speeclo
handling of aviatlon fuels;
i11) Basic do ls and engineering of petoleum handling equipm_t,
and technical aspects of malitenance; and
Iv) Tsehnical Inspection and monitorlg systems.
Bather than providing formalized courses, the aboo will be
required to work alongsdo PITRCHOC staff in the field and assist in the
*estabUskemst of operating standards, to be lncluded in opoenting mnuasl.
(a) To provide additional petroleum market Lntelligeea., through
nailed ot telexed informatlon services and technical journal
subscriptions.
DURATION AM IREOURCES
The forml trainig progrmse are expected to extend ovr a period
of about 6 mothw  durin  the first year. The expatriate assitacO will
eSted over 6 months of the first year and 6 months of the second year.
The professionl Instructors wlll total 6 ma-n-oths, and th  expatriate
trainin  staff a total of 36 ma-onths.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 1 of 6
MDZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
A description of the components for the Energy Technical
Assistance and Rehabilitation Project is given below.  It is followed In
this Annex by summaries of the categories of the equipment and materials
and the technical assistance manpower to be supplied under the project.
(a) Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation:
(i) supply and install materials and equipment for the
distribution system in Maputo, Beira, Nampula and Nacala,
including connecting 4,150 houses to these systems;
(ii)  supply   spare   parts,   tools,   testing   equipment,
transformers,   protection   equipment,   communications
equipment, conductors and insulators for transmission
system maintenance;
(ili)   supply tools and equipment for the existing metering
laboratory in Maputo and set up a small metering
laboratory in Beira;
(iv) provide spare parts for station operation and re-equip
the plant maintenance workshop;
(v) repair and expand EDM's national radio communications
network and upgrade repair facilities;
(b) Transportation Equipment for EDM:
(i) rehabilitate EDM's heavy and light vehicles under
expatriate supervision;
(ii)  supply  additional   heavy  and  light   vehicles   and
special-purpose vehicles for maintenance work;
(ili) upgrade EDM's networks and add local HF networks in the
Central region, install mobile VHF networks in 11
areas  of  operation,  upgrade  the  radio  maintenance
workshop in Maputo and establish two radio maintenance
centers in Chimoio and Nampula.



- 60 -
ANEX 4. 1
Page 2 of 6
(c)  Petroleum Product Handling and Distribution System Maintenance
and Rehabilitation:
(i)   supply materials to repair critical off-loading pipelines
at Maputo, Quelimane and Nacala;
(ii)  supply new loading meters, hoses and replacements for some
of the terminal pumps in Maputo, Beira, Quelimane and
Nacala;
(iii) supply laboratory test equipment;
(iv)  supply and install new equipment at terminals for aviation
fuel;
(v)   supply new equipment for service stations;
(d) Transportatica Equipment for PETROMOC:
(i)   supply 24 petroleum tankers to bring up PETROMOC's fleet
strength to the 66 vehicles required to maintain a reliable
distribution service around the main towns;
(ii)  supply  12 light vehicles  for PETROMOC to maintain its
distribution facilities;
{e)  Operational Support to EDI  and PETROMOC for components (a) to
(d) by providing specialists for up to three years to manage
the operations, engineering and maintenance of trLnsportation
fleets, aviation fuelling facilities and petroleum product
movement, Maputo Power Station and power transmission and
distribution systems;
(f) Institutional Strengthening of _EDM, PETROMOC and ENH through
technical assistance to design and implement management and
financial systems, carry out technical training, review and
evaluate the capacities of the main power systems to meet
forecast demands up to 1992, and prepare least-cost development
programs to meet the demand for power in the Maputo region and
for supply and distribution of petroleum products;
(g) Household Energy Planning through technical assistance to the
Department of Energy (DOE) to prepare a national urban household
energy policy and implementation program:
(i)   study of charcoal production technology;
(ii) aerophotographic forest inventory of Southern Mozambique;
(iii) study of fuelwook supply options;
(iv)  study of potential for fuelwood plantations.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 3 of 6
Categories of Equipment and Materials to be Provided under the Project
(a) Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation
(1)    Distribution System Materials and Equipment: Wooden poles,
AL  conductors,   ACSR  conductors,   galvanized   tubes,
insulators, earthing sets, lightning arresters, insulated
low voltage cables, interrupting switches, guy material,
connectors, drop-out fuses, fuse switches, galvanized
steel cables, distribution transformers, overhead fuses,
crossarms, miscellaneous parts (nuts, bolts, etc).
(ii)   Transmission  Materials  and  Equipment  including  Spare
Parts: Pole transformers, circuit breakers, overhead ACSR
conductors, high voltage suspension insulators, control
equipment,    protection   equipment,    telecommunication
equipment, test equipment for protective relays; test
equipment for PLC system, remote control system and
telephone system; miscellaneous parts (connectors, bulbs,
control   cables,   etc.),   maintenance   tools,   current
transformers, voltage transformers.
(iii)  Metering  Eguipment:  Laboratory  tools,  standard meters,
meter test desk.
(iv)   Maputo Power Station: (a) stock of spare parts for one to
two  years  of  operation  of  Maputo  Power  Station,
particularly for the six boilers and auxiliary plant,
turbines atnd auxiliary plant, and electrical systems; and
(b) rehabilitation of the workshops in the station,
particularly supply of new machine-tools and materials.
(b) Transportation Equipment for EDM:
Mi)    new parts for repair of  EDM's  existing vehicles,  and
technical assistance to inspect vehicles, prepare purchase
lists and supervise repair work;
(ii)   supply   four   special-purpose   transportation   units
(trailer-mounted   access   platforms   and   cranes)   for
maintenance work on overhead transmission and distribution
systems, 27 heavy trucks to transport EDM's repair crews
and heavy repair equipment, 63 light vehicles for
operations in EDM's 24 load centers, and mopeds and
bicycles for EDM's staff.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4.1
Page 4 of 6
(c) Petroleum Product Handling and Distribution System Maintenance
and Rebabilitation:
(M)   Off-loading Pipelines:  500 a  of  10  inch diameter  for
Maputo.
2000 m of 6 inch diameter for
Quelimane.
(ii) Terminal and Depot Equipment: 37 pumps, 46 meters, 200
valves, 1310 hoses of 0.75 to 8 inch diameter, 1 balance, I
diesel tractor, flood lights, one 180 kVA generator, 2 pump
engines.
Terminal and Depot Safety Equipment: 5 explosimeters, 15
sets of breathing apparatus, fire fighting equipment, jetty
fire pumps.
(iii) Maintenance Equipment: machine tools, print machine, one
crane truck, maintenance tools, sand blaster, boiler tube
cleaner, electrical repair equipment, 7 fork lift trucks.
Laboratory  Equipment    various  items  of  equipment  and
materials.
(iv)  Aviation Fuel Facilities:   2 towable hydrant dispensers,
3 delivery bulkmeters, 3 filter water separators and 108
separator elements, meter spares, 6 electric pump sets,
valves, couplers, hoses and secondary equipment.
(v) Service Station Equipment: 18 air compressors, pump parts.
(vi)   Radio Equipment
(d) Transportation Equipment for PETRONOC:
12 x 30 tonne tankers, 5 x 24 tonne tankers,  7 x 20 tonne
tankers, 12 Land Rover-type vehicles.
Expatriate Manpower for Technical Assistance under the Project
Project Comonent/Staff Category
(allocated manmonths are in parentheses).
Operational Support to EDM
(i) Management of Distribution Systems
Setior Distribution Engineer (16), Distribution Engineer
(36), 4 Distribution Technicians (144).
(ii) Management of Transmission Systems
Senior Transmission Engineer (36), Transmission Engineer
(36), Junior Transmission Enginner (36).



- 63 -                        ANNEX 4.1
Page 5 of 6
(iii) Maputo Power Station Assistance
Senior  Mechanical  Engineer  (36),  2  Junior  Mechanical
Engineers (72).
(iv) Management of EDM's Transport Fleet
Transport Fleet Manager (24), Operations and Maintenance
Supervisor (24), 2 Workshop Foremen (24), System Analyst
(12).
2eerational Support to PETROMOC
(1) Management of Facilities
Transport Fleet Manager (36), Operations Manager (36),
Maintenance Manager (36), Engineering Manager (36).
Institutional Strengthening of EDM
(i)  Financial, Accounting and Planning and Budgeting Systems
Senior Accountant (18), Utility Tariff Specialist (6), 2
Accountants (42), Financial Systems Planner (11).
(ii) Stock Control and Asset Management
Inventory  Specialist  (24),  Senior Accountant  (24),  Asset
Valuation Specialist (21).
(iii) Management Information System
MIS Specialist (12), Computer Programmer (15).
(iv) Manpower Training and Development
Personnel   Planner   (18),   Training   Specialist   (18),
Organization Specialist (12).
Institutional Strengthening of PETROMOC
(i) Technical Training Program
Operations Speciaiist (3), Maintenance Trainer (2), Fire and
Safety Expert (1), Operations Instructor (24), Engineering
Instructor (12).
(ii) Financial, Accounting and Planning Systems
Senior Accountant (18), Senior Financial Systems Planner (5),
2 Accountants (33), Financial Systems Planner (12).
(iii) Organization, Management Training and Manpower Development
Organization Secialist (15), Personnel Planner (16), Traiming
Specialist (18).
(iv) Management Information System
MIS Specialist (15), Computer Programmer (18).
Institutional Strengthening of ENH
(i) Financial, Accountin and Planning Systems
Senior Acocuntant  6, Senior Financial Systems Planner (6),
Accountant (24), Financial Systems Planner (9), Contracts
Administration Specialist (9).



ANNEX 4.1
Page 6 of 6
(ii) Organization and Manpower Development
Organization   Specialist   (15),   Personnel   Planner   (9),
Contracts Administration Specialist (3).
Preparation of Least-Cost Development Programs
(i) EDM Operations Study
3 Systems Engineers (32), 2 Mechanical Engineers (10).
(ii) PETROMOC Product Supply Study
Refinery  Economist    (5),  Cost  Estimator  (1),  Refinery
Engineer (2), Equipment Inspector (1).
(iii) PETROMOC Product Distribution Study
Marketing Economist (3), Transport Economist (1), Engineer
(6).
Household Energy Planning (DOE)
(i) Study of Charcoal Production Technology
Charcoal Production Specialist (4), Woodfuels Transport
Specialist (1).
(ii)   Mapping of Forestry Resources and Infrastructure in Southern
Mozambique
Aerographic survey over 33,000 km2, photo interpretation and
production of maps to scales of 1: 50 000 and 1: 250 000.
(iii) Fuelwood Supply Options Study
Fuelwood Supply Specialist (2).
(iv) Fuelwood Plantation Study
Fuelwood Plantation Specialist (3).
(v) Preparation of a Household Energy Policy
Project Coordination Assistance (DOE) (24)
Summary of Technical Assistance Manpower
(months)
EDM   PETROMOC   ENH   DOE   TCTAL
Operational Support                      486     144        -     -     630
Institutional Strengthening              221     188       81    -      490
Preparation of Development Programs       42      19        -     10     71
Project Coordination Assistance           -       -         -     24     -
Total                                 749     351       -1  34   1215



HOZAI"IQIJE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANE AND EIBIUTATION PROJECT
IKPLEEATION SCHEOlDI
I Project Coponent                            yur:    I?8    :      1988     t      1189     :      1910'          1991     :      l1       :
Q^uarter:                                              3 2: 14 1213141112 3    4 1 11213:4   11  2  3   4 11 2   3 1 4 1
Power System Naintensnee & Rehabilitation         I           II * Q --                 --     --- Jl                       :               :
SN. Transport Equipmet for PDI                    I   U       i0t               I- '-
I                                                 1:          I                           __ F               1                              :
I                                                 14          1                                                               
IPetroll   Product Handliug and Distribution      I           i t 23  -I---                  1-1       /
ISystem Maintenace ad Rehabilitation              :           I              :               :              :               S               S
:Ie  Traspot Equipent for PKTROIIOC               2   3  *  20 -I-                :   - Iss                  : I
I                                                 I           I              I               :               I              U               :
2T.A.ta ElM and PETRIC  for S5ptem OpeatIons    S1   I 0 -1------- -----S-----1                             :1              :               :
IT.A.to EN,PFETRONUC and ENil hor Nei  anagemt and!   *  *  If               2:: -            -
fFimncial Systems and Manpower Training           I           S              :               S               I              :
IT.A. to Prepare Subsector Oevelopment Prograus    '          10  -     :----                   :I                          : 1-
Lnds
_                                                                                            I
l ime of Bidding Docnbts                 l      l      ork in Prgrs
Receipt of Bids                                  I  Mrk Completion
I  ContraKt Awrd



- 66-                                                          *iIWEX4.3
Page i of 6
23atv  191Uhms
EIE  TtMCHlAt ASISTOIe  ze N         IIEllTOtilil MMlE
PIEU  CT COIN 68t53U
lllN tbuuuadg
Project tcoot                                CII,                 CN9                   tCit                  CVl9                   Vli 9total CWsts
m15   LOWl  tPw.0          LKca    Forsar       LKcal  fwulp          L       FL                     Pocdp          tcal  Fwnp    Totl
Powr Systs. hiatmantc aad kailitatia.
W-Iistrib'tiuO Spit.  atriaS t Equipot
Iw Cost                                    0        0          316 1 I0 3           315      Si7          3U         0            0         0          9I      1910    2157
Physicul Cotitoy                  0        0        0            0        0           0        0            0        0            e         0            0        0        0
Prie CoCtsiap y                            0        0           Is       4           31       94           41        0            0         0            7      in       220
Total ost                                  0        0          331    t1if          347                   356        0            0        0          5034     2043     307
EN-Oliotributloa-.oerig Labs
ws sCut                                    0        0           32      213           0        0            0        0            0         0           32      213      244
Physlcatcootiqo4ecy               0        0         0           0        0           0        0            0        0            0         0            0        0        0
Plrise Cntiogncy                           0         0           1       t0           0        0            0 e                    0        0            3       t0       I3
Total Cost                                 0        0           33                    0        0            0        0            0         0           37      222       a6
N-Sato Powr Statl ti a        ilittlioo
lu   cost                                  0        0           22      I27          38      37            14      2              0        13           76      743      91l
P!ital Ca3 otiopecy              10        0        0            2       U3           4       39            2       22            0         I            3       74       92
Prict  Notialocy                           0        0            I        6           4       41            1       a             0         2            9       92       i
total Cost                                 0        0           2        47          46      416           2       m              0        17           91      Im       9
E} tran ssiuo  lyst. Naistsn ce
I:Ccst                                     0        0          153      457         102      176          102      126            0         0          357      760     5357
Physical Costiotoas 0                     0        0            0        0           0        0            0        0            0         0            0        0        0
Price CoUtlooy                             0        0            7       21          10       17           13       16            0         0           30       55       15
Total Cost                                 0        0          160      476         112       9           115      343            0        0           3        asB 95  1202
El-ebhicte Iabilltation I Spar Parts
kw Cost                                    0        0           94      377          94      220           94      220      e              0           251     oIl      t0o"
PbYs*itl Ctlqu.Y                 t0        0        0            9       36           9       22            9       22            0         0           3        62      310
Prlic Catiooy                              0        0            5       1t          10       24           13       31            0         0           21       is      103
TotalCast                                  0        0          t06      434         113      2.           116      m 2                     0           338      9     33350
EL4mo ku&t 
kw  Cout                                   0        0           37     1S           17       77           17       4             0         0           52      37       30
Pbysical Costptagot               0        0        0            0        0           0        0            0        0            0         t            0        0        0
Price Ctiapoy                             0        0            1        9           2        *            2        6            0        0             s       22       2
total Cut                                  0        0           to       93          39t      I4           20       52            0        0            57      330      3a*
total Posr  1stos Uaatusas AM  kbilltatil
os.  cut                                   0        0          43      2421         56      169            44      615             0       U3         I54      4748     6.4
Phsical Coatio4g tc                        0        0           12       sO          13       60           55       44             0        1           36      156      192
PrSceC.tiapc                               0        0           30      113          57      174           72       66             0        2          I55      376      5
Total cost                                 0        0          676     25           637       3           427      741             0       17          9I4     520      7
UR-kg trospt Eqip         t
u Cost                                     0        0           20      6.           43      522           41      521             0        0          102     1742     5944
yusict  taCtinpy                  0        0        0            0        0           0        0            0         0            0        0            0        0        0
PrlceCeatlo,i y                            0        0            1       32           4       S2            5       60             0        0           10      132       la
Ttal Codt                                  0        0           2t      730          45       74           46       591           0         0          55259           2006



-67-                                                       ANNEX 4.3
Yage 2 of 6
Petroe    Prout  adSlSq aid Oistributio
lyst  Sultenauco md Rbailitation
PfllP-5pe5alie
_ ... .. ....
kwcast                                     0        0           29        5          04        9           35       31             0        0          In  l i4          304
Physical Cotingqcy               t0        0        0            3        0           0        9            3        3             0        0           12       le       31
PriceContingency                           0        0            I        S           I       10            4        4             0        0           153      17       30
Total cost                                 0        0           34        4          73      to            38       3              0        0 e49               220      309
PETrUI0C-Paintaioact Equidpmt
kw  Cut                                    0        o          15       SW           25        0            0        0             0        0          250      S9       s4
Plhysical Cotinoy                t0        0        0           13       59          is                     0        0             0        0           25       59       34
Price Cntiopony                            0        0 o                  30           4        0            0        0             0        0           20       30       50
Total Cut                                  0        0          144      0           151        0            0        0            0        0           m        083      97
PiR DLaboatov Euipmnt
Dam   ue*t                                 4       27           12      54                     0            0        0            0         0           24        I      la05
Physical Catinocy                 0        0        0            0        0           0        0            0        0             0        0            0        0        0
Prit Contingency                           0        0            1        2           I        0            0        0             0        0            I        3        4
Totalcost                                  4       27           53 U                  9        0            0        0            0        0            25       63      509
PIN -Twmoical ad Deot Efqipmt
Jsenn  tt                                  0        0         2n7       3e            0        0            0        0             0        0          217      500     1040
Physical Ctiseucy                t0        0        0           22       30           0        0            0        0             0        0           22       30      103
Pie' utiupuy                               0        0           It       43           0        e            0        0             0        0           It       a        54
Total Cot                                  0        0         24        939           0        e            0        0             o        0o         249     9W       1236
PITROIIIC-afsty Equipmt
amecost                                    0        0           2       39            0        0            0        0             0        0           a        m       m
P0ysical Cooti4peoy              t0        0        0            3       31           0        0            0        0             0        0            3       31       34
Price Cuttoaey                             0        0            5       It           0        0            0        0             0       0             1       15       11
total Cet                                  O        0           30      3             0        0            0        0             0 o         o        Je               3
PEtROlWC*iatio  Equipmet
hwa C t                                    0        0           25      259           0        0            0        0             0        0           25      219      244
Physical ttipmy                   5        0        0            1       I            0        0            0        0             0        0                   It       52
Price Coatitq y                            0        0            I       to           0        0            0        0             0        0 o                  It       52
Totd tCost                                 0        0           28      2                             0          0          0          0                2       20       2
PETtIC4rvice nation Eqgipast
ISbo est                                   0        0           19       9I                    0            0        0             0        0           a        IS      130
Plasuicl Contlocy                 S        0        0            1        5           I        0            0        0             0        0            2        5        I
Price  Contingncy                          0        0            1        5           2        0            0        0             0        0            3        5        3
Total Cnt                                  0        0          25       107          22                              0             0        0           43      to?7     IS
tel Petrolum  Prout  adlion  ad Oitriudtlu
St eaintmdatnc  an  baiaalitation
bi sost                                    4       27          43   259             215        9           31       31             0        0          70      23       3W
Physical Contnpncy                                  0     U      j      I            2e        9                     3             0        0           63      211       m
Price Contiopncy                           0        0           23      IN           U         o            *        4             0        0           It      52 4      7
TotalCost                                  4       27          53   2507            29       1o            3                       0        0           20 20u0         3499
PEKT     Nw Traport Eqidp t
Du  Cost                                   I        o           73    2002           70      237            0         0            0        0          50       O9      3 w
Fysicnl  tuatinpocy               0        0        0            0        0           0        0            0        0             0        0            0        0        0
PriceCotlogancy                            0        0            3       n            7       29                     0             0        0           50      1$1      1i
-  -    -73 ;-M  -77                                            -o -o   -o o - 
Itate   tes                                e        e           n3 271               n                      o        eo                     el.                         WV'



-68-                                                               AINE  4. 3
rusisscs ~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~ ~                                                                                      Page 3 of 6
EWT,A. frf trenort kna4ssst
kwsecms                                      3       I62          45       223           55       76             0         0             0        0            93      465       554
Physicl c. tiCmtIqs                 0        0         0            0        0            0        0             0         *            0         0             0        0         0
Priuce  otiopety                             0         I            2       to            2        8             0a                   0                         4       It        22
Tota  cut                      ~~~~33     163          47       233           57       34             0        0             0         0            97      430       577
UT.6.4or Ttmsauussio Oporatius
UN ecut                                     t0       154           14      239           53      222             5        92            0         0            42      706       749
Pbyscl sICtibpsc                   0         0         0           0         0            0        0             0         0            0         0             0        0         0
Pric Csontisgsoy                             0         5            1       55            5       22             5        52            0         0             3       46        46
totallcut                                   50       155          15       250           14      243             6      104             0         0           45       15       79
8US-T.Lfw' Sistrlb,tluo Opvalos
kweCs                                       17      206           24       315          25       23              9      I1?             0         0           71       958      93
m,ldrt l  tUitquUl                 #         0         0           0         0            0        O'            ft       A,            A         A-          .     -   A          A.
PriceCutisgsug                               0         1            1       14            2       20             1       Is             0         0            4        59       63
34talcost                                   51       20           25       326          23       311            t0      532             0         0           75       977     5052
E*4.Lfo   W Baptsow  SItstie  Osatilas
lasacost                                    to       123          14       III&         53       169             5       70             0         0           42       141      56
Pll79lthllmtltsPK                   0        0         0           0         0            0        0             0        0             0         0            0         0        0
Price Ctotlpoc                               0         I                       1                  17             I                      0         0            3        35       38
Tot.ICos.                                   50       124          Is      1I4            54      595             6       79             0         0           45       532      427
PITUS-1I.Afw or  patiffal IssSsacs
Bam  nCt                                     7       144          22       430           22      430            55      286             0         0           67   1291        I35
fbvslulCutlmpscy                    0        0         0            0        0            0        *             0         0            0         0             *        *        0
Price  otlpoinm                              0         I            1       20            2       43             2       37             0         0            5       501      506
TotalCot                                     I       145          23       450          24       473            II      324             0         0           72      2395     5463
Total Tsbctalcu l eass t,Ac  for By"ts  tOwatios
BarenCt                                     7I7  11               120     5369          94      5130            34      565             0        0           316      392      4238
PbysIca  WsCutsmy                            0         0           0         0            0        0             0        0             0         0            0         0        0
Prics Custlsgsy                              0         4           6        64            6      157             4       74             0         0            i9      259      277
tota cost                                   77       M9          126      5452          93      5291            39      639             0         0          335      4181     4556
TgcbuituS Isslstaur  fwr gor Rmsput .A
fsmiali S1ystoss aod lbIur      TralshAg
SassCut                          ~    ~ ~       ~ ~~~~~0  0  124  304       124       29            524      148             0        0           371      74  5 ill
Pbyalcdca)uossi"                    0        0         0           0         0            0        0             0        0             0         0             0        0        0
Prlc. Csutlsgsy                              0         0           6        14           12       29            16        I9            0         0            34       63       97
lowte)Cst                                    0         0          130      318          136      35            540       167            0         0          405       650     1215
1354o   Cmtrol 6 Bust Bumaqaut
Om arCt                                     Is        93          46       264           46      215            30       106            0         0           537      674      sit
FtyscalCoatlsssy                    0        0         0            0        0            0        0             0         0            0         0             0        0        0
Price  oatlsssy                              0         5            2       12            5       21             4        54            0         0            it       47       U
totalcost                                   55        93           a       276           50      2234                    520            0         0           54o      72t       370
Dm ase t                                     0         0            0        0           24       89            40       172           57         7            30      333      419
PIyt"c4Ctosttsn5 y                  0        0         0            0        0            0        0             0         0            0         0             0        0         0
Prlcsostlsgsy                                0         0            0        0            2        9             5        22            3        52            It       43       53
Tow lCos                                     0         0           0         9           26       91            a5       14            59        t9           9I       381      472



-69 -
ANNEX 4.3
Page 4 of 6
ls   eCat                                   0         0          41      213          4a       22             43       o0             3       32           345      552      69
Physica3 Csutisqmsy                0        0         0           0         0           0        0             0        0             0        0            0         a        0
Price rntingmsc                             0         0           2        t0           5       22             6       33             3        2           34        4?       63
total cut                                   0         0          42       22           53      245            55      33                       4           I59      599      1
PETIMU-Tacbuicul Training PrWns
kw ecut                                     0         0          333     22           133      112             0        0             0        0          216       340      636
PhysicalCastlsgucy                 0        0         .           0        0            0        0             0        0             0        0            0         0        0
Price ostinqssy                             0         0           6        30          14       It             0        0             0        0           20        22       42
iotuICost                                   0        0          345      233          152      123             0        0            0         0          296      36        65?
PETRIM4fIsaciat ,*ccoustiog 6 Pmlesn  $1,stus'
DameCa                                      0         0          93      353           92      32             92      25              0        0          27        933     1209
Pbysic#l Cmstisgasc                0        0         0           0        0            0        0             0        0             0        0            0         0        0
Pricslrntisascy                             0         0           4        36           9       32            12       34             0        0           25       32       307
TOW  lCost                                  0        0           97      367          302      351           305      293             0        0          30333033          ;3336
Dam   cut                                   0        0           43      226           49      163           49         f9           0        34          347      496       64
PlvslcastCmti5pny                  0        0         0           0        0            0        0             0        0            0         0            0        *         0
Price Crntis,uy                             0        0            2       t0            5       36             6       32             3        2           14       43        55
Totalcust                                   0        0           43      236           54      379           55       306            9        36         3i2       5         A76"
PElUI-Irnaass   Isfarstiu 11pto
Dasacust                                    0         0           0        0           25      134            43      134            to       57           36      336       472
Physico3Centingesc                 0        0         0           0        0            0        0             0        0            0         0            0        0         0
PricesCrtisgasy                             0         0           0        0            2       34             6       24            3         9           I3       4?        U
Total Cost                                  0        0            0        0           23      35n           43       20?           23       U             9       433       530
ID4isoassl,Iccutia  & Pl&asing Uptur
kw scost                                    0         0          54      251           54      266            54      200            0         0          363      733       079
PIysicaI Csttags.y                 0        0         0           0        0            0        0             0        0            0         0            0        0.        0
PriceCostis,rny                             0        0            2        32           5       26             7       26            0         0           I5       64        79
Totaleast                                   0         0          56      263           59      29            63       22             0         0          376      73       73
81-Orgaisatiom I hipste  heelepas
Om  Cost                                    0        0           33      345           39      II3            6        3?            0         0           79       m        33
P*yslcalcmtisgmsc                  0        0         0           0        0            0        0             0        0            0         0            0        0         0
PrlcsCatAispscy                             0         0           2        7            4       32             3        2             0        0            6       23        27
TotalEset                       ~    ~~        ~~0  0  34     352          45       330            7         00                    0U                    3         1
ONl I PIThuK tsala hadts Of kcsosts
k    cusast                                 0         0           0        0            0       30             0       30            0        30            0      240       24
PlyscaCsatlguscY                   0        0         0           0        *            0        0             0        0            0         0            0        0         0
Price COtIsgmsY                             0         0           0        0            0        3             0       30             0       33            0        33       33
low  Icut                                   0         0           0        0            0       30     0           0                 0        930                   7        273
DM4.*.Is Project Ewilalse
kw acost                                    0         0           6       30            6       30             6       30            6        30           24       320      344
Price stisgUsY                              0                                                    3             3        4             3        5            3         3       36
TOWteals                                    0         0           6       33            7       33             7       34             7       35          .2         53      30
PF1 1w PrucuW   sad Protslsay FisnuisIIatns
TOW  lCos                                   0      24s            0      to5            0        0             0        0             0        0            0      30        3



-70 -                                                                 ANNEX 4.3
Page 5 of 6
Total T.A.#f or  OLee   aaaae   aid Muie ala  $Wmuu  and Umeee  TraiaSe
kaw  cost                                   Is5      293         5     15  265          b45     25             49        38            5a       275          I7M      6173      799
Pbysital Coet&opoy                           0         0            0        0            0        0             0         0             0        0             0        0         0
Price Cmontl,mcy                             0         5           26       92           64      n04            64       l8t             9       42           163      520       684
Total cout                                  Is       299         602    2F3             70       2957                   5506                     5            94         3      84
TKchilcal Aussistance to Prepar  Subeetor Devuloemt Pogra
646s cost                                    5        74            5      55             0        It            0         0             0        0             2      237       240
Pbysical aotilngeoy                 0        0         0            0        0            0        0             0         0             0        0             0        0         0
Prim  Cutiqe.y                               0         0            0        7            0                      0                                              0        B         9
TotalCost                                    5        74            5      140            o     -12              0         0             0                      2      26         4
P~UFlC1=4011 study
haecost                                      0        34            5       a8            0        0             0         0             0        0             5      503       204
Phyuical ootiageay                  0        0         0            0        0            0        0             0         0             0        0             0        0         0
Price Cutiugeuy                              0         0            0        5            0        0             0         0             0        0             0        3         3
Total cost                                   0        35            5       72            0        0             0         0             0        0             5      506       507
KET8IIS-Ssttlbutin Sudy
SasCos                                       1        29            I       59            0        0             0         0             0        0             2       98        90
Physical CORAtl WeY                 0        0         0            0        0            0        0             0         0             0        0             0        0         0
Price Cuthaguy                               0         0            0        3            0        0             I         0             0        0             0        3         3
Totaloeat                                    5        30            5       65            0        0             0                      0         0             2       95        93
DKNEHosa&o Enery PhasINg
gmeeout                                      3        22           I5      533           33      2              25       22             0         0            76      666       742
Physical Costlqeoy                  0        0         0            0        0            0        0             0         0             0        0             0        0         0
Price Cuotisguy                              0         0            1        6            S       29             3        29            0         0             7       64        71
Total cost                                   3        22           16      539           36      357            29       250            0         0            84      729       813
Total T.*. for Matsetr Davlopaet Progrm
gm  etot                                     4       160           i9      413           33      299            25       22              0        0            82   1094        1175
Pbysical Cutingeay                           0         0            0        0            0        0             0         0            0         0             0        0         0
Price COMt mcY                               0         5            5       i9            3       30             3        29            0         0             7       79        86
tota Cout                                    4       141          20       432          36       329            29       250            0         0            39     172       5261
Totat Project Cost
gam  cust                                  505      5274        5894    15942          256      6535          tin8     336             5        28          4874    2294    2784
"buCal Cstingesc                             0         0          54       289           33       69            14        47            0         5           505      366       467
Prlce Cmtleg y                                5        6          89       Zs           267      655           154       442             9       45           420     t6o       208
Total Cost                 505     1230        ~~~~~~203  1244         595      41            5336     3835             5       30          59        50       09
Total Project Codt by loplehaating Apige
Total Proect Cut 4or ONl
am   cost                                   a5       9550        94       so80          9"      3390           867      59800           24      5430         283      296    1479
Phyuical Costlagsy                                0   00           I2       500          I3       400           It        660            0        5  0         36      156       59
Price C.etlagmy                              0         4 0         45      2320          92      3870          552       2640            4       23  0        25       950      5562
TotalCut                         9~~~~ ~~6           ton 02   5372S         51        26 0          90      18 0            23.             0    3521    5303       5655
totd Ct-                                  va           -                     -o   ;-   -                                    - 2    -                        -
total Project Cost for FIIU
gm   cost                                    55      3370          20     6196          653     5530           23   032 0               2       5550         1701     922      50924
FbyscaSCostisgaey                            0         0 0         42      5990          a0        90            3         3  0          0        0  0         65      251       215
Price Coatlmge.y                             0         1 0         40      M950          a        Is 0          30       It70            4       570I         537      so8       7
Total Coo                                    53      339          902     6787          69      516           753       502             30      529          i90     too2    2592



- 71 -                                                        ANNEX 4.3
Page 6 of 6
Total Project cost fIt 
law Coe9t0                                                     6        36            3      3              0      26             0        0           240 o     9      129
Phrical Coatipq                           *        0 e                   0           0        0            0        0            0        0             0        0        0
Prine tWi$sWY                              0        0           4        to           9       A             6       2             0        0            22       Is      206
Ttal cut                                   0        0                   44          102      423           be       4             0        0           261     103      1345
Total project Coot for an
ho cost                                    3       22           it       63          39      316           32       5             6       30           100      766      36
PhysicalCetlqugo y                         0        0           0         0           0        0            0        0            0        0             0        0        0
Price Costiopacy                           0        0            I        7           4       32            4       33            I        5            10       77        7
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~- -                                    . ...        ----                   ---      . _. ... .... .......... .... 
Total cms                                  3       22          22       572          43      35            35      26                     35           Ito      S2        7
btoiP     tots ad toe cots of atru  adots"  we diided eqnly  otum   UN ad PIT K.
Price laros  Ite Ui   tereut awlUa
ae sto ts e at adCIt           rateg)   CaleaJ  Tow                     l9           29        96 1        I90      19
1.2        L9        3.4          2.3      2.3



- 72 -
ANNEX 4.4
MOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASISSTACE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS FOR THE PROPOSED IDA CREDIT
(US$ millions)
Cumulative
IDA Fiscal Year           Quarterly               Disbursements
and Quarter Ending        Disbursements          at End of Quarter
FY88
September 30, 1987                     0.4                      0.4
December 31, 1987                      0.8                      1.2
March 31, 1988                         0.8                      2.0
June 30, 1988                          1.1                      3.1
FY89
September 30, 1988                     1.4                      4.5
December 31, 1988                      1.7                      6.2
March 31, 1989                         1.7                      7.9
June 30, 1990                          2.1                     10.0
FY90
September 30, 1989                     1.8                     11.8
December 31, 1989                      1.5                     13.3
March 31, 1990                         1.5                     14.8
June 30, 1990                          1.1                     15.9
FY91
September 30, 1990                     1.1                     17.0
December 31, 1990                      0.9                     17.9
March 31, 1991                         0.6                     18.5
June 30, 1991                          0.5                     19.0
FY92
September 30, 1991                     0.4                     19.4
December 31, 1991                      0.2                     19.6
March 31, 1992                         0.1                     19.7
June 30, 1992                          0.1                     19.8
FY93
September 30, 1992                     0.1                     19.9
December 31, 1992                      0,1                     20.0



- 73 -
ANNEX 4.5
rase I or -Z
MDZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REMABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT MDNIORING GUIDELIMES
I.   4iidelines for monitoring lmplementation of the project program have been discussed with MIE,
EUM, Petromoc and ENH. Monitoring would be carried out with reference to target dates for the
project components.
2.   mhe principal implementation targets are as follows:
Issue of
Bidding    Cbntract   Completion
Power System Maintenance and Rehabilitation                    Documents   Award    of Work
EDM-Carry out inventory of Stocks                                  -          -        12/87
EDM-Distribution System Materials 6 Equipment                   01/88       04/88      12/90
EDM-Distribution-netering Labs                                   11/87      02/88      09/88
ED*-Maputo Power Station Rehabilitation                          12/87      03/88      09/89
EDM-Transmission System Maintenance                             01/88       04/88      06/90
EMM-Vehicle Rehabilitation and Spare Parts                       11/87      02/88      03/90
KMO-Radio Network                                                12/87      03/88      12/89
EDM-New Transport Equlipment                                     11/87      02/88      06/90
Petroleum Product Handling and Distribution
Systems_Maintenance and Rehabilitation
PETROMDC-Pipelines                                               11/87      02/88      12/89
PETROMOO-Maintenance Equipment                                   10/87      01/88      06/89
PETRIM)O-Laboratory Equipment                                    12/87      03/88      12/88
PETRRH)C-Terminal and Depot Equipment                            11/87      02/88      03/90
PETROI140-Safety Equipment                                       10/87      01/88      12/88
PETRCtIDC-Aviation Equipment                                     11/87      02/88      12/88
PETRONDC-Service Station Equipment                               12/87      03/88      06/89
PETROWDC-New Transport Equipment                                 11/87      02/88      06/90
Technical Assistance for System Operations
EDM-T.AL for Transport Management                                  -        06/87      06/90
EXD-T.A. for Transmission Operations                               -        06/87      06/90
ED*-T.A. for Distribution Operations                               -        06/87      06/90
EDM-T.A. for Maputo Power Station Operations                       -        06/87      06/90
Technical Assistance for New Management and
Financial Systems and Manpower Training
EMM-Financial, Accounting & Planning Systems                     11/87      02/88      06/91
ED4-Stock Control & Asset Management                             10/87      01/88      03/91
EDM-Kanagement Information System                                01/89      04/89      06/91
EMaUnpower Training & Development                               01/88      04/88      06/91
PETR(NDC-Technical Training Program                              10/87      01/88      06/91
PETRMOC-Filnancial, Accountivg & Planning Systems                11/87      03/88      06/91



- 74 -                ANR 4.5
Page 2 of 2
PESTRW6C-Organizatlon, lsnagement Training S                     01/88      04/88      06/91
Manpower Development
PwUM-Mo-nagnent Infonmstion System                               01/89      04/89      06/91
ENH-Financial, Accounting & Planning Systems                     11/87      02/88      06/91
EN-Organization & Manpower Development                           01/88      04/88      06/91
Technical Asslstance to Prepare Subsector Development
Programa
EMM-Operations Study                                             10/87      01/88      09188
PETR}C-Supply Study                                              10/87      01/88      07/88
PEIROMD0-Distribution Study                                      10/87      01/88      09/88
DOE-Household Ehergy Planning:
- Charcoal Production Study                                 10/87      01/88      06/88
- Aerophotographic Forest Inventory                         11/87      03/88      12/88
- Fuel Supply Options Study                                08/88       11/88      06/89
- Fuelwood Plantation Review                                01/88      04/88      09/88
- Household Policy Paper                                        -          -      12/89
3,   Records would be maintained on the following items:
By EaM:
(a) sources of power in terms of hydro and thermal production and imports (in (Wh);
(b) electricity consumption (in GWh) by power system, isolated towns, consuer
categories and sectors and exports;
(c) maximum demand (in MW) in interconnected systems;
(d) fuel oil and coal consumption in power plants;
(e) number of power outages, their duration and causes;
(f) number of staff, classified by education standard and function in the sector;
(g) average tariff level (meticais/kWh) classified in total and by consumr category;
(h)  rate of return on average revalued net fixed assets In operation;
(i) self generated funds contributions to construction costs;
(j) operating ratios;
(k) revenues outstanding in terms of number of days of billings;
(1) debt/equity ratios;
(i) revisions to cost estimates of each project component and related financing; and
(n) records of all new vehicles supplied under the project showing location, mileage,
major maintenance, availability and average fuel consumption.
By PETROMDC:
(a) quantities of petroleum products sold in Mosmabique, handled in transit to
neighboring countries and exported, by type of product (in toones);
(b) consumption of petroleum products in Mosambique by consumer category (in toanes);
(c)  number of staff, classified by education standard and function in the sector;
(d) petroleum product retail prices in Mbsambique (in meticais/liter)
(e) revenues outstanding in terms of number of days of sales;
(f)  records of all new vehicles supplied of each project component under the project
showing location, mileage, major maintenace, availability and average fuel
consumption.
By ENJI
(a) number of staff, classified by education standard and function in the sector.
Project oDordinator (appointed by NIE)
Status of progress and financial commitments for each of the project components.



ENE    TWaLa ASSISrANCE AND    BUA MPRW=
um   F-0  PRIOD  STRCM
Prlmtu   De,iar                            jet
Gmasoin   Gsowlin    Gas Oil   Kaerm    Fuel    Thutmie a/  Prown  at Fuzel Oil a/
Convercl  Pactor (lites/t)         1365      1400      1190       1275      1335     10O0        1000      1060
5I i r I, Parity' p1,m b/ (US$It)   195       175       165        200      200       240        240         80
of         W    ~~(Mr/IL)  28.6      25.0      27.7       31.4      30.0     48.0        48.0      15.0
SEmtmd  Retail O,st Cf OVA/)       36.6      33.0      35.7       39.4      38.0     56.0       56.0       23.0 
Rletail Pri  d/ (w r1i5           120.0     100.0      67.4       38.5      56.3     46.0       44.5       n. a.                     j
Rtod  of Retgil Price to Fcuzitc                                                                                                    VI
Qist                             3.3       3.3       1.9       0.98       1.5      0.8         0.8
WBasd co mimd 1986 fob Babrein posted pice and freigbt rates of IB$15/t tD I4aputo.
'  Jidc~ues internal transpot and eistihitmdc cost for coxnw,ptimi In
!MtoS tdMi to be equivabomt tD tIS cars 4/liter.
d/Prices ammce om Jamuay 30, 1987.
m-a



- 76 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page I or 2
MOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATE OF ECONONIC RATE OF RETURN
Estimates of Benefits and Costs
1.         The computation of the economic rate of return to the project
investment is based on a quantification of increased power supply
throughout Mozambique resulting from improvements in both electricity and
petroleum supply and distribution capability. Other types of benefits from
the project, such as improvements to the transport sector through beter
fuel availability and social benefits to households through better energy
availability, cannot be quantified reliably, and thus they have not been
estimated.
2.          The potential improvement in power supply is taken to be the
difference between the average actual power sales in the early 1980's and
actual power sales in 1985.   The former level is taken to represent a
reasonable estimate of domestic demand unconstrained by serious shortfalls
in supply capability. For the period 1981 to 1984, annual sales averaged
627 GWh.   The 1985 level of 545 GWh is taken to represent the supply
capability of the power system without rehabilitation and technical
assistance. It is probably a conservatively high estimate of the "without
project" situation since supply capability would be expected to decline
subsequently in the absence of the project. Thus, the estimated scope for
improvement from the project is 82 GWh/year.
3.           In addition, the estimated increase in power sales from the
connection of 4,150 new households to the power systems in Maputo, Nampula
and Nacala is based on the conservative assumption that these connections
will be to low-income households who would use power mainly for lighting.
Thus, a low average consumption of 50 kWh/month is adopted, generating a
total annual increase in sales of 2.5 GWh.   The total benefit from the
project is thus estimated to be equivalent to 84.5 GWh/year of power.
4.          Gross benefits are valued at the average 1986 power tariff of
MT 3.8/kWl  equivalent to 9.5 US/kWh.  This level excludes the additional
consumers willingness to pay for power over the tariff level for which
there is no reliable estimate, and thus it is a conservative valuation of
benefits.
5.          The net benefits are derived from the gross benefits less the
marginal cost of the increased supply of energy from the supply system.
The average margina. energy cost is estimated on the following basis:
Central   Isolated
Southern   Central   Northern  Load
System     System    System    Centers
Proportion of Total Power Benefits   50%           30%      15%         5%
Supply Source of Marginal Energy    ESCOM (RSA) Local    Cahora   Diesel
Hydro    Bassa  Generators
plants
Economic Cost of Marginal Energy      0.83        Zero     Zero         6.i
(US cents/kWh)



- 77 -
ANNEX 6.1
Page 2 of 2
The cost of energy from diesel generators is derived from an estimated
specific consumption of 350 gms/kWh and a 1986 economic fuel cost of US$
175/tonne. The weighted average economic cost of energy is equivalent to
0.72US/kWh. The net benefits are thus (9.5 - 0.7)-8.8 USt/kWh.
6.         Capital costs are taken to be the estimated total costs for all
the EDM and PETROMOC project components covering rehabilitation and new
plant, equipment and materials, and technical assistance for operational
support and new management, financial and operating systems.  These costs
total US$25.90 million in 1986 price terms (base costs plus physical
contingencies). The only components not included are technical assistance
to ENH and to prepare subsector development programs which account for less
than US$2.40 million. Thus, the computation of economic rate of return is
based on 92% of the total project cost.
7.          Operating and maintenance costs attributable to the increased
power supply are estimated at US$0.5 million/year.   Most of these costs
will be related to the additional transport operations.   The incremental
costs for other power and petroleum system components will be small.
8.         The incremental annual economic benefits and costs attributable
to the project are summarized below.  The benefists from the project are
taken  to  have  an  economic  life  of  10  years.    During  the  project
implementation period, a conservative rate of build-up to full benefits is
assumed.   The build-up in capital costs follows the estimated annual
project costs (Annex. 4.3).
CY       Incremental        Power       Capital        0 & M       Net
Power          Benefits    Cost            Cost      Benefits
(G,Wh)               ---(=U`S$ thousand)  - 
1987          -                -        1211             -        -1211
1988        30.0             2640      13224             i25     -10709
1989        45.0             3960       7080             250      -3379
1990        60.0             5280       4047             375       +858
1991        84.5             7436        341             500      +6595
1992
to          84.5             7436         -              500      +6936
2000
Economic Rate of Return: 26.9%
Net Present Valuie at 10%: US$18.70 million



- 78 -              ANNEX 7.1
MOZAMBIQUE
ENERGY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available in Project File
1.        Electricidade de Hogambique - Mapas de Controle de Conta de
E_loraao e Orgamento do Tesouraria January 1986*
2.        Joint UNDP/World Bank Energy Assessment Program - Mozambique:
Issues and Options In the Energy Sector January 1987.
3.        R.I. Saba (Consultant).Travel Report to Mozambique - Electricity
Suply System June 1986.
4.        J. E. Shillingford (Consultant). World Bank Technical Assistance
Program-Mo:ambisue. Rehabilitation of Petroleum Distribution
Facilties My 19e
5.        VIAK AB, Norway.Electricidade de Mocambigue - Transport Fleet
Appraisal -Definitive Study Final Report February 1986.



NoM SECTION



IBRD 20093
,~r  ,                     TANZANIA  r
/                             j            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Medimbao do Praolo
ZAMBIA                           (
NORTHERN
JMALAWI                                                                    P-  
LILONOWE                                REGION
141-
.z                         Mo t- 20 MW p
.         O~~~ona n                   b
IV      HARARE)Ca 
ZIMBABWE                         REG
Petrol0uzn P 2t                                                    MOZAMBIQUE
Chitru 3 t2i-<lw MEXISTING ENERGY
I3 2M  >ra          SUPPLY FACILITIES
Existing Power Transmission Lines:
* 533 kV dc Line
DIr OrvCrlhe t 4              -          275 kV Line
220 kV Line
110 kV Line
>* . _pS  Pandrp          .               Under Construction:
220 kV Line
roH /re                  Tomanert  9110 kV Line
-w    ,7Number of Transmission Lines  22*-
*'    Thermal Power Plants
SOUTHERN                                     U    Hydro Power Plants
bf    I 44                                                       0    Substations
40rs?       t           i    REGION                                -       Petroleum Pipeline
* I   Wellswis  w   Dscovery or
odW                                   th Gas Show s
SOUTH         \                                                            Coal Mlne
AFRIA \'RRailroads
AFRICA                                                                O    Towns
LIOSIdO                                   *    National Capitals
--- ,FIelos Boundaries for Power Supply
International Boundaries
O       1?0      20       35
,' NDf" "4 -wo t, " fw0dwM  *
f6 |MBBANE ( d=wC~,-.f  4v
,tola                                               VW ***iOe WW OW tt.'a.



