OFFCIAL
n_OUMENTS
CREDIT NUMBER 1806 MOZ
Development Credit Agreement
(Energy Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                   Q,       , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1806 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       1    a A     , 1987, between PEOPLE'S
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE   he Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOP-
MENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
(B) the Borrower intends to contract from the Government of
the Kingdom of Norway grants (hereinafter called the Norwegian
Grants) in an aggregate amount equivalent to five million U.S.
dollars to assist in the financing of the Project on the terms
and conditions set forth in agreements (hereinafter called the
Norwegian Grant Agreements) to be entered into between the
Borrower and the Government of the Kingdom of Norway;
(C) Parts A and B of the Project will be carried out by
Electricidade de Mocambique (EDM) and Empresa Nacional Petroleos
de Mocambique E.E. (PETROMOC), respectively, with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to ED1 and PETROMOC part of the proceeds of the Credit
as provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
Project Agreements of even date herewith between the Association
and EDM and PETROMOC, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the


﻿-2-
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "EDM" means Electricidade de Mocambique, an entity
established and operating under Decree No. 38/77 of August 27,
1977;
(b) "PETROMOC" means Ex.presa Nacional Petroleos de
Mocambique E.E., an entity established and operating under Decree
No. 22/77 of May 1, 1977;
(c) "ENH" means Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos, an
entity established and operating under Decree No. 18/81 of
October 3, 1981;
(d) "EDM Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and EDM of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the EDM Project Agreement;
(e) "PETROMOC Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and PETROMOC of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the PETROMOC Project
Agreement;
(f) "EDM Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and EDM pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the EDM
Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(g) "PETROMOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement
to be entered into between the Borrower and PETROMOC pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the
PETROMOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(h) "Special Account I", "Special Account II" and "Special
Account III" mean the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
(i)  "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters, dated September 10, 1986
March 31, 1987 and April 23, 1987, between the Borrower and the
Association; and


﻿-3-
(j) "fiscal year" means the period from January 1 through
December 31 following.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to fifteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 15,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project as
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, open and maintain in
U.S. dollars three special accounts in a commercial bank on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Special Account I
shall be opened for the purposes of Part A of the Project, Special
Account II shall be opened for the purposes of Part B of the
Project, and Special Account III shall be opened for the purposes
of Parts C and D of the Project. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Accounts shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedules 4, 5 and 6, respectively, to this
Agreement.
(c) Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal
amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project
Preparation Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date,
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge at the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn


﻿-4-
from time to time. The commitment charge shall accrue from a date
sixty (60) days after the date of the Development Credit Agreement
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or shall be cancelled.
(b) The comi4ttment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable cn each April 1
and October 1, commencing October 1, 1997, and ending April 1,
2037. Each installment to and including the installment payable on
April 1, 2007, shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be
one and one-half percent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
Section 2.09. Banco de Mocambique is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any
action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction


﻿- 5 -
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement: (i) shall carry out Parts C and D of the Project, or
shall cause them to be carried out, with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and
financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project; and (ii) shall cause EDM and PETROMOC to perform in
accordance with the provisions of the EDM Project Agreement and
PETROMOC Project Agreement, respectively, all the obligations of
EDM and PETROMOC therein set forth, shall take and cause to be
taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities,
services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
EDM and PETROMOC to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out Parts C and D
of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set
forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
(c) The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the
Credit an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 7,430,000 to
EDM under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and EDM, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the AssLciation and which shall include, inter
alia, repayment over twenty (20) years, including five (5) years
of grace, the foreign exchange risk to be borne by EDM, and
(i) interest at the rate of 7.92% per annum for an amount not
exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,460,000; and (ii) a service
charge at the rate of 1.75% per annum for an amount not exceeding
the equivalent of SDR 3,970,000.
(d) The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the
Credit an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 6,780,000 to
PETROMOC under a subsidiary loan Lgreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and PETROMOC under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association and which shall
include, inter alia, repayment over twenty (20) years, including
five (5) years of grace, the foreign exchange risk to be borne by
PETROMOC, and (i) interest at the rate of 8.70% per annum for
an amount not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 3,910,000; and
(ii) a service charge at the rate of 1.75% per annum for an amount
not exceeding the equivalent of SDR 2,870,000.


﻿- 6 -
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association, and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Parts A and B of the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
of the Schedule to the EDM Project Agreement and P'.TROMOC Project
Agreement, respectively.
(b) In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out Parts C
and D of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in accordance with principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of Part A of the Project shall be carried out by EDM
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the EDM Project Agresment, and in
respect of Part B of the Project shall be carried -ut by PETROMOC
pursuant to Section 2.03 of the PETROMOC Project Ag-aement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound accounting practices, the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of Parts C and D of the Project of the
departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying
out Parts C and D of the Project or any part thereof.


﻿- 7-
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section, including those for
Special Account III, for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditures, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
completion of the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records, (contracts, orders,
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv)    ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their
preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals.


﻿- 8 -
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take, promptly as required,
all action necessary on its part:
(a) to enable EDM to fulfill its obligations under Sec-
tions 4.02 and 4.03 of the EDM Project Agreement; and
(b) to enable PETROMOC to fulfill its obligations under
Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of the PETROMOC Project Agreement.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall
carry out a semiannual review of electricity tariffs and petroleum
product prices.
(b) The Borrower shall ensure that petroleum product prices
are maintained at least as high as prevailing import parity prices
plus internal distribution costs.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall establish, not later than
December 31, 1987, the patrimony of EDM's and PETROMOC's assets.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall implement, not later than
December 31, 1987, compensation packages for EDM's and PETROMOC's
staff so as to enable the companies to retain skilled manpower.
Section 4.06. Until the completion of the Project, the
Borrower shall cause no new investment, other than expenditures
under the Project, which exceeds the equivalent of $3,000,000 and
is not included in the Energy Sector Priority Investment Program
to 1991, as agreed upon between the Borrower and the Association,
to be carried out in the energy sector without prior consultation
with the Association.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant, to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) EDM shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the EDM Project Agreement.
(b) PETROMOC shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the PETROMOC Project Agreement.
(c) As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation


﻿- 9 -
shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that EDM and
PETROMOC, as the case may be, will be able to perform its
obligations under the EDM Project Agreement or the PETROMOC
Project Agreement, respectively.
(d) Decree No. 38/77 of the Borrower shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of EDM to perform any of its
obligations under the EDM Project Agreement.
(e) Decree No. 22/77 of the Borrower shall have oeen
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of PETROMOC to perform any of
its obligations under the PETROMOC Project Agreement.
(f) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of EDM or PETROMOC or for the suspension of their operations.
(g) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of any grant or loan made to the
Borrower for the financing of the Project shall
have been suspended, cancelled or terminated in
whole r in part, pursuant to the terms of the
agreement providing therefor, or
(B) any such loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(ii)   Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that: (A) such suspension,
cancellation, termination or prematuring is not
caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any
of its obligations under such agreement; and (B)
adequate funds for the Project are available to the
Borrower from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period


﻿- 10 -
of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been given by
the Association to the Borrower;
(b) the events specified in paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur; and
(c) the evprit specified in paragraph (g) (i) (B) of Sec-
tion 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of
paragraph (g) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 2.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the EDM Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed on
behalf of the Borrower and EDM;
(b) the PETROMOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been executed
on behalf of the Borrower and PETROMOC;
(c) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Norwegian Grant Agreements (other than the effectiveness of this
Agreement) have been fulfilled; and
(d) EDM and PETROMOC have signed contracts with inter-
national accountancy organizations, acceptable to the Association,
for assistance in the preparation of the documents referred to in
paragraph 3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the EDM Project Agreement and the PETROMOC Project
Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by EDM and
PETROMOC, respectively, and are legally binding upon EDM and
PETROMOC, respectively, in accordance with their terms;
(b) that the EDM Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and EDM, and is legally
binding upon the Borrower and EDM in accordance with its terms;
and


﻿- 11 -
(c) that the PETROMOC Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower and PETROMOC, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and PETROMO% in accordance with
its terms.
Section 6.03. The date one hundred and twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Banco de Mocambique
Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
P.O. Box 423
Maputo
People's Republic of Mozambique
Cable address:                      Telex:
MOBANCO                           6355/7 BMMO
Maputo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)


﻿-  12  -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional V ce President
Africa


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Power system                2,300,000        100% of foreign
maintenance and                             expenditures
rehabilitation,
except under
Part A.1 (a)
of the Project
(2) Vehicles and                1,330,000        100% of foreign
equipment under                             expenditures
Part A.2 of
the Project
(3) Petroleum system            1,900,000       100% of foreign
maintenance and                             expenditures
rehabilitation
under Part B.1
of the Project
(4) Consultants'
services, including
external audit ser-
vices, and support
facilities:
(a)   under                3,740,000       100% of foreign
Part A                                expenditures
of the
Proj ect


﻿- 14 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(b) under                  2,600,000       100% of foreign
Part B                                  expenditures
of the
Project
(c) under                  1,360,000       100% of foreign
Parts C                                 expenditures
and D
of the
Project
(5) Refunding of                  770,000       Amount due pur-
Project Prepara-                            suant to Section
tion Advance                                2.02 (c) of this
Agreement
(6) Unallocated                 1,600,000
TOTAL             15,600,.000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign
expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied
from the territory of any country other than that of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
(b) expenditures under Categories (1) and (2), unless the
Association has received EDM's income statements for the fiscal
years 1985 and 1986 and its financial plans for the fiscal years
1987 and 1988; and
(c) expenditures under Category (3), unless the Association
has received PETROMOC's income statements for the fiscal years
1985 and 1986 and its financial plans for the fiscal years 1987
and 1988.


﻿- 15 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in:
(i) improving the supply and distribution of electricity and
petroleum products to the main urban areas of Maputo, Beira,
Nampula, Nacala and Quelimane; and (ii) strengthening the
operational, management and financial planning capabilities of the
energy agencies and companies.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Electricidade de Mocambique
1.   Maintenance and rehabilitation of the power system through:
(a) the supply and installation of materials and equipment
for the distribution systems in Maputo, Beira, Nampula and Nacala,
including connecting 4,150 houses to these systems;
(b) the provision of operational maintenance equipment and
materials for the transmission systems;
(c) the upgrading of the existing metering laboratory in
Maputo and establishment of a small metering laboratory in Beira;
(d) the provision of spare parts for the Maputo Power
Station operation and the re-equipping of the maintenance
workshops; and
(e) the repair and expansion of the radio communications
network and the upgrading of the repair facilities.
2.   Rehabilitation and upgrading of EDM's transportation
facilities through:
(a) the rehabilitation of heavy and light vehicles;
(b) the provision of additional heavy and light vehicles and
special-purpose vehicles for maintenance work; and
(c) the improvement of EDM's radio network, including
installation of new mobile VHF networks, upgrading of the radio
maintenance workshops in Maputo and establishment of two radio
maintenance centers in Chimoio and Nampula.


﻿- 16 -
3.   Strengthening of EDM's operational, management and financial
planning capabilities through the provision of consultants'
services:
(a) to manage the transportation fleet and operate power
system facilities; and
(b) to design and implement management and financial
systems, to carry out technical training programs and to prepare a
power system study for the main grids.
Part B:   Empresa Nacional Petroleos de Mocambique E.E.
1.   Maintenance and rehabilitation of the petroleum product
handling and distribution system through:
(a) the repair of off-loading pipelines at Maputo, Quelimane
and Nacala;
(b) the provision of terminal and depot equipment, including
safety equipment, in Maputo, Beira, Quelimane and Nacala;
(c) the provision of maintenance equipment;
(d) the supply of laboratory test equipment;
(e) the supply, and installation of aviation. fuel handling
equipment;
(f) the provision of equipment for service stations; and
(g) the provision of radio equipment.
2.   The provision of transportation equipment, including about 24
petroleum tankers and 12 light vehicles.
3.   Strengthening of PETROMOC's operational, management and
financial planning capabilities through the provision of
consultants' services:
(a) to manage the operation, engineering and maintenance of
the transportation fleet, the aviation fueling facilities and
product movement; and
(b) to design and implement management and financial
systems, to carry out technical training programs and to prepare
least-cost development programs for the supply and distribution of
petroleum products.


﻿- 17 -
Part C:   Empresa Nacional de Hidrocarbonetos
Strengthening of ENH's management and financial planning
capabilities through the provision of consultants' services.
Part D:   Studies
Preparation of a national urban household energy policy and
implementation program, including:
1. a study of charcoal production technology;
2. an aerophotographic forest inventory of Southern
Mozambique;
3. a study of fuelwood supply options; and
4. a study of potential for fuelwood plantations.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1991.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 3
Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.   The Borrower's Ministry of Industry and Energy, through the
project coordinator, shall be responsible for the overall
coordination of all Project activities. The project coordinator
shall in particular prepare, at regular intervals, reports on the
progress of the various Project components, such reports based on
the records and reports submitted by the Project executing
agencies for their respective components, taking into account the
agreed upon monitoring indicators and target dates, and submit
these reports to the Association. After completion of the Project,
the project coordinator shall prepare a Project completion report.
2.   In the context of the overall coordination of Project
activities, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association
on the findings of the various studies undertaken under the
Project dealing with the sub-sectoral development issues and their
implications for the Borrower's energy sector investment program.
Part C of the Project
3.   The Borrower shall cause ENH:
(a) to submit to the Association the findings of the studies
on the institutional development of ENH;
(b) to exchange views with the Association on said findings;
and
(c) to implement thereafter, in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the Association, new systems for financial
management, accounting and planning, and organization
and manpower development.
4.   In order to facilitate the carrying out of said studies and
their subsequent implementation, the Borrower shall cause ENH to
assign qualified staff as counterparts to the consultants thus
working closely with the consultants and receiving training from
them.


﻿- 19 -
Part D of the Project
5.   The Borrower shall carry out Part D of the Project through
the Department of Energy in the Ministry of Industry and Energy
which shall prepare, not later than December 31, 1989, a household
energy policy paper based on the findings of the specific studies
referred to in Part D of the Project.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account I
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (4) (a) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part A of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in acc-rdance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into Special Account I, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of Special Account I shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account I has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account I may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account I such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account I at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account I such amounts as shall be required to
replenish Special Account I with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of Special Account I for eligible expen-
ditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,


﻿- 21 -
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account
I for which the Borrower requests replenishment, pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account I shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part A of
the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association,
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Part A of the Project, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for Part A of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account I as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account I: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence


﻿- 22 -
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
Special Account I (or, if the Association shall so request, refund
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment
or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further
deposit by the Association into Special Account I shall be made
until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account I will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account II
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (3) and
(4) (b) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
Part B of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 800,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account
and deposited into Special Account II, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a)
of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of Special Account II shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account II has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account II may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account II such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account II at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account II such amounts as shall be required to
replenish Special Account II with amounts not exceeding the amount
of payments made out of Special Account II for eligible expen-
ditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories,


﻿-24 -
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account
II for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such
documents and other evidence as the Association shall reasonably
request, showing that such payment was made for eligible expen-
ditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account II shall be made
by the Association when either of the following situations first
arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories for Part B of
the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association,
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Part B of the Project, shall be
equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories for Part B of the Project shall follow such
procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account II as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account II: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence


﻿- 25 -
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into
Special Account II (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into Special Account II shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account II will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 6
Special Account III
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Category" means Category (4) (c) set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of services required for Parts C
and D of the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Category in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to SDR 200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit
Account and deposited into Special Account III, pursuant to
paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, payments out
of Special Account III shall be made exclusively for eligible
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to
it that Special Account III has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Special Account III may be made as follows:
(a) On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower
for a deposit or deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation, the Association shall, on behalf of
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
Special Account III such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
(b) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for replenishment of Special Account III at such intervals as the
Association shall specify. On the basis of such requests, the
Association shall withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit
into Special Account III such amounts as shall be required to
replenish Special Account III with amounts not exceeding the
amount of payments made out of Special Account III for eligible
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Category, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have


﻿- 27 -
been justified by the evidence supporting the request for such
deposit furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of Special Account
III for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to
paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, prior to or at the time of such request, such and
other evidence as the Association shall reasonably request,
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.   (a) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, no further deposit into Special Account III shall be
made by the Association when either of the following situations
first arises:
(i)    the Association shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance
with the provisions of Article V of the General
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(ii)    the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Category for Parts C and D of
the Project, minus the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Association,
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
with respect to Parts C and D of the Project, shall
be equal to the equivalent of twice the amount of
the Authorized Allocation.
(b) Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Category for Parts C and D of the Project shall follow
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to
the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in Special Account III as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of Special Account III: (i) was made for any
expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, deposit into


﻿- 28 -
Special Account III (or, if the Association shall so request,
refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No
further deposit by the Association into Special Account III shall
be made until the Borrower has made such deposit or refund.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in Special Account III will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount for crediting to the
Credit Account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


