CiFF CI AL
DOC UMFN T
CREDIT NUMBER 1806 MOZ
Project Agreement
(Energy Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
ELECTRICIDADE DE MOCAMBIQUE
Dated                              , 1987


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1806 MOZ
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated (j  kk &       , 1987, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATI (the Association) and ELECTRICIDADE DE
MOCAMBIQUE (EDM).                                                '
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between People's Republic of Mozambique (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
fifteen million six hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 15,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that EDM agree
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
(B) by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and EDM, part of the proceeds of the Credit
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made
available to EDM on the terms and conditions set forth in said
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS EDM, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. EDM declares its commitment to the objectives
of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Development
Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out Part A of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,


﻿-2-
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for Part A of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for Part A of the Project, and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of the
Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. EDM shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services,
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement and
Part A of the Project.
Section 2.04. EDM shall duly perform all its obligations
under the EDM Subsidiary Loan Agreement. Except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, EDM shall not take or concur in any action
which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or
waiving the EDM Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision
thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EDM shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of Part A of the Project, the performance of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the EDM Subsidiary Loan
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) EDM shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of Part A of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by EDM of its
obligations under this Agreement and under the EDM Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
Section 2.06. EDM shall:
(a) submit to the Association the findings of the studies on
the institutional development of EDM;
(b) exchange views with the Association on said findings;
and


﻿-3-
(c) implement thereafter, in accordance with a timetable
acceptable to the Association, new systems for financial manage-
ment, accounting and planning, organization and manpower
development.
Section 2.07. In order to facilitate the carrying out of said
studies and their subsequent implementation, EDM shall assign
qualified staff or counterparts to the consultants thus working
closely with the consultants and receiving training from them.
Section 2.08. EDM shall keep, until the completion of the
Project, a register of vehicles financed under the Project with
records of the locations of these vehicles, such register to be
available to the Association.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EDM
Section 3.01. EDM shall carry out its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
public utility practices, under the supervision of qualified and
experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers.
Section 3.02. EDM shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to
time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial and
public utility practices.
Section 3.03. EDM shall take out and maintain with respon-
sible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. EDM shall carry out, not later than
December 31, 1987, an inventory of its current stock in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Coverants
Section 4.01. (a) EDM shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting
practices, its operations and financial condition.


﻿(b) EDM shall, starting in fiscal year 1988:
(i)    have its records, accounts and financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of
income and expenses and related statements)
and the Special Account I for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate audit-
ing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the
Association;
(ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as avail-
able, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year:
(A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited; and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors,
of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested;
and
(iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
tion concerning said records, accounts and
financial statements as well as the audit
thereof, as the Association shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EDM shall produce:
(i)   for its fiscal year 1989, funds from internal
sources equivalent to not less than tweny
percent (20%) of EDM's capital expenditures
incurred for that year; and
(ii)   for the fiscal years 1990 and thereafter, funds
from internal sources equivalent to not less
than thirty percent (30%) of the annual average
of EDM's capital expenditures incurred, or
expected to be incurred, for that year and the
next two following fiscal years.
(b) Before September 30 in each of its fiscal years, EDM
shall, on the basis of forecasts prepared by EDM and satisfactory
to the Association, review whether it would meet the requirements
set forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year, and shall furnish to the Association a copy
of such review upon its completion.


﻿-5-
(c) If any such review shows that EDM would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for EDM's fiscal years
covered by such review, EDM shall promptly take all necessary
measures (including, but not limited to, adjustments of the struc-
ture or levels of its rates) in order to meet such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations, consumer deposits and consumer
contributions in aid of construction, net non-
operating income and any reduction in working
capital other than cash; and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance
and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
(excluding provision for depreciation and
other non-cash operating charges), debt
service requirements, all cash dividends and
other cash distributions of surplus, increase
in working capital other than cash and cash
outflows other than capital expenditures.
(ii) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(iii) The term "working capital other than cash" means
the difference between current assets excluding
cash and current liabilities at the end of each
fiscal year.
(iv) The term "current assets excluding cash" means all
assets other than cash which could, in the ordinary
course of business, be converted into cash within
twelve months, including accounts receivable,
marketable sEcurities, inventories and pre-paid


﻿- 6 -
expenses properly chargeable to operating expenses
within the next fiscal year.
(v) The term "current liabilities" means all liabi-
lities which will become due and payable or could,
under circumstances then existing, be called
for payment within twelve months, including
accounts payable, customer advances, debt service
requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
and dividends.
(vi) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vii) The term "capital expenditures" means all expen-
ditures incurred on account of fixed assets,
including interest charged to construction, related
to operations.
(viii) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such valua-
tion, obtainable for the purposes of servicing such
debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, EDM shall not incur any debt, unless the net revenues of
EDM for the fiscal year immediately preceding the date of such
incurrence or for a later twelve-month period ended prior to the
date of such incurrence, whichever is the greater, shall be at
least 1.5 times the estimated maximum debt service requirements of
EDM for any succeeding fiscal year on all debt of EDM, including
the debt to be incurred.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EDM
maturing by its terms more than one year after the
date on which it is originally incurred.


﻿-7-
(ii) Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a
loan contract or agreement or other instrument
providing for such debt or for the modification of
its terms of payment on the date of such contract,
agreement or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for
such guarantee has been entered into.
(iii) The term "net revenues" means the difference
between:
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related
to operations adjusted to take account of
EDM's rates in effect at the time of the
incurrence of debt, even though they were not
in effect during the twelve-month period to
which such revenues relate, and net non-
operating income; and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations
including administration, adequate main-
tenance, taxes and payments in lieu of taxes,
but excluding provision for depreciation,
other non-cash operating charges and interest
and other charges on debt.
(iv) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of
revenues in (A) above.
(v) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(vi) Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it
shall be necessary to value, in terms of the
currency of the Borrower, debt payable in another
currency, such valuation shall be made on the basis
of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time of such


﻿-8-
valuation, obtainable for the purposes of servicing
such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the
basis of a rate of exchange acceptable to the
Association.
Section 4.04. EDM and the Association shall review, not later
than September 30, 1988, the adequacy of the provisions set forth
in Sections 4.02 and 4.03 of this Agreement and, based on the
outcome of such review, make the required changes therein, if any,
by agreement between EDM and the Association.
Section 4.05. EDM and the Association shall, by April 30,
1988, exchange views on:
(a) EDM's financial performance as indicated in its income
statements for fiscal years 1985, 1986 and 1987, the financial
plan for fiscal year 1988, its actual balance sheet for fiscal
year 1987 and its projected balance sheet for fiscal year 1988;
(b) a timetable for establishing an adequate financial
structure for EDM, with special emphasis on its operating
situation; and
(c) a timetable for establishing appropriate accounting
systems and procedures.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of EDM thereunder shall terminate on the earlier
of the following two dates:
(i)    the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with
its terms; or
(ii)    the date twenty (20) years after the date of
this Agreement.


﻿- 9 -
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify EDM of
this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For EDM:
Electricidade de Mocambique
Avenida Agostinho Neto 70
P.O. Box 2447
Maputo
People's Republic of Mozambique


﻿- 10 -
Cable address:                   Telex:
Electricidade                 6407 DNEMP MO
Maputo
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of EDM may be taken or executed by the General
Manager or such other person or persons as EDM shall designate in
writing, and EDM shall furnish to the Association sufficient
evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature
of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By  151 -F
Regional Vice President
Africa
ELECTRICIDADE DE MOCAMBIQUE
ByizeReresntaiv
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in Mozambique may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof, EDM may grant a margin of preference
to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject to, the
provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
Proprietory items and minor civil works, up to an aggregate
amount not to exceed the equivalent of $1,230,000, may be procured
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of Special
Account I, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to


﻿- 12 -
the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be
furnished to the Association prior to the making of the first
payment out of the Special Account I in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of Special Account I, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract, together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3, shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
obtained in accordance with Section 4.01 (c) (ii) of the
Development Credit Agreement.
2.   The figure of fifteen percent (15%) is hereby specified for
purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist EDM in carrying out Part A of the Project,
EDM shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


