NORWEGIAN GRANTED RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1806 MOZ
Development Grant Agreement
(Energy Technical Assistance and Rehabilitation Project)
between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
Dated                           , 1987


﻿NORWEGIAN GRANT RELATED TO CREDIT NUMBER 1806 MOZ
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              , 1987, between
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MZAMBIQUE (the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Administrator) on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY (Norway).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association (the Association) and of
Norway in the financing of a Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement, dated June 24, 1987, between the
Borrower and the International Development Association (the IDA
Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS (B) in consideration of the above mentioned request,
Norway will open a Trust Account and will deposit therein an
amount of twenty-one million Norwegian-Kroner (NOK 21,000,000) and
has, pursuant to an Agreement, dated  a(fy     /L     , 1987, (the
Administration Agreement), appointed the International Development
Association as Administrator of said Trust Account for the purpose
of providing assistance to the Recipient; and
WHEREAS (C) the Association, as Administrator as hereinbefore
mentioned, has agreed on the basis inter alia of the foregoing, to
extend the Norwegian Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and
conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (the
General Conditions) with the same force and effect as if th6y were
fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following modifi-
cations thereof:
(a) the term "Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as Administrator of the Norwegian Grant pursuant to the Adminis-
tration Agreement;


﻿- 2 -
(b) the term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever used
in the General Conditions, means this Development Grant Agreement;
(c) the term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Norwegian Grant hereunder;
(d) the term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions or in this Agreement, means the account opened by the
Administrator in its books in the name of the Recipient to which
the amount of the Norwegian Grant is credited;
(e) the term "Project" means the project for which the
Norwegian Grant is extended, as described in Schedule 2 to the IDA
Credit Agreement, and as the description thereof may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Association and the
Recipient;
(f) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04,
4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a), 12.02 and 12.05 of the General Condi-
tions are deleted; and
(g) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the
term "Association" shall include also the International Develop-
ment Association acting in its own capacity.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the
Recipient, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or
referred to, a grant, (the Norwegian Grant) in an amount of
twenty-one million Norwegian Kroner (NOK 21,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Norwegian Grant may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the provi-
sions of the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be
amended from time to time by agreement among the parties, for
expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of vehicles required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Norwegian Grant.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant have been paid or are pay-
able or, at the option of the Association, in Norwegian Kroner.


﻿- 3 -
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of goods and works required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to the
Project Agreement dated June 24, 1987 between the Association and
Empresa Nacional Petroleos de Mozambique E.E. (PETROMOC) (the
PETROMOC Project Agreement).
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1992,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later
date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Articles III and IV of the IDA Credit Agreement are hereby
incorporated into this Agreement with the same force and effect as
if they were fully set forth herein, it being understood that all
references in such Articles III and IV to the "Association" shall
be deemed to be references to the Association, as Administrator on
behalf of Norway under this Agreement, all references to the
"Development Credit Agreement" shall be deemed to be references to
this Development Grant Agreement and all references to the
"Credit" shall be deemed to be references to the Norwegian Grant.
ARTICLE IV
Effectiveness; Termination; Representation
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
signature.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Reci-
pient and the Administrator hereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms.
Section 4.03. The representative designated in Section 7.01
of the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the representative of the
Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.04. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of the
IDA Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.


﻿Section 4.05. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the IDA Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Administration Agree-
ment, the rights and obligations of the Administrator under this
Agreement may be transferred to Norway. The Recipient accepts and
agrees that, upon notice by the Adminiscrator to the Recipient to
that effect, Norway shall, ipso facto, from the date specified in
such notice, be substituted in all rights and obligations of the
Administrator under this Agreement as if Norway had been an orig-
inal party to this Agreement, without any further action or
formality required on the part of any party, and from such date
the Administrator shall cease to have any rights or obligations as
a party under this Agreement.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as Administrator on behalf of the
GOVERNMENT OF THE KINGDOM OF NORWAY
By
' Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿-5-
SCHEDULE
Withdrawal of the Proceed-s
of the Norwegian Grant
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Norwegian Grant, the
allocation of the amount of the Norwegian Grant to the Category
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in
the Category:
Amount of
Norwegian
Grant Allocated
(Expressed in            % of
Norwegian          Expenditures
Category                Kroner-NOK)        to be Financed
(1) Vehicles under           21,000,000         100% of foreign
Part B.2 of                                expenditures
the Project
referred to
in Schedule 2
of the IDA
Credit Agreement
TOTAL               21,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than that of the Recipient for goods supplied from the territory
of any country other than that of the Recipient.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
(a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
(b) payments made for expenditures under Category (1) unless
the Association has received PETROMOC's income statements for the
fiscal years 1985 and 1986 and its financial plans for the fiscal
years 1987 and 1988.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


