Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16048
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3058-IN and 3059-IN)
September 25, 1996
Country Operations, Industry & Finance Division
Country Department II
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(annual average)
Currency unit = Indian rupees (Rs.)
1989-90                    $1.00 = Rs. 16.66           Official Rate
1990-91                    $1.00 = Rs. 17.95           Official Rate
1991-92                    $1.00 = Rs. 24.52           Official Rate
1992-93                    $1.00 = Rs. 26.41           Official Rate
1993-94                    $1.00 = Rs. 31.36           Unified Rate
1994-95                    $1.00 = Rs. 31.40           Unified Rate
1995-96                    $1.00 = Rs. 33.46           Unified Rate
1996 (as of March 31, 1996)  $1.00 = Rs. 34.45         Unified Rate
Note: A dual exchange rate system was created in March 1992, with a free market for about 60 percent of foreign
exchange transactions at a rate of $1.00 = Rs. 30.65. The exchange rate was reunified at the beginning of March
1993 at the free market rate.
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOB:         Bank of Baroda
DFI:         Development Financial Institutions
EDF:         Export Development Fund
EDP:         Export Development Project
EMF:         Export Marketing Fund
ERAS:        Exchange Risk Administration Scheme
ERR:         Economic Rate of Return
EXIM:        The Export Import Bank of India
FRR:         Financial Rate of Return
GOI:         Government of India
ICICI:       Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd.
ICR:         Implementation Completion Report
IDBI:        Industrial Development Bank of India
IEP:         Industrial Export Project - Engineering Products
PCB:         Participating Commercial Bank
PF:          Productivity Fund
TAF:         Technical Assistance Fund



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3058-IN and 3059-IN)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Preface ............................i
Evaluation Summary ..........................                                               ii
Project Implementation Assessment ............................1
A. Background .
B. Project Objectives                                  .2
C.  Achievement of Project Objectives                          .5
D.    Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project          .       7
E. Project Sustainability                               .9
F. Bank Performance .                                                                1
G. Borrower Performance .                                                            1
H. Assessment of Outcome .1 1
I. Future Operations .12
J. Key Lessons .12
Annex 1: Statistical Tables
Annex 2: Mission's Aide-Memoire
Annex 3: List of Sub-Loans
Annex 4: Borrower Contribution to the ICR
Tis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
|oficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3058-IN and 3059-IN)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Export Development Project
in India, for which Loans 3058-IN and 3059-IN in the amount of US$295 million equivalent
were approved on May 12, 1989, and made effective on September 21, 1989.
2.    The loan was closed on March 31, 1996, the original closing date. Final disbursement
took place on July 31, 1996, and a balance of US$9,048,946.84 was canceled. Cofinancing for
the project was provided by the Japanese Grant Facility.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Paulo de Sa (IENIM) under the supervision of Mona Haddad
(Task Manager, SA2CI) and reviewed by Luis Emesto Derbez (Division Chief, SA2CI) and
Kazuko Uchimura (Project Advisor, SA2DR). The borrower provided comments that are
included as an annex.
4.    The preparation of this ICR began during the Bank's completion mission, comprising
Paulo de Sa (IENIM), Herman Nissenbaum (Consultant), and Lin Chin (SA2CI), who visited
India from March 31-April 12, 1996. Paul Beckerman (SA2CI) joined the mission in Bombay.
The ICR is based on material obtained during the mission and contained in the project file. The
borrower contributed to the preparation of the ICR by contributing views that are reflected in the
mission's aide-memoire and by preparing an evaluation of the project's execution and initial
preparation.






- 11 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3058-IN and 3059-IN)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.    Prior to the Export Development Project, initiated in 1989, the World Bank had made 19
development finance loans totaling US$1.4 billion. These funds were channeled to private
Indian firms engaged in all sectors of industrial activity through domestic financial
intermediaries, mainly the Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) and the
Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI). The Export Development Project is the direct
follow-up to an earlier Bank loan of US$250 million for the Industrial Export (Engineering
Products) Project (Loan 2629/30-IN). That project had shown the need to strengthen the
capabilities of firms and financial institutions in designing, implementing, and appraising export
development programs and export-oriented investments. These lessons were incorporated in the
Export Development Project.
2.    Project operations spanned two important changes, one in the domestic policy
environment and the other in the World Bank norms covering lending operations. First, in July
1991 India faced serious fiscal and external imbalances that placed it on the verge of defaulting
on its external debt obligations. The authorities responded by implementing a substantial
stabilization and adjustment program aimed at liberalizing the economy through unprecedented
reforms in the investment regime and in trade, financial, and fiscal policies. As a result the
environment for private sector development and export growth improved substantially. Second,
since 1991 the Bank has moved away from strengthening specific sectors, increasing domestic
resource mobilization, and improving selected groups' access to credit, toward a broader policy
effort aimed at improving a country's economic and financial environment as a whole. It is
against this background that the Export Development Project is reviewed.
Project Objectives
3.    The project was designed to help the Government of India carry out its strategy of
increasing the competitiveness and exports of manufactured products, thus providing the basis
for continued active dialogue between the Government and the Bank on trade policy and related
reforms. In addition, the project was intended to build institutional capacity within the Indian
financial system by helping financial institutions improve their abilities to assess export projects,
mobilize the resources needed to finance such projects, and provide direction and advice to their
clients on export issues and markets.



- iii -
4.    To achieve its objectives, the project assisted four financial institutions through an export
development fund of US$20 million, to finance part of the marketing and technical services and
foreign travel expenses associated with the preparation and implementation of client firms'
export development programs; a technical assistance fund of US$2.7 million equivalent, to help
the financial institutions strengthen their capacity to appraise export projects and advise firms on
export strategy issues; and a term lending component to finance export investment projects. This
component came under two different loans: a US$175 million loan for the ICICI and a US$100
million loan for three other financial intermediaries (the Export-Import Bank of India, Bank of
Baroda, and Canara Bank, referred to collectively as "participating commercial banks").
Project Implementation
5.    The loan was approved May 12, 1989, and became effective September 21, 1989. The
original closing date was March 31, 1996, and no extensions were required. Total project cost is
estimated at US$858 million, of which US$189 million were drawn from IBRD funds. The
ICICI term lending component provided US$76 million for subloans to 102 companies; the
participating commercial banks' component provided US$96 million for subloans to 240
companies. More than 28,000 jobs were created as a result of this credit line. In addition, the
export development fund supported marketing programs for about 450 companies, with an
average grant of US$36,725. By the end of fiscal 1996 the ratio of actual incremental export
earnings to grants had already largely exceeded the target of 10:1 (102 times in the case of
Export-Import Bank). About US$2.6 million was spent on the technical assistance fund.
6.    Project implementation proceeded without major problems because the experience
acquired by the financial institutions during the Industrial Export Project enabled them to
implement the project without making major adjustments to their operations. Additionally, since
the project did not target specific industrial sectors, each bank was able to fully direct the
available funds to its existing client base or to market aggressively the credit line in order to
expand it. Issues affecting implementation related to the design of the technical assistance fund
and the exchange risk administration scheme. The technical assistance fund was less successful
than the export development fund because its design was inadequate and there was little follow-
up to the initial training sessions. After three years with no disbursements, the scope of the
technical assistance fund was widened, and most of it was eventually disbursed.
7.    The implementation of the two credit lines followed different patterns as a consequence
of the separate on-lending terms and conditions. The Government agreed to bear interest rate
and foreign exchange risks for the commercial banks but not for the ICICI. The Government was
particularly intent on meeting the growing demand for term credit by the small and medium-size
clients of the commercial banks because of these clients' potential for stimulating industrial
expansion. The Government did, however, require that the terms of this on-lending be revised
periodically in order to avoid subsidies. During project implementation interest rates were
mostly positive in real terms and were consistent with other lending sources (except in 1991,
when the Reserve Bank raised the commercial banks' minimum lending rate to 18.5 percent).
Accordingly, the commercial bank component disbursed smoothly, especially when other import
financing became scarce during the 1991 foreign exchange crunch.



- iv -
8.    In the case of the ICICI the authorities' views were determined more by long-term
financial sector aims. They believed that it was important to terminate coverage of foreign
exchange risk for long-term rupee lending, a view with which the Bank concurred. To this end
the Indians proposed a single currency loan system, which was rejected because such systems
were not being offered by the Bank at the time. Bank staff believed that the optimum solution
was to have a system without foreign exchange controls and with market-determined interest
rates. They understood, however, that India was not yet ready for such a system and, in
particular, lacked a forward foreign exchange market to help borrowers protect themselves. The
Government and the Bank eventually agreed that using the exchange risk administration scheme
currency pool arrangement to manage foreign exchange risk was an acceptable second-best
solution. The scheme was intended to increase demand for foreign exchange-denominated term
lending by providing a measure of protection to borrowers against interest and exchange rate
risks and by distributing the cost of such protection equitably among borrowers. The scheme,
considered superior to the revised Industrial Export Project's on-lending formula, was introduced
by the Government in April 1989 for the foreign commercial borrowings of major development
financial institutions.
9.    Unfortunately, the designers of the scheme could not anticipate the 47 percent rupee
depreciation in 1989-91, which caused annual interest rates under the scheme to rise to 26
percent and rendered effective repayment rates unaffordable. As a result the ICICI's line of
credit stalled. The introduction of partial convertibility of the rupee gave exporters no incentive
to pay above-market rates on fixed loans, and the borrowing companies' lack of familiarity with
the Bank's currency pool made them reluctant to take on exchange rate risk at a time of rapid
rupee devaluation. In 1992 the Government and the Bank discussed alternative interest rate
formulas that might overcome the shortcomings of the exchange risk administration scheme but
failed to reach agreement. Because the ICICI could not assume the foreign exchange risks and
the Bank could not retroactively alter currency pool arrangements under existing loans, the
scheme was discontinued in February 1993, leading to the cancellation of US$98.7 million.
Project Results
10.   The project's objectives were well conceived and have been successfully achieved despite
changes in the macroeconomic environment that were difficult to predict at the time of
preparation and appraisal. Prospects for project sustainability are very favorable. The term
lending component led to substantial investment in India's export industries and contributed to
companies' modernization efforts, improving their ability to compete with foreign firms and
attenuating resistance to the liberalization of trade policy. In addition, it helped several small and
medium-size companies expand aggressively through export-led growth.  The loan was
particularly useful for new entrepreneurs and new exporters because few other sources of funds
were available to them. The export development fund helped Indian companies sharpen their
export awareness and penetrate world markets, shifting them away from volume-oriented
activities to an approach focused on quality and service to clients.
11.   The performance of the four financial institutions involved in the project and the changes
observed in their internal procedures and organization--making them more commercially



oriented and more responsive to client requirements--are considered satisfactory. The project
improved financial institutions' abilities to assist clients in export marketing and quality-
enhancing activities, to widen their client base, and to expand the range of services provided.
12.   Institutional strengthening efforts were successful.  The four banks believe that the
project helped them identify shortcomings in their appraisal techniques and contributed
significantly to their improvement. Possibly because of that, the subloans extended under the
project had higher rates of return and better collection ratios than those in the banks' average
portfolios. Term lending in foreign exchange is now an integral part of these financial
institutions' operations, especially in operations involving export credit agencies and other
bilateral sources.
13.   The Bank's performance under the project is also considered satisfactory.  Regular
dialogue during supervision between Bank staff and the borrower contributed to timely
resolution of problems. The project's outcome is rated as satisfactory. The objectives of
modernization, retraining, quality awareness, and export growth were largely fulfilled. Exporters
have managed to reduce costs, increase productivity, and improve their financial position.
Key Lessons
14.   The project provided several important lessons for project operations in India and
elsewhere:
*  Financial institutions that have been sheltered for a long time by a highly regulated
economic framework may need time and assistance to adjust to a changing incentive
structure.  Commitment by the borrower and the continuous support of its top
management in project implementation are essential to project success.
*  Gauging the institutional capacity tc, deal with complex export marketing issues is a
lengthy process. When designing export credit lines, the Bank should not be overly
optimistic about how long it will take to establish this expertise. A key element of this
project was the export development fund for export promotion. Efforts should be made
to reproduce this kind of arrangement in similar loans, but preferably on a self-sustained
basis.
*  The World Bank's willingness to finance export promotion activities in parallel with
(rather than after) a comprehensive and well-designed program for trade policy reforms
enabled it to be an active participant in the evolving policy dialogue.
*  Regular dialogue during project supervision between Bank staff and the borrower
contributed to timely resolution of problems.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
INDIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(LOANS 3058-IN and 3059-IN)
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    From independence until 1991, India pursued economic development policies that placed
a priority on economic diversification and self-sufficiency. These policies, based on substantial
public investment in heavy and medium manufacturing, constrained performance by:
.  insulating  industry from import competition through high tariffs and quantity
controls on imports;
*  limiting domestic competition through a system of administered pricing, which
limited resource generation;
*  reserving certain activities to the public sector;
*  restricting entry through a system of investment licensing and intense regulation;
*  restricting foreign investment through a system  of ownership guidelines and
technology transfer agreements; and
*  limiting the operations of foreign-owned enterprises, restraining their growth,
diversification, and financial management.
2.    These industrial regulations were often coupled with a complex array of incentives and
exemptions intended to influence firms' decisions on location, technology, and the mix of labor
and capital. In addition, a highly regulated financial sector increased the cost of capital to private
firms, while credit allocation policies encouraged inefficient patterns of investment in industry.
Publicly owned financial institutions were sheltered from competition, and directed credit to
earmarked priority industries and social sectors at subsidized interest rates.
3.    The industrial growth and performance that resulted from  these policies were
disappointing. Although the manufacturing sector achieved self-sufficiency, by the late 1 970s it
had fallen behind many other developing countries in terms of technology, scale, and efficiency.
Moreover, the diversified industrial base was costly to maintain because of the powerful anti-
export bias fostered by protectionist trade policies. The domestic market absorbed most output;
only the residual was exported, mainly to soft markets in Africa and the former Soviet Union.
The only successful exports were in the few sectors that either had easy and duty-free access to
imported inputs (like diamonds) or that relied on domestic inputs that were readily available and
cheap relative to world prices (like cotton garments and leather products).



2
4.    By the mid-1980s the Government of India (GOI) recognized the need to improve
industrial performance and began revising its industrial and trade policies to improve the
competitiveness and export performance of the manufacturing sector. In March 1985 significant
institutional and policy changes were announced, including adoption of a more flexible exchange
rate regime conducive to export growth, partial liberalization of the industrial regulatory regime,
reduction in taxes and tariffs on imports of capital goods, institutional changes to the import
licensing system, and gradual phasing out of quantitative restrictions. These measures set the
stage for the World Bank to play an active role in India's transition to a more market-oriented
economy through a continuous policy dialogue with GOI and a series of lending operations
aimed at increasing the industrial sector's efficiency.
5.    The initial reforms, however, were insufficiently comprehensive. In its dialogue with
GOI, the Bank advocated further measures, including adopting a more realistic exchange rate,
increasing competition through relaxation of import controls, eliminating capacity licensing
restrictions for new entrants, and abolishing the system of pricing and distribution controls. GOI
committed itself to sustaining and building on the gains obtained from market-oriented policies
by providing further incentives to firms to stimulate efficiency and adopt export-oriented
strategies.
6.    Still it took until 1991, when unprecedented fiscal and external imbalances put India on
the verge of defaulting on its external debt obligations, for a more thorough reform effort to be
designed and implemented. A comprehensive stabilization program and a major reorientation of
India's development strategy saw trade and payment regimes significantly liberalized. Almost
all areas of the economy were opened to domestic and foreign private investment. Import
licensing restrictions on intermediate and capital goods were virtually eliminated, while tariffs
were substantially reduced. In the financial sector, barriers controlling the entry of private banks
(domestic and foreign) were lowered, prudential regulations closer to international standards
were introduced, banks were given more discretion in making lending decisions, and financial
markets were liberalized. In August 1994 the rupee was made fully convertible for current
account transactions.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES
7.    The Export Development Project (EDP) was designed to help GOI carry out its strategy
of increasing the competitiveness and exports of manufactured products, thus providing the basis
for continued active dialogue between GOI and the Bank on administrative and trade policy
reforms. In addition, the EDP was intended to build institutional capacity within the Indian
financial system by helping financial institutions improve their abilities to assess export projects,
mobilize the resources needed to finance such projects, and provide direction and advice to their
clients on export issues and markets.
8.    Prior to the EDP, the World Bank had made 19 development finance loans totaling
US$1.4 billion to private Indian firms engaged in all sectors of industrial activity. These funds
were channeled through domestic financial intermediaries, mainly the Industrial Credit and
Investment Corporation of India (ICICI) and the Industrial Development Bank of India (IDBI).



3
The EDP is the direct follow-up to an earlier Bank loan of US$250 million for the Industrial
Export (Engineering Products) Project (IEP) (Loans 2629/30-IN), which was implemented
through ICICI, the Export-Import Bank (EXIM), and four participating commercial banks. That
loan, which became effective on June 23, 1986, and closed on June 30, 1992, included a
relending component through the ICICI to support investments in exportable engineering
products and through four participating commercial banks to support investments in ancillary
engineering enterprises and a productivity fund in the ICICI and an export marketing fund in
EXIM to finance the operational upgrading and export marketing activities of engineering
enterprises.
9.    Implementation of the IEP started slowly because it took most commercial banks some
time to put in place procedures and staff to use the loan. Three years after Board approval, loan
commitments were only 29 percent of the amounts estimated at the time of Board presentation,
and loan disbursements were only 13 percent of appraisal estimates. Moreover, since GOI
initially absorbed the foreign exchange risk on subloans to ancillary firms only, initial
commitment of the ICICI loan was slow because sub-borrowers were reluctant to assume the
foreign exchange risk. In February 1988 the project was modified to allow GOI to bear the
foreign exchange risk related to the relending component. The rate of commitment was further
improved by widening the use of funds to cover all export projects, rather than focusing
primarily on engineering products.
10.   Building on the experience gained under IEP, the EDP included three enhanced features
in its design. First, it combined the activities covered by the export marketing fund and the
productivity fund into a single multipurpose export development fund placed in each
participating institution. Second, it established a technical assistance fund to strengthen the
capabilities of financial institutions in designing, implementing, and appraising export
development projects and export-oriented investments.  Third, it included two leading
commercial banks in order to diversify project support to smaller and more geographically
dispersed firms.
11.   To achieve its objectives, the project assisted four financial institutions--the ICICI,
EXIM, Bank of Baroda, and Canara Bank--through:
*  An export development fund (EDF) of US$20 million allocated to the four financial
institutions to finance the marketing and technical services and foreign travel
expenses associated with the preparation and implementation of client firms' export
development programs. Based on the experience gained under the IEP, the projects
financed by this fund were expected to generate incremental exports worth more than
ten times the EDF's original investment;
*  A technical assistance fund (TAF) to help strengthen the financial institutions'
capacity to appraise export projects and advise firms on export strategy issues. The
Japanese Grant Facility (Grant 2727) provided an amount equivalent to US$2.7
million to GOI, which passed the funds on to the institutions on a nonreimbursable
basis; and



4
* a line of credit for term lending to finance export investment projects conducted under
two different loans: a US$175 million loan for the ICICI and a US$100 million loan
for EXIM and the two participating commercial banks (collectively referred to as the
"participating commercial banks" or PCBs). This component was expected to
provide long-tern finance to about 350 subprojects, resulting in total investments of
about US$730 million. The subprojects financed by the financial intermediaries were
required to have an economic rate of return of 12 percent.
12.   During appraisal project costs were estimated at US$730 million equivalent, of which the
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) financed US$295 million to
cover the foreign exchange portion of the EDF and the term lending component in the four
financial institutions. As mentioned above, the TAF was financed through a grant from the
Government of Japan.
13.   Export Development Fund. The EDF was designed to encourage Indian firms to
purchase foreign expertise and information and to help them develop an export development plan
by giving them matching grants to finance export promotion activities. The fund provided firms
with grant support on a matching basis for a range of pre-investment promotion and marketing
activities within a structured firrn-level export development plan; one-window clearance through
an established steering committee for the various Government approvals required for export
marketing and product adaptation activities; and term finance and incremental working capital
finance to implement an export development plan. Firms were assisted by the advisory services
provided by the participating institutions and encouraged to structure their export development
plans in three distinct phases comprising market exploration, product adaptation, and sales
promotion. The four institutions managed, on behalf of GOI, US$20 million in export
development funds allocated as follows: US$7 million through the ICICI, US$7 million through
EXIM, US$3 million through Bank of Baroda, and US$3 million through Canara Bank.
14.   Technical Assistance Fund. The TAF supported strengthening the financial institutions
export programs rather than the exporters themselves. Activities funded through the TAF
included training abroad for staff, particularly those involved in managing the export
development fund; purchase of marketing and technical information from international data
banks to support appraisal activities in cases where an assessment of overseas market potential
was required; and fees and travel expenses for hiring of specialist consultants. The Japanese
grant financed the foreign exchange costs of the activities, which at appraisal were estimated to
be about 75 percent of total costs. The initial budgeted amount was US$2.7 million, allocated as
follows: US$1,175,000 to the ICICI, US$675,000 to EXIM, US$425,000 to Bank of Baroda, and
US$425,000 to Canara Bank.
15.   Term Lending Component. A line of credit of US$275 million was made available to
the four institutions to provide term financing to non state-owned enterprises (private, privatized
and joint ventures) for balancing, modernization, expansion, and new investment that met
financial, economic, and export-orientation criteria. These criteria required that a satisfactory
strategic export plan be prepared, that all subprojects have a minimum economic rate of return of



5
12 percent and a financial rate of return of 15 percent, and that subloan maturities be at least 3
years and no more than 15 years.
16.   The term lending through financial intermediaries was conducted under two different
Bank loans. The first, for US$175 million, was provided to the ICICI (Loan 3059-IN) and was
to be relent to large firms as foreign exchange at the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus 2
percent, or as rupees at the prevailing rate under the exchange risk administration scheme
(ERAS). This scheme was a currency pool arrangement intended to provide a measure of
protection to borrowers against interest and foreign exchange risks and to distribute the cost of
such protection equitably among borrowers. Under the ERAS the spread between the interest
rate on the Bank loan and the rate under the scheme (less 2 percent for ICICI's spread) would
accrue to the ERAS fund to cover the risk of interest and exchange rate fluctuations. The
scheme's interest rate was adjusted every six months to ensure that both risks were adequately
covered. Under this term lending component the Bank was to finance 40 percent of project costs
(representing the average foreign exchange costs of medium-size and large subprojects in India),
the ICICI was to finance about 10 percent of sub-project costs from its rupee resources, other
capital and credit market sources were expected to provide another 20 percent, and subproject
sponsors and other equity subscribers were to provide equity financing for the remaining 30
percent.
17.   The second Bank loan (Loan 3058-IN), for US$100 million, was provided to GOI to be
passed on as equity to the PCBs (EXIM, Bank of Baroda, and Canara Bank). Their clients were
to be small and medium-size firms, and the final interest rates to sub-borrowers were to be
consistent with the interest rate structure of the Reserve Bank of India for term lending to these
sectors: 13.5 percent for small firms and 14.0 percent for medium-size firms. The original
allocation of this lending component was as follows: US$40 million to EXIM, US$30 million to
Bank of Baroda, and US$30 million to Canara Bank. All subloans were to be denominated in
rupees, and GOI assumed the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. For EXIM subprojects the
Bank was to finance 50 percent of the project costs corresponding to the expected foreign
exchange requirement, EXIM was to finance about 10 percent of these costs, and the rest was to
come from the sponsors and equity sources. For Bank of Baroda and Canara Bank subprojects,
the Bank was to finance 35 percent of project costs, the banks would contribute 30 percent, and
sponsors and other equity sources would finance 35 percent.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
18.   The project's objectives were well conceived and have been successfully achieved despite
changes in the macroeconomic environment that were difficult to predict at the time of
preparation and appraisal. At project closure US$189 million had been withdrawn and US$2.9
million remained uncommitted. The total foreign cost of the project (including funds provided
by domestic sources and cofinancing institutions) was US$202.5 million; the rest was released
for payments in local currency. The devaluation of the rupee during project implementation
(from Rs. 13.0 to Rs. 31.5 to the US dollar) reduced the local currency component expressed in
dollar terms.



6
19.  ICICI component. The ICICI component provided US$76.3 million for subloans to 102
companies. Preliminary data available during the ICR mission suggest that the average loan was
US$748,000, total investment cost was US$495 million, and 17,050 jobs were created.
20.   Participating commercial banks component. This component provided US$96 million
for subloans to 240 companies. Based on preliminary data available during the ICR mission, the
funds were disbursed as follows:
*  EXIM committed US$30.1 million and disbursed about US$28.0 million to 46 small and
medium-size companies. The average loan was US$635,000 and the average financial
rate of return expected at appraisal was 34 percent. There were three full cancellations
and two projects with long-term arrears.
*  Bank of Baroda committed US$49.85 million and disbursed US$45.5 million to 113
small and medium-size companies (average sales of about US$7 million). The average
loan was US$441,000 and the exports generated over the past three years exceeded
US$260 million. About 60 percent of the companies are located in small towns or
backward areas. There were 5 full cancellations and 11 projects with long-term arrears.
At the end of fiscal 1996, 37 units were performing below expectations, though more than
two-thirds of them were regular in meeting their term liabilities.
-  Canara Bank committed US$24.8 million and disbursed about US$22.0 million to 84
mostly small and medium-size companies (average sales of about US$6 million). The
average loan was US$262,000 and the average financial rate of return expected at
appraisal was 31 percent. There were 12 full cancellations, 4 projects with long-term
arrears, and 18 defaults.
21.   Subprojects financed under the term lending component were expected to have a
minimum economic rate of return of 12 percent. The actual performance of subloans varied
across subsectors and institutions, with financial rates of return ranging from 12-60 percent and
economic rates of return ranging from 13-40 percent. Repayment performance has been
satisfactory and consistent with each implementing agency's overall portfolio performance.
With the exception of Canara Bank, collection ratios were higher than 85 percent.
22.   Export developnent fund component. The EDF supported marketing programs for
about 450 companies. Despite a slow start, overall implementation was satisfactory. The
average grant was US$36,725. Small, medium, and large firms were assisted. Available data
indicate that at the end of fiscal 1996 the ratio of actual incremental export earnings to grants had
largely exceeded the target of 10:1. In the case of EXIM the export multiplier during fiscal
1992-1995 was 102 times on a weighted average basis, the ratio of exports to sales among the
assisted companies increased from 8.8 percent in fiscal 1992 to 11.4 percent in fiscal 1995, and
the average growth in exports of the assisted companies between 1992 and 1995 was 26 percent,
compared with average growth of 15 percent for Indian exports during the same period.



7
23.   The ICICI committed US$7.5 million under the export development fund and disbursed
about 70 percent of this amount to more than 100 companies. EXIM overcommitted its
allocation (with Bank approval) to maximize utilization of this fund: US$7.4 million was
committed to 118 companies, although only about 85 percent of this amount was disbursed. The
average grant was US$61,513. The other participating banks were slower to commit their
allocations and to disburse the sanctioned amounts. Bank of Baroda received US$3.38 million
under the fund. As of December 1995, 94 projects had been approved but nearly US$1 million
remained undisbursed because Bank of Baroda chose to release these disbursements only after
receiving proof that incremental exports over the previous five years amounted to ten times the
grant. During the ICR mission Bank of Baroda decided to expedite disbursements during the
four-month grace period for activities that took place before the closing date. Similarly, Canara
Bank disbursed only about 60 percent of its original commitments of US$3.04 million to 100
projects. The average grant was US$17,900.
24.   Technical assistance fund component (Japanese Grant Facility). About US$2.6 million
was spent on this program from an initial allocation of US$2.7 million. The fund originally
supported training for all implementing agencies to upgrade staff skills in the area of exports.
After three years with no disbursements, the scope of the fund was widened. EXIM was
particularly active, producing studies on sectors with good export potential and establishing two
overseas service centers (in Rome and Budapest) in 1994 to collect marketing information for
Indian companies and identify joint venture opportunities. EXIM's final utilization of funds
amounted to US$1.043 million, as authorized by the Bank. The ICICI disbursed US$0.99
million, mainly for training under the Arthur D. Little program, while Canara Bank used the
entire allocated amount for training abroad. Bank of Baroda was slow to submit proposals to the
Bank, and used about US$0.15 million.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
25.   Overall assessment of project implementation. The loan was approved on May 12, 1989,
and became effective on September 21, 1989. The original closing date of the loan was March
31, 1996, and no extensions were required. Project implementation proceeded without major
problems because the experience acquired by the participating financial institutions during the
IEP enabled them to implement the project without making major adjustments to their
operations. Additionally, since no specific industrial sectors were targeted by the project, each
bank was able to fully direct the available funds to its existing client base or to market
aggressively the credit line in order to expand it.
26.  Issues affecting implementation related to the design of the TAF and the ERAS. First,
the technical assistance fund was less successful than the export development fund. Despite a
good start in 1991 with a group training scheme for the four banks, the fund's activities were
limited because its design was inadequate. After three years with no disbursements the scope of
the TAF was widened, and most of it was eventually disbursed. Second, implementation of the
two credit lines followed different patterns as a consequence of the separate on-lending terms and
conditions. The main factor affecting implementation of the project was the collapse of the



8
ERAS following the rapid depreciation of the rupee. When it became clear that there was no
viable alternative, the undisbursed funds were canceled.
27.   Dif.ficulties in implementing the ICICI term lending component. Until 1986 foreign
currency lending by the major development financial institutions was made on a back-to-back
basis, with a markup of 1.5 percent to cover administrative costs and risks. Interest rate and
foreign exchange risks were borne by the sub-borrowers. Given the steady depreciation of the
rupee and volatility of foreign exchange rates during the second half of the 1 980s, however, sub-
borrowers found themselves facing extremely high and often unpredictable effective repayment
rates. The absence of a well-developed forward foreign exchange currency market in India
meant that private borrowers had limited means for protecting themselves against such risks. As
a result demand for foreign currency-denominated loans greatly declined, while the weaknesses
of the private firms' debt servicing capacities negatively affected the portfolios of the lending
institutions.
28.   GOI agreed to bear the interest rate and foreign exchange risks for the PCBs, but not for
the ICICI. GOI was particularly intent on meeting the growing demand for term credit by the
small and medium-size clients of the commercial banks because of these clients' potential for
stimulating industrial expansion. GOI required that the terms of this lending be revised
periodically in order to avoid subsidies. During project implementation interest rates were
mostly positive in real terms and were consistent with other lending sources (except in 1991,
when the Reserve Bank raised the commercial banks' minimum lending rate to 18.5 percent).
29.   Accordingly, the PCBs' component disbursed smoothly, especially when other import
financing became scarce in the 1991 foreign exchange crunch. However, an overcommitment of
these funds led to an April 1991 loan amendment that created a pool fund available to all
participants on a first-come, first-served basis. This fund was repeated one year later. Bank of
Baroda made maximum use of these reallocations. This was, incidentally, doubly advantageous
because the funds the PCBs committed ultimately were transformed into equity, helping them to
comply with the new Basle capital adequacy standards.
30.   In the case of the ICICI, the authorities' views were determined more by long-term
financial sector aims. They believed that it was important to terminate coverage of foreign
exchange risk for long-term rupee lending, a view with which the Bank concurred. To this end
the Indians proposed a single currency loan system, which was rejected because such systems
were not being offered by the Bank at the time. Bank staff believed that the optimum solution
was to have a system without foreign exchange controls and with market-determined interest.
They understood, however, that India was not yet ready for such as system and, in particular,
lacked a forward foreign exchange market to help borrowers protect themselves.  The
Government and the Bank eventually agreed that using the ERAS to manage foreign exchange
risk was an acceptable second best solution. In any case, the scheme was considered superior to
the revised IEP's on-lending formula.
31.   Thus two alternatives were made available to borrowers under this credit line: the Bank's
standard foreign currency-denominated lending in a pool of currencies, with the final beneficiary



9
bearing the foreign exchange risk, and the ERAS, a currency pooling system introduced by GOI
in April 1989 for the foreign commercial borrowings of major development financial institutions.
The ERAS aimed to increase the demand for foreign exchange-denominated term lending by
providing a measure of protection to borrowers against interest and exchange rate risk and
distributing the cost of such protection equitably among the borrowers. Under the ERAS,
borrowers paid a rupee-denominated rate comprising the weighted average interest costs of the
development financial institutions' foreign borrowings, a premium based on the estimated
foreign exchange risks, and the development financial institutions' intermediation spread of 2
percent. The scheme commenced with an initial rate of 15 percent (1 percent above the
prevailing term lending rate of the time), and the rate was reviewed every six months and
adjusted to cover the foreign exchange and interest rate costs (based on international interest rate
and currency movements). GOI agreed to cover any short-run deficits of the fund caused by
large interest rate or exchange rate fluctuations.
32.   Unfortunately, the designers of the ERAS could not anticipate the 47 percent rupee
depreciation in 1989-91, which caused annual interest rates paid under the ERAS to rise to 26
percent and rendered effective repayment rates unaffordable. As a result the ICICI's line of
credit stalled. The introduction of partial convertibility of the rupee gave exporters no incentive
to pay above-market rates on fixed loans, and borrowing companies' lack of familiarity with the
Bank's currency pool made them reluctant to take on exchange rate risk at a time of rapid rupee
devaluation. In 1992 GOI and the Bank discussed alternative interest rate formulas that might
overcome the shortcomings of the ERAS but failed to reach agreement. Because the ICICI could
not assume the foreign exchange risks and the Bank could not retroactively alter currency pool
arrangements under existing loans, GOI and the Bank decided to discontinue the scheme in
February 1993, leading to the cancellation of US$98.7 million. This adjustment reduced the
amount of the ICICI component financed by the Bank to US$76.3 million.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
33.   Prospects for project sustainability are very favorable. The project led to substantial
investment in India's export industries. It also helped the participating development financial
institutions gain valuable experience in promoting export marketing and quality-enhancing
activities. Moreover, GOI seems committed to the ongoing reforms.
34.   Benefits to sub-borrowers. The EDP was very attractive to sub-borrowers because it
provided access to term credit, allowing for the purchase of imported capital goods during a
period of extreme scarcity of foreign exchange (especially in 1991) and provided rupee-
denominated funds at very reasonable real interest rates relative to other sources of domestic
currency. The loan contributed to the export companies' modernization efforts, increasing their
ability to compete with foreign during a critical transition period. Additionally, it helped several
small and medium-size companies to expand aggressively through export-led growth. The EDP
was particularly useful for new entrepreneurs and new exporters because few other sources of
funds were available to them.



10
35.   The EDF provided several exporting firms with financial and technical assistance in
pursuing marketing activities that were crucial to their expansion, but that otherwise were
unlikely to have taken place because of constraints in access to foreign exchange. The fund also
sharpened the export awareness and penetration of Indian companies in the world market,
moving them away from volume-oriented activities to an approach focused on quality and client
responsiveness. It helped them formulate structured market entry development plans and
encouraged strategic alliances for increased exports and product upgrades. Eleven medium-size
companies assisted by EXIM under the program have set up overseas ventures in manufacturing,
marketing, or trading in countries like Hungary, Ireland, Malaysia, the Netherlands, Russia, and
the United Kingdom.
36.   Benefits to financial intermediaries. The performance of the four financial institutions
involved in the project and the changes observed in their internal procedures and organization--
making them more commercially oriented and more responsive to the clients' requirements--
must be understood within the context of India's evolving economic environment since 1991.
The EDP improved the financial institutions' capabilities to assist clients in export-oriented
activities, to widen their client base, and to expand the range of services provided. It played a
catalytic role for sub-borrowers with other sources of finance (especially working capital). It
also had the additional advantage that the Bank's loan to GOI was passed on to the financial
intermediaries as equity.
37.   Through their association with the Bank the financial institutions improved their ability to
formulate well-conceived lending programs, to adopt a firm-level approach and widen their
customer base, to prepare detailed systems and operating procedures, to structure response
processes and time schedules, and to implement account administration and monitoring
mechanisms. The Bank also helped sharpen financial appraisal skills and introduced the need for
appraisal of international markets and strategies.
38.   Overall, the implementing banks believe that the project helped them  identify
shortcomings in their appraisal techniques and contributed a great deal to improving them.
Possibly because of that, some of the banks believe that the subloans extended under this credit
line had higher rates of return and better collection ratios than other loans in their portfolios.
Although they are still Government-owned, the financial institutions are in a position to raise
resources from markets, in India and abroad, based on their financial performnance. Term lending
in foreign exchange is now an integral part of their operations, especially for operations
involving export credit agencies and other bilateral sources.
39.   Moreover, institutional strengthening efforts were successful. The implementing banks'
technical and financial performance has improved substantially. Under the EDF the financial
institutions were expected to develop, strengthen, and broaden the scope of expertise in export-
related activities. They are now selling technical expertise in the form of consultancy services:
* The ICICI used the grant funds to redefine its export strategy. It created an export
division, now part of the Advisory Services Group, to assist companies in their export
strategies.



11
*  EXIM has decided to launch a third export development program, including term lending
(in dollars) and grant funds, essentially financed by internal funds. EXIM also has
created an Exporter's Club and now provides integrated services to potential borrowers
for a fee. EXIM also has set up a training center to provide specialized workshops and
seminars on international trade and investment-related subjects for export executives of
small and medium-size companies. The know-how EXIM developed under the EDF is
now being used in other Bank projects.
*  Bank of Baroda and Canara Bank created divisions to deal with the financing of export
projects and used the TAF to buildup their internal skills. Both banks are planning to
expand the advisory services provided to their clients on a fee basis.
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
40.   The Bank's performance was satisfactory in identification, preparation, appraisal, and
supervision. At the identification stage the Bank correctly diagnosed what was ailing the
industry and, working with GOI, identified appropriate solutions. Appraisal identified project
goals and established concise project objectives consistent with the overall sector strategy.
Supervision missions visited India regularly, obtaining expertise from the same individuals over
time. During the ICR mission the four financial institutions and their sub-borrowers expressed
satisfaction with the Bank's timely assistance and advice. Additionally, the Bank has maintained
a lively dialogue with GOI on trade policy reform.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
41.   The performance of the borrower is considered satisfactory. The management of the
financial institutions involved were fully committed to successful implementation of the project.
Moreover, regular dialogue during supervision between Bank staff and the borrower contributed
to timely resolution of problems.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
42.   The project outcome is rated as satisfactory. The objectives of modernization, retraining
and export growth were largely fulfilled. Exporters managed to reduce costs and increase
productivity, improve their financial position, and enhance their international competitiveness.
The implied objective of a more competitive market also has been achieved. Many of the
industrial, fiscal, and export policy initiatives adopted since 1992 represent marked departures
from earlier practice. There has been significant progress in industrial delicensing, in easing
regulations on large firms that want to expand or change their product mix, in opening areas
previously reserved for small-scale industry, and in deregulating foreign technology and
investment collaborations.



12
43.   The implementing banks substantially improved both their appraisal and financial
performance. Sub-borrowers were satisfied with the overall performance of the financial
institutions in terms of timing, service quality, and lending conditions, although most of them
regret that there is no real competition in India's banking industry. Finally, it is worth noting
that the first projects approved under the EDP faced different economic conditions that raised
their cost of capital relative to projects approved after the structural reforms in 1991.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
44.   In 1991 the World Bank's financial sector operations were considerably reoriented in line
with new norms calling for broader sector policies. As a result the Bank has not scheduled any
further lending to export development in India.  Although most financial intermediaries
requested a follow-up operation, they recognize that they now have easier access to other foreign
sources of funds. However, Bank intervention would still be helpful to promote new operations
similar to the export development fund. These new funds would no longer need to proceed on a
matching grant basis, however, but on terms allowing for the self-sustainability of the
mechanism. The Bank Group could also assist export development in India by supporting
private infrastructure investments with loan and guarantees.
J. KEY LESSONS
45.   The project provided several important lessons for project operations in India and
elsewhere:
e  Financial institutions that have been sheltered for a long time by a highly regulated
economic framework may need time and assistance to adjust to a changing incentive
structure. Commitment by the borrower and the continuous support of its top
management in project implementation are essential to project success.
*  Gauging the institutional capacity to deal with complex export marketing issues is a
lengthy process. When designing export credit lines, the Bank should not be overly
optimistic about how long it will take to establish this expertise. A key element of this
project was the EDF for export promotion. Efforts should be made to reproduce this kind
of arrangement in similar loans, but preferably on a self-sustained basis.
*  The World Bank's willingness to finance export promotion activities in parallel with
(rather than after) a comprehensive and well-designed program for trade policy reforms
enabled it to be an active participant in the evolving policy dialogue.
*  Regular dialogue during project supervision between Bank staff and the borrower
contributed to timely resolution of problems.



13
ANNEX I
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:     Summary of Assessments
Table 2:     Related Bank Loans and Credits
Table 3:     Project Timetable
Table 4:     Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:     Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:     Key Indicators for Project Achievements
Table 7:     Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:    Project Costs
Table 8B:    Project Financing
Table 9:     Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:    Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:    Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:    Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:    Bank Resources: Missions
Table 14:    Selected Indicators of Subloan Achievements
Table 15:    Selected Indicators of Export Development Fund Achievements



14
Table 1: Suminary of Assessments
A.  Achievement of Objectives     Substantial    Partial    Negligible
Macroeconomic policies
Sector policies                  /
Financial objectives
Institutional development
Physical objectives                                       /
Poverty reduction                                         /
Gender concerns                                           /
Other social objectives                                   V
Environmental objectives
Public sector management         V/
Private sector development        V
B.  Project sustainability            Likely           Unlikely         Uncertain
Highly
C.  Bank performance                satisfactory     Satisfactory       Deficient
Identification                                       V
Preparation assistance
Appraisal                                             V
Supervision                                          V
Highly
D.  Borrower perfonnance            satisfactory     Satisfaory         Deficie
Preparation                                          V
Implementation                                       V/
Covenant compliance                                  V
Highly
E.  Assessment of outcome         satisfactory  Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory
I/



15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans and Credits
Loan or credit name     Purpose                     Year of    Status
approval
Preceding operations
Industrial Export Project-  Support trade policy reform and    1986    Closed in 1992; ICR in
Engineering Products    increase the supply of                  1993; OED audit in 1996.
(Loans 2629-IN and 2630-  investment funding for export-
IN)                     oriented projects and export
promotion activities
Following operations
Financial Sector        Greater market orientation,    1995    Undisbursed $544 million
Development (Loans.     allocate efficiency, technical
3856/57/58-IN)          competence, and competition in
financial system
Table 3: Project Timetable
Actual date/
Steps in project cycle           Date planned     latest estimate
Identification                            ;                     09/20/87
Preparation                                                     05/20/88
Appraisal                                                       11/12/88
Negotiations                                                    03/27/89
Board presentation                        _                     05/12/89
Signing                                    _                    05/26/89
Effectiveness                                                   09/21/89
Project completion
Loan closing                                  03/31/96          03/31/96



16
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY90    FY91   FY92   FY93   FY94   FY95    FY96
Appraisal estimate          33.4    99.4   176.4  262.4   286.4   295.0   295.0
Actual                      26.7    56.7   138.0   183.7   186.8   188.9   188.9
Actual as % of estimate     79.9    57.0    78.2    70.0    65.2    64.0    64.0
Date of final disbursement    -       -                -               -      6/96
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
|. Key implementation
indicators in                  Estimated                    Actual
SAR/President's Report
1. Term lending: number of   The project would extend  The project has extended some
sub-borrowers              US$275 million to 350 firms,  US$170 million to more than
resulting in total investment of 330 firms, resulting in total
US$730 million            investment of US$858 million
2. Export development fund:  US$200 million           More than US$800 million
incremental exports                                                               l
II. Modified indicators (if   None
applicable)
III. Other indicators (if  None
applicable)           I _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _I__ _ _



17
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Type of Indicator                        Estimated                 Actual
I. Key operating indicators
in SAR/President's Report             None
11. Modified indicators (if               None
applicable)
Ill. Modified indicators for              None
future operation (if applicable)                     I
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Name of study      at appraisal/redefined    Status      Impact of study
N.A.
I =



18
Table 8A: Project Costs
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
Local     Foreign               Local      Foreign
Item        costs      costs      Total      costs      costs      Total
Term Credit:
ICICI             270.00     175.00     445.00     418.68      76.32     495.00
EXIM               39.60      40.00      79.60      33.23      27.92      61.15
Bank of Baroda     50.95      30.00      80.95      66.28      38.99     105.27
Canara Bank        50.95      30.00      80.95     119.35      40.33     159.68
Subtotal     411.50     275.00     686.50     637.54     183.56     821.10
EDF:
ICICI               7.00       7.00      14.00       5.25       5.25      10.50
EXIM                7.00       7.00      14.00       7.44       7.44      14.89
Bank of Baroda      3.00       3.00       6.00       2.00       2.00       4.00
Canara Bank         3.00       3.00       6.00       2.25       2.45       4.70
Subtotal      20.00      20.00      40.00      16.94      17.14      34.09
TAF.
ICICI               0.40       1.20       1.60       0.33       0.66       0.99
EXIM                0.30       0.70       1.00       0.35       0.70       1.05
Bank of Baroda      0.15       0.40       0.55       0.11       0.14       0.25
Canara Bank         0.15       0.40       0.55       0.09       0.35       0.44
Subtotal       1.00       2.70       3.70       0.88       1.85       2.73
Total
Cost              432.50     297.70     730.20     655.36     202.55     857.91
Table 8B: Project Financing
(US$ million)
Appraisal estimate             Actual/latest estimate
Local    Foreign                Local    Foreign
Source        costs      costs     Total      costs      costs      Total
IBRD                          295.00    295.00                188.51     188.51
Cofinancing
institutions                 2.70       2.70                  2.70       2.70
Domestic
contribution    432.50                432.50     655.36      11.34     666.70
Total Cost
432.50    297.70     730.20     655.36     202.55     857.91



19
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Subprojects financed by the financial intermediaries were to have a minimum economic rate of
return of 12 percent. The actual performnance of subloans varied across subsectors and
institutions, with financial rates of return ranging from 12-60 percent. The average financial rate
of return was 28 percent for EXIM and 31 percent for Canara Bank.
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Original  Revised
Loan                  Covenant Present   fulfillment fulfillment Description of
Agreement      Section type    status    date      date       covenant
3058-IN         4 (a)     I        C                          Furnish audits of project subloans (EXIM,
Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank)
4 (b)    1         C                         Furnish audits of EDF accounts (ICICI,
EXIM, Bank of Baroda, Canara Bank)
3059-IN         4.01      1        C                          ICICI to provide financial statements audit
report (including on the special account)
and Statement of Expenses within four
months of fiscal year end
4.02+     2        C                          ICICI to maintain debt-equity ratio of not
more than 12, and DSCR of at least 1.2:1
C - Complied with
DSCR - Debt service coverage ratio



20
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title          Describe and comment on lack of
compliance
No known lack of compliance
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
State of           Planned              Revised              Actual
project cycle    Weeks      US$       Weeks      US$      Weeks       US$
000                 000                  000
Through appraisal    146.4     315.6      146.4     315.6     146.4     315.6
Appraisal through    18.0      49.7       18.0      49.7       18.0      49.7
Board approval
Board approval
through
effectiveness
Supervision          35.0      98.8       42.4      86.7       61.3     247.5
Completion                                47.3      23.6       11.4      1.1
TOTAL                199.4     464.1     718.2      475.6     225.7     623.8



21
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Stage of             Number  Days  Specialized   Implemen-    Develop-
project    Month/      of      in    staff skills    tation        ment         Types of
cycle      year    persons  field  represented      status       impact       problems
Through
appraisal
Appraisal
through
Board
approval
Board
approval
through
effective-
ness
Super-        02/90       3       24      Econ.          1             1
vision        02/91       3       45      Econ.          I             1
07/92       2       14    Fin. Econ.       2             1       Exchange Rate
12/92       1      20        Fin.          3            3        Exchange Rate
08/93       1       10       Fin.          2            2
12/93       1       17       Fin.          2            2
07/94       1       5        Fin.         HS            HS
07/95       1       5        Fin.         HS            HS
Comple-
tion          04/96       3       35    Econ. Fin.       HS           HS
1=HS - Highly satisfactory
2 - Satisfactory
3 - Problem Project



22
Table 14: Selected Indicators of Subloan Achievements
Indicator                ICICI  Bank of   Canara   EXIM         Total
Baroda     Bank
Amount committed (US$ million)         112.8     49.9      24.8     30.1     217.6
Amount disbursed (US$ million)          76.3     45.5      22.0     27.9     171.7
Number of loans                          102      113        84       47       346
Number of companies                      102      113        83       46       344
Average loans (US$)                  748,000  441,000   262,000  635,000   496,000
Average sales of companies (Rs. million)  n.a.    228       187    1,862
Average financial rate of return (percent)  n.a.  n.a.       31       34
Number with long-term arrears or        n.a.       1 1        4        2           l
reschedulingsa                                                                  l
Number of full cancellations              17        5        12        3         3
Additional jobs created               17,050    5,000     4,500    1,500    28,050
a -- long-termn arrears are arrears over one year.
Table 15: Selected Indicators of Export Development Fund Achievements
ICICI  Bank of    Canara     EXIM    Total
Baroda      Bank                    l
Amount commnitted (US$ million)     7.50     3.38      3.04       7.44   21.36
Amount disbursed (US$ million)      5.25     2.00      1.79       7.44   16.48
Number of loans                      131       89       100        129    449
Number of companies                 123        89        97        121    430
Average loans (US$)               40,100   26,900    17,900    65,500  36,700
Incremental exports                 n.a.     n.a.  42 times  102 times



ANNEX 2
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT OF:
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOANS 3058/3059-IN)
INDUSTRIAL FINANCE AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT (LOAN 2928-IN)
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.           A World Bank mission consisting of Messrs. Paul Beckerman (SA2CI) (who
accompanied the mission only in Bombay), Paulo de Sa (IENIM), Herman Nissenbaum
(Consultant), and Ms. Lin Chin (SA2CI) visited India from March 31 to April 11 to prepare the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) of the Export Development Project (Loans 3058/3059-
IN) as well as the Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project (Loan 2928-IN). It also
met with the management of the Steel Authority of India Ltd. (SAIL) in New Delhi. The
mission met with all five implementing financial institutions -- Industrial Development Bank of
India (IDBI), Industrial Credit & Investment Corporation of India (ICICI), Export-Import Bank
of India (EXIM), Canara Bank, and Bank of Baroda (BOB), as well as with a sample of about 30
loan recipients in Bombay, Bangalore and Delhi. This aide-memoire records the views of the
Bank mission, the implementing agencies and of a sample of sub-borrowers, and discusses the
implementation performance for each component. Preliminary commitment and disbursement
figures based on the data provided by the administering agencies are also included. The mission
would like to thank the implementing agencies for their hospitality and assistance.
2.           The Export Development Project had four components: (i) a US$175 million
credit line administered by ICICI (later reduced to US$76.3 million); (ii) US$100 million for
term loans through three participating banks, the Export-Import Bank of India (EXIM), Canara
Bank, and Bank of Baroda; (iii) US$20 million for matching grants to exporters for export
promotional activities, the Export Development Fund (EDF); and (iv) a US$2.7 million
Japanese Grant (No. 2727) available for technical assistance to the implementing agencies.
3.           ICICI Loan Component: The ICICI component has provided US$76.3 million
for sub-loans to 102 companies. Original plans were for a US$175 million loan that would be
relent to sub-borrowers in foreign exchange at the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus 2%
or in rupees at the prevailing exchange rate under the Exchange Rate Administration Scheme
(ERAS). During implementation, however, the line of credit stalled because of the collapse of
the ERAS scheme, following the 47% depreciation of the rupee between 1989-1991, and the
introduction of partial convertibility of the rupee. These developments impaired the exporters'
incentive to pay above-market rates on fixed loans. On the other hand, the lack of familiarity of
the borrowing companies with the currency pool arrangement made them reluctant to take on
exchange rate risk at a time of repeated devaluation. Borrowers also found the mechanism
difficult to understand. As a result, in February 1993, the Bank and the Government of India
(GOI) agreed to cancel the remaining undisbursed amounts, totaling US$98.7 million.
Preliminary data provided to the mission show that the average loan size was US$748,000, and
total investment costs were US$495 million, which generated 17,057 jobs.
4.           Participating Banks Loan Component: This component has provided US$97.3
millions for sub-loans to 235 companies. The US$100 million loan was originally to be
allocated among the participating banks as follows: Eximbank, US$40 million; Bank of Baroda,
US$30 million; and Canara Bank, US$30 million. At the request of GOI, in April 1991 the Bank
reallocated US$10 million from the share of each participating financial institution to create a



2
pool fund for all the banks to be made available on a first-come, first-served basis. In July 1992,
at the request of GOI, the Bank reallocated the remaining uncommitted funds under this
component on a first-come first-served basis. Bank of Baroda took maximum advantage of this
reallocation of funds.
5.            Based on the preliminary data transmitted to the mission, the disbursement status
of this component is as follows:
- EXIM committed US$30.1 million and disbursed about US$27 million to 43
small and medium companies. The average loan size was US$635,000 and the average financial
rate of return expected at appraisal was 34 percent. There were 3 full cancellations, and 3
projects with long-term arrears.
- Bank of Baroda committed US$49.85 million and disbursed US$45.5 million to
108 small and medium companies (with average sales of about US$7 million). The average loan
size was US$441,000 and exports generated over the past three years exceed Rs 8.6 billion.
About sixty percent of the companies are located in small towns or backward areas. There were 5
full cancellations, and 11 projects with long-term arrears. At the end of FY 1995/96, 37 units
were performing below expectations, although more than two thirds of them were regular in
meeting their term loan obligations.
- Canara Bank committed US$24.8 million in 84 loans, of which about US$22
million were disbursed mainly to small and medium companies (with average sales of about
US$6 million). The average loan size was US$262,000 and the average financial rate of return
expected at appraisal was 31 percent. There were 12 full cancellations, 4 projects with long term
arrears, and the number of defaults totaled 18.
9.            Export Development Fund (EDF) Grant Component: The EDF component has
supported marketing programs for about 450 companies. The original allocation of funds among
the participating banks was as follows: ICICI, US$7 million; Eximbank, US$7 million; Bank of
Baroda, US$3 million; and Canara Bank, US$3 million. Overall implementation was highly
satisfactory. The average size of the grant was US$451,190. The firms assisted were small,
medium and large in size. On the basis of the available data, the ratio of actual incremental
export earnings to grants at the end of the FY 1995/96 had largely exceeded the target of I 0-to- 1
(37-to-I in the case of EXIM).
10.          ICICI committed US$7.5 million and disbursed about 70 percent of this amount
to more than one hundred companies. EXIM overcommitted its allocation with the agreement of
the Bank US$7.4 million was committed to 118 companies, although only about 85 percent of
this amount was actually disbursed. The average grant size was US$61,513. The other
participating banks were slower to commit their allocations and to disburse the sanctioned
amounts. Bank of Baroda has received an allocation of US$3.38 million under the EDF. As of
December 1995, 94 projects had been approved but nearly US$1 million remained undisbursed
because Bank of Baroda decided to only release these disbursements after proof that incremental
exports amounting to ten times the grant over five years had taken place. Similarly, Canara
Bank only disbursed about 60 percent of its original allocation.
11.          Japanese Grant Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) Component: About US$2.6
million was spent on this program from an initial allocation of US$2.7 million, distributed as



3
follows: ICICI, US$1.175 million; Eximbank, US$675,000; Bank of Baroda and Canara Bank,
US$425,000 each. The grant originally supported a training program for all implementing
agencies to upgrade staff skills in the area of exports. After three years of virtually no
disbursements, the component's scope was widened to include sector studies and establishment
of two overseas service centers by EXIM (in Rome and Budapest) to collect market information
for Indian companies and identify joint-venture opportunities. EXIM's final utilization of funds
amounted to US$ 1.043 million, as authorized by the Bank. ICICI disbursed US$990,000, mainly
for training under the ADL-CTP program, while Canara Bank utilized virtually the entire
allocated amount for training abroad. Bank of Baroda was somewhat slow to submit final
proposals to the Bank, even though it was allowed to do so irrespective of the original
allocations, and utilized approximately US$150,000.
12.           Overall Project Implementation: General implementation of the project
proceeded without major problems, especially as the financial institutions' previous experience
under the Industrial Engineering Project enabled them to disburse the term credit more rapidly.
Slow initial disbursement of the two Funds was compensated by intense activity during the last
year of the Loan. The most important problem during implementation was the failure of the
ERAS scheme (because of macroeconomic circumstances that were not foreseen at the time the
loan was prepared) and cancellation of the remaining funds. In this connection, the borrowing
agencies and the financial institutions and sub-borrowers expressed their satisfaction with the
Bank's timely advice on this problem.
13.           During the discussions with the financial institutions, the mission provided
advice and support for the preparation of their respective portions of the ICR.
14.           Proiect Results: During the visit to India, the mission was only able to obtain
partial information on the final results of the project. Information was especially limited in the
case of ICICI. All the financial institutions agreed to make available to the Bank the complete
list of sub-borrowers, costs and financing for each project, expected financial and economic rates
of return, as well as their performance in improving the banks' collection records no later than
M4ay 15. Nevertheless, the project can be considered to have achieved its main objectives, in
spite of the changes in the macroeconomic environment that could not be foreseen at the time of
preparation and appraisal.
15.           The sub-borrowers told the mission that the EDP presented very attractive
conditions. They stressed that (i) provided access to term credit enabling them to purchase of
imported capital goods in a period of extreme scarcity of foreign exchange (especially in 1991);
and (ii) made available rupee-denominated funds at reasonable real interest rates. The Loan
contributed to the companies' modernization efforts, and helped them prepare to meet foreign
competition. They said it helped several small and medium companies expand aggressively
through exports, at a time when domestic growth was relatively sluggish (1990-1993). It was
felt that the EDP was particularly useful for new entrepreneurs and starting exporters, as it was
then the single source of funds available to them.
16.           The sub-borrowers were also generally satisfied with the perfornance of the
financial institutions in terms of timing, service quality, and lending conditions. Most noted that
the banking industry in India then provided no comparable sources of finance. It should be
noted, however, that the changes in the economic environment during the implementation phase
adversely affected the financial performance of the first projects approved. In effect, they



4
incurred high capital costs as a result of: (i) the effect of the devaluation on the costs of imported
equipment; (ii) high duties for imported equipment that were subsequently considerably reduced;
and (iii) delays in obtaining of Governmental licenses, especially during the period of foreign-
exchange scarcity.
17.           Under the EDP, several beneficiaries were assisted both financially and with
technical assistance in marketing activities that proved valuable for their export expansion. This
could not otherwise have taken place because of restrictions on access to foreign exchange. The
Fund also contributed to sharpening export awareness and penetration by Indian companies in
world markets. It encouraged them to move away from volume-oriented activities toward a
focus on quality and on client service.
18.           The performance of the financial institutions and the changes observed in their
internal procedures and organization -- making them more commercially-oriented, and more
responsive to clients' requirements -- must be understood within the context of the evolution of
India's economic environment and sector deregulation since 1991. The EDP contributed to
improving their abilities to assist clients in export-oriented activities, to widening their client
base, and to expanding the range of services provided. It also had a catalytic role for the sub-
borrowers in enabling them to secure other sources of finance (particularly for working capital).
19.           Overall, the banks feel that the EDP helped them identify the shortcomings in
their appraisal techniques, and helped them improve internal operating procedures. This may
help explain why sub-loans extended under this credit line had higher rates of return and better
collection ratios when compared to the average performance of their portfolio. Term lending in
foreign exchange, especially from export-credit agencies and other bilateral sources, is now an
integral part of these financial institutions' operations.
-  ICICI used the grant funds to redefine its strategy in the export business. It
created an export cell, now part of the Advisory Services Group, to assist companies in their
export strategies.
- EXIM has decided to launch a third export development program -- including
term lending (in dollars) and grant funds -- financed essentially through internal funds. The bank
has also created an Exporter's Club and now provides integrated services to potential borrowers
at a fee.
-  Participating commercial banks consolidated permanent cells within their
organizations to deal with financing of export projects and used the TAF to build-up their staff
skills. They are now planning to expand the advisory services provided to their clients on a fee
basis.
20.           On return to Bank headquarters, the mission will prepare the Implementation
Completion Reports for Loans 2928, 3058 and 3059, drafts of which will be sent to the GOI for
review.



5
Attachment
Selected Indicators of Subloan (Lns.3058/59-IN) Achievements
Indicator                ICICI  Bank of   Canara   EXIM         Total
Baroda     Bank
Amount committed (US$ million)         112.8     49.9      24.8     30.1     217.6
Amount disbursed (US$ million)          76.3     45.5      22.0     27.9      171.7
Number of loans                          102      113        84       47       346
Number of companies                      102      113        83       46       344
Average loans (US$)                  748,000  441,000   262,000  635,000   496,000
Average sales of companies (Rs. million)  n.a.    228       187    1,862
Average financial rate of return (percent)  n.a.  n.a.       31       34
Number with long-term arrears or        n.a.       11         4        2
reschedulingsa
Number of full cancellations              17        5        12        3         3
Additional jobs created               17,050    5,000     4,500    1,500    28,050
a - long-term arrears are arrears over one year.
Selected Indicators of EDF (LnsL 3058/59-IN) Achievements
ICICI  Bank of    Canara     EXIM    Total
Baroda      Bank
Amount committed (US$ million)      7.50     3.38      3.04       7.44   21.36
Amount disbursed (US$ million)      5.25     2.00       1.79      7.44   16.48
Number of loans                      131       89       100        129    449
Number of companies                  123       89        97        121     430
Average loans (US$)               40,100   26,900    17,900    65,500  36,700
Incremental exports                 n.a.     n.a.   42 tines  102 times



Export Development Project - Lns.3058/59-IN
Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project - Ln.2928-IN
Implementation Completion Report Mission (April 1 - 12,1996)
List of Officials Met
Industrial Development Bank of India
Mr. S.H. Khan                                    Chairman and Managing Director
Mr. G.P. Gupta                                   Executive Director
Mr. P.S. Subramanyam                             Chief General Manager
Mr. K. Sivaprakasam                              General Manager
Mr. J. John                                      Deputy General Manager
Ms. Mythili Ravi                                 Assistant General Manager
Mr. K.X.M. John                                  Chief General Manager (Delhi Office)
Mr. R. Satyamurthi                               General Manager (Delhi Office)
Mr. Smriti Dhaon                                 Deputy Manager
The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Ltd.
Ms. Lalita D. Gupte                              Executive Director
Mr. Ambikapratap Singh                           Senior Vice-President
Mr. Mahinder Chugh                               Senior Vice-President
Mr. Suneet K. Maheshwari                         Senior Vice-President
Mr. N. Sridhar                                  Assistant Vice-President
Ms. Shubha Kamalsurya                            Assistant Vice-President
Mr. Mahesh Rao                                   Deputy Manager
Mr. T. Raghavendran                              Vice-President (Bombay Zonal Office)
Mr. S. Ragothaman                                Zonal Manager (BZO)
Mr. Mohit Chaturvedi                             Assistant Manager (BZO)
Mr. N.P. Subramnanian                            Deputy Manager (BZO)
Mr. T.R. K                                       Deputy General Manager
Export-Import Bank of India
Mr. T.C. Venkat Subramanian                     General Manager
Mr. Shankarnarayan R. Rao                        Deputy General Manager
Mr. Rajshekar Singh                              Manager
Mr. Dipankar Basu                                Assistant Manager
Mr. Vinod Goel                                   Manager (Delhi Office)
Mr. S. Sridhar                                   Regional Resident Representative



Export Development Project - Lns.3058/59-IN
Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project - Ln.2928-IN
Implementation Completion Report Mission (April 1 - 12, 1996)
List of Sub-Borrowers Interviewed
Aro Granite Industries Ltd.
Parasrampuria Synthetics Ltd.
Ballarpur Industries Ltd.
Flex Foods Ltd.
CT Cotton Yarn Ltd.
Kajaria Ceramics Ltd.
Eicher Motors Ltd.
AKG Acoustics (india) Ltd.
Indo - American Hybird Seeds
Namaste Exports Ltd.
Shenoy Granites (P.) Ltd.
Mangal Arts & Crafts
Amit Spinning Industries Ltd.
Keshavial Talakchand Kaytee Corporation Ltd.
Patodia Eurotex Group
Onida Electronics Ltd.
DCL Polyesters Ltd.
The Andhra Petrochemicals Ltd.
Repl Engineering Ltd.
Vidyut Metallics ltd.
Jain Irrigation Systyms Ltd.
The Zandu Pharmaceutical Works Ltd.
AFM India Ltd.
Protecto Engineering Ltd.
Lyka Labs Ltd.
Royal Cushion Vinyl Products Ltd.
Foundation Software Associates P. Ltd.
Inter Gold (India) Ltd.
Enkay Texofood Industries Ltd.
Bausch & Lomb India Ltd.
Triveni Oilfield Services Ltd.
Surya Roshni Ltd.
The Asia IT Center
M:\LIN\ICRLIST.DOC



Bank of Baroda
Mr. G.A. Nayak                                  General Manager (Zonal Office)
Mr. V.B. Lal Seksena                            Assistant General Manager
Mr. Arun Tiwari                                 Senior Manager
Mr. Hemant K. Parikh                            Chief Manager (Project Finance)
Mr. M.M. Modi                                   Senior Manager
Mr. K. Kalidas                                  Manager
Canara Bank
Mr. K.P. Pai                                    General Manager
Mr. M.V. Karnath                                General Manager
Mr. A.R. Jayaprakash                            Senior Manager
Mr. C.G. Adwalpalker                            General Manager
Mr. K.P.Y. Rao                                  Deputy General Manager
Steel Authority of India Ltd.
Mr. Arun J. Malhotra                            Senior Manager
(Consultancy Division)
Mr. S.C. Suri                                   Executive Director (Planning)
Mr. U.S. Jam                                    Director (Finance)
Mr. S.D.M. Nagpal                               Addl. Director (Finance & Account)
Mr. R.K. Garg                                   Senior. Manager (Vice-Chairman
Secretariat)



ANNEX 3
Export Development Project - Ln.3058-IN
Bank of Baroda
Lint of Sub-Loans
Sub-Loan No.                 Name                   Amt. Authorized   Amt. Disbursed
.S $             US$
A-1.01        HINDUSTAN MAGNETICS LTD.                      568,400                 0
A-1.02        FABROCRATS                                    538,093           482,219
A-1.03        HIKAL CHEMICALS                            1,080,000            959,675
A-1.04        CIRE OAREBTAKS                                821,205           821,205
A-1.05        VIVID CHEMICALS                             1,150,000                 0
A-1.06        SUBBURAJ COTTON                             1,030,000         1,020,404
A-1.07        VJ EQUIPMENTS                                 884,138           754,532
A-1.08        AMAJIN AGRO EXPORTS                           730,000                 0
A-1.09        DIGITRON COMPUTERS                         1,055,000                  0
A-1.10        JYOTI CERAMICS                                714,521           714,521
A-1.11        DIMEXON EXPORTS                               531,230           516,474
A-1.12        MENON PISTONS LTD.                            491,480           492,539
A-1.13        PURITY FLEXIPACK LTD.                         574,000           556,380
A-1.14        SARLA GEMS LTD.                               580,000           455,428
A-1.15        FLORAM SHOES                                  822,700                 0
A-1.16        PRANAVADITYA SPG                              577,440           539,712
A-1.17        VISTA ORGANICS LTD.                           420,187           402,127
A-1.18        THIRANI CHEMICALS                             539,767           539,767
A-1.19        TRUMAC ENGG                                   706,682           807,994
A-1.20        BUSH BOAKE ALLEN                              895,132           634,990
A-1.21        NUCOR WIRES                                1,069,700                  0
A-1.22        HANUMAN MINERAL OILS                          512,000           508,563
A-1.23        RIVEIRA KNITWEAR P LTD                        412,300           486,615
A-1.24        SRI BHARATI COTTON MILLS                      520,037           517,426
A-1.25        VISHALDEEP SPG. MILLS                         508,100           448,738
A-1.26        EAGLE FLASK (I) LTD.                          623,770           658,710
A-1.27        ENGINE COMPONENTS                             602,248           675,702
A-1.28        AHMEDNAGAR FORGINGS LTD.                      624,400           624,400
A-1.29        PERFECT PROCESSORS                            757,900                 0
A-1.30        ANKIT GRANITES LTD.                           956,025           966,075
A-1.31        ADDISON & CO. LTD.                            750,000           593,347
A-1.32        PHARMACIA                                     803,657                 0
A-1.33        IDEAL EXPO FABRICS                         1,021,833          1,015,270
A-1.34        LOTUS CHOCALATES LTD.                      1,000,000            947,372
A-1.35        MARAL OVERSEAS                             1,000,000            944,223
A-1.36        CIMCO SPINNERS                             1,000,000          1,032,045
A-1.37        AUROKNIT TEXTILES                             942,408         1,042,900
A-1.38        BAXUL CHEMICALS P. LTD.                       758,000                 0
A-1.39        RAUSH & LAMB                               1,000,000            947,570
A-1.40        TUDOR INDIA                                1,000,000                  0
A-1.41        NARASUS SPINNING                             559,070            586,284
A-1.42        SREE RADHAKRISHNA EXPORTS                  1,050,000          1,153,097
A-1.43        ENKAY TEXOFOOD                                592,000           529,059
A-1.44        CORAMANDAL GARMENTS                          920,000            915,977
A-1.45        KRYPTON INDUSTRIES                         1,000,000            680,000
A-1.46        JAMNA AUTO INDUSTRIES                         925,000           738,425
A-1.47        SARARE AUTOMOULDERS                           581,887           221,199
A-1.48        HYT MACHINES P. LTD.                          640,000                 0
A-1.49        BHARATI TELECOM                               500,000           474,876
A-1.50        RAMCO SUPER LEATHERS LTD.                     733,960                 0
A-1.51        PREMIER POLYTRONIC                         1,000,000          1,003,634
A-1.52        SRI NARASIMHA TEXTILES                        580,000           802,150
A-1.53        ORO LEATHERS LTD.                            751,300                  0
A-1.54        TYCHE BIO MEDICA                             800,000            689,842
A-1.55        DEWAN RUBBER LTD.                            775,200            776,000
A-1.56        INDIA FORGE & DROP                           763,157            738,437
A-1.57        GUJARAT POLY AVX                             788,000            771,130



A-1.58       WALLMEK IND. LTD.                           950,000           950,000
A-1.59       TRINITY DIE FORGERS LTD.                    875,000           818,427
A-1.60       SALZER TEXTILES LTD.                      1,000,000         1,033,300
B-1.01       C. MAHENDRA EXPORTS                         128,000           123,966
B-1.02       TRAVANCORE CHEMICALS                        139,776           134,026
B-1.03       CHAM ICE                                    116,733           116,733
B-1.04       PATODIA SYNTAX                              175,000           124,717
B-1.05       NIPPON DEKOR                                209,754           209,754
B-1.06       KANTILAL CHOTTALAL                          306,000                 0
B-1.07       SWISS HEALTH FOODS                          547,300           547,000
B-1.08       VISNAGAR TALUK                              132,594           132,594
B-1.09       ATLAS AUTO                                  115,899           115,899
B-1.10       AUSTIN ENGG                                 309,605           309,606
B-1.11       ANIL COLOUR                                 115,000           117,536
B-1.12       GEMSTAR & CO.                               140,000           168,938
B-1.13       PEMBRIL FLUIDRIVE                           215,000            82,004
B-1.14       COLOR CARTONS LTD.                          724,700           581,629
B-1.15       TOP EXPORTS                                 245,000           160,914
B-1.16       FINLANDIA CUTLERY                           144,000            80,024
B-1.17       GUJARAT DYESTUFF INDUSTRIES                 186,480           186,480
B-1.18       WESTCOAST INDUSTRIES                        331,748           290,340
B-1.19       POLYSPIN EXPORT                             165,797           165,797
B-1.20       DURAMETALLIC INDIA LTD.                     201,375           201,375
B-1.21       JASUBHAI RICHARD SIMON                      193,700           193,700
8-1.22       ROKADIA CHEMICALS                            96,000                 0
B-1.23       NOBEL SYSTEMS                               145,609           145,609
B-1.24       ACCORN INDUSTRIES                           109,720                 0
B-1.25       SUDEEP PHARMA                                70,167            70,167
8-1.26       PAPILON EXPORTS                             118,198           118,798
B-1.27       EXCELSIOR LEATHER                            93,500            41,773
B-1.28       KANNAN TEXTILES LTD                         400,000                 0
B-1.29       HOLWART ENGG                                137,361           131,361
8-1.30       T. ABDUL WAHID AND CO.                      335,000                 0
8-1.31       AJAY METACHEM                               223,000                 0
B-1.32       ARIAN TEA INDUSTRIES                         46,829            46,829
B-1.33       SHANKAR KUPPLUNGS                           356,000                 0
B-1.34       KESAR MARBLES & GRANITES                    283,000           110,285
B-1.35       CADILLA HOSPITAL                             89,774            89,734
B-1.36       KPP KNITS                                    41,620            41,620
B-1.37       K.PATEL DYECHEM IND.                         92,616            92,616
B-1.38       COLOUR CARTONS LTD.                         322,200                 0
B-1.39       MILTON LTD.                                 446,000           478,074
B-1.40       CILLULOSE PRODUCTS                          232,800           232,800
B-1.41       TOSHINIWAL AGROCHEM                         329,600           293,348
B-1.42       JYOTI CERAMIC INDUSTIRES                    205,520                 0
B-1.43       BRAINWARE SOFTWARE                           41,055                 0
8-1.44       CREATIVE OUTWEAR                            455,000           473,365
B-1.45       S&H GEARS LTD.                              104,000           104,000
B-1.46       POWER OHM RESISTORS                         102,407           102,407
B-1.47       TECHITRAN POLYLENSES                        389,000           389,200
B-1.48       SUNDEK (I) LTD.                             358,900           270,793
B-1.49       NOBEL SYSTEMS                                49,600                 0
B-1.50       STITCHCRAFT                                  84,000            83,585
B-1.51       PRAGATI ENGG WORKS                          196,800           107,184
B-1.52       KIRTLAL KALIDAS                             216,000           176,159
B-1.53       ADITYA MAGNETICS                            497,380                 0
B-1.54       ARVITEX SYNTHETICS LTD.                     125,000                 0
B-1.55       APPLICON HOLDING                            127,000                 0
B-1.56       ANAR CHEMICALS                               77,600            77,600
B-1.57       INDUS SACHARIDES                            224,000                 0
B-1.58       NILKAMAL JEWELLERY                          400,000           241,025
B-1.59       ROSY JEWELLERY EXPORTS                       72,200            70,645
B-1.60       INDUS WOVEN LABELS                          408,000                 0



B-1.61        INTERGOLD (I) LTD.                            350,000           172,900
B-1.62        DUPHAR INTERFRAN                              168,000           126,439
B-1.63        MIKRONIX ASSOCIATES                            72,000            64,415
B-1.64        SRINIVAS SHOES                                168,360           116,513
B-1.65        PILLAIYAR PATTIYAR                            342,000           294,860
B-1.66        SUNDARAM ABEX                                 384,770           42S,402
B-1.67        FOUNDATION SOFTWARE                            76,380            74,111
B-1.68        VXL INSTRUMENTS                               160,000           153,820
B-1.69        NUBAL INSTRUMENTS                              89,000            37,424
B-1.70        JANATICS                                       80,000            64,438
B-1.71        TRAK LEATHER                                   38,760                 0
B-1.72        SAI LABELS                                    240,000           240,018
B-1.73        SUPERTEX LABELS                               215,510           229,299
B-1.74        HITECH HALOGEN BULBS LTD.                     442,707                 0
B-1.75        FUTEX STEEL                                   478,460           498,024
B-1.76        BEAUTIFUL JEWELLERY                           350,000           259,086
B-1.77        ADDISON JEWELLERY                              10,000             9,488
B-1.78        MOHAN LEATHER                                     210                 0
B-1.79        JAI KAUSHAL PLASTICS                          383,000           369,088
B-1.80        GUJAMAT NARMADA KNITWEAR                      350,000           335,000
TOTAL                                                   63,702,001        45,491,094



Export Development Project - La.3058-IN
Bank of Baroda
List of EDF Sub-Loans
Sub-Loan No.                        Nams                       Amt. Authorized      Amt. Disbursed*
USS                  US$
TA-1.01          Yojana Systems P. Ltd.                                 76,000                47,045
TA-1.02          Data System Services P. Ltd.                           47,500                14,030
TA-1.03          Information Services P. Ltd.                           25,500                 2,657
TA-1.04          Brainware Software P. Ltd.                             27,000                   776
TA-1.05          Bharati Telecom                                        24,770                19,104
TA-1.06          Sun Pharmaceticals                                     48,520                36,716
TA-1.07          Men at Work                                            47,700                 6,388
TA-1.08          Janatics                                               44,800                     0
TA-1.09          Pragati Eng. works                                     47,250                23,284
TA-1.10          Flavours & Fragrances                                    8,000                    0
TA-1.11          Yojana Systems P. Ltd.                                       0                    0
TA-1.12          India Forge & Drop Stampings Ltd.                       4,000                     0
TA-1.13          Marwell Leathers (P) Ltd. (MLPL)                        5,000                 1,881
TA-1.14          Elcelsior Leather                                      45,000                18,925
TA-1.15          Arun Exports                                           33,000                     0
TA-1.16          Gupta Chemicals                                        40,000                27,672
TA-1.17          Comutec Robotics                                       17,000                 7,821
TA-1.18          Holwart Engg. Co.                                      10,000                     0
TA-1.19          Toshniwal Agrochem Ltd.                                21,000                 8,299
TA-1.20          Isibars Ltd.                                           42,000                 9,343
TA-1.21          Agogranite Inds. Ltd.                                  50,000                33,970
TA-1.22          Trinity Die Forgers Ltd.                               50,000                38,299
TA-1.23          Pacific Granites Ltd.                                  50,000                     0
TA-1.24          Mikrmix Associates                                     18,000                 2,149
TA-1.25          Yojana System Ltd.                                           0                    0
TA-1.26          Micro Plantae Ltd.                                     40,000                37,851
TA-1.27          Royal Cushion Vinyl Ltd.                               46,000                21,731
TA-1.28          Blue Star Ltd.                                         50,000                 1,433
TA-1.29          Vignesh Impex Ltd.                                     29,600                26,507
TA-1.30          Think Systems P. Ltd.                                  50,000                13,552
TA-1.31          Ajanta Pharma Ltd.                                     40,000                     0
TA-1.32          Atco Industries Ltd.                                   50,000                     0
TA-1.34          Jyoti Ceramics Ltd.                                    45,000                40,299
TA-1.35          Gupta Jewel Corp.                                      36,000                16,060
TA-1.36          Srei Int'l Ltd.                                        33,000                     0
TA-1.37          Acknit Knitting P. Ltd.                                16,500                 9,522
TA-1.38          Indchem ATL Ltd.                                       40,000                     0
TA-1.39          Pratap Kapur                                           10,000                 7,313
TA-1.40          Man Aluminium                                          31,000                10,299
TA-1.41          Bindu Synthetics                                       35,700                 6,806
TA-1.42          Pharma Machine Mfg. Co.                                15,000                 4,179
TA-1.43          Himgiri Industries                                     32,000                42,119



TA-1.44          Hiralal Printing Works                                  50,000                    0
TA-1.45          Sarare Automoulders Ltd.                                27,000                7,493
TA-1.46          K. Patel Chemo Pharma P. Ltd.                           10,000                    0
TA-1.47          Shiva Medicare Ltd.                                     33,350                    0
TA-1.48          Satnam Overseas Exports                                 46,000               17,194
TA-1.49          Hind Automount Ltd.                                     49,000                7,313
TA-1.50          Armour Polymers Ltd.                                    37,000                    0
TA-1.51          Rajastham Spg & Wvg Mills Ltd.                          50,000               12,866
TA-1.52          Electronica Exports P. Ltd.                             31,500               17,970
TA-1.53          Precision Gears P. Ltd.                                 50,000               32,955
TA-1.54          Competent Computer Corp.                                14,000               12,537
TA-1.55          Proteck Circuits & systems P. Ltd.                      50,000               41,791
TA-1.56          Indus Software P. Ltd.                                  33,000               29,701
TA-1.57          Ajay Metachem P. Ltd.                                   50,000               27,463
TA-1.58          Haq Brothers                                            34,000               21,373
TA-1.59          Lanz Laboratories                                       28,000                    0
TA-1.60          Nandadeep Papers                                        50,000                    0
TA-1.61          Globe Metal Industries                                  33,500               26,179
TA-1.62          Highlands Exports                                       34,000               31,493
TA-1.63          Rubamin P. Ltd.                                         32,000               28,358
TA-1.64          C.L. Talwar & Sons                                      27,500               10,239
TA-1.65          Phoneix Overseas Ltd.                                   50,000               46,269
TA-1.66          Argus Cosmetics Ltd.                                   29,000                     0
TA-1.67          Multiplex Handicrafts                                   26,000               15,970
TA-1.68          Rokadia Chemicals Ind. Ltd.                             50,000                    0
TA-1.69          India Nippon Elect Ltd.                                 50,000                    0
TA-1.70          Rajendra Mech. Ind Ltd.                                 50,000                9,104
TA-1.71          Holwart Engg Company                                    20,000               13,134
TA-1.72          Shreyas Intermediates Ltd.                             43,350                 2,896
TA-1.73          Fair Exports I Pvt. Ltd.                               S0,000                     0
TA-1.74          N.K. Oil Mills Ltd.                                     50,000                    0
TA-1.75          Polymechplast Machines Ltd.                             50,000               11,522
TA-1.76          Greengold Exports Pvt. Ltd.                             16,000                    0
TA-1.77          Stallion Impex Pvt. Ltd.                               46,000                36,657
TA-1.78          India Fashions                                         46,500                43,821
TA-1.79          Punjab Chemicals & Pharm Ltd.                           50,000               46,269
TA-1.80          Juthika Exports                                         50,000               28,925
TA-1.81          Dhoudhary Fashions                                      50,000               43,881
TA-1.82          Bangalore Knitwear P. Ltd.                              15,000               13,433
TA-1.83          Gujarat Narmada Knitwear Ltd.                           50,000               32,448
TA-1.S4          West Coast                                             50,000                43,821
TA-1.85          Solsons                                                 50,000               36,657
TA-1.86          Awim Exim                                              31,500                     0
TA-1.87          Polybond (I) P. Ltd.                                    50,000               25,881
TA-1.88          Saraf Spg. & Wvg. Mills Ltd.                           40,000                     0
TA-1.89          Auroknit Exports (I) Ltd.                              33,000                     0
TA-1.90          Rupal Chemicals Inds. Ltd.                             50,000                     0
TA-1.91          Axles India Ltd.                                       50,000                     0
TA-1.92          Vijay Wires & Fil. Ltd.                                40,500                21,791



TA-1.93          Paper Products Ltd.                                    50,000               42,209
TA-1.94          Anil Steel and Inds. Ltd.                              36,500                9,463
TOTAL                                                               3,425,040            1,385,104
* Exchange rate USS1 * Rs. 33.5



Export Development Project - Ln.3058-IN
Canara Bank
List of Sub-Loane
Sub-loan No.                       mane                        Ant. Authorized      Ant. Diabursed
US$                 US$
A-2.01          Nova Blectromagnetics Ltd.                           1,198,752              592,272
A-2.02          Indocount Industries Ltd.                            1,182,000              726,874
A-2.03          Bhiwani Denims & Apparels Ltd.                          736,875             571,630
A-2.04          Wellknit Apparells (P) Ltd.                            540,540              414,496
A-2.05          Tichtron Polylens Ltd.                                 500,000              500,000
A-2.06          Maral Overseas Ltd.                                  1,000,000              902,684
A-2.07          Perfect Spinners Ltd.                                1,000,000              697,675
A-2.08          Flex Foods Ltd.                                         880,000             868,123
A 2.09          Lotus Chocolates                                     1,000,000                    0
A-2.09          Kesar Marbles & Granites Ltd.                          505,521              505,521
A-2.11          Ct Cotton Yarn Ltd.                                  1,000,000            1,000,000
A-2.12          Tudor India Ltd.                                     1,000,000              849,082
A-2.13          Indo American Hybrid Seeds Ltd.                         584,847             171,803
A-2.14          Namasthe Leather Garments Ltd.                       1,000,000            1,000,000
A-2.15          Jamna Auto Industries Ltd.                           1,000,000            1,000,000
A-2.16          Ankit Granites Ltd.                                    590,000              586,588
A-2.17          TTK Biomed Ltd.                                        668,000              559,252
A-2.18          Mid (East) India Ltd.                                1,000,000                    0
A-2.19          Windsome Yarns Ltd.                                  1,000,000            1,000,000
A-2.20          Nucor Wires (India) Ltd.                               746,155                    0
A-2.21          Shenoy Granites                                        775,000              702,456
A-2.22          Tien Yuan India Ltd.                                   540,000              535,475
B-2.01          Divya Jewellers Pvt. Ltd.                               55,000               46,575
B-2.02          Tufex Leather & Allied Ind. Pvt. Ltd.                  317,000              262,797
B-2.03          Amigo Exports                                          120,175                    0
B-2.04          Siba Software P. Ltd.                                   55,000               50,795
B-2.05          Bounnarraj & Co.                                        58,000               12,678
B-2.06          Intron LTd.                                            211,500              174,817
B-2.07          Pegaso. Inhouse Manufacturing Unit                      73,000                    0
B-2.08          Agarwal Dresses                                         80,960               52,387
B-2.09          J R S Exports                                           54,650               44,696
B-2.10          Classic Rugs                                           480,000              331,982
B-2.11          Gomukhi Charma Kendra                                   44,200               44,200
B-2.12          Sapri Garments Pvt. Ltd.                                64,700               58,172
B-2.13          Bharat & Co.                                            73,050                    0
8-2.14          Jain Marble                                            342,050                    0
B-2.15          Infosys Consultants                                    148,546               56,027
B-2.16          Dattareya Textiles                                     255,025              210,155
B-2.17          Lirf Mills LTd.                                        292,600              259,370
B-2.18          Forward Leather Co.                                     95,500               80,132
B-2.19          Intermode International                                 83,592               71,724



B-2.20          Gaja Shoes                                               69,000              51,219
B-2.21          Terry Knits                                            474,800              401,395
B-2.22          Siba Software                                          172,875               76,354
B-2.23          Icicon Electronics Ltd.                                367,081              352,748
B-2.24          Shivalika Int'l                                        388,250              313,826
B-2.25          Veriforne Software Systems                             250,000              250,000
B-2.26          Kundan Rice & Oil Mills                                345,860              261,482
B-2.27          Precision Equipments                                   150,000                    0
B-2.28          Sensortronics (I) Ltd.                                 334,000              334,000
8-2.29          KRM Int'l                                              244,210              244,210
B-2.30          Premier Leather                                         68,000                    0
B-2.31          Lexpo Int'l                                             76,235               76,235
B-2.32          Neha Exports                                           113,903               85,697
B-2.33          Coromantal Leather P. Ltd.                             522,490              522,490
B-2.34          Texport Int'l                                           60,000               60,000
B-2.35          R. Tulastidas Exports P. Ltd.                          116,000               94,986
B-2.36          Srinivas SHoes P. Ltd.                                 115,000                    0
B-2.37          R.T. Agro P. Ltd.                                      115,000               85,000
B-2.38          Lynx Optics Ltd.                                       395,000              342,332
B-2.39          Prema Fashions                                         149,254              103,261
B-2.40          Kadi Garments                                          115,256               79,629
B-2.41          Senior Garments                                         55,149                    0
B-2.42          Rohini Garments                                         68,487               60,987
B-2.43          Swami Screen Printers                                   75,099               62,717
B-2.44          Maini Precision Products                                87,341               87,341
B-2.45         .Autolec Industries Ltd.                                 74,269               64,769
B-2.46          Renewable Energy Systems P. Ltd.                        90,609               89,490
B-2.47          Makers & Sellers Union                                  86,379               72,971
B-2.48          Iver Hosiery                                            70,767               70,767
B-2.49          Kewal Ramani Exports Ltd.                              140,634              140,634
B-2.50          Nycil Knitware                                          88,607               88,607
B-2.51          Flat Products Equipments I Ltd.                        347,000              347,000
B-2.52          Disco Stone INdo P. Ltd.                               388,000              388,000
B-2.53          Sarup Tanneries                                        456,230                    0
B-2.54          Apparel & Leather Technics P. Ltd.                     116,488                    0
B-2.55          Latmipriya Global Garments                              S7,607               54,957
B-2.56          8.P. Export Corporation                                 48,130               46,126
B-2.57          Akbar Knitting Co.                                     201,640              190,240
B-2.58          B. Arunkiumar Int'L Ltd.                               172,600              129,308
B-2.59          Aries Apparels P. Ltd.                                 119,115                    0
B-2.60          Greeting Knitware                                       52,010               52,010
B-2.61          Alps Innovators P. Ltd.                                 67,000                    0
B-2.62          Toy-N-Toy Int'l                                        327,706              327,706
B-2.62          Abhimanyu Garments                                      78,000               78,000
3-2.63          Knkal Exports                                          125,000              125,000
B-2.64          Aristo Int'l                                            74,500               70,508
B-2.65          Yescee Knitware                                        176,500               16,389
B-2.66          Swamy & Co.                                            144,000              144,000
B-2.67          Senthil Mills                                          142,500              142,500



B-2.68          Chandra Trading Corporation                             133,500             133,500
B-2.69          Radha Textiles                                          160,000             160,000
B-2.70          ARthur Knitting                                        183,000              183,000
B-2.71          Spectrum Embrodiary                                     88,000               85,265
B-2.72          Dustkar Apparels                                       110,000              110,000
B-2.73          Pearl Shoes                                             50,000               50,000
B-2.74          Indian Connections                                        5,000               5,000
B-2.75          Asma Export                                              13,000              13,000
TOTAL                                                               30,667,319           22,265,094



Export Development Project - Ln.3058-IN
Canara Bank
List of EDF Sub-Loans
Sub-Loan No.                         Name                       Ant. Authorized       Amt. Disbursed
US$                 us$
TA-2.01          Liberty Exports Ltd.                                          0                   0
TA-2.02          Mathur & Co.                                             20,280            8,606.00
TA-2.03          Ashwini Engineering Industries                            1,594               1,511
TA-2.04          Kumar Metal Industries                                   26,500              25,767
TA-2.05          Duroflex Coir Industries                                 17,750              14,306
TA-2.06          Forward Leather Company                                   4,000               4,000
TA-2.07          Weikfield International                                  50,000              16,444
TA-2.08          Unique Valves Private Ltd.                                    0                   0
TA-2.09          Classic Diamonds India Ltd.                                   0                   0
TA-2.10          Next Fashion Creators                                         0                   0
TA-2.11          Precision Rubber Industries                             48,000               48,000
TA-2.12          New Tech Industries                                           0                   0
TA-2.13          Ferrous Forgings Pvt. Ltd.                               27,312              15,752
TA-2.14          Shantivijay Jewels P. Ltd.                               22,650              22,529
TA-2.15          Laura Leathers                                          10,769                3,290
TA-2.16          Eros Pharma P. Ltd.                                      19,173              10,452
TA-2.17          Govind Rubber Ltd.                                       32,269              22,732
TA-2.18          Shoes East                                               30,700              12,385
TA-2.19          Meco Instruments Pvt. Ltd.                               36,420              36,420
TA-2.20          Kemtrode Pvt. Ltd.                                      38,465               13,999
TA-2.21          Blechem (Inter. Div.)                                   47,520               28,247
TA-2.22          Shahibabad Impex Pvt. Ltd.                                    0                    0
TA-2.23          Scruples (I) Pvt. Ltd.                                  29,581                  614
TA-2.24          Gujarat Vacuum Coaters (P) Ltd.                         29,401                1,495
TA-2.25          Sarju Int'l P. Ltd.                                     24,547               24,546
TA-2.26          Riba Textiles P. Ltd.                                   44,712               29,312
TA-2.27          Golden Peakock Overseas P. Ltd.                          32,279              32,279
TA-2.28          Proseal Closures Pvt. Ltd.                              23,589               26,725
TA-2.29          Siba Software Pvt. Ltd.                                  12,696               6,300
TA-2.30          Young Style Hosieries                                     2,058               2,058
TA-2.31          Everknit Hosiery Mill                                    10,795               4,576
TA-2.32          Siyaram Silk Mill                                       28,590               28,589
TA-2.33          Regent Chemicals                                              0                    0
TA-2.34          Alpha Flock                                                   0                    0
TA-2.35          Raj Impex Ltd.                                           15,155              15,153
TA-2.36          Enginemates Heat Transfer P. Ltd.                             0                   0
TA-2.37          Treviso Exim (India)                                          0                   0
TA-2.38          TamilnaduDrugs & Pharmaecuticals                        13,295                    0
TA-2.39          Incowax Pvt. Ltd.                                       10,880               10,867
TA-2.40          Autolec Industries Ltd.                                 15,123               15,114
TA-2.41          Rohini Garments                                           8,960               8,960
TA-2.42          Voage Exports                                                 0                   0



TA-2.43          Refox Engg. (I) Ltd.                                     12,139               2,160
TA-2.44          Nirmachal Engg. P. Ltd.                                  14,720               9,751
TA-2.4S          Pace Elcot Automation Ltd.                               25,209               9,672
TA-2.46          Pratibha Processors P. Ltd.                              14,978               7,309
TA-2.47          Mercury Software Services P. Ltd.                         6,580                   0
TA-2.48          Sapri Garments P. Ltd.                                    8,720               8,713
TA-2.49          Bharat Trading Corp.                                     11,742              10,585
TA-2.50          Suria Images                                             13,200               3,516
TA-2.51          Elforge Ltd                                              19,133              19,118
TA-2.52          Akar Tools P. Ltd.                                      25,854               25,848
TA-2.53          Mercury Leather Pvt. Ltd.                               30,434                8,520
TA-2.54          Nuchem Engg. Ltd.                                       43,936               35,832
TA-2.55          Raperi Engg. Ltd.                                       40,270               35,998
TA-2.56          Subadra Exports                                          15,480                   0
TA-2.57          Stylewerk Clothing Pvt. Ltd.                             18,885              18,010
TA-2.58          Mathur & Co.                                            48,960               48,960
TA-2.59          Vinayaka Synthetics Ltd.                                33,617                3,683
TA-2.60          Pferd Tools Pvt. Ltd.                                    35,525              29,914
TA-2.61          Nandan Exports                                            6,308               2,969
TA-2.62          Ampersand Software Applications                         49,238               49,237
TA-2.63          Wiltech                                                 49,720               34,556
TA-2.64          Vivy Fashions                                             5,000               1,546
TA-2.65          Concept Pharmaceuticals Ltd.                             15,551               6,036
TA-2.66          Mukund Chemicals P Ltd.                                 39,250                1,694
TA-2.67          Ramjidas Chemicals P Ltd.                               49,167                5,147
TA-2.68          Bangalore Commercial Corpn.                             28,125               28,123
TA-2.69          S.B. & T Gems and Jewellery Exports Pvt.                25,545               17,604
TA-2.70          Salora International Ltd.                               29,787               18,681
TA-2.71          Rare Wear Enterprises                                     5,890               5,890
TA-2.72          Shivalika International                                 32,500                    0
TA-2.73          M K Impex Corporation                                   26,434               26,434
TA-2.74          TTK Bio-Med Ltd.                                        46,813                    0
TA-2.75          Y S Syntex Projects                                     35,692               11,476
TA-2.76          Ultra Dry Tech Engg P. Ltd.                             32,667               25,501
TA-2.77          Sarju Casual Wear P. Ltd.                               29,725               29,701
TA-2.78          Indication Instruments                                  26,650               17,608
TA-2.79          Gokuldas Images                                         13,350                    0
TA-2.80          Exotica Exports                                         33,069               33,068
TA-2.81          Golden Threads P. Ltd.                                  38,026                     0
TA-2.82          Century Twenty One Exports                              19,730                6,557
TA-2.83          Electro Carbonium P. Ltd.                                5,426                5,200
TA-2.84          Warsaw International                                     9,300                9,300
TA-2.85          Liberty Exports                                         11,062                6,694
TA-2.86          Unicorn Agro Tech Ltd.                                  13,506               11,791
TA-2.87          Doorvani Cables P. Ltd.                                 49,484               20,736
TA-2.88          ABC Fashions                                            35,970               34,736
TA-2.89          Rewadale Precision Tools                                46,079               46,071
TA-2.90          Omni Exports                                            47,106                    0
TA-2.91          Acumac Machine Tools P. Ltd.                            50,000               39,821



TA-2.92          Odyssey Information Technologies P. Ltd.                 34,847               3,954
TA-2.93          Cosmo Films Ltd.                                        26,207                4,781
TA-2.94          Astra Microwave Prducts Ltd.                            29,007               19,519
TA-2.95          Samuthralakshmi Textiles                                 25,283              25,283
TA-2.96          Auto Ignition Pvt. Ltd.                                 28,435                4,393
TA-2.97          Sudhir Sheth                                             18,705               9,685
TA-2.98          Sarita Handa Exports                                    23,866               13,019
TA-2.99          Gyan Silk Traders                                        35,409              35,409
TA-3.00          Gold King Exports                                       21,452               10,693
TA-3.01          Asis Apparels                                           20,986                6,310
TA-3.02          Duroflex Coil Industries                                 19,745              19,727
TA-3.03          Vishnu Exports International                             12,243               4,888
TA-3.04          Indo Count Industries Ltd.                              46,389               19,102
TA-3.05          Vlkram Overseas Pvt. Ltd.                               10,972                     0
TA-3.06          Riba Marketing Pvt. Ltd.                                26,857               20,633
TA-3.07          Triage Overseas                                          30,027              30,025
TA-3.08          VST Tillers Tractors Ltd.                               49,075               49,075
TA-3.09          SRG Systems Pvt. Ltd.                                   27,630               27,588
TA-3.10          Brothers Granites (I) Ltd.                              36,708                7,224
TA-3.11          United Catalyst India Ltd.                              44,641                     0
TA-3.12          Unchem Engineering Ltd.                                 23,097               11,413
TA-3.13          Pearl Insulations P. Ltd.                               41,332               32,214
TA-3.14          K R M International Ltd.                                28,918               13,768
TA-3.15          Ficom Organics Ltd.                                     45,567                     0
TA-3.16          Processware Systems P. Ltd.                             12,575               12,510
TA-3.17         -Bemco Jacks & Allied Products                           11,787                     0
TA-3.18          Orient International                                    12,696               12,364
TA-3.19          Commo Ferrites LTd.                                     28,492               10,526
TA-3.20          Kirloskar Computer Services Ltd.                        25,800               25,798
TA-3.21          Overseas Exports                                        25,238                     0
TA-3.22          Garware Plastics & Polyester Ltd.                       28,225                     0
TA-3.23          Pharm Products Pvt. Ltd.                                42,987               42,987
TA-3.24          Temptation Foods Ltd.                                   41,233               40,275
TA-3.25          International Instruments Ltd.                          28,298               16,498
T&-3.26          Continental Engines Ltd.                                3S,142                     0
SOTAL                                                                 3,064,086            1,794,455



Export Development Project - Ln.3058-IN
EXIM Bank
List of Sub-Loans
Sub-Loan No.        Nang                                      Ant. Authorized       Ant. Disbursed
USS                 US$
A-3.01             Needle Industries India Ltd.                        415,000             379,103
A-3.02             Citicorp Overseas Software Ltd.                     640,000             770,353
A-3.03             Hitkari Potteries Ltd.                              510,000             497,844
A-3.04             Ponds India Ltd.                                    852,000             524,031
A-3.05             Nochem Engineering                                  440,000                   0
A-3.06             Brakes India Ltd.                                   925,000             826,826
A-3.07             Gomathi Mills                                     1,000,000           1,033,428
A-3.08             Lumax                                               640,000             543,119
A-3.10             Transpek Industry Ltd.                            1,000,000             814,269
A-3.11             Tube Investment of India Ltd.                     1,000,000             773,787
A-3.12             Bawa Skin Co.                                       895,800             708,422
A-3.13             Ramco Super Leather                                       0                   0
A-3.14             Dabur India                                         576,000             484,966
A-3.15             Widia Ltd.                                        1,000,000             863,214
A-3.16             India Ports Ltd.                                    808,000             771,340
A-3.17             SWIL Ltd.                                                 0                   0
A-3.18             Eicher                                              763,077             724,617
A-3.19             L.G. Balakrishnan                                   923,077             810,811
A-3.20             Arvind Mills Ltd.                                   966,000             984,116
A-3.21             Motor Industries Ltd.                             1,000,000           1,035,912
A-3.22             Kirlskar Cummins Ltd.                               970,667             940,265
A-3.23             Best Built Leather                                  663,334             680,109
A-3.24             Jain Irrigation System Ltd.                       1,000,000           1,035,912
A-3.25             Titan Watches                                     1,000,000           1,035,912
A-3.26             Fidyut Metallics                                    944,000             910,553
A-3.27             Sundaram Fasteners                                1,000,000             979,432
A-3.28             Yokogawa Bluestar                                   640,000             677,736
A-3.29             Amalgam Foods                                       934,000             930,233
A-3.30             MRF Ltd.                                          1,000,000             955,718
B-3.01             Reed Relays Ltd.                                    200,000                   0
B-3.02             Thermax Ltd.                                        397,142             205,469
B-3.03             Akg Acoustics                                       147,555             108,541
B-3.04             Tanjavar Textiles                                   245,100                   0
B-3.05             Super Tannery                                       360,000             280,483
B-3.06             Autolite                                            360,000             244,316
B-3.07             Index Computing                                     428,600             263,350
B-3.08             PMP Auto Industries Ltd.                            416,000              292649
B-3.09             Wipro Information Tech. Ltd.                        150,000             131,215
B-3.10             Himatsingke Seide Ltd.                              413,000             440,539
B-3.11             Florind Shoes                                       161,538             143,785
B-3.12             Ramco Super Leather                                 488,461             518,579



B-3.13             Zandu Pharmaceutical Works                          331,000             285,193
B-3.14             T.I. Diamond Chains Ltd.                            369,230             328,205
B-3.15             Apeego Corporation                                  369.235             331,492
B-3.16             Tanjavur Textiles Ltd. (change A-3.09               24S,100             190,315
B-3.17             India forge & Drop Stampings Ltd.                   346,154             310,773
B-3.18             EXCEL Industries Ltd.                               200,000             198,757
B-3.19             Index Computing Pvt. Ltd.                           342,880             376,006
B-3.20             Tubo Energy Ltd.                                    200,000             207,182
TOTAL                                                               28,676,950          25,548,877



Export Development Project - Ln.3058-IN
HXIM Bank
List of EDF Sub-Loans
Sub-Loan No.                      Name                       Ant. Authorized       Amt. Disbursed
us$                 088
TA-3.01        Azndu Pharmeceutical Works Ltd.                          27,855               28,007
TA-3.02        Thermax Ltd.                                             68,600               41,465
TA-3.03        Kadri Mills Ltd                                          58,900               50,527
TA-3.04        Jan Irrigation Systems Ltd.                              72,715               36,347
TA-3.05        Lumax                                                    68,665               68,549
Ta-3.06        Dabu India Ltd.                                          96,000               61,632
TA-3.07        Fykays Engineering P. Ltd.                               21,870                    0
TA-3.08        Lectrotek Systems                                        30,726               13,862
TA-3.09        Indfrag Pvt. Ltd.                                        15,810               11,735
TA-3.10        Balsara Hygiene Products                                 41,295               28,446
TA-3.11        RSI India PRivate Ltd.                                   72,560               16,984
TA-3.12        Transpok Industries Ltd.                                 55,825               46,121
TA-3.13        PMP Auto Industries Ltd.                                  7,500                7,869
TA-3.14        SWIL Ltd.                                                57,776               37,035
TA-3.15        Mysore Kirloskar Ltd.                                   120,000              106,353
TA-3.16        Needle Industries India Ltd.                            100,000               90.245
TA-3.17        Dabur India Ltd                                         105,500                    0
TA-3.18        Zandu Pharmeceutical Works                              220,600              222,570
TA-3.19        Modern  Malleable Casting                                59,776               39,319
TA-3.20        Kinetic Engineering                                      87,490               79,115
TA-3.21        Aqua Bearings Ltd.                                       35,019               36,286
TA-3.22        Chendur Forgings                                         24,000               16,238
TA-3.23        Su-Raj Diamonds India Ltd.                               98,400               86,358
TA-3.24        Surat Diamonds Industries Ltd                            31,240                3,099
TA-3.25        Sanarpan Fabricators Ltd.                                59,180               48,628
TA-3.26        Atlas Cycle Ind.                                         49,486               43,944
TA-3.27        L.G. Balakrishnan & Bros Ltd.                            72,500               61,674
TA-3.28        Revathicp Equipment Ltd.                                 41,000               35,300
TA-3.29        Indian Aluminium Co. Ltd.                                57,731               30,866
TA-3.30        SSB Industries Ltd.                                      32,000               26,155
TA-3.31        EXCEL Industries Ltd.                                    93,350               79,708
TA-3.32        Pond's India Ltd. (Mushroom Div.)                        55,000               45,608
TA-3.33        Motor Industries Ltd.                                    52,000               38,494
TA-3.34        Pond's India Ltd.(Thermometer Div.)                     100,000               83,356
TA-3.35        India Seamless Metal Tubes Ltd.                          53,980               13,992
TA-3.36        Arvind Mills Ltd.                                        62,800               22,903
TA-3.37        Taarika Exports                                          95,380               97,658
TA-3.38        Timeless Toys                                            17,500                6,963
TA-3.39        English Electric Co. of India Ltd.                       25,000               24,812
TA-3.40        Ion Exchange (India) Ltd.                                90,765               51,546
TA-3.41        T.I. Diamon Chain Ltd.                                  100,000               98,921
TA-3.42        OM Health Care Products                                  17,900               14,742



TA-3.43        T & L Gould Ltd.                                         30,833                    0
TA-3.44        Hindustan Gas & Ind. Ltd.                                89,763               70,164
TA-3.45        Suri Computers Pvt. Ltd.                                 35,000                4,877
TA-3.46        Tital Watches Ltd.                                       70,000               66,978
TA-3.47        Tube Investment of India Ltd.                           200,000              195,950
TA-3.48        Shalaka Electronics Pvt. Ltd.                            49,971               44,455
TA-3.49        India Forge & Drop Stampings Ltd.                        50,000               47,737
TA-3.50        India Chain Pvt. Ltd.                                    28,834               16,811
TA-3.51        Business Forms Ltd.                                      50,959               47,977
TA-3.52        Biocon India P. Ltd.                                     83,340               68,781
TA-3.53        Koluthara Exports Ltd.                                   51,625               34,797
TA-3.54        Fusegera Electric Ltd.                                   50,000                    0
TA-3.55        ITC Bhadrachalam Paperboards Ltd.                       100,000               54,447
TA-3.56        REPL Engineering (India) Ltd.                            99,667               80,753
TA-3.57        Fouress Engineering (India) Ltd.                         41,400               34,951
TA-3.58        Manugraph Industries Ltd.                                99,300               81,153
TA-3.59        Kirloskar Electric Ltd.                                  95,716               83,215
TA-3.60        Madras Engineerings Industries Ltd.                      31,115               14,166
TA-3.61        RS Software India Ltd.                                   54,417                    0
TA-3.62        Mairs Pharma (India) Ltd.                                 7,500                4,546
TA-3.63        Nath Bros Exim International Ltd.                        28,530               16,677
TA-3.64        Yokogawa Keonics Ltd.                                    30,000               26,157
TA-3.65        Elgi Equipments Ltd.                                    100,000               91,020
TA-3.66        Business Universal Incorporated                          84,000               66,883
TA-3.67        Accurate Products Corp.                                  12,000               11,311
TA-3.68        )L0-GWB Cardan Shafts Ltd.                               35,000               22,545
TA-3.69        The Sheveroy Estates Ltd.                               100,000               49,765
TA-3.70        Intech Systems Pvt. Ltd.                                 79,350                    0
TA-3.71        Himmatsingka Seide Ltd.                                 100,000               91,277
TA-3.72        Madras Motor Ltd.                                        75,000               81,153
TA-3.73        GEC of India Ltd.                                        54,017                    0
TA-3.74        Rico Auto Industries Ltd.                                51,695               36,893
TA-3.75        ABS Industries Ltd.                                      68,325               34,703
TA-3.76        Ramco Super Leathers Ltd.                                47,500               44,797
TA-3.77        Shasun Chemicals (Madras) Ltd.                           90,000               60,650
TA-3.78        Super Auto Forge (P) Ltd.                                26,000               14,167
TA-3.79        Index Computing (P) Ltd.                                 82,500               43,638
TA-3.80        O/I/N Connectors Ltd.                                    58,250               45,289
TA-3.81        Hindustan Gas & Industries Ltd.                          51,267               47,017
TA-3.82        Shyam Ahuja Ltd.                                         98,800               97,618
TA-3.83        Gangadharam  Appliances Ltd.                            100,000               56,436
TA-3.84        Ramesh Flowers Pvt. Ltd.                                 42,500               40,899
TA-3.85        Vikrant Auto Susponsions                                 22,833               22,268
TA-3.86        Concert Spices & Exports Ltd.                            38,700               33,648
TA-3.87        Dyna Mechanical and Engg. Co.P.Ltd.                      67,900               46,290
TA-3.88        Roots Industries Pvt. Ltd.                               55,000               52,553
TA-3.89        International Informatics Solutions                      73,945               19,116
TA-3.90        Hindustan Electro Graphites Ltd.                         53,335               23,990
TA-3.91        Auto Pins (India) Ltd.                                   40,125               37,907



TA-3.92        Lamina Suspension Products Ltd.                          55,000               51,758
TA-3.93        Atlas Cycle Industries Ltd.                              44,500               30,314
TA-3.94        Grasim Industries Ltd.                                   68,400               24,514
TA-3.95        Parishudh Sadhan Yantra Ltd.                             73,820               34,005
TA-3.96        PMT Machine Tool Automatics Ltd.                         99,700               64,852
TA-3.97        OMC Computer Ltd.                                        72,666                4,792
TA-3.98        Jay Shree Textiles                                       75,520               66,233
TA-3.99        Carborundvm Universal Ltd.                               58,865               29,439
TA-4.00        TTK Pharma Ltd.                                          80,000               39,761
TA-4.01        Balsara Hygiene Products Ltd.                            35,985               37,144
TA-4.02        Echjay Forgings Ltd.                                     60,000               45,674
TA-4.03        Sri Sarbati Steels Ltd                                   50,000               46,292
TA-4.04        Flgi Polytex Ltd.                                        21,000                    0
TA-4.05        Chloride Industries Ltd.                                 98,814               93,718
TA-4.06        Technocraft Industries (India) Ltd.                      26,700               22,211
TA-4.07        Inca Hammock Mfg. & Exp. Ltd.                            20,000               16,099
TA-4.08        Kalyani Agro Corpn. P. Ltd.                              98,842               58,854
TA-4.09        Pyramid Business Systems (P) Ltd.                        15,000               12,950
TA-4.10        Usha Martin Industries Ltd.                              44,708               23,320
TA-4.11        Sulakshana Circuits Ltd.                                 34,500               26,350
TA-4.12        Kabsons Gas Equipment (P) Ltd.                           30,000                    0
TA-4.13        Unique Pharmeceutical Laboratories                       53,340                4,459
TA-4.14        W.S. Industries (India) Ltd.                              1,419                    0
TA-4.15        P.S. Electricals Pvt. Ltd.                                2,179                    0
TA-4.16        Unicorn Biotek Ltd.                                      10,440                    0
TA-4.17        Nirmanchal Engineer Pvt. Ltd.                             4,799                    0
TA-4.18        Premier Instruments and Controls Lt.                      4,557                    0
TA-4.19        Devendra Exports Pvt. Ltd.                                4,373                    0
TA-4.20        Best & Crompton Engineering Ltd.                          1,587                    0
TA-4.21        T T Ltd.                                                 90,650                    0
TA-4.22        L G Balakrishnan & Bros. Ltd.                             4,127                    0
TA-4.23        Wideia (India) Ltd.                                       7,513                    0
TA-4.24        Autolec Industries Ltd.                                   5,978                    0
TA-4.25        Zchjay Forgings Ltd.                                      7,558                    0
TA-4.26        Sundaram Clayton Ltd.                                     9,424                    0
TA-4.27        St-elcast Ltd.                                            4,185                    0
TA-4.28        Compro Services (India) Pvt. Ltd.                         3,723                    0
TA-4.29        Dewas Tools Pvt. Ltd.                                     7,949                    0
TA-4.30        Mascot Tools & Forgings Pvt. Ltd.                         2,473                    0
TA-4.31        Ceekey Daikin Ltd.                                        1,755                    0
TA-4.32        Eicher Goodearth Ltd.                                    59,589                    0
TA-4.33        Precision Transmatic Devices Pvt.L                        1,592                    0
TA-4.34        Suri Computers Pvt. Ltd.                                  3,757                    0
TA-4.35        Mekins Agro Products Pvt. Ltd.                            1,059                    0
TA-4.36        Future Software Pvt. Ltd.                                 1,910                    0
TA-4.37        Vibromech Engineers Pvt. Ltd.                               407                    0
TA-4.38        The Indian Seemless Metal Tubes Ltd                       2,698                    0
TA-4.39        Chowgule Matrix Hobs Ltd.                                 5,668                    0
TA-4.40        Bharat Forge Ltd.                                        68,852                    0



TA-4.41        Wadco Tools Ltd.                                          4,847                    0
TA-4.42        DCM Data Products Ltd.                                   12,727                    0
TA-4.43        Indchem Electronics Ltd.                                  2,110                    0
TA-4.44        Audco India Ltd.                                         33,689                    0
TA-4.45        Khimline Pumps Ltd.                                       1,390                    0
TA-4.46        Jamna Auto Industries Ltd.                                7,204                    0
TA-4.47        Clutch Auto Ltd.                                          8,228                    0
TA-4.48        Kipha Exports (P) Ltd.                                   10,251                    0
TA-4.49        Usha Martin Industries Ltd.                               4,352                    0
TA-4.50        Technofour                                                5,153                    0
TA-4.51        Indo-Schottle Auto Parts Pvt. Ltd.                        2,940                    0
TA-4.52        P S Power Controls                                        6,169                    0
TA-4.53        Gremach Cnc Ltd.                                          4,857                    0
TA-4.54        Lamina Suspension Products Pvt. Ltd.                      7,937                    0
TA-4.55        Crompton Greaves Ltd.                                    54,563                    0
TA-4.56        India Pistons Ltd.                                        1,581                    0
TA-4.57        Cortica Manufacturing Co.                                 2,347                    0
TA-4.58        Murugappa Morganite Ceramic Fibres                        6,902                    0
TA-4.59        Permanent Magnets Ltd.                                   11,222                    0
TA-4.60        East India Hotels Ltd.                                      600                    0
TA-4.61        Wipro Infotech Ltd.                                      35,361                    0
TA-4.62        Jamna Auto Industries Ltd.                               68,964                    0
TA-4.63        Eicher Goodearth Ltd.                                    50,000               42,641
TA-4.64        Jaya Shree Insulators                                    66,010               64,624
TA-4.65        Cutch Auto Ltd.                                          62,166               57,926
TA-4.66        IFB Industries Ltd.                                      82,769               38,959
TA-4.67        Hical Magnetic (P) Ltd.                                  18,900               17,219
TA-4.68        Bharat Industries                                        26,000               16,337
TA-4.69        Neptune Equipments (P) Ltd.                              76,788                    0
TA-4.70        Normak Fashions (P) Ltd.                                 30,000               11,986
TA-4.71        Covema Filaments Ltd.                                    25,633               20,978
TA-4.72        New Tech Services (P) Ltd.                               37,167                    0
TA-4.73        Data Software Research Co. Ltd.                          70,250               40,479
TA-4.74        Sumitra Pharmaceuticals & Chemical                       97,465              S,959
TA-4.75        Mideast (India) Ltd.                                     72,300                3,912
TA-4.76        Wockhardt Ltd.                                           99,613               95,171
TA-4.77        Multimetals Ltd.                                         32,250               47,500
TA-4.78        Techtran Polyenses Ltd.                                  37,200               36,144
TA-4.79        Vikrant Tyres Ltd.                                       79,900               57,523
TA-4.80        Priya Chemicals                                          17,500                    0
TA-4.81        Tata BP Solar (India) Ltd.                               55,400                    0
TA-4.82        Bombay Burmah Trading Corp. Ltd.                         40,000                    0
TA-4.83        The Gomathy Mills                                        25,000                    0
TOTAL                                                                8,692,997           5,372,699



Export Development Project - Ln.3059-IN
The Industrial Credit mnd Investment Croporation of India Ltd.
List of Sub-Loans
Sub-loan No.                       Name                       Amt. Authorized      Amt. Disbursed
U1$                US$
A-1.01          TISCO                                              11,290,346              592,272
8-1.01          Somany Pilkington                                     642,000              642,000
B-1.02          Kamla Ceramic Tiles                                          0                   0
B-1.03          Classic Rugs                                           305,000             269,000
B-1.04          Indo Matsushita App.                                  433,000              433,000
B-1.05          Modern Woollen                                      2,240,000            2,228,000
B-1.06          Fag Precision                                         276,000              236,000
B-1.07          Shah & Mahajan                                        232,000              232,000
B-1.08          Al-Kabeer Exp-Fuji                                  1,734,000            1,734,000
B-1.09          J.K. Chemicals                                         662,000             662,000
B-1.10          Bombay Dyeing                                          712,000             712,000
B-1.11          Coventry Cil-O-Mat                                     783,000             783,000
B-1.12          Nijjer Agro Food                                       519,000             519,000
B-1.13          Bombay Dyeing                                       1,602,000            1,602,000
B-1.14          BPL sanyoutil                                       3,038,000            3,038,000
B-1.15          J.K. Industries                                     4,511,000            4,511,000
B-1.16          Motor Indust.                                       2,172,000            2,172,000
B-1.17          Eagle Flask                                         Cancelled                    0
B-1.18          0 E N Connectors                                    Cancelled                    0
B-1.19          Datamatics                                          Cancelled                    0
B-1.20          Chevro Leather                                        535,000              395,000
B-1.21          Riba Textiles                                         364,000              364,000
B-1.22          Somany Pilkington                                     274,000              236,000
B-1.23          Mukund Limited                                         414,000             414,000
B-1.24          BPL Sanyo II                                          327,000              327,000
B-1.25          Dhunseri Tea                                          721,000              613,000
B-1.26          Ind. Aluminium                                        213,000              213,000
B-1.27          Bojaraj Textiles                                      250,000              245,000
B-1.28          R.B. Rodda                                             107,000             107,000
B-1.29          Tri-Marine Foods                                      211,000              211,000
B-1.30          Heaven Diamonds                                     Cancelled                    0
B-1.31          L.T. Karle & Co.                                        60,000              58,000
B-1.32          Sri Ramakrishna Mill                                   308,000             308,000
B-1.33          MRF Ltd.                                            1,411,000            1,106,000
B-1.34          Ayyappan Textiles                                      171,000             188,000
B-1.35          Salem Textiles                                         312,000             312,000
B-1.36          Sundaram Fastners                                     496,000              496,000
B-1.37          Sree Ayyanar Spg.                                     484,000              484,000
B-1.38          Eastern Spg. Mills                                     377,000             377,000
B-1.39          Shankar Produce                                         21,000              21,000
B-1.40          TISCO                                               2,932,000            2,932,000
B-1.41          Gajra Gears                                           450,000               24,000



B-1.42          Stencil Apparels                                        739,000             648,000
B-1.43          Mafatlal Fine                                          487,000              487,000
B-1.44          Taurus Leather                                           61,000              61,000
B-1.45          Lotus Chocolate                                         806,000             782,000
B-1.46          TISCO IV                                             7,844,000            4,387,000
B-1.47          Tractor & Farm Equip.                                   590,000             590,000
B-1.48          Secals Limited                                           85,000              85,000
B-1.49          Ashok Leyland                                        2,195,000            1,120,000
B-1.50          Perfect Circle                                          269,000             269,000
B-1.51          Kinetic Engineering                                     859,000             859,000
B-1.52          Brakes India                                            775,000             393,000
B-1.53          GTN Textiles                                           524,000              524,000
B-1.54          Sree Meenakshi Mills                                 Cancelled                     0
B-1.55          Asher Textiles                                         346,000              245,000
B-1.56          Godrej & Boyce                                       1,213,000            1,012,000
B-1.57          SKF Bearings                                         2,043,000            2,043,000
B-1.58          Mahindra & Mahindra                                  3,666,000            3,666,000
B-1.59          Waczech Leather                                        152,000                     0
B-1.60          Tata Tea                                               467,000              467,000
B-1.61          Soni Leathers                                            44,000              44,000
B-1.62          Guj spinners                                           207,000                     0
3-1.63          Ax-vind Mills                                        3,970,000                     0
B-1.64          Higashimaru Feeds                                        73,000              82,000
B-1.65          Armour chemicals                                       172,000              169,000
B-1.66          Thambi Modern                                            94,000              87,000
B-1.67          Sree Vadivambigai                                      229,000               29,000
B-1.68          India Foils                                          2,312,000            2,177,000
B-1.69          Madura Coats                                            222,000             222,000
B-1.70          Suryalakshmi Cotton                                  Cancelled                     0
B-1.71          Tube Investments                                       234,000              234,000
B-1.72          TISCO III                                            2,157,000            1,734,000
B-1.73          Maneklal Harilal                                       259,000              259,000
B-1.74          Foremost Ceramics                                       502,000             502,000
B-1.75          Forbes Forbes                                        Cancelled                     0
B-1.76          Addison & Co.                                            53,000              53,000
B-1.77          widia India                                            230,000              227,000
B-1.78          Special Steels                                         219,000               80,000
B-1.79          Ranbaxy Labs                                             98,000                    0
B-1.80          Vardhman Spg.                                        Cancelled                     0
B-1.81          Salem Textiles                                       Cancelled                     0
B-1.82          Gabriel India                                        1,463,000              878,000
B-1.83          Shin-a-Chemicals                                     Cancelled                     0
B-1.84          E. Merck India                                       Cancelled                     0
B-1.85          Goradia Forge                                        Cancelled                     0
B-1.86          Spic Fine Chem.                                        439,000                     0
B-1.87          Accra pac                                                18,000              18,000
B-1.89          Hindusthan Dev. Corp                                 2,068,000            2,032,000
B-1.90          Jaipur Polyspin                                        118,000              126,000
B-1.91          Dawn Mills                                               23,000              23,000



B-1.92          Mafatlal Fine                                          94,000              94,000
B-1.93          Kirloskar Bros.                                        97,000              97,000
B-1.94          Kopran Limited                                         53,000              53,000
B-1.95          Kirloskar Cummins                                   1,080,000           1,005,000
B-1.96          Bombay Dyeing III                                  11,423,000             838,000
B-1.97          Gokak Patel Volkart                                    16,000              16,000
B-1.98         Motor Industries II                                  2,156,000           2,156,000
B-1.99          Prashant Textiles                                  Cancelled
B-2.00          FagPrecision                                        3,577,000           2,601,000
B-2.01          Larsen & Toubro                                        83,000              83,000
B-2.02          Flender Macneil                                        70,000              70,000
B-2.03          Kunal Engg.                                         Cancelled
B-2.04         Vegetable Vitamins                                     214,000             214,000
B-2.05         VST Industries                                          99,000              99,000
B-2.06          Century Textiles                                    4,522,000           4,522,000
B-2.07          Bajaj Auto                                          1,456,000           1,456,000
B-2.08          Toscana Shoes                                          31,000              31,000
B-2.10          Ballarpur Ind.                                      1,786,000           1,786,000
B-2.11         Atic Industries                                      Cancelled
B-2.12          Mysore Kirloskar                                       34,000                   0
B-2.13          Procter & Gamble                                       92,000                   0
B-2.14          ION Exchange                                           20,000                   0
B-2.15          Rallis India                                          101,000                   0
B-2.16          Lupin Laboratories                                     94,000              83,000
B-2.17          Sri Shanmugavel Mill                               Cancelled                    0
B-2.18         D.C. Synthetics                                      Cancelled                   0
B-2.19          Dicitex Industries                                  Cancelled                   0
B-2.20          Brakes India                                          289,000                   0
B-2.21          Asian Cables                                           49,000                   0
B-2.22          Salem Textiles                                      Cancelled                   0
B-2.23          Krohne Marshall                                        33,000                   0
B-2.24         Goldtex Furnishing                                      84,000              84,000
B-2.25          Sree Rajendra Mills                                Cancelled                    0
B-2.26          Ifiunik Pharma                                        189,000             189,000
B-2.27         Adi Hi-Tech                                         Cancelled                    0
B-2.28          Bausch & Lomb                                         924,000                   0
B-2.29          Parasrampuria Synth                                   161,000             161,000
B-2.30         National Leather                                     Cancelled                   0
B-2.31         Madura Coats                                         1,591,000                   0
B-2.32          Soundararaja Mills                                    173,000                   0
B-2.33          Kirloskar Brothers                                     68,000                   0
B-2.35          TVS Sewing Needles                                 Cancelled                    0
B-2.36          Bharat Gears                                       Cancelled                    0
B-2.37          MRF Limited                                         1,937,000                   0
B-2.38          Orient Syntex                                       Cancelled                   0
B-2.39          Leela Fashions                                        134,000                   0
B-2.40          Palani Andavar                                      Cancelled                   0
B-2.41          ITC Limited                                           957,000                   0
B-2.42          Best Built Leather                                  Cancelled                   0
Total                                                             113,601,346          72,048,272



Export Development Project - Ln.3058-IN
Industrial Credit and Investment Corp. of India Ltd.
List of EDF Sub-Loans
Sub-Loan No.                         Name                         Amt. Authorized   Amt. Disbursed
(US$)             (US$)
TA-4.01         Roto Dumps                                                  57,692             28,615
TA-4.02         Sona Steering Systems                                      129,395            129,411
TA-4.03         The Arvind Mills Ltd.                                       60,595             21,407
TA-4.04         Gold Seal Engg. Prod. Pvt. Ltd.                             22,225             25,630
TA-4.05         Amphetronix Ltd.                                            38,890             36,592
TA-4.06         Coventry Springs & Eng. Co.                                 40,740             40,667
TA-4.07         Ring Gears India Ltd.                                       38,890             38,890
TA-4.08         Scientific Fertilizers P. Ltd.                              18,520             16,074
TA-4.09         Infotech Enterprise Pvt. Ltd.                               18,520             18,519
TA-4.10         Pond's (I) Ltd.                                            107,407            103,296
TA-4.11         Thapar Waterbase Ltd.                                      118,519             10,926
TA-4.12         Lucas TVS Ltd.                                             148,148            135,889
TA-4.13         Hi-Rel Components                                           17,852             13,148
TA-4.14         Teletubes electronics LTd.                                 165,185            160,889
TA-4.15         ICC CAD Center                                              25,926             25,926
TA-4.16         Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd.                                  274,074            274,027
TA-4.17         Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd.                                   481,481           413,852
TA-4.18         ITC Ltd.                                                    81,481             81,481
TA-4.19         Batliboi & Co. Ltd.                                         75,222            488,889
TA-4.20         Khimline Pumps Ltd.                                         51,852              9,259
TA-4.21         Perfect Circle Victor Ltd.                                  55,556             55,556
TA-4.22         Godrej & Boyce Mff. Co. Ltd.                                51,852             43,889
TA-4.23         O/E/N Connectors Ltd.                                       27,111                  0
TA-4.24         General Optics (Asia) Ltd.                                  44,444             47,481
TA-4.25         Royal Cushion Vinyl Prod. Ltd.                              37,037             37,037
TA-4.26         Autolec Industries Ltd.                                     22,222             26,037
TA-4.27         Gabriel India Ltd.                                          62,963             62,963
TA-4.28         Nath Seeds Ltd.                                             19,185             10,703
TA-4.29         Veera Treatwood Ltd.                                         2,963              2,963
TA-4.30         GSL (India) Ltd.                                             7,407              7,407
TA-4.31         S.S. Miranda Ltd.                                           33,333             33,333
TA-4.32         Stellar Modular Systems Pvt. Ltd.                            9,423              9,423
TA-4.33         Sundram Fasterners Ltd.                                     26,923             26,923
TA-4.34         Crompton Greaves Ltd.                                       34,615             34,615
TA-4.35         Garware Wallropes Ltd.                                      88,462             88,462
TA-4.36         Nahar Spinning Mills Ltd.                                    8,077              1,767
TA-4.37         New Plastomers India Ltd.                                    5,192                  0
TA-4.38         Asher Textiles                                              12,308              4,077
TA-4.39         Nirup Synchrome                                              5,385              5,000
TA-4.40         Sundram Fasterners Ltd.                                     92,308             68,923
TA-4.41         Ashok Leyland                                              150,000            150,000
TA-4.42         Ballarpur Industries Ltd.                                   87,900             53,323
TA-4.43         Toscana Shoes Ltd.                                          48,390                  0



TA-4.44         Engine valves Ltd.                                         100,000             96,354
TA-4.45         Hindoostan Spg. & Weaving Mills Ltd.                       200,000            173,133
TA-4.46         Wires and Fabriks Ltd.                                      58,065             58,226
TA-4.47         Brass Smiths                                                11,300              5,909
TA-4.48         Grapco Granites Ltd.                                        33,333                  0
TA-4.49         Weston Electronick Ltd.                                     13,750                  0
TA-4.50         Arun Opticals LTd.                                           2,900              2,900
TA-4.51         Atul PRoducts Ltd.                                           9,774              2,355
TA-4.52         Transpek Industries Ltd.                                     7,260              3,388
TA-4.53         Alkyl Amines Ltd.                                            5,000                  0
TA-4.54         Paushak Ltd.                                                16,130              7,677
TA-4.55         Bhagat Fine Chemicals                                        8,870              8,870
TA-4.56         Praj Counseltech Pvt. Ltd.                                  30,645             30,645
TA-4.57         CIBATUL                                                      1,996              1,996
TA-4.58         Morris Electronics Ltd.                                     50,000             50,000
TA-4.59         Infosys Technologies Ltd.                                   76,700             76,692
TA-4.60         Kilburn Engineering                                         50,000             46,933
TA-4.61         Blow Plast Ltd.                                             89,340             89,333
TA-4.62         Larsen & Toubro                                            200,000                  0
TA-4.63         Nichrome Metalworks P. Ltd.                                 62,000             62,037
TA-4.64         Bakelite Hylam Ltd.                                         92,000             42,630
TA-4.65         Protecto Engineering Ltd.                                   55,560             55,555
TA-4.66         Taj Rhein Shoes Ltd.                                        92,600             82,815
TA-4.67         Hico Products Ltd.                                          57,000              5,555
TA-4.68         Vir Rubber Pvt. Ltd.                                        55,560              8,407
TA-4.69         Sundaram Clayton Ltd.                                       76,000             43,148
TA-4.70         Electronica Sales & Services                                10,500                555
TA-4.71         Rathi Dye Chem Pvt. Ltd.                                     6,500              5,926
TA-4.72         Lakshmi Precision Screws Ltd.                                9,300                  0
TA-4.73         Automotive Component Mfrs.                                 103,700                  0
TA-4.74         South India Viscose Ltd.                                    29,000             29,004
TA-4.75         Lakme Exports Ltd.                                          27,000                  0
TA-4.76         Ultratek Devices Ltd.                                       74,000             73,991
TA-4.77         Mukund Ltd.                                                 40,000             25,158
TA-4.78         Isha Steel Processors Ltd.                                   6,100              6,100
TA-4.79         Hindustan National Glass Industries                          8,800              8,800
TA-4.80         Purolator India Ltd.                                        43,000             43,003
TA-4.81         Salem Textiles Ltd.                                         54,839                645
TA-4.82         Parasrampuria Industries Ltd.                                6,452              3,871
TA-4.83         CEAT Ltd.                                                   19,276                  0
TA-4.84         GML Chip Components Ltd.                                    44,936              3,005
TA-4.85         Secals Ltd.                                                 28,775                  0
TA-4.86         Talbros Automotive Component Ltd.                           17,729             17,727
TA-4.87         Silicon Valley Technology                                   18,900              8,591
TA-4.88         S. Kumar Enterprises                                        25,806                  0
TA-4.89         Talbros Automotive Components                               32,600                  0
TA-4.90         E.I.D. Parry (I) Ltd.                                       50,000             50,000
TA-4.91         The National Leathercloth Mfg. Co.                          32,258             32,258
TA-4.92         Mafatlal Fine spg. & Mfg. Co. Ltd.                          37,337             37,341



TA-4.93        The Morarjee Goculdas Spinning & Weaving Co                35,032             5,185
TA-4.94        Mafatlal Industries Ltd.                                   37,337            37,341
TA-4.95        Majestic Auto Ltd.                                         66,667            66,667
TA-4.96        Startek Ceramic India                                     100,000           100,000
TA-4.97        Rathi Dye Chem Pvt. Ltd.                                   32,258            36,741
TA-4.98        Patheja Forgings & Auto Parts Mfg.                         50,000                 0
TA-4.99        Miranda Tools                                              16,129            13,548
TA-5.00        Flakt India Ltd.                                           16,667            18,200
TA-5.01        S & S Power Switchgears Ltd.                              100,000           100,000
TA-5.02        E.L.F. Filament Pvt. Ltd.                                  35,000            35,005
TA-5.03        Paranjape Metal Shaper Pvt. Ltd.                           35,000            22,598
TA-5.04        Precision Tools & Castings Pvt. Ltd.                      100,000           100,000
TA-5.05        Garware Wallropes Ltd.                                     12,600             8,766
TA-5.06        Cibatul Ltd.                                               21,700            10,608
TA-5.07        Widia (India) Ltd.                                         67,000            67,000
TA-5.08        BHL Aircraft Batteries Ltd.                                43,750                 0
TA-5.09        Basant Wire Industries Pvt. Ltd.                           40,000            40,000
TA-5.10        Tamarai Mills Ltd.                                         48,438            43,817
TA-5.11        Pentaplast Electronics Ltd.                                 7,226             5,355
TA-5.12        Tata Industries Ltd.                                      200,000           193,750
TA-5.13        Infotech Enterprises Pvt. Ltd.                             31,250            25,750
TA-5.14        Intech Exports                                             55,650            57,871
TA-5.15        Inapex Auto Products Exports Ltd.                          30,645            19,709
TA-5.16        Syngene Int'l Private Ltd.                                 50,000                 0
TA-5.17        Cosumer Electronics & TV Manufactures                     109,375                 0
TA-5.18        Sundaram Fasteners Ltd.                                   100,000                 0
TA-5.19        Hi-Tech Investment Castings Ltd.                           15,873                 0
TA-5.20        Surya Morphy Richards Ltd.                                100,000                 0
TA-5.21        Raajratna Metal Industries Ltd.                            36,000                 0
TA-5.22        Real Value Appliance Ltd.                                 100,000                 0
TA-5.23        Srinisons Cables Ltd.                                      23,188                 0
TA-5.24        The Gramaphone Co. of India Ltd.                           69,682                 0
TA-5.25        Geometric Software Services Ltd.                           14,493                 0
TA-5.26        Neuland Laboratories Ltd.                                  39,450                 0
TA-5.27        Lyka Laboratories Ltd.                                     87,942                 0
TA-5.28        Dolphin Laboratories Ltd.                                  17,715                  0
TA-5.29        Triumph Research and Holdings                              14,493                  0
TA-5.30        Speck Systems Ltd.                                         39,057                  0
TA-5.31        Thirumani Auto Ancillaries                                 15,217                  0
TA-5.32        Britannia Industries Ltd.                                  45,972                  0
TA-5.33        Fortune Bio-Tech Ltd.                                      29,278                  0
TA-5.34        Manufacturers Asso. of Info. Tech.                        100,000                  0
TA-5.35        Famy Care Ltd.                                             34,222                  0
TA-5.36        Access Information Systems Pvt. Ltd.                       32,277                 0
TA-5.37        Montana International Ltd.                                 19,639                 0
TA-5.38        Technova Imaging Systems Ltd.                              35,556                 0
TA-5.39        Targof Pure Drugs Ltd.                                     15,237                 0
TA-5.40        Galaxy Surfactants Ltd.                                    13,500                 0
TOTAL                                                                 7,371,084          5,123,098



ANNEX 4
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (IBRD 3058 IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EXPORT IMPORT BANK OF INDIA
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
BACKGROUND
Export development project loan (IBRD 3058 IN.) was extended by World Bank to Government
of India vide agreement dated May 26, 1989. The purpose of the loan was to enhance the export
competitiveness of Indian manufactured products in the global market through upgradation of production
facilities and implementation of strategic and structured export market development activities. This project
was a follow up programme to the earlier World Bank project, Industrial Exports (Engineering Products)
IBRD 2629 IN, implemented between 1986 to 1992 which produced very encouraging results. The second
loan comprised a component of US$ 100 million for upgradation of production facilities, USS 20 mission
for export market development activities and Japan grant component of US$ 2.7 million as technical
assistance fund (TAF) for implementation of the project. There were four implementing agencies viz.
Exam Bank, ICICI, Bank of Baroda and Canara Bank. Exim Bank was allocated US$ 27.92 million for
extending rupee term loans to eligible Indian companies for supply side upgradation, US$ 7 million for
extending as matching grant to eligible companies towards export marketing activities and USS 1.04
million as TAF for strengthening the Bank's own capabilities. The project commenced on August 18,
1989 and concluded on March 31, 1996.
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Exim Bank extended rupee term loans to 43 companies for 44 projects for enhancing the
manufacturing facilities through setting up of new projects, expansion, diversification and modernization.
The total amount sanctioned was USS 27.92 million. The first sanction occurred on March 16,1990 and
the last sanction on April 15, 1993. The major industrial subsectors supported by Exim Bank under the
loan include auto parts, light, engineering, textiles, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, consumer products and
computer software. The total amount disbursed was Rs. 707 million, equivalent to US$ 27.69 million
based on average exchange rates prevailing at the time of disbursal of loans. The total investment made by
the participating companies amounted to Rs 1525 million. While an amount of Rs. 707 million was
invested out of World Bank funds, the balance was met out of internal accruals as well as loans from Exim
Bank out of its own funds.
Sector wide disbursement in case of Loan component is given below.
Number of           Amount disbursed            % of total
projects                Rs. million          disbursement
Auto ancillaries                  9                      153.2                    21.6%
Consumer goods                    5                      100.7                    14.2%
Textiles                          5                       74.1                    10.5%
Software                          5                       66.2                    9.7%
Engineering                       5                       94.2                    13.3%
Chemicals                         3                       32.3                    4.6%
Leather                           5                       61.3                    8.7%
Pharmaceuticals                   2                       23.6                    3.4%
Others***                         5                      101.6                    14.0%
Total                            44                     707.37                   100.0%
*** Others include Rubber, plastics, Food processing and Electronics



2
As can be seen above, Auto ancillaries accounted for maximum utilization of the loan amount.
This sub-sector also was the highest in terms of number of projects and amount committed. disbursement
was made in equivalent Indian rupees. The disbursement amount indicated above is the approximate rupee
equivalent of US$ amount debited against each loan account in the World Bank records. Our calculation is
based on average exchange rate prevailing in the year of disbursement. Grant component of US$ 7 million
was utilized to support 121 export market development plans of 118 companies. three companies were
sanctioned multiple grants to implement stagewise export entry plans. The major industrial sectors and
subsector covered included auto parts (19), machine parts (16), electrical components (14),
pharmaceuticals (10), consumer goods (I1), computer software (8), casting and forging (7), textiles (7),
chemicals (4), biotech (4) and miscellaneous products (21), which included products like dried flowers,
photovoltaic cells, fishing nets, hard polymer lenses, cork based leisure goods, etc. The total sanctions
amounted to US$ 7.44 million and the disbursement were Rs. 169.44 million. An additional amount of Rs.
19.4 million was adjusted for disbursement under IBRD 2629 IN. Thus total utilization amounted to Rs.
188.9 million. In terms of sanctions and disbursements, auto parts accounted for 14% and 16%. while
pharmaceuticals at 13% and 12%, machine parts at 13% and 12% were close behind. Miscellaneous
products accounted for 16% of the sanctions and 17% of the disbursements. Nearly 60% of the Grantee
companies were first time exporters embarking upon market entry operations. 28% of the grantee
companies were expanding their export operations and the balance diversifying from former Soviet
markets.
The major activities under the grant programme include market research (13%), product
adaptation (10%), product inspection (8%), Quality certification (7%), training (4%). business promotion
travel (22%). Others include trade fair participation. ISO 9000 certification, promotional materials, buyer's
visit, etc. (16%).
Under the TAF (Japan grant JG 2727) an amount of US$ 1.04 million was utilized by Exim Bank.
The activities covered under the TAF included Group training programme, Arthur D'Little marketing
seminar, case book advertising, Exim staff training, books and training material, setting up export service
centers at Rome and Budapest. The above activities greatly helped Exim Bank to upgrade the professional
skills of its officers, mount promotional activities to market the EMF programme. set up two export service
centers at Rome and Budapest to provide value added information and advisory services to exportin,
companies.
Disbursement of funds from World Bank to EXIM Bank was through Government of India (GOI).
Term loan component of US$ 27.9 million was reimbursed by way of contribution to the equity capital of
Exim Bank. Between 1990 to 1996, an amount of Rs. 856.7 million was paid to Exim Bank by the
Government of India as equity capital UT of World Bank funds. The reimbursements by GOI was made at
exchange rates prevailing at the time of reimbursement. The grant component and TAF were reimbursed
as expenditure. As on March 32, 1996 an amount of Rs. 183.4 million was reimbursed by GOI to Exim
towards grant and TAF disbursements.
Exim Bank implemented the project by setting up a special cell at its headquarters in Bombay,
headed by a senior executive. Product officers, specially trained to handle the export marketing, project
appraisal and monitoring were posted at HO in Bombay (Mumbai) and its various offices at New Delhi.
Madras, Calcutta and Bangalore. The product officers using extensive database and back up support from
Exim's overseas office at Washington D.C. and Singapore were able to provide valuable advisory services
to the companies in designing and implementing export marketing plans. An elaborate software system
based on Relational Database management software (RDBMS) was developed to maintain and monitor the
Grant and loan accounts and asses the progress of implementation and export performance. Periodic visits
were made to the assisted companies and corrective action, whenever required was taken. Constant
interaction with World Bank was maintained through Exim's Washington D.C. office. Progress was
monitored jointly with the WB review missions that visited at regular intervals during the project cycle.
Excellent co-operation and guidance were received from the World Bank throughout the project period.
Exim bank was able to sponsor many innovative promotional activities like conducting work shops for



3
company executives, case book advertisement campaign, publication of sector studies etc. under TAF due
to the positive attitude and response of World Bank.
PERFORMANCE OF ASSISTED COMPANIES
The impact of the programme on the export performance of the assisted companies has been impressive.
a)  The total incremental exports registered by the assisted companies during the four year period
1992 to 1995 amounted to Rs. 17.2 billion giving an export multiplier factor (incremental exports
to grant disbursed) of 102 in real terms on weighted average basis.
b) The exports of the assisted companies grew at a rate of 39% during 1992-95 in rupee terms and
26.2% in dollar terms as against national export growth at CAGR 15.2% in dollar terms during the
same period.
c)  While the assisted companies registered a sales growth of 18.9% CAGR, their exports grew at a
faster rate at 39% during 1992-95, thereby making exports as engine of growth.
d) exports to sales ratio of the assisted companies increased from 8.85 on 1992-95 to 11.4% in 1994-
95.
e)  Sub-sector industry comparison indicates that companies assisted under EMF programme
performed better in exports than the subsector as a whole. Exports of textile companies assisted
under the programme registered CAGR 77% as against CAGR 24.2% of the textile sector.
Similarly, auto parts units showed 44% per annul growth as against 26% growth for the sub-
sector. Pharmaceutical companies clocked 36% p.a. export growth as against 20% for the
subsector. One gold jewelry unit assisted under the programme registered an export growth of
365 p.a. as against 9% growth rate for the subsector as a whole. This analysis clearly indicates
that the companies who implemented strategic export development plans performed much better
in exports than the others in the same industry sub-sector.
f)  Ten assisted companies have moved up the value chain and have joint ventures or subsidiaries
overseas to consolidate and expand their export operations. Theses overseas ventures in
manufacturing and/or marketing are located in various countries like U.K., Ireland, Netherlands,
Hungary, Malaysia, Singapore, Mauritius, Uzbekistan, Russia. The products covered include
quartz and jewelry watches, herbal products, telecom peripherals, pharmaceuticals, PVC sheets,
haberdashery items, fine blanking tools, computer software. Almost all of these companies are
medium sized industries, professionally managed and who have gained confidence to play in the
global market place through strategic and systematic market development approach.
g) The companies assisted under the loan programme for expansion, diversification or
modernization have shown impressive projection of financial rate of returns. The average IRR is
27.6%. The maximum IRR at 41% is for software units while IRR at 20% for pharmaceuticals
units. The sales and profitability of the assisted companies registered for the period 1992 to 1995
indicate that the projections estimated at the time of appraisal have been realistic. The 43
companies assisted under the loan programme have registered sales growth at 22.4% p.a. (CAGR)
and exports growth at 30.1% p.a. (CAGR). All loan accounts except two are serviced regularly
with no overdue position.
h) The 44 investment projects included setting up new manufacturing facilities, expansion.
diversification or balancing the capacity. Approximately 1500 additional jobs have been created
by these projects.
i)  Out of the 118 grantee companies, 114 belongs to SME category whose net fixed assets were less
than USS 30 mission. 104 of these companies had net fixed assets less than US$ 15 millions
which indicates that 88% of the grant beneficiaries were really small and medium sized
enterprises. In the case of loan facility, 36 out of 43 companies were case of loan facility, 36 of
43 companies were SME's with net fixed assets less than USS 15 million.
j)  The total exports generated by the 118 grantee companies during the four year period (1992-95)
amounted to Rs. 48.7 billion (USS 1.6 billion). Similarly, the total exports generated by 43 loan
companies amounted to Rs. 21.35 billion (USS 730 million). However, there were 20 companies
which utilized both loan and grant facilities.



4
BENEFITS OF TAF SUPPORT
The technical Assistance Fund (Japan Grant) enabled Exim Bank to carry out number of
innovative activities aimed at building export competitiveness of assisted companies. Part of the funds was
also utilized to enhance the skills of Exim officers and equip them to implement the project successfully.
EXIM Bank was able to engage the services of experts from Arthur D'Little institute of management to
conduct specialized workshops on International marketing strategy" at two centers in India for the benefit
of chief executives and export Directors of assisted companies.
Exim Bank utilized the grant to carry out sector studies on emerging export products using the
services of international consultants and specialists. Value added jute products and floriculture were the
two subjects where foreign experts from Denmark and Netherlands were involved in market study. The
other subjects covered under the TAF grant funding include dyestuff, electronic components, consumer
electronics, computer software. These research and market studies were found very useful by the
exporters.
The most innovative use of Japan Grant was to set up two export service centers at Budapest and
Rome to provide value added information and advisory services to Indian companies to internationalize
their operations. The fee based services have become very popular with Exim's clientele and are being
used extensively.
Part of the grant was utilized to bring out a case analysis book (Achieving Excellence: Tata
Mcgraw Hill publication) highlighting the successful export efforts of six medium sized companies
supported under EMF programme. The book, first of its kind dealing with Indian case studies has been
found very useful by potential exporters and has also received acclaim from various international agencies.
LESSON LEARNT
As an implementing agency, Exim bank was closely involved in monitoring the operations of
assisted companies. Information and advisory services appeared to be an important area where the
companies were not getting adequate support from professional agencies. This motivated EXIM Bank to
set up its own Export services group to provide proactively value added information and advisory services
to help companies in their internationalization efforts. Setting up two export service centers overseas and
creating and Eximius Club for providing specialized proactive services including partner search, joint
venture facilitation, etc. were the results of the experience gained from implementing the EMF programme.
Exim Bank was able to expand the range of its financing programs and introduced new schemes to provide
financial support to motivate companies to obtain ISO 14000 certification for environmental safety, QS
9000 for auto exports to USA and GE/GS certification for export to capital goods/equipment to EU. Thus
EXIM Bank was able to respond quickly to the challenging needs of the international market.
In the case of investment projects, Exim gave equal importance t Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and
social cost benefit analysis apart from the financial returns of the project. Environmental protection and
pollution control aspects were given highest consideration while approving the investment projects.
International standards were insisted upon whenever the project/process resulted in environmental
pollution.
Close interactions with the World Bank review missions enhanced the project monitoring
capabilities of the Bank. Periodic project reviews and monitoring resulted in excellent collection record.
Except two accounts there have been no overdues.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
The companies which have benefited from the programme and shown good export performance
are likely to be long term players in the international market. These companies will be in a position to
generate internal funds to carry on the export development activities. Some of the assisted companies have
clearly globalised their operations by setting up manufacturing and marketing ventures overseas to



5
strengthen their presence in the target market. These have been assisted by Exim's overseas investment
finance programme.
Due to demonstration effect, more and more medium sized companies are now in the process of
making strategic entry into overseas market. These new entrants would need support initially. Low
interest/soft term loans would be needed to support the initial operations. EXIM currentlv provides funds
from its own resources to support such activities. However a new loan from World Bank for export
development activities would go a long way in concretizing the gains from the earlier projects. This is
particularly important in view of the liberalization of Indian economy, where Indian companies are
beginning to encounter stiff competition not only abroad, but in India also. A new export sector loan
would strength the efforts of the Indian companies to stay and progress in a changing environment.



BANK OF BARODA
CENTRAL OFFICE, MLDMBAI-23
E XPORT DEVE LOPrMENT PFROJEC T
(L OA     3=05E8-IN)
RE'VIELW  NOTE:
1.0  BACKGROUND
1.1  Industrial   Bank for Reconstruction and Development  (IBRD)
has been providing lines of credit for many years for
supporting industrial projects in India.
1.2  Initially the line of credit was confined only to  financial
institutions like ICICI, IDBI etc and subsequently  e.-tended
to the commercial Banks. The four participating banks (PCBs)
which  were selected for extending the line of credits  were
BOB, Canara Bank,Punjab National Bank and SBr under the
first  line of credit IEP (Industrial Export Projects)  Loan
-629-IN  which were extended to units serving as  ancilliary
to   DEMs   (Original   equipment   manufacturers),    import
substitute or export oriented units.
1.3  The  first  sch-me IEP which started from January  1986  and
completed during  1992 was successfully implemented by  BOB.
BOB  _ubmitted  a  completion report on IEP  to  World  Bank
during November 1992 on IEP to World Bank.
?.4  The  present  note is to review the  performance  under  the
second line of credit viz.. Export Development Project (EDP)
loan 3058-IN which commenced from Sept.1989 and ended in
March 1996. This line of credit provides Term loan to units
having  export orientation and unlike the first scheme  even
Rupee  expenditure towards fixed assets were  reimbursed  to
the  extent  of  80% of the term loan and 100%  in  case  of
foreign component sdbject to a ceiling of * I Million.
1.5  BOB  took  steps and obtained   net approval   of  the  Bank
subprojects totalling US S 30/- Million being the entire
amount allotted by 31.1.91.
1.6  The  Bank  supported  the efforts of  BOB  and  provided  an
additional   US S 20/- Million among PCB to be  utilised  on
first come first serve basis.
1.7  BOB which had exhausted the allocation of US $ 30/-  Million
much  faster;   could identify more  projects  and  obtained
approval for them taking the total approval to nearly US $
50/- Million.
1.8  As on 31.3.94, BOB had obtained approval for 112 subprojects
with  a  total amount of US * 49.85 million and  by  31.3.95
disbursed $ 45.48 Million.
1.9  BOB had identified 11 major industries for support under EDP
which  include  among  others  Textile,Dyes  and  Chemicals,
Pharmaceuticals, Engineering, Gem and Jewellery, Granite and
few others. 
I'~~~~~~~~~~~



2.o  OBJECTIVE:
2.1 The  basic  objective of EDP was to support the  efforts  of
Indian Financial Institutions and Banks in term lending to
industries   mostly in small and medium sector  which  would
help them to cater to the export market.
- 2  Realising  the  need  to save foreign  exchange  the  scheme
supported  projects  which  had  export  orientation.    The
support under EDP was for existing and new units to acquire
fixed assets, indigenous or imported. Canara Bank, Exim
Bani. and BOB were the participating Banks for EDP.
2.3 In addition to the above, the implementation of EDP was
directed in improving the appraisal skills of PCBs.
2. 4  The  Bank  had also allotted an amount of  $  3.381  Million
under the grant assistance scheme EDF (a component-of EDP)
towards the export promotional efforts financing by way of
reimbursement 50% of the expenditure incurred subject to a
maximum of S 50,000.
3.0  GEOGRAPHICAL COVERAGE:
3.1  BOB has been able to  disburse the amount of $ 45.49 Million
to various industries out of the total authorisation of $
49.85 with and the geographical spread as under:
$ MILLION
ZONE                AUTHORISED,          DISBURSED   NO.QF
UNITS
Maharashtra & Goa
I  B G Z )             5.92                   5.47      12
Eastern (EZ)           2.72                    2.33      4
Northern (NZ)          4.26                   3.21       5
Eastern UP (EUP)       0.58                   0.22       1
Bombay Main (BDO)      4.56                   3. 7      13
North Gujarat (NGZ)   3.06                    3.07      10
Western UP (WUP)       0.77                   0.78       1
Central Gujarat(CGZ)  1.85                     1.81      6
Greater Bombay (GBZ) 10.12                    9.09      24
Southern Zone (SZ)   16.01                    15.79     32
T O T A L             49.85                  45.49    108
3.2 About 60% of the units are located in smaller towns/
backward     area    and    the    balance        in     largeri
towns/metropolis/developed areas. 
4



4.0 STATUS & PERFORMANCE OF SUSPROJECTS:
4.1  Around  96%  of the subprojects approved by the Bank  as  on
date  have  implemented the scheme fully (  108  subprojects
implemented out of 113 approvals received. 5 projects, viz.
MIs Oro Leathers, Trak Leathers, Indus Woven Labels , Indus
Saccharides and Mohan Leathers did not avail the  assistance
totalling   S   1.42  Million.  One   sub-project   had   an
authorisation of only S -10 and did not avail the same.
4.2 A complete detailed statement of EDP units zonewise is given
in  the  Annexure II  . BOB has also allocated  these  units
health  code  number according to  their   performance  viz.
units whose term commitments are not defaulted & those with
unsatisfactory  operations given higher codes.
4.3  Of  the 108 units in operation, 98 units are  classified  as
Health  Code 1; 7 units have Health Code 2 and only _  units
have  Health  Code 3 & above.
4.4 While some of the projects have performed satisfactorily and
are  regular  in servicing their term  liabilities  certain
units like granite, food and electronics are functioning
below  expectations  due to management  problems,  recession
both in domestic and international markets and due to delay
in implementation resulting in low level operations. It is
observed  that  37 units are performing  below  expectations
though  some of these sub-borrowers are regular  in  meeting
their term liabilities.
4.5  There  are  about  20 cases where BOB  has  rescheduled  the
repayment of instalments in projects where there has been a
delay  in  the  implementation or for  some  other  reasons.
There are certain projects which have already repaid their
term liabilities prior to schedule.
4.6 Out of the term loan disbursed 80% was utilised for purchase
of machineries and the balance for other fixed assets.   Out
of this, nearly 50% has been utilised for import of
equipments.



5.0  TYPES OF SUBPROJECTS
5.1  The subprojects identified by BOB and approved by the  Bank,
covers  wide  range of 11 industry groups.  The  details  of
industry-wise exposure is as under:
I N D U S T R Y              NO. OF UNITS           AMOUNT
( US S lacs)
1. Chemicals                    12                  41.79
2. Textile/Garments             25                 144.62
3. Engineering                  23                 101.47
4. Electronics                   4                  14.43
5. Pharma                        5                  17.97
6. Software                      2                   2.20
7. Food                          4                  20.72
8. Gems                         10                  21.94
9. Granite                       2                  10.76
10. Packing                       3                  13.04
11. Leather                       3                   2.77
12. Others                       15                  63.26
108                454.80
5.2  Out  of  the 113 subprojects approved by the  Bank;  65  are
below the free limit US S 500,000/- and the remaining 48 are
above the free limit.
5.3 The average lending size of the subproject is around US S
4,41,169/-.
6.0  EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUND (EDF)
6.1  BOB  with  an  allocation of US $  3.381 Million  for  Grant
support  to  export  marketing  activities  had  also  taken
steps to utilise this amount.
6.2  As  on Dec.93, BOB had obtained approval for 94  subprojects
for  EDF  assistance  to units in  various  regions  in  the
country.
6.3  BOB's  grant  support also covers wide range  of  industr:al
products    like   Software,    Pharmaceutical,    Chemical,   '( co  w 
Engg.items, Leather, Textiles etc. and has disbursed  around
Rs.500 lacs so far.                                                _
6



6.4 The activities covered under BOB's grant assistance include
Market  Research,.Travel, Participation in Trade Fairs,  ISO
9000  Certification,  Product  Registration  etc.  and   the
exposure is as follows:
Travel                      Y5.
Trade fairs             s  25%
Sampling                s   10%
Advertising             :   10%
Buyers- visits               5%
Others                  :   15%
(Consultancy,
ISO certification,
Product adaptation etc) 
100%
6.5  BOB  is strictly monitoring the disbursement of grant  which
are made based upon their incremental export especially in
hard currency area.
6.6 The zonewise authorisation under EDF is as under
Nhs   Zone      No of       Authorised Amount
Units        (S lacs)
1.  Mah & Boa Zone         17            6.71
2.   Central Guj.Zone       4             1.80
3.   Rajasthan Zone         5             1.92
4.   Western UP Zone        5             1.55
5.   Eastern UP Zone        1            0.27
6.   South Zone            13            4.15
7.   Eastern Zone           3            0.94
8.   Bombay Main Office    2             0.87
9    North Zone             5            2.04
10.  North Guj.Zone         2            1.00
11.  Greater Bombay Zone  32            12.55
89           33.81            F
----  -------        cf*~  **
Iet, "I



6. 7   The industrywise-authorisation is given as under:
No.       Industry     No. of      Authorisation Amount
Units          (S lacs)
1.   Engineering        22                 8.89
2.   Electronics          4                1.46
3.   Software            11                3.98
4.   Leather              4                1.27
5.   Granite              2                1.00
6.   Handicraft           7                2.15
7.   Chemical            16                5.70
8.   Textile             11                4.45
9.  Packaging             1               0.50
10.   Others            11                 4.41
89               33. 81
6.8 BOB requests Bank's support to continue EDF for atleast one
more  year  considering  the balance (nearly  S  1  million)
available  and  as the criteria  of  monitoring  incremental
exports is stipulated by IBRD for 5 years.
7.0 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FUND:
7.1  BOB had sent 6 officials for training under EDP to Arthur  D
Little, Cambridge, between Aug. '90 to Dec. 90 in Boston and
other places . Subsequently during August 1995, 4 officers
have been sponsored to the course on Project Finance,
conducted by Euromoney in Bangkok and Jakarta.
7.2  Out of total allocation of  US * 0.4-5 million to BOB  under
TAF for training purpose only S 0.150 Million (approx) has
been utilised. BOB proposes to utilise the balance for
training its officers on the Environmental aspects, a high
priority area of both GOI & the World Bank.
7 3  BOB  is  keen to utilise the balance  amount  and  currently
working  on  plans in identifying  specific  short  duration
training programmes to benefit large number of officials in
environment for which BOB has already indicated to IBRD  and
response is awaited. 
'c



7.4  BOB  will be appproaching  the Bank shortly with a  concrete
plan  in  this regard once we receive  approval.   BOB  also
requests   extension  of  TAF  for  utilising  the   balance
available.
8.0  BENEFITS OF THE SCHEME:
8.1  BOB  has been targetting under EDP Loan, only  clients  with
strategic export plans.
8.^  The selected industry groutps  assisted by BOB under EDP  and
the estimated net foreign exchange earnings  are as under
(Rs.Million)
Industry Group       Appro x.   Exports              Approx.FE
earnings in 3 years             saved
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -- - - - - - - - -
1.  Engineering           8BO                         300
2. Textile (including
Garments )            1500                       1050
3.   Chemical             i000                        500
4.   Drugs/Pharmaceu-
ticals                600)                       25C'
5.   Gem/Jewellery        3000)                      100')
6.   Software              300                        180
7.   Others(incl leather)  50                         50
S.   Packing               lVO                         20
S.   Electronics           250                         50
10.   Granite               5 0)                       zoo
il.   Food                  200                        100
8600                      3800
9.0  SUBMISSION
9.1  BOB  after  careful  examination and  keeping  in  view  the
objective of promotion of export oriented units has selected
only   such  industries having  strategic  export  expansion
plans covering a variety of industrial groups and wide
geographical spread for funding under EDP.
$.2  The World Bank and its officials in the India Division  have
been encouraging and supporting the efforts of BOB, but for
which,  it would not have been possible for BOB not  only  to        
commit. this  line  qiick ly, btt. also  tca  disburse  19r%  of      '
ita-thorised amount.                                                *
q



9.3  The  investment  has  helped  the  industries  in  upgrading
technology and in saving / earning net foreign exchange for
the country.
9.4  A  large  portion  of the exports made by the  units  is  to
develop countries reflecting the quality and competitiveness
achieved by the Indian entrepreuners in the overseas market.
9.5  The  investment  has  been located mostly  in  small  towns/
villages and the benificiaries are by and large small and
medium industries.
9.6  10  officers were benefitted with training under  TAF  which
helped   them  play  an  active  role  in  identifying   and
appraising projects under EDP/EDF and Project Finance.
9.7  BOB has requested IBRD to extend the Grant Assistance Scheme
(EDF) for at least one more year as the incremental exports
criteria is fixed by Bank for 5 years and disbursements are
being made by monitoring performance; and also the extension
of TAF for utilising the balance available.
9.8  The objectives of the scheme on the overall appear to  have
been achieved considering -
a) Satisfactory performance of the majority of subprojects
under EDP and assisted under EDF.
b) Net foreign exchange savings of Rs 3800 Million over a
period of -3- years.
c)   Wide industrial land geographical spread of  the  utnits
assisted under the schemes.
d)   The  projects being supported mostly in the  small  and
medium sector.
CENTRAL OFFICE
PROJECT FINANCE DIVN.
MUMBAI                          It
03.04.96



CANARA BANK
INDIA   EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (LOAN 3058-IN)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
World Bank during 1989 designed the Export Development Project (EDP) to assist Govt.
of India in its efforts to sustain and build upon the success in export growth of
manufactured goods. The project intended to support the task of the Country's key
developmental Financial Institutions & Commercial Banks for increasing their finances to
exporters.  The project was expected to complement the institution's work in two
important areas. One, to help them build up their capabilities for providing direction and
advise their clients on export issues and markets. Second, to help them improve their own
capabilities to assess export projects as well as to mobilize additional resources needed to
support such projects. The project was also expected to provide a basis for continuation
of active dialogue between Govt. of India and World Bank on export policy.
This integrated program (EDP) had three components - Export Development Fund
(EDF), Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) and Term Lending component (TL). Canara
Bank was one of the participating Banks to implement the program. This report deals
with the performance of Canara Bank in implementation of the project and the experience
gathered on implementing the program.
Term Lending Component
Canara Bank was allocated an amount of US$ 30 million under this component to assist
export oriented projects in their investments to upgrade technologies, achieve cost
competitiveness and to enlarge export performance. From the allocated funds, the Bank
has financed 83 clients spread across the country and disbursed US$ 22 million (Rs.619.50
million). Major projects assisted were expansion and new ones. The statewide dispersion
of the number of projects reflect that the concentration was in Southern States. However,
the amount disbursed under the loan shows a better spread. Overall the resources of the
projects were enhanced to the extent of nearly 20 percent. The focus of Bank's assistance
was towards traditional manufactured goods like Apparels, Textiles, Electrical Equipment,
Mining Products, etc. On an analysis of the feed back from the assisted clients, it has been
found that they are able to enlarge their export performance substantially by upgrading
technology and reducing cost whereby quoting competitive price to their products.
Moreover, the projects generated substantial employment especially in Tirupur and the
beneficiaries were successful in enlarging their export markets.
The assistance under this project was mainly for expansion of the activities of existing
clients. With higher scale of operation and cost competitiveness achieved, it is expected
that these clients will sustain their export performance in future. Overall, the project has
been implemented successfully and the objectives were fairly achieved.



I



IMAGING
Report No:        16048
Type: ICR



