Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-~ 3 D sq _ aJ                 Report No. 7603-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
EXpORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
APRIL 2(,, 1989
Industry and Finance Division
Asia Country Department IV
ThIs doemsent has a resticted di oibudin and may be used by e nt y In Ihe per_omae of
their officfl duties. ls contents may not otherwise be disclWosd Bak autdd hoao



CURRENCY EOUIVALSNTS
Rs 1     -  US$0.071
Rs 14    =  US$1.00
FISCAL YEARS
Government of India   =      April 1 - March 31
ICICI                  -     April 1 - March 31
Eximbank               -   January 1 - December 31
Bank of Baroda         -   January X, - December 31
Canara Bank            =   January 1 - December 31
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
AL         -  Advance License
CCS        -   Cash Compensatory Support
DD         -   Duty Drawback
DFI        -   Development Finance Institution
EDF        -   Export Development Fund
EMF        -   Export Marketing Fund
ERAS       -   Exchange Risk Administration Scheme
Eximbank   -   Export-Import Bank of India
FERA       -   Foreign Exchange Regulation Act
GIC        -   General Insurance Corporation of India
GOI        -   Government of India
ICICI      -   The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India, Limited
IDBI       -   Industrial Development Bank of India
IEP        -   Industrial Export Project
IFCI       -   Industrial Finance Corporation of India
IRBI       -   Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India
LIC        -   Life Insurance Corporation of India
MRTP       -  Monopolies and Restrictive Trade Practices Act
OGL        -   Open General License
PCB        -   Participating Commercial Bank
PF         -   Productivity Fund
RBI        -   Reserve Bank of India
SFC        -   State Financial Corporation
SIDC       -   State Industrial Development Corporation
TA         -   Technical Assistance
UTI        -   Unit Trust of India



r Jlt ,D reAL bJa UNLr
INDIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .......         ............................    i
I.   INTRODUCTION ..........        ............................ ** ........  1
II.   SECTOR BACKGROUND ..........................            ...  .....       2
A.  Industrial Policy Environment ........................               2
B.  Export Policies and Administration .....         .................   5
C.  The Financial System                  ...........................    8
D.  Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS) ...         ..........   12
III.   THE BANK'S ROLE IN INDUSTRY ............. ....... . .. .....    14
A.  Previous Bank Lending to Industry             .......................    14
B.  The Bank's Future Lending Strategy .......... ............    16
IV.   THE PROPOSED EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT           .....................    18
A.  Objectives and Project Components ...8....................    i
B.  Export Development Fund (EDF) Components           . . .           21
C.  Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) Components                         22
D.  Term-Lending Components . ................... ... ......... .    23
E.  Project Costs ............... ...                          .. .    24
F.  Financing Plan . ..........................             ......    24
V.   THE PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS ....................    26
A.  The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation
of India, Limited (ICICI) ...............................    26
B.  Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbank) ......... .........    27
C.  Bank of Baroda ...        .......................................    28
D.  Canara Bank .............................................    28
VI.   THE PROPOSED LOAN . ..................................             .    30
A.  Terms and Conditions .......         .............................    30
B.  Administrative Procedures ......        .........................    32
C.  Project Benefits and Risks ......        ........................    35
VII.   AGREEMENTS AND RECOMHENDATIONS ..............................    36
This report was prepared by Messrs. Ataman Aksoy and A. Olawale Edun (AS4IF),
and Mr. Andrew Singer (Consultant). It is based on a mission led by Mr. Michael
Gould (AS4IF) in November-December 1988.
This documeit h  a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefonce
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



_ii-.
ANNEXES
I. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India, Limited (ICICI)
Table 1.1: Actual and Projected Income Sheets
Table 1.2: Actual and Projected Balance Sheets
Table 1.3:  Actual and Projected Cash Flow Statements
Table 1.4t Collection Performance Before Rescheduling
Table 1.5:  Arrears of Principal Before Rescheduling
Table 1.6: Average Spreads
Table 1.7:  Resource Position as at December 31, 1988
1I. The Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbank)
Table 2.1: Audited Income Statements
Table 2.2: Audited Balance Sheets
III. Bank of Baroda
Table 3.1: Audited Prr,fit and Loss Statements
Table 3.2:  Audited Balance Sheets
Table 3.3:  Spread Analysis
IV. Canara Bank
Table 4.1:  Audited Profit and Loss Statements
Table 4.2:  Audited Balance Sheets
Table 4.3:  Spread Analysis
V.  The Export Development Funds   - Draft Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures
VI.  The Technical Assistance Funds - Draft Statement of Policies and
Operating Procedures
Table 6.1:  Technical Assistance Component
TABLES
Export Structure and Performance
Table A.ls Merchandise Exports, 1980181-1987/88 - Current Prices
Table A.2: Merchandise Erports, 1980/81-1987/88 - Constant 80/81 Prices
The Financial System
Table B.l: Commercial Bank Spreads
Table B.2: Structure of Industrial Finance for the Private Corporate
Sector in India



INDIA
EXPORT DEVELOPME?IT PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower           s   (a) India, acting by its President; and
(b) Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India, Limited (ICICI)
Guarantor of the  s  India, acting by its President
Loan to 'CICI
Beneficiaries      s  ICICI; Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbank); Bank
of Baroda; and    C  Onk
Amount             s  US$120 million to India, Acting by its President; and
US$175 million to ICICI
Terms              s  The proposed loans would be made at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate and would have
terms of 20 years including 5 years of grace.
Relending Terms   :  ICICI Credit Component.  The Bank loan to ICICI would
either be relent to subborrowers in foreign exchange
at the Bank's standard variable interest rate plus 2Z
or in rupees at the prevailing rate under the
Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS) (presently
152 with a cap rate of 182). Under this arrangement,
the differential spread between the interest rate on
the Bank loan and the ERAS rate less 22 for ICICI's
spread, would accrue to the ERAS Fund to cover the
risk of interest and exchange rate fluctuations. The
ERAS rate would be adjusted every six months to
ensure that the interest rate and foreign exchange
risks are adequately covered.
Eximbank and PCBs Credit Component. US$100 million
of the US$120 million loan to the Government would be
passed on to these financial intermediaries as
equity. Their clients will be small and medium size
firns and the final interest rates to subborrowers
would be consistent with the Reserve Bank of India
interest rate structure for term lending to these
sectors: 13.52 p.a. for small firms and 142 p.a. for
medium size firms. These rates are highly positive
in real terms given current and projected inflation
rates of 8Z. The Government would bear the foreign
exchange and interest rate risks.



-ii-
Export Development Fund acnd Technical Assistance Fund
Components. US$20 million and US$2.7 million would
be allocated to the Export Development Funds and
Technical Assistsnce Funds, respectively. The Export
Development Funds would be administered by the finan-
cial institutions on behalf of the Government. The
Government would pass on the Technical Assistance
Funds to the institutions on a non-reimbursable
basis. It is expected that the Technical Assistance
Fund would be financed by the Japanese Grant
Facility.
Proiect               The proposed project would assist the Government to
Description            carry out its strategy of promoting the growth of
manufactured exports.  The project would assist key
financial institutions through:  (i) an Export
Development Fund (EDF) to finance part of the costs
of consultant fees and Zoreign travel associated with
the preparation and implementatiohn of their client
firms' export development programs; (ii) a Technical
Assistance Fund to help strengthen the institutions'
capacity to appraise export projects and advise firms
on export strategy issues; and (iii) a line of credit
for term lending to finance export investment
projects.
Benefits and       :  The proposed project would build up institutional
Risks                  capabilities, within the Indian financial system, for
supporting manufacturing exporters. The credit
component would provide long term finance to about
350 subprojects, resulting in total investments of
about US$730 million.  On the basis of the   perience
under the Bank's previous export project,  ..e
projects financed under the Export Development Funds
can be expected to generate exports many times the
value of the initial EDF investment. The project
would also have positive effects on the environment
as ICICI, in particular, has incorporated strong
environmental objectives in its strategy statement.
There is a risk that subprojects financed under the
project may not be internationally competitive. To
mitigate this risk, the Exp.rt Duvelopment Fund
component would help firms develop coherent export
plans while the Technical Assistance Fund component
would help the financial institutions to improve
abilities to assess export projects. The ERAS
arrangement for relending the Bank loan to ICICI is
new and it would be closely monitored by the
Government, the financial institutions and the Bank
to ensure that the adjustable rate covers the cost of
foreign borrowings and provides greater financial
predictability for both the financial institutions
and their subborrowers.



-iii-
Estimated Costs   :                                Local    Foreign   Total
------ USS Million)--
Credit Component                          411.7     27b.0    686.7
Export Development Fund (ICICI)             7.0       7.0      14.0
Export Development Fund (Eximbank)          7.0       7.0      14.0
Export Development Fund
(Commercial Banks)                      6.0        6.0     12.0
Technical Assistance for ICICI              0.4       1.2       1.6
Technical Assistance for Eximbank           0.3       0.7       1.0
Technical Assistance
for Commercial Banks                    0.3        0.8      1.1
Total                                     432.7     297.5    730.4
Financing Plan
Bank                                        --      295.0      295.0
ICICI                                      45.0       --        45.0
Eximbank                                    8.0       --         8.0
Commercial Banks                           47.6       --        47.6
Subproject Sponsors                      212.0         -       212.0
Other Capital Market Sources              120.1       --       12X.I
Government of Japan                                   2.7        2.7
Total                                    432.7      297.5      730.4
Estimated               Bank   FY  89    90    91      92      93     94     95
Disbursements
Annual       0.4  33.0  60.0   77.0   86.0   24.0    8.6
Cumulative   0.4  33.4  99.4  176.4  262.4  286.4  295.0
Economic Rate
of Return          :  Subprojects financed by the Financial Intenmediaries
would have a minimum economic rate of return of 12Z.



INDIA
EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     After several decades of following restrictive industrial regulatory
policies and an inward looking trade regime the Government has, in recent
years, embarkeC upon a broad reform program. The reform program consists of
liberalizing the regulatory framework, streamlining export policies and
administration and libiraliziag the trade regime. These changes have already
led to significantly higher growth in industrial output nnd exports. The
sustainability of further reforms, especially in import liberalization will
depend crucially on IndJa's ability to continue increasing its export growth
to meet its increased imports.
1.02     The proposed Export Development Project will assist the Government in
its efforts to sustain, and build upon, the current success in manufacturing
export growth. The project is designed to achieve this goal by supporting the
work of key development finance institutions and commercial banks, which have
recently developed strategic plans for assisting firms to increase their
export volumes. The project would complement the institutions' work in two
important areas. First, it would help them build up their institutional
capabilities for providing direction and advice to their clients on export
issues and markets. Second, it would help them to improve their own abilities
to assess export projects as well as to mobilize the additional resources
needed to support such projects. The project would also provide a basis for
the continuation of the very active dialogue between the Government and the
Bank on export policy.



-2-
IT. SECTOR BACKOGOUND
A.  Industrial Policy Environmer..
2.01     The Indian industrial sector has achieved considerable success in
attaining the post-Independence goal of self-sufficiency. and has developed
production capability across virtually the whole spectrum of industrial
activity. This success has not been without considerable cost. The indus-
trial growth rates have consistently been below Plan targets and substan-
tially lower than in many other industrializing nations. Growth in
manufacturing output which averaged about 4Z p.a. between FY74 and FY81
only increased to 5.7Z in FY81-FY85 period. The policy of investment
licensing and controls on output and technology acquisition led to a state
of product shortages that inhibited competitive behavior. Furthermore, the
high import barriers created by widespread quantitative restrictions and
the very high tariffs effectively delinked many Indian industries from the
technological developraents in the rest of the world.  The heavy indirect
taxes on all stages of production had a cascading effect that, while
reducing the degree of overall effective protection, increased its
variability and raised domestic prices making it difficult to expand
markets and achieve economies of scale. The rigidities created by the
regulatory system not only constrained firms' ability to enter new markets
and expand, but also limited their ability to restructure and/or close
down.  In many sectors, continued production by financially sick firms via
subsidies, undermined the viability of the remaining more efficient units.
As a result of these policies, Indian firms in many industrial subsectors
are below international standards in terms of technology, scale and
efficiency, and offer products at high prices and variable quality. This
environment has also contributed to India's disappointing export perform-
ance. Lack of incentives for export activities and the appreciation of the
rupee during the first half of 19809 led to an environment where manufac-
tured exports (which account for about 702 of India's total exports) grew
on average at less than 3Z p.a. in real terms over the period PY80 to FY86,
and represented a small and declining share of industrial output (less than
52 in FY85).
2.02     The Seventh Plan (1984/85-1989/90), annual budgets, the Long-Term
Fiscal Policy (LTFP) and recent official policy statements have set out a
spries of policy reform objectives designed to address some of the major
problems indicated above. Since 1985, GOI has initiated a series of
discrete policy actions which although individually incremental when taken
together have already made significant improvements in the industrial
policy environment. The reforms in industrial policies have been comple-
mented by some liberalization of the financial sector especially in the
capital markets (paras. 2.21-2.23). The policy reforms implemented since
FY85 can be grouped under four broad areas. The first is the liberaliza-
tion of the domestic regulatory system bys (a) delicensing investments
first up to about US$4 million and more recently up to US$ll million in
developed areas, and up to US$37 million in backward areas, as well as
reducing bignificantly the number of industry groups that require a
license; (b) giving firms much more flexibility to adjust both output mix
and capacity; (c) allowing greater import of capital goods and technology



by moving capital goods into open general license (OGL) and easing restric-
tions on technology imports; (d) reducing the number of products reserved
for production by small scale industriest and (e) easing the monopoly
reg1ulations by increasing the threshold level and expanding the product
areas in which firms classified as monopolistic can invest.
2.03     The changes in the regulatory framework have been complemented by
a policy of licensing more capacity (relative to estimated domestic demand)
compared to earlier practice, to induce greater domestic competition and
exportable surpluses. Minimum import cor.tent of 15? for projects which
required a license has been increased to 302. The phased manufacturing
programs have been modified to reduce the targeted domestit content from
902 to 70Z. Minimum economic scales have been established in many product
groups to reduce inefficient import substitution. Licensing for foreign
technology collaborations was also eased to allow Indian industry to catch
up with the rest of the world. The number of foreign collaboration
approvals, which averaged around 350 p.a. between 1975 to 1982, jumped to
about 1,000 p.a. after 1985.
2.04     The second area of reform is a series of measures to improve the
tax system includings (a) reduction and simplification of income and
corporate taxes; (b) implementation of a modified value added tax (MODVAT)
that eliminates the cascading effect of indirect taxes for most products
and facilitate indirect tax deduction for exports; and tc) rationalization
of tax incentives for small scale industries.
2.05     The third area of reform has been attempts to deal more construc-
tively with the increasing problems of sick firms and industries, espe-
cially after deregulation and increased ease of entry. Until recently,
financial institutions and state governments had been constrained to
maintain "sick" industrial enterprises functioning through different
schemes thus burdening their portfolios. To deal more effectively with
obstacles to closure, restructuring and rehabilitation of firms, the Sick
Industrial Companies (Special Provisions) Act, 1985, established procedures
for identifying and resolving the worst cases of financial difficulties.
The Act established the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction
(BIFR), with quasi-judicial powers to order and speed closures, mergers,
and other changes, including the power to override some other industrial
legislation. The current obligation of a company with completely eroded
net worth to report to the BIFR, and of the subsequently appointed
operating agency to coordinate all involved parties and rapidly recommend a
rehabilitation or closure scheme, should rationalize and quicken the
decision-making process on the rehabilitation or closure of sick units.
While the creation of the BIFR was a major step forward, its ability to act
efficiently was being constrained by the fact that its activities were
confined to firms where net worth is already fully eroded. In recognition
of this problem, in 1989, firms were required to report to BIfR when 502 of
their net worth is eroded.
2.06     The last area of reforms is export policies and administration
where the most fundamental and consistent changes have been made. The most
important change has been the adoption of a flexible and realistic exchange
rate policy conducive to export growth.  The real effective exchange rate
has depreciated more than 302 since the end of 1985. At the same time the



- 4 -
Government has introduced and st,eamlined the duty exemption schemes for
imports used in export production, and now almost all inputs are importable
by exporters without restrictions and payment of duties. Fcr firms using
duty paid and domestic inputs, the Governmeat has streamlined the adminis-
tration of the the duty drawback and refund of excise taxes on domestically
produced inputs to reflect actual tax incidence.
2.07     As a result of these policies and an expansionary macroeconomic
policy, industrial growth has accelerated to an average of 9? p.a. over the
last three years (FY85-FY88) compared _.o about 5S over the preceding five
years. This rapid growth, which has been achieved despite drought induced
contraction in agricultural output of almost 7Z, is partially in response
to the improved policy environment which has enabled firms to adapt to
mar.ket conditions by adjusting the volume and composition of their output.
According to Bank estimates, t'his growth has not come just from added
investments, but also from more efficient use of existing resources. The
capital-output ratios for manufacturing had been consistently increasing
from 4.3 in FY74 to 5.0 in FY81. Since then it has decreased to 4.2 in
FY87. The labor productivity has also been increasing much faster in the
1980s. The response of exports to improvements in policy has been slower
than that of domestic output. The depreciat'on of the rupee, which started
in 1986 and accelerated in 1987, together with increased domestic
competition, has significantly increased the relative profitability of
exporting compared to production for the domestic market. Furthermore, the
policy and administrative reforms gradually implemented over the last few
years (see paras. 2.09-2.19) have eliminated many bottlenecks that
inhibited export growth.  Thus after growing by less than 31 p.a. in the
early 1980s, exports have started growing rapidly in FY87 sand FY88.
Manufactured exports grew about 13? in real terms in FY87 and 25Z in FY68.
The proportion of manufacturing exports in total exports has increased
steadily in recent years to 74z in FY88, reflecting the fast growt'n of this
segment (See Table A). At present, the main product groups are gems and
jewelry (22.4Z), textiles (18.8?), garments (15.5X) and leather manufacture
(1OZ). The share of engineering goods (12.22) has started to rise again,
after falling slightly in previous years. Total real exports in the first
nine months of FY89 are up by about 12?, compared to the same period in the
previous year. At the same time, there has been a structural shift in the
composition and destination of exports. Exports to industrialized
countries have increased their share from 54? in FY82 to 672 in FY87. This
structural change has come about due to the decline in traditional export
areas of COMECON, African and Middle Eastern markets and expansion of
exports to industrialized countries.
2.08     While recent policy improvements have been far reaching and
impressive, more remains to be done to increase the competitiveness of
Indian industry. With the exception of export policy, where fundamental
changes have been made, the incremental nature of the other reforms have
created pockets of improved competition coexisting with subsectors where
there has been little improvement. Import liberalization has been
primarily in capital goods. some intermediate products and all inputs for
exports. Severe constraints on public resources and foreign exchange
availability, the complicated structure of existing industrial policies and
very strong political sensitivities have necessitated a gradual and incre-
mental approach to liberalization in India. Rapid growth of exports as well



as industrial restructuring caused by greater competition can be expected
to reduce these constraints significantly over the next few years and allow
the Government to accelerate its reform program, especially in the more
difficult areas of greater import liberalization and industrial exit
policies.
B. Export Policies and Administration
2.09     A Bank report outlining the problems in expanding industrial
exports and recommendations to overcome these problems has been prepared
and discussed with the Government (India - Export Development: A Proposed
Strategy, March 3, 1987). The export sector report identified as major
problems, the high profitability of production for the domestic market
relative to production for export, Lnd high cost of Indian products
compared to their competitors. The major cause of the profitability
differential has been strict regulations inhibiting domestic competition,
the orervalued exchange rates, and high tariffs coupled with QRs which
provide substantial protection to domestic producers. The lack of competi-
tiveness is primarily due to high cost of intermediate inputs caused par. Iy
by high tariffs and/or high excise taxes and partly by production ineffi-
ciencies. Although India had a full set of schemes intended to support
exports and compensate for the effects of protection and indirect taxes,
they were probably the most complex in the world and were unsatisfactory in
their administrative implementation and procedures. The only successful
exports were in a few product lines that either had easy and duty free
access to imported inputs (e.g., diamonds) or relied heavily on domestic
inputs that are abundant and priced close to world prices (e.g., cotton
garments and leather products). On the basis of these findings, the export
strategy report strongly recommended, as the minirum necessary condition
for the rapid expansion of exports, the development of an efficient duty
and domestic indirect tax exemption scheme that would allow both direct and
indirect exporters quick access to all (domestic and imported) inputs at
world quality and prices. In addition, maintenance of a realistic exchange
rate, and freeing the exporters from domestic regulations that curtail
their ability to change their output, technology, labor force and location
were recommended to improve the competitiveness of exports. The report
also stressed the need for gradual liberalization of the import regime to
foster increased competition and to reduce the artificially high profits
obtained in the domestic market.
2.10     In FY86 and more effectively in FY87, the Government started a
program to address the issues of export policy. 1/ These reforms have been
further extended under the new Import and Export Policy for the next three
years (FY89-FY91) announced in April 1988. A major change has been in the
1/ Details of all recent policy improvements have been summarized in
D. B. Keesing's 'Recent Improvements in Indian Export Policies and
Their ImplementationO (December 1987), and "An Evaluation of Export
Measures in India's 1988-91 Import and Export Policy' (May 1988),
available in the project file.



- 6 -
design and administration of the duty exemptLon scheme (advance licenses
and passbook for imported inputs). In February 1987, the duty exemption
system (Advance Licenses) was extended to cover all imported inputs
(including raw materials, components, mandatory spare parts and packing
materials) for both direct and indirect exporters, based either on a speci-
fic export order or past export performance. To facilitate the granting of
Advance Licenses (AL), central and regional committees with decision-making
powers have been set up and meet weekly or biweekly. In May 1987, the
"passbook' scheme was made operational for firms that have exported for the
previous three years and would like to import their inputs for a longer
period (e.g., 18 months). In April 1988, the passbook scheme was extended
to all firms with sales of more than Rs 150 million, even if they had not
exported previously.
2.11     For firms using domestic and/or duty paid inputs, Duty Drawback
(DD) and Cash Compensatory Support (CCS) systems have also been
streamlined. The Duty Drawback, which co-ipensates the exporters for
custcms and Central excise duties, has been considerably simplified and
rationalized by the establishment of all industry rates and faster
reimbursements. These rates have also been increased to approximate the
actual duties and excise taxes paid. For CCS, which compensates the
exporters for indirect taxes of all types not covered by duty drawback, the
rates have been increased considerably to reflect the actual cost of
indirect taxes. In 1987, firms that use duty exemption schemes were also
brought under CCS to compensate them for the indirect taxes on local
inputs, which allows these firms greater flexibility.
2.12     The Government has also tried to compensate the exporters, espe-
cially smaller units that cannot import directly, for the high cost of
universal inputs produced in India by supplying these inputs to exporters
at international prices. Currently basic iron and steel, special alloys,
special steels, rubber, aluminum and aluminum products, and basic petro-
chemicals such as benzene, naptha, methanol, etc., are included in this
scheme.
2.13     Another area of improvement has been in preshipment export credit
where the strict lending norms have been relaxed for the credit needs of
exporters. To assist exporters in their marketing efforts, the Reserve
Bank of India (RBI) has allowed exporters to retain up to 10 of their
foreign exchange receipts to fund their marketing efforts abroad under a
new blanket permit.
2.14     The 1988-91 Import and Export Policy announced in April 1988 has
brought further reforms and changes. Important changes were made to the
scheme for replenishment (REP) licenses. Now almost all exporters are
entitled to receive REP licenses which are a proportion of their exports.
With these licenses the firms can import any canalized and restricted
items, and can sell these in the domestic market. This policy change, in
addition to increasing the incentives for exporting, also contributes
significantly to the liberalization of the import regime by making the QRs
less binding. The Policy also includes major initiatives to extend export
incentives to indirect exporters, i.e., to firms supplying raw materials
and components to direct exporters. Before April 1988, dutv free imports
of raw materials two stages back from the export was permitted only for a



limited list of products. The new policy allows first, any direct and
indirect exporter to jointly apply for a new Intermediate Advance License,
which permits duty free import of raw materials and componeuts by the
indirect exporter. Second, every exporter with a duty free import license
can buy instead from a local firm. On the basis of this, the local firm
can obtain "deemed export" status. As a deemed exporter it can then obtain
duty drawback on its raw materials and components and is eligible for CCS
available to deemed exports and for REP licenses.
2.15     The new Import and Export Policy has made important revisions to
the rules and facilities for export and trading houses. The previous
extremely complex qualifying rules have been replaced by much simpler rules
related to the fob value of exports and net foreign exchange earnings. In
particular, these houses will now have full access to the advance license
and passbook schemes for duty free materials; receive a more generoul.
allowance to import and stock raw materials for resale to other firms; will
be able to import capital goods and otherwise restricted raw materials
under 'additional' import licenses and sell them in the domestic market.
2.16     A number of measures bave been introduced to make imported
machinery and equipment needed by exporters more easily available and at
lower cost. First, as discussed below, the machinery and equipment needed
by some export oriented industries and industries believed to have export
potential was put on the OGL list and the corresponding import tariffs were
reduced usually to about the 25Z to 35? range.  Second, for licenses to
import restricted capital goods, a new provision introduced in April 1988
gives nspecial consideration' to manufacturerlexporters exporting more than
252 of their output or with exports in excess of US$7.7 million in that the
import may be allowed on the basis of price and delivery considerations
even if the capital goods are indigenously available. Third, the greater
flexibility allowed in REP and additional licenses among other things
applies to imports of capital goods, and should benefit all users of
capital equipment including exporters.
2.17     The income tax deduction for exports has been substantially
increased by allowing all profit from exports to be deducted from taxable
income. This should significantly increase the profitability of exporting
versus production for the domestic market.
2.18     The reforms implemented over the last few years have improved the
profitability of exports and have eliminated some other impediments to
sustained export growth. However, more remains to be done in policies and
institutions to put exporters on an equal footing with their competitors
abroad. The remaining problems can be grouped into two categories. First
is the streamlining of the export administration system to efficiently
implement the duty and restriction free importe for exports. Through the
expansion of the advance license and the passbook schemes, Indian export
administration is moving from a system which approximately compensates
direct exporters for the higher prices of domestically produced or duty
paid intermediate inputs with limited imports, to a system that allows
direct exporters free choice between domestic and imported inputs and
ex ante access to them without paying duties. In the transition, both
systems will have to be utilized and even in the long-run, it is desirable
to give exporters the choice between alternative compensation schemes. For



- 8 -
the new export administration to operate efficiently, a system that estab-
lishes input coefficients systematically is an essential requirement.
Based on these coefficients, close coordination among different agencies
such as Directorate of Technical Development (DGTD), Chief Controller of
Imports and Exports (CCIE), CCS administration in Ministry of Commerce and
Duty Drawback Department in the Ministry of Finance is needed to administ.:
existing compensation schemes in a complementary manner. The Bank has made
a proposal to support the needed streamlining process through a compo-ent
of a UNDP Technical Assistance Project. Under the project, a combined team
of officials responsible for implementing export policies would visit other
countries, such as Korea, to study their export administration systemu.
This would provide the officials with cross-country experience and ideas
for improving the Indian system. The project proposal, for which the Bank
will be the Executing Agency, has been submitted to the Government and is
awaiting further processing. Furthermore, sustained export growth will
depend on being able to extend value-added derived from the exporting
activity back to the suppliers of inputs to exporters and, eventually, even
further back. The principle of ext ling free trade status to indirect
exporters has commendably been acceptc-. in the 1988-91 Import-Export
Policy. However, the actual system appears to be having some initial
implementation problems, which will require the continuing attention of
Government. The second category includes policy changes that are needed to
compensate exporters for higher cost capital goods in India and relieve
them of some of the labor and location restrictions that are placed on all
firms. The Government is in a continuous process of evaluating the prob-
lems still faced by exporters and has been very flexible in adjusting the
policies to eliminate the bottlenecks. So far, improvements in administra-
tive streamlining and reduction in the costs of capital goods have been
implemented as a response to short-run problems. However, after che new
Import and Export Policy, GOI has been evaluating alternative proposals for
both administrative streamlining and has already experimented with alter-
native methods of reducing the tariffs on capital goods for exporters.
2.19     Given the continued improvements on the export policies, the
response of exports to these incentives depend on firms' ability to enter
new and more demanding markets and restructure their products and processes
to be competitive. In this area, despite the existence of various trade
promotion organizations in India, there is very little effective institu-
tional support, especially for new exporters, to assist in their marketing
and technological upgrading efforts. The proposed project aims to help
establish programs in key financial institutions to assist exporters to
increase the supply response of firms to the improved policy environment.
C. The Financial System 2/
2.20     Historically, India has followed relatively conservative monetary
and financial policies. The main objectives have been to mobilize domestic
savings on a large scale, contain inflationary pressures and achieve a
pattern of investment conforming to the Government's economic and social
priorities. These objectives have been pursued through several mechanisms.
2/ World Bank, India: Credit and Capital Markets Study, Report
No. 6661-IN (February 27, 1987), provides a comprehensive analysis of
the Indian financial sector.



- 9 -
First, interest rates have been administered through the Reserve Bank; and
the interest rates paid on commercial bank deposits and other savings
instruments as well as the lending rates hzve been kept positive in real
terms. Second, the commercial banking system's scope for credit creation
has been tightly circumscribed. Third, a system of quite rigid credit
allocation guidelines has been used to direct funds to earmarked industries
and social sectors. Within this policy framework, the financial system has
grown rapidly over several decades and the nation's traditionally high
savings rates have been accompanied by significant financial deepening.
Savings rates have risen steadily from about 16S of GDP in the late sixties
to an average of 231 since 1980. Likewise the ratios of M2 and credit to
GDP have risen significantly. M2 to GDP has risen to about 451 in 1985
from 261 in 1975. These levels are more usually found in a typical middle
income country than a low-income one such as India. However, this success
on the resource mobilization side contrasts with the more mixed results of
resource allocation policies both in terms of their impact on economic
efficiency and the financial condition of lending institutions. The
evidence suggests that in conjunction with restrictive industrial policies,
the credit allocation policies encouraged inefficient patterns of
investment in industry. As of December 1986, commercial bank credits of Rs
49 billion were officially classified as being extended to "sick
industries' which have negative net worth. Outstanding credit to sick
industries alone are about 15.72 of commercial banks' credit to industry
and 8.12 of their total outstanding credit. The situation in the DFIs is
similar; in 1985 IDBI's outstanding loans to sick industries were about 111
of itr portfolio. In addition to the sick industry problem, the collection
ratios on other industrial and agricultural lending have been decreasing.
The problems are being further exacerbated by increased competition faced
by many industries resulting from the ongoing industrial liberalization.
Together with deteriorating portfolio quality, the operating spreads of
financial institutions have narrowed as recent interest rate adjustments
have resulted in lower average lending rates and higher funding costs.
Thus there is a need to rationalize the system of financial sector controls
and improve the institutions' operational flexibility and profitability.
In recognition of these problems the Government has since 1985 set up
several committees to study the various financial markets and recommend
ways of improving the working of the financial sector and their reports are
providing a basis for an ongoing process of reform. 31
2.21     In the last few years, the Government has encouraged the develop-
ment of new and more appropriate funding instruments and markets to finance
industry; thus, it has encouraged a shift away from bank loans to more
capital market funding of both private and public sector industrial firms.
2.22     First, restrictions on the purposes for which companies could
issue securities were progressively relaxed to allow flotation of deben-
tures to fund new companies, mergers/acquisitions and working capital.
3/ These are the Chakravarthy Committee to Review the Working of the
Monetary System (1986); the Patel Committee on the Operations of the
Stock Exchange (1986); the Vaghul Working Group on the Money Markets
(1987) and the Hussain Committee on the Capital Markets (1988).



- 10 -
Second, the quantitative limit for issues exempt from capital issues
controls was doubled to Rs 10 million and listing requirements were eased.
Third, in an effort to encourage public sector firms to raise funds on the
capital markets, these fims were given the freedom to undertake public
debenture issues even though their shares may not be listed. Measures to
diversify the markets and improve the attractiveness of issues by start-up
firms have included the introduction of new instruments such as Cumulative
Convertible Preference Shares (CCPS). These securities count as equity,
carry a 102 dividend and are convertible into straight equity after three
to five years. Also liquidity has increased--particularly in the debt
markets--with the major public sector investment institutions playing an
important role in maintaining secondary markets. Finally, the Government
has introduced legislation to protect investors and boost confidence in the
markets and new institutions such as a stock holding corporation have been
set up to simplify the purchase of securities. The introduction of further
capital market reforms is expected soon. In response to the various
changes in regulations and fiscal incentives the capital markets have grown
rapidly in the 19808, and particularly since 1985. The equity market took
off in 1980181 as a result of legislation which led to the indigenization
of ownership of many foreign firms. Since then, the primary market has
grown fast. The volume of equity issued (including rights and preference
shares) quintupled to Rs 8.8 billion in 1986 from Rs 1.77 billion in 1982.
The debenture market also grew significantly from 1982 to 1986. Amount
issued more than doubled to Rs 5.9 billion from Rs 2.4 billion. Volumes in
both the equity and debenture markets fell sharply in 1987 as the overall
economy slowed due to the effects of the drought. In general, the
relaxation of guidelines controlling debenture issues brought down
financing costs to companies, especially the cost of working capital, in
comparison to bank loans. At the same time the yields to investors on
these securities were higher than those paid on comparable bank deposits.
2.23     These capital market developments have encouraged financial
institutions to expand their activities to lessing, mutual funds, credit
cards and other higher income earning activities to compensate for the
declining margins on their basic lending activities.
2.24     The Banking System.  The Indian financial system is highly seg-
mented with different roles clearly earmarked for the various institutions.
The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has a wide-reaching role in the system. In
addition to traditional central banking functions, it has broad regulatory
and policy implementation functions. The financial system is overwhelm-
ingly in the public sector. The development banks are state-owned and
controlled ai-d the commercial banking system has been progressively
nationalized over time. The most recent nationalizations came in 1969 with
the government take-over of 14 private commercial banks, followed by
another 6 in 1980. There are currently about 30 private sector Indian
banks and about 20 foreign banks which together comprise the private bank-
ing system. However, these banks are dwarfed by the huge public sector
ones, both in terms of size and geograthical spread. The private sector
banks and foreign banks account for only about 4.3S and 4.5Z respectively
of total commercial bank assets. The remaining 91.2Z is almost wholly
accounted for by 28 public sector commercial banks.



- 11 -
2.25     In spite of the increased role of the capital markets, the finan-
cial sector is still dominated by the banking system. In terms of resource
mobilization, the commercial banks have the lead role and these banks,
together with the Development Banks, are the biggest source of funding for
industrial investments. As of June 1987, the Scheduled Commercial Banks
had total deposits of over Rs 1 trillion.
2.26     The commercial banks' scope for creating credit is strictly
limited by reserve and liquidity ratio requirements which currently channel
about 51? deposits into compulsory investments in the securities of Govern-
ment and public sector institutions at below-market rates. Furthermore
they have limited discretion over the direction of their lending as RBI
credit allocation guidelines account for about 77Z of total deposits.
2.27     Under this system, the commercial banks are a major source of
funds for the public sector through their purchases of securities issued by
the central and state governments, public sector companies and all India
financial institutions in order to satisfy Statutory Liquidity Ratio (SLR)
stipulations. The strict control of bank operations has had some
unintended effects. Apart from promoting inefficient resource allocation
and fostering rigidities, the system also has a negative impact on commer-
cial banks' profitability as the net interest income they receive is only
slightly more than their administrative costs. In fact, the commercial
banks' profits are largely derived from unfunded items such as fee income
on international trade, foreign exchange commissions and gains on portfolio
trading activities.
2.28     The commercial banks have been given greater flexibility as a
result of reforms announced in October and November 1988.  These reforms
have:  (a) removed the interest rate ceiling on working capital loans;
(b) given customers the freedom to change banks; and (c) removed the prior
RBI approval requirement on the working capital lending limits of the
commercial banks. As a result of the new freedom to set interest rates,
the banks have been able to lower the interest cost to the most
creditworthy customers to 162, while slightly increasing the rates charged
relatively weaker credits.
2.29     As a consequence of the Chakravarthy Committee recommendations,
RBI has been adjusting the long term interest rate structure by increasing
the interest rates paid on public sector bonds held by commercial banks as
SLR requirements to bring public sector borrowing rates closer to market
rates. While this rationalization does not appreciably affect the
profitability of the commercial banks, it significantly increases the costs
of the development banks which raise resources through selling their bonds
to the commercial banks. Given this, and for other reasons, it would be
appropriate to extend the same flexibility to set rupee lending rates,
which has been given to the commercial banks, to the development banks.
2.30     The Indian development finance system comprises national
state-level development banks and investment institutions. At the national
level the predominant development banks are Industrial Development Bank of
India (IDBI), The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Limited (ICICI) and Industrial Finance Corporation of India (IFCI). In
addition, the Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbank) was set up in 1982 to



- 12 -
take over the export finance operations of IDBI and, in 1984, the
Industrial Reconstruction Bank of India (IRBI) was established to replace
the Industrial Reconstruction Corporation of India and take over
responsibility for rehabilitating sick units. The national or All-India
investment institutions are Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC), Unit
Trust of India (UTI) and General Insurance Corporation of India (GIC). At
the state level, funding is provided by the State Industrial Development
Corporations and State Financial Corporations (SFCs). These development
finance institutions are the major source of term lending to industrial
firms. Furthermore, the vast majority of their leading is to private
sector firms. As at March 1981, these institutions 4/ had disbursed about
Rs 290 billion, 75Z of which was to the private sector.  Annual sanctions
and disbursements were Rs 81 billion and Rs 56 billion, respectively, up
from Rs 66 billion and Rs 49 billion in the previous year. The three main
development banks IDBI, ICICI and IFCI accounted for 752 of total
disbursements by the development finance institutions in 1986187. The term
lending institutions have, in recent years, been faced with an increasingly
riskier lending and investment environment. These adverse developments
have been partially offset by the leasing business and other higher-
yielding e=tivities undertaken by these institutions, so that so far their
profitability has been maintained.
D. Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS)
2.31     The DFIs previously on-lent their foreign currency borrowings, on
a back-to-back basis, with a mark-up of 1.5Z to cover costs of adminis-
tration and risks, with the interest rate and foreign exchange risks borne
by the sub-borrowers. Given the steady depreciation of the rupee and
volatility of foreign exchange rates in the last few yeazs, sub-borrowers
have borne extremely high, and often highly unpredictable, effective
repayment rates. The absence of a well developed foreign exchange currency
market in India has meant that private sector borrowers have limited means
to protect themselves against such risks. As a consequence, these firms'
debt-servicing capacities have been impaired, which in turn has negatively
affected the foreign currency loan portfolios of the lending institutions.
By 1987, the demand for foreign currency loans had fallen dramatically;
foreign currency sanctions by ICICI fell an estimated 34Z in that year.
2.32     The Government, in conjunction with the major DFIs (IDBI, ICICI,
and IFCI), has responded to the situation with the development of an
Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS), which was introduced in April
1989. Under ERAS, the DFIs will move to a currency pooling system for
their foreign commercial borrowings.   Sub-borrowers will pay a rupee-
denominated rate made up of: (a) the weighted average interest cost of the
DFIs foreign borrowings; (b) a premium in respect of the estimated foreign
exchange risk; and (c) the DFI's intermediation spread of 2.OZ. According
to the present plan, the scheme will commence with an initial rate of 15Z,
1Z above the present term lending rate of the DFIs. The rate will be
reviewed every 6 months and adjusted as necessary to cover the foreign and
interest rate costs, based on international interest rate and currency
movements, subject to an initial cap rate of 18Z on existing loars. Thus,
each sub-borrower would have a floating rate subloan, subject to the cap.
4/ Eximbank data not included.



- 13 -
The actual ERAS rate and the cap rate will be adjusted semi-annually. ERAS
will be optional and sub-borrowers will also have the right to borrow in a
given foreign currency and assume the attendant foreign exchange risks.
The Government has agreed that the ERAS rate will be adjusted as necessary
to cover the foreign exchange and interest rate risks. It has also been
agreed that if due to large interest rate or exchange rate fluctuations the
fund runs into a deficit in the short run. the Government will make
advances into the fund and be repaid when the fund is in surplus.
2.33     Potentially the benefits of ERAS include the followings
(a) the floating rate mechanism and adjustable cap will allow for
the assumption of the interest rate and foreign exchange risks
by sub-borrowers, but with a limit on the interest rate and
exchange rate liability on each individual loan;
(b) in principle, the mechanism would imply appropriate pricing of
the foreign exchange and interest rate risks and thus avoid
subsidies to the private sector;
(c) all foreign loans to the DFIs would be covered under the
scheme; and
(d) the DFIs will have the flexibility to manage actively their
foreign currency liabilities in line with international market
opportunities; they will be able to use short and long term
hedging instruments, such as currency futures and interest rate
and currency swaps, to minimize interest rate and foreign
exchange risks on their borrowings. They will also actively
manage and invest the rupee premium funds. All this will serve
to minimize the ultimate cost of borrowing to their clients and
so help reduce the credit risks to the DPIs.
The ERAS scheme will apply to the proposed loan to ICICI in this project.



- 14 -
III. THE BANK'S ROLE IN INDUSTRY
A. Previous Bank Lending to Industry
3.01     The Bank has made 19 development finance loans amountinig to US$1.4
billion through financial intermediaries (maitnly ICICI and IDBI), to pri-
vate firms engaged in all aspects of industry. The Bank has also made
loans amounting to US$3.2 billion for it-vestment to enterprises in specific
subsectors such as cement, fertilizers and petrochemicals, either directly
or through financial intermediaries.
3.02     An earlier Bank loan of US$250 million was for the Industrial
Export (Engineering Products) Project (IEP) (Loan No. 2629130-IN), which is
being implemented through ICICI, Eximbank of India and four participating
commercial banks (PCBs). This loan, which is a precursor of this proposed
project, became effective on June 23, 1986 and includeds (a) a relending
component through ICICI to support investments in exportable engineering
products and through four PCBs to support investments in ancillary
engineering enterprises; and (b) a productivity fund (PP) in ICICI and an
Export Marketing Fund (EMF) in Eximbank for financing of operational
upgrading and export marketing activities of engineering enterprises. The
Government of India undertook to absorb the foreign exchange risk on the
subloans to ancillary firms but not on the others.  Initial project imple-
mentation and utilization of the Bank loan initially progressed slower than
expected.
3.03     Initial commitment of the ICICI loan was slow because of the
reluctance of sub-borrowers to assume the foreign exchange risk. In
February 1988, the project was modified to allow the Government to bear the
foreign exchange risk and commitments have picked up since that time. The
ICICI loan is about 662 committed and 262 disbursed. However, ICICI has
internally sanctioned sub-loans totalling about US$140 million, or 88S of
total, which will be submitted to the Bank soon. The ICICI loan is
expected to be fully committed by the time the proposed loan becomes
effective.
3.04     Initially, there was relatively slow utilization of the PCB compo-
nent for several reasons. Since IEP was the first loan to be channeled
through the PCBs, some tims was required for these banks to adjust their
operations to meet project requirements. The area of engineering ancil-
laries was probably too limited and was effectively narrowed down even
further due to availability of other funds for small scale industries at
lower interest rates. In March 1988, this line was expanded to include
other export oriented subsectors. As a result of the modification, the
disbursement of this line accelerated significantly. Also in Vovember
1988, the interest rate structure of the PCB component was adjusted to
bring it in line with the prevailing stru'ture for commercial banks.
Nevertheless, it is anticipated that the PCB component will only be about
802 committed by the time the EDP loan becomes effective.



. 15 -
3.05     The Export Marketing Fund (EMF) administered by Eximbank vas set
up with US$10 million for 50? cost sharing of the export marketing programs
of individual companies. It is available only for convertible currency
countries and is limited to eleven subsectors of engineering products. The
Productivity Fund (PF), managed by ICIC1 with US$10 million in foreign
exchange, provides cost-sharing support to engineering product and compo-
nent (ancillary) firms with identified export prospects mainly for consul-
tancy, technical support, some imports of tools and products, and super-
visor training. The PF covers up to 50 of eligiblc expenditures not
exceeding US$400,000 with a sublimit of US$125,000 on hardware for any
single subproject. Both these funds have had very slow starts for a variety
of reasons. First, for activities that are covered urder these funds, the
clearances required turned out to be too numerous and complicated. About a
year ago, the steering committees for both the funds were given blanket
Government permits that have significantly facilitated the processing of
the projects. Second is the relative lack of experience in both ICICI and
Eximbank in evaluating and assisting the specific needs of exporters. With
blanket permits and more exposure of the staff, the operation of these
schemes has improved and about 80 of the marketing and about 502 of the
productivity funds are already committed and the remaining amounts are
expected to be fully committed by the June 1989.
3.06     It is two and a half years since the IEP became effective.
Despite the problems mentioned above, there are already some identifiable
gains from the project. The PF has supported about 62, mainly medium and
large firms in the engineering sector, with 17S of assistance provided
going to electronics and computer software firms. The EOF has supported
about 142 firms, mainly in the engineering sector with the major product
groups beings softi^are (24Z); auto ancillaries (21X) and commercial
vehicles, diesel engines and machines tools (8? each). While it is
extremely early to make serious long term projections, the indications are
that the grant funds will be highly cost-effective when measured in terms
of incremental exports. Furthermore, the investments appear to be having a
broad impact on inculcating a mentality of efficiency and export-orienta-
tion. In the case of the PF, some firms which were severely weakened by
domestic competition have been motivated to invest in improving productiv-
ity to regain competitiveness. With regard to the EMF, nearly half of the
firms had not actively exported to developed countries before and the grant
support was used mainly for market exploration, product adaptation and
product testing. The other 50? of firms supported were already exporting
in a limited way and the grants helped their efforts to extend their
markets, mainly through market surveys, travel to set up initial business
contacts and some testing and inspection. It is estimated that the two
funds will each return a yield many times their value by way of incremental
exports, over a five year period.  Furthermore, the few results available
from the earliest grant recipients are running ahead of projections.
3.07     The term lending components of the IEP have also made an important
contribution. Bank of Baroda and Canara Bank have now gained familiarity
with the use of economic analysis, which is a requirement of the IEP loan
agreement. They have indicated its usefulness for them and their intention
to gradually extend the concept to their general investment lending opera-
tions. In the case of ICICI, the export-orientation that has developed in
the staff of the PF cell has not yet had the chance to spread sufficiently



- 16 -
to their operational staff who prepare export investment sub-projects for
financing under the IEP. Under this project, ICICI has adopted the policy
of joint appraisals of export projects between the operations staff and the
PF cell.
3.08     The PCBs have supported about 62 sub-projects for a total of about
US$15 million, with a firm pipeline of another 49 sub-projects for about
US$16 million. As intended, they have mainly lent to small and medium size
firms, particularly engineering ancillaries. With the broadening of the
project to other investment projects, they have begun to focus on a wider
range of export investment projects and assisting export-oriented units.
About 602 of ICICI assistance has been to large firms with the balance
going to medium firms. About 32Z of as3istance has been to engineering
firms. It is currently estimated that firms in the IEP project portfolio
will export about 25Z of sales and this compares favorably with a figure of
about 42 for the overall [CICI portfolio.
3.09     Thus the experience under IEP so far has been fairly satisfactory.
However, operation of the ILP shows that there is a need to strengthening
both the capabilities of firms and financial institutions in designing,
implementing and appraising export development programs and export-oriented
investments. In the proposed Export Development Project, these problems
are explicitly addressed through technical assistance which includes up
front training of key personnel in the institutions and modification of the
operation of the funds (Annexes V and VI). Furthermore, the TA is
structured in a way that will enable the institutions to have greater
access to international expertise and information. Finally, there have
been some delays in Government reimbursement of participating financial
institutions; these claims were brought up to date prior to negotiations
and an understanding reached that claims would be reimbursed promptly under
the proposed project.
B. The Bank's Future Lending Strategy
3.10     The Bank has had an active industrial sector work program and
prepared a number of sector reports on such subiects as industrial regula-
tion, technology policy, export promotion, public enterprise management and
credit and capital markets and a number of subsector reports including
electronics, automotive products, steel, capital goods and fertilizer. The
1987 CEM, "India: An Industrializing Economy in Transition" also focused
on the development of the industrial sector and supplied the broad outlines
of a reform program. Many of the issues in these reports will continue to
be discussed with the Government in the context of futurie operations.
3.11     The future lending program for industry is primarily based on the
sector work and will thus include:
(a) industrial finance projects which will serve as a focal point for
evaluating and discussing with Government overall progress on
industrial and financial policy reform as well as addressing
issues in the financial institutions;
(b) export, technology and industrial energy conservation projects
which will serve as a focal point for evaluating and discussing
with Government overall progress and improve the policy, financial
and institutional support for activities in these key areas; and



- 17 -
(c) subsector projects which will provide policy, technical and finan-
cial support for economic investments in areas where improved
efficiency will have implications for the growth of the whole
industrial sector (e.g., petrochemicals, electronics, cement and
capital goods).
3.12     However, in all of these areas, loans are basically linked to the
policy reforms that are being undertaken either in designated policy areas
such as exports, technology, etc. or in the policies that affect a specific
subsector. The basic criteria that determined the decision to go ahead
with a loan is whether the policy environment is conducive to efficient
investments in the area or subsector that is being supported. Thus, the
lending strategy involves supporting investments in areas where policy
improvements have already been undertaken, consistent with the conclusions
of the previous sector work.



- 18 -
IV. THE PROPOSED EXPORT DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
A. Objectives and Project Cononents
4.01     The Export Development Project has two objectives.  The first
objective is the reform of the export policies and administration.  In the
course of proj3ct preparation, the Bank has worked closely with the Govern-
ment in reforming the export policies and will continue to do so during
implementation.  The second objective is to assist GOI in its program of
increasing the competitiveness and exports of manufactured products.  More
specifically, the objective of the proposed project is tos (i) help actual
and potential exporters to identify, enter and maintain export markets
through assistance for export marketing. product and proce4s adaptations
and improvements; and (ii) complement this assistance with term lending
funds for export-related investments. To achieve this objective, the
project will develop an integrated program in four financial institutions:
ICICI, Eximbank, Bank of Baroda and Canara Bank. This integrated program
in each institution will include the following three components:
(a) an Export Development Fund (EDF) to aid exporters by giving them
assistance to improve marketing, product development and
technological know-how on the basis of well developed export
development plans and programs;
(b) a Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) for improving the institutions'
capabilities to piomote and appraise export development programs
and export-oriented investments and assist exporters in these
areas; and
Cc) a term lending component to supply investment funds to
export-oriented subprojects for expanding exportable output.
4.02     While the policy environment faced by exporters has improved sig-
nificantly over the last two years, the export growth has come mainly from
the existing product lines. For long-term export growth and diversifica-
tion, existing firms have to shift some of their output from domestic to
export markets, as well as create new capacities of exportable products.
Given the lack of international exposure, obsolete products and processes,
and four decades of closed domestic markets, most firms need some support
in finding foreign markets and upgrading their products and processes.
Furthermore, the range of activities that is usually undertaken for
restructuring, such as hiring foreign marketing or design consultants, and
importing technology, other know-how, and specialized machine-y, requires
separate permission from various government agencies, which is cumbersome
to obtain.  In addition, within the financial system, recurrent
expenditures for consultancy, know-how and technology development are
usually not covered under established lending schemes and have to be funded
from firms' own resources. Firms that shift to the external market because
of increased domestic competition and reduced profitability, usually have
strained internal financial resources. Currently, there are no agencies in
India that offer comprehensive programs to assist exporters in their
marketing and restructuring efforts. The project will try to support key



- 19 -
financial institutions such as ICICI, Eximbank and two commercial banks in
establishing programs designed to assist exporters and help these institu-
tions to develop centers of expertise in export-related activities. Among
these institutions, Eximbank already has been involved in assisting
exporters, but has focused primarily on supporting large, discrete invest-
ment projects undertaken by Indian companies abroad, and would like to
expand its support to other export products. ICICI has been designated as
the lead development finance institution in charge of export development,
but so far has limited experience in developing export-oriented projects
and/or assisting exporters. A nucleus of expertise has been developed
under the TEP, but it is very small and needs to be extended to be more
effective. Some of the commercial banks with large overseas branch net-
works do work with exporters on specific activities related to import and
export business, but they do not have the integrated programs or organiza-
tional structure to meet the varied needs cf emerging exporters. The two
commercial banks are setting up export departments that will incorporate
different services offered to exporters under one unit, which will interact
with the selected branches that will administer the export development
funds.
4.03     The proposed Export Development Project, building on the
experience gained under the IEP, aims to modify and expand the original
project in two main directions. First, it will attempt to integrate the
activities covered by the Productivity and Marketing Funds into single
multi-purpose funds (Export Development Funds (EDFs)) and place them in
each participating institution.  The experience gained under the existing
Funds has shown that what is really needed is for firms to forAulate one
integrated development plan which would normally include both marketing and
productivity improvement activities. In most cases, the plan would also
need to be complemented by term finance for technology upgradation, expan-
sion or new investments for increasing the supply of exportable output.
Second, the fact that the Funds have been implemented by two central insti-
tutions, ICICI (Productivity Fund), and Eximbank (Export Marketing Fund),
has meant that coverage has mainly been restricted to the larger firms
which comprise the usual client base of these two institutions. However,
there is substantial export potential in the small and medium-scale indus-
try (SME) sector. Therefore the new project will utilize two leading
commercial banks, Bank of Baroda and Canara Rank, to provide similar
support to firms which will tend to be smaller and more geographically
dispersed. Given their day-to-day contact with smaller firms as well as
the wide reach provided by their br,nch networks, these commercial banks
are in a strong position to identify and help develop the export capabil-
ities of firms that would not normally be reached by centralized institu-
tions such as ICICI and Eximbank. The commercial banks would initially
focus on a few targeted centers in which smaller firms with export
potential are concentrated as detailed in Annex V.
4.04     In general, the participants for this project have been selected
on the basis of their perceived commitment to supporting manufactured
exports as well as their performance to-date under the ongoing Industrial
Export Project. ICICI provides almost half of the foreign currency loans
made by the term-lending institutions. As the regulatory and incentive
framework moves in fa%or of exporters, it will be called upon to sul-port an
increasing number of export investment projects. Eximbank has the tradi-



- 20 -
tional role of assisting exporters and it has, in recent years, begun to
place more emphasis on financing investment projects in addition to project
finance and post-shipment credits. The two commercial banks have already
adopted strategies to help their clients to start exporting or increase
their exports. Thus the Bank will, through the EDP, be supporting and
giving direction to export development strategies that are already being
implemented by these banks.
4.05     The total cost of the Export Development Project would be US$730
million equivalent, with US$295 million in IBRD financing to cover
primarily the foreign exchange portion of the two components in each of the
four financial institutions. The TAP of US$2.7 million would be funded
through a grant from the Government of Japan.
(a) Export Development Funds. The four institutions would manage on
behalf of Government a total of US$20 million in export
development funds, which will help to finance eligible export
development activities of firms. The US$20 million will be
allocated among the financial institutions as follows: ICICI -
US$7 million; Eximbank - US$7 million; Bank of Baroda - US$3
million; and Canara Bank - US$3 million. The Export Development
Funds would finance part of the enterprises' costs of consultants
and foreign travel associated with the preparation and
implementation of their export development plans.
(b) Technical Assistance Funds. It is expected that a total of US$2.7
million would be made available to the GOI, through a grant from
the Government of Japan, to pass on to the four institutions on a
non-reimbursable basis, to improve their capabilities to appraise
export development programs and export-oriented inv_stments and
assist exporters. More specifically, the TA funds would be used
for training of staff to implement the EDFs, purchase of market
and technical information from international data banks and hiring
of specialist consultants. The total of US$2.7 million would be
allocated among the financial institutions as follows: ICICI -
US$1,175,000; Eximbank - US$675,000; Bank of Baroda - US$425,000;
and Canare. Bank - US$425,000. One component of the TAFs would
finance a joint international training program for the EDF
operators and other selected staff from each institution at the
start of the project. ICICI will be the coordinator for the
training program in consultation with the other rarticipating
financial institutions.
(c)  Te.m-Lending Components.  A total of US$275 million would be made
available to the four institutions for term financing of non-
governmental enterprises for export-oriented subprojects. Of this
total, US$175 million would be lent directly to ICICI for relend-
ing to large firms, US$100 million would be made available from
the loan to Government to the remaining three institutions for
relending to small and medium size firms and would be allocated as
follows: Eximbank - US$40 million; Bank of Baroda - US$30
million; and Canara Bank - US$30 million.



- 21 -
B. Export Development Fund (EDF) Components 11
4.06     The experience under IEP has indicated that most firms in India do
not have the expertise to evaluate external market conditions and develop
strategic export development programs. Furthermore, such expertise is
usually not available within India and the firms have been reluctant to
employ foreign experts due to tremendous cost differentials between local
and foreign experts. The EDF is aimed to encourage the domestic firms to
purchase foreign expertise and information and integrate them into an
export development program by giving the firms matching grants for selected
export promotion activities. The EDFs in each institution will be designed
to support individual firms to formulate export plans and to make the
necessary investments of time and money in order to achieve significant
increases in exports. Thus the EDFs will provide firms with: (i) grant
support on a matching basis for a range of specific pre-investment promo-
tion and marketing activities within a structured firm-level export devel-
opment plans; (ii) one-window clearance through already established
Steering Committees (para. 4.08) for the various GOI approvals required for
export marketing and product adaptation activities, within the context of
an export development plan; and (iii) direct linkage between these two EDP
support measures and the provision of term finance and incremental working
capital finance needed to implement such an export development plan. As in
the IEP, motivation of firms would also be greatly assisted by the advisory
services provided by the participating institutions as an integral part of
these measures. In effect firms would be offered substantial advice on how
best to formulate their export development plans. While the specific needs
of individual firms will differ, they will all be encouraged to structure
their export development plans in three distinct phases comprising market
exploration, product adaptation and sales promotion.
(a) Market Exploration. This would entail desk research to determine
initial market targets, followed by field research, including
face-to-face contact with potential buyers or specifiers, in order
to ascertain the basis of buying decisions and the type of
barriers the firm's existing product would face. The results of
this research would normally then form the basis for an analysis
of the present constraints preventing the firm from fully exploit-
ing the targeted export potential.
(b) Product Adaptation. From this point on the plan would usually
consist of a series of specific measures, designed to address
identified constraints, in a determined order of priority, with
the emphasis on product or process improvements.
(c) Sales Promotion. It would only be after adequate progress has
been made in dealing with the key constraints that the plan would
concern itself with promotional activities, aimed directly at
achieving export sales growth, e.g., setting up a field sales
network, creating brochures, direct mail and journal advertising.
I/ The operating principles and administrative procedures (SPOP) for the
EDFs are given in Annex 1.



- 22 -
4.07     Eligible Expenditures and Activities.  Grant support would be
restricted to expenditures on fees for marketing and technical services and
travel expenses, and would be matched by at least an equal contribution
from the enterprise. It must be emphasized that EDP grant support is not
intended to cover all "software" expenditures incurred in reepect of export
development. Rather the aim is to encourage specific export development
activities and the careful planning of export strategies, by supporting
incremental costs incurred as a direct result of a firm's export
development plan activities.
4.08     Steering Committe3 Mechanism.  At present, there are two Steering
Committees in place for the approval and official clearing of qualified PF
and EMF projects. Access to such single-window clearance, for all four
institutions involved, is an important pre-requisite for the relevant
components of the proposed EDP. Therefore the two existing Steering
Committees will be maintained. It is felt that it would be appropriate for
the PCBs to be affiliated to the Ministry of Commerce Committees given that
the EDFs will be carrying out activities more closely resembling those of
the current EMF than the PF. It is envisaged that most of the EDF
subprojects supported by the PCBs will be relatively small and thus should
fall under the free-limit. The provision of non-free limit grants by the
PCBs would be regarded as exceptional and would be closely scrutinized by
the Steering Committee. The committee would be expected to provide review
and guidance to the PCBs, which will make detailed quarterly reports to the
committees to facilitate this process.  The Steering Committees would
delegate to ICICI and Eximbank the power to approve individual proposals up
to US$100,000 of grant support.  As firms would normally go through a
sequence of three approvals, corresponding to the three stages of a typical
export development plan, and return for support of new plans, the Steering
Committees would retain the power to approve any single proposal that takes
a firm through a cumulative grant limit of US$200,000.  For the commercial
banks, the single approval free limit delegated to them will be set at
US$50,000 with a cumulative grant limit of US$100,000.
4.09     The main administrative arrangements and staffing requirements
have been agreed with the participants and they are outlined in Annexes V
and VI. ICICI and Exim have already provided the Bank with their updated
administrative strategies for implementing the project and completed their
staffing. PCBs will establish their export units, approve the SPOP, and
complete the staffing of them by June 30, 1989.
C. Technical Assistance Fund (TAF) Components 21
4.10     The appraisal of export programs and projects requires analytical
skills and information on factors such as external markets, distribution
channels, technical inputs, actual and potential competitors and technolo-
gies. Therefore, the TAFs of the four institutions would support: (i) the
2/ Administrative arrangemerts for the four technical assistance programs
are given in Annex VI.



- 23 -
training of their staff to acquire the necessary skills; and (ii) the
hiring of experts with specific technical skills, on a temporary basis, to
assist staff in appraisals and advising exporters. Experience under the
IEP has shown that few clients have skills internally to generate coherent
export development plans for grant assistance or term financing. Thus PF
and EHF officers have spent considerable effort in helping firms develop
these plans. In the proposed EDP, this advisory service function of the
financial institutions' EDF cells would need to be explicitly budgeted for
and strengthened. Thus, a portion of TA funding provided to the financial
institutions would be used to support the advisory service activities of
their respective EDF cells. Similar support also needs to be given to
export-oriented term finance subprojects, especially If they are undertaken
independently of EDF support.
4.11     Eligible Activities.  Activities to be funded through the TAF
would include: (i) training abroad for staff, particularly those involved
with management of the EDFs; (ii) purchase of information abroad, in
support of appraisal activities, where there is a requirement for
assessment of overseas market potential; and (iii) fees and travel expenses
for technical experts, called in to augment internal skills where
necessary.
D. Term-Lending Components
4.12     A total of US$275 million would be made to ICICI, Eximbank, Bank
of Baroda and Canara Bank for onlending to non-governmental industrial
enterprises for export-oriented subprojects. A Bank loan of US$175 million
would be lent directly to ICICI and US$100 million of the US$120 million
loan to the Government would be made available to Eximbank, Bank of Baroda
and Canara Bank through GOI under the terms of financing 'greements.  These
term lending funds would be aimed at creating capacities to supply
exportable products. IBRD funds would be used to finance estimated foreign
exchange cost of subloans for balancing, modernization, expansion and new
investment of non-governmental enterprises that meet agreed financial,
economic and export-orientation eligibility criteria. Although institu-
tions will have the flexibility in choosing subprojects to support with the
loan funds, the following differentiation is expected. ICICI will
primarily cater to investment needs of larger enterprises in sectors that
require major technological upgradation as well as large greenfield
projects. Eximbank is focusing on giving term lending funds for smaller
product upgradation projects with quicker turnaround time and is also
assisting export and trading houses in developing export mark ts through
financing of their pre-investment activities.  The commercial banks would
lend for investment needs of smaller and medium-sized firms, often through
their branch offices in areas outside major metropolitan centers.
4.13     The eligibility criteria for export orientation of subprojects
would be the preparation of a satisfactory strategic export plan.  Such a
plan would take a firm, or a division, from its present exporting situation
to a future situation representing a significant expansion in export
performance. The normal characteristics of an export plan are described in
para. 13 of Annex V.



- 24 -
E. Proiect Costs
4.14     The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$730 million,
of which US$297.7 million is in foreign exchange. No contingencies have
been calculated for the credit component because it is a line of credit
fac'lity. In the event of escalation in the average cost of subprojects,
the total number of subprojects would be reduced. The same approach was
applied to the Export Development Funds, where the number of proposals to
be financed is also flexible. The cost estimates are summarized in
Table 4.1. Detailed cost estimates for the technical assistance component
are given in Table 6.1.
Tabl- 4.1: PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(in current prices)
Foreign
Local   Foreign     Total   Local  For isn  Total  Exchsne
= - - =RU9rrion  -   -    --In-
Credit Component
IcicI             8,788.0   2,584.0   6,817.0  270.0  175.0  445.2   40.0
Exlmbank           654.0    632.0   1,086.0   89.6   40.0   79.6   50.0
Comercial Banks    1.427.0    784.0   2.211.0  101.9   60.0  161.9   85.0
Subtota1       61.0    9.S14.0   411.7  27S.0  666.7   40.0
ExPe Dvle ht tOn
Find Component
iCICI               98.0      98.0     196.0    7.0    7.0   14.0   50.0
Eximbank            98.0      98.0     196.0    7.0    7.0   14.0   50.0
Commercial Banks    84.0      84.0     168.0    6.0    6.0   12.0   60.0
Subtotal         280.0    280.0     560.0   20.0   20.0   40.0   50.0
Technical Assistance
Component
ICiCI                6.8     16.8       22.6    0.4    1.2    1.6   75.0
Eximbank             8.5      9.8       18.8    0.8    0.7    1.0   70.0
Comercial Banks      4.7      11.2      16.9    0.8    0.8    1.1   72.0
Subtotal          14.0     87.8      61.6    1.0    2.7    8.7   78.0
TOTAL PROJECT COST  c,468.0   8,780.0   9,286.0  482.7  297.7  780.4  40.8
-==8=    e= === r=
F. Financing Plan
4.15     The proposed Bank loan to ICICI of US$175 million would finance the
foreign exchange component of its lending for eligible export projects and
the proposed Bank loan of US$120 million to the Government would finance the
foreign exchange component of the term financing of Eximbank and the PCBs
and of the Export Development Funds. The US$2.7 million technical assis-
tance component would be funded by a Japanese Cofinancing Grant. Table 4.2
shows the financing plan.



- 25 -
Table 4.2: PROJECT FIUNNCING PLAN
(in current prices)
Government   Financial
Bank  , of Jacan   Intormdlarles  S etor  1Othi r    Total
~~~~~~~~~M  I I1 TIIon) -
ICICI                176.0                 45.0       18U.8   63.9   445.2
Eximbank              40.0                  8.0        28.9    7.7   79.6
Co mercial Banks      60.0                 47.6        80.8   28.5  161.9
Subtotal           276.0                 100.6       191.0   120.1   686.7
Export Dovelopoent
F-und COMpon nt
ICICI                  7.0                              7.0            14.0
Eximbank               7.0                              7.0            14.0
Co"mercial Banks       6.0                              6.0            12.0
Subtotal            20.0                              20.0           40.0
Technical Assistance
comDonent
ICICI                           1.2         0.4                         1.6
Eximbank                        0.7         0.8                         1.0
Comercial Banks                 0.8         0.8                         1.1
Subtotal                      2.7         1.0                         8.7
TOTAL PROJECT COST   29.        2.7       101.6       211.0  120.1  780.4
4.16     Under the credit component for ICICI, the Bank would finance 40?
of subproject costs representing the average foreign costs of medium and
large subprojects in India. ICICI would financ: about 102 of the sub-
project costs from their own rupee resources. Based on the financing
patterns for medium and large industrial projects in India, other capital
and credit market sources are expected to provide another 20Z while sub-
project sponsors and other equity subscribers (the sector) would provide
equity financing for the remaining 30?. Eximbank's term loan clients would
normally be those manufacturers specializing in exports such as hundred
percent export-oriented units (HEOUs). Such firms would normally have a
higher than average import content in their production processes. There-
fore in the case of Eximbank subprojects, the Bank would finance 50? of the
project costs, corresponding to the foreign exchange requirement. Eximbank
would finance about 102 of the subproject costs with the remainder coming
from the sponsors and equity sources. The PCBs would generally support
smaller and less import-intensive export 4-cvia&tents. Thus for PCB
subprojects, the Bank would finance 352 of project costs while the PCBs
themselves would contribute 30? and sponsors and other equity sources
(sector dnd others) would finance 35Z.
4.17     For EDF components, the Bank would finance up to 502 of costs
while the sponsors would finance the balance. For the technical assistance
components, the Japanese grant would finance the foreign exchange costs,
which are estimated to be about 75Z of total costs.



- 26 -
V.  THE PARTICIPATING FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS
5.01     As in the case of the IEP, the EDP funds will be passed through
Indian financial institutions, in the form of matching grants and loans, to
new and existing manufacturing exporters.  The participating institutions
will be ICICI, Eximbank and two comaercial banks; Bank of Baroda and Canara
Bank.  All four institutions were involved in the IEP. 1/  These organiza-
tions have been selected to participate in the project largely on the basis
of their keen interest in supporting the growth of manufacturing exports.
As part of project preparation, the Bank has worked closely with them and
reached agreement on project implementation issues such as staffing and
management of EDP cells and type of firms, geographical regions and indus-
try groups that specific institutions will emphasize.
A. The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India, Limited (ICICI)
5.02     ICICI was established in 1955 to provide long term finance to
private industry. Since then it has developed into one of the country's
major financial institutions and it is the main provider of foreign
currency term loans to Indian firms. The corporation offers a wide range
of financial services and over the years it has diversified out of its
traditional functions into areas such as merchant banking, leasing, hire
purchase, venture capital and credit-rating services. In addition to its
operational activities, ICICI plays an important developmental role. It
advises the Government on industrial issues, carries out sector studies and
develops new ideas and methods of improving the financial markets. ICICI
is a profitible and well-managed institution. Over the last five years it
has grown at an annual rate of about 20t p.a and enjoyed rising profits.
As at March 31, 1988, total assets had reached Rs 36 billion, while equity
was Rs 3.2 billion and net profits were Rs 770 million. The Bank has made
16 previous loans to ICICI, including a US$160 million loan under the on-
going IEP. The most recent is a US$105 million facility under the
Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project.
5.03     The latest ICICI Project Completion Report (PCR XIII) shows that
although project implementation went well, a number of the subprojects have
encountered repayment problems. One of the major reasons for the difficul-
ties has been adverse foreign exchange rate movements which have resulted
in Indian subborrowers bearing extremely high real rates of repayment.
ICICI is also faced with a need to focus more on project appraisal and the
international competitiveness of the investments it finances, given the
trend of deregulation and delicensing which ia creating a more competitive
environment. The new EDP will address these concerns. The relending rate
will be either the Bank's standard variable rate plus 2Z or the one
determined under the new Exchange Risk Administration Scheme (ERAS). Under
the second option, the situation whereby subborrawers faced open foreign
exchange risk will be replaced by a situation in which they pay a floating
it The detailed descriptions of these institutions are given in
Annexes I-IV.



- 27 -
rate (in rupees) with a pre-determined upper limit (see paras. 2.31-2.33).
Second the technical assistance component of the EDP is designed to support
further improvements in project appraisal capabilities within ICICI by
providing funds for training and purchase of information on foreign
markets, production costs and prices.
5.04     Under the proposed Export Development Project, ICICI will adminis-
ter a US$7 million Export Development Fund (EDF). The EDF will enable
ICICI to support the firms which have developed sound export development
programs for improving their export potential and performance. The
corporation will also be able to use funds from a US$1,250,000 Technical
Assistance Fund component to carry out its own analysis of export markets,
hire export marketing specialists and assist firms in putting together
their expert development plans. The TAF funds will also be used to support
ICICI's appraisals of export-oriented sub-projects under the term loan
component. The cell established within ICICI under IEP will be expanded to
take on the role of administering the EDP. At full strength, it will have
a staff of five. Furthermore, ICICI has provided to the Bank its detailed
administrative arrangements for ensuring greater linkage between the EDF
Cell and the general lending staff of the institution.
5.05     The Project will support ICICI's lending to the large and medium-
sized export-oriented firms. In the past, the institution has lent mainly
to import-substitution projects and the ratio of exports to sales of its
present borrowers is only 4Z. However, it has been increasing its port-
folio of export projects in line with the growth of export investments
resulting from the recent shift in policies in favor of the export sector
through the subprojects financed under the Bank's Industrial Export
(Engineering Products) Project.  The EDF and TAF components will strengthen
its institutional capabilities for advising its clients on, and analyzing
the international competitiveness of, export investment proposals while the
term lending component would continue ICICI's involvement in financing
export-oriented projects.
B. Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbaak)
5.06    Eximbank was established by an Act of Parliament in 1982, to
finance and promote India's international trade. At inception it took over
the Rs 1.7 billion export loans and guarantees portfolio of IDBI and became
the central body for coordinating the activities of the banks and financial
institutions engaged in the financing of imports and exports. Eximbank
operates out of its headquarters in Bombay, three regional offices in
Calcutta, Madras and New Delhi and three overseas representative offices in
Washington D.C., Abidjan and Singapore. Its primary function is providing
medium and long-term finance for pro3ject exports, directly and through the
refinance of commercial banks' obligations. Exim is a well-managed insti-
tution and it has maintained a sound financial condition, while expanding
at a relatively fast rate. Between 1982 and 1987, it grew at an annual
compound rate of 29Z and, as at December 1987, total assets had reached Rs
13 billion.  Over she same period, net income has risen consistently to Rs
199 million and equity has tripled to Rs 2.5 billion. Eximbank's partici-
pation in the on-going IEP as administrator of the US$10 million Export
Marketing Fund represents its first involvement in a Bank project. It has
committed about US$7.5 million to 120 firms under the project. Eximbank is
also the implementing agency for an on-going IFC project which was signed
in 1986,



- 28 -
5.07     Under the IEP, Eximbank has moved from project exports to support-
ing product exporters by working closely with firms to help them develop
viable export marketing plans. The proposed Export Development Project
will build on the existing gains. The term lending component will allow
Eximbank to provide a full financing package for export-oriented investment
projects. Eximbank will make both small equipment loans in support of
export plans and loans to support software expenditures undertaken by firms
to upgrade products and to enter foreign markets. The Technical Assistance
component of the EDP will provide relevant training for selected staff as
well as access to on-line data bases and a pool of international
consultants on export marketing. For the Export Development Project
Eximbank will maintain the cell which has been formed to execute the EMF.
The staff complement of five, including one Deputy General Manager, anl the
present regional coverage of having an EMF officer stationed in Calcutta,
Madras and New Delhi is adequate. Eximbank has provided to the Bank, its
detailed implementation strategy for the EDP.
C. Bank of Baroda
5.08     Bank of Baroda was set up in 1908 and nationalized in 1969.  It is
currently one of the top ten largest commercial banks in India with total
assets of Rs 101 billion. It operates nationwide with a network of over
2,000 branches, and internationally, through 52 branch offices in 14
countries. The bank has about 42,500 employees. Like the other major
nationalized banks, Baroda has grown steadily in recent years and enjoyed
rising profits. Compound asset growth was 11.5Z p.a. between 1983 and 1987
and net profits rose 153Z to Rs 218 million over the same period. Net
worth currently stands at Rs 1.6 billion, or 1.6Z of assets. Bank of
Baroda is one of the Participating Commercial Banks under the Industrial
Export Project. Its performance under the project has been satisfactory.
It has mtade commitments of about US$4.4 million to 14 subprojects to date.
Furthennore the Bank's project appraisal skills and procedures have been
developed, to include economic analysis, as a result of its participation
in the IEP. Bank of Baroda has made adequate preparations for partici-
pating in the EDP and details of its administrative arrangements and imple-
mentation strategy are given in Annex V.
D. Canara Bank
5.09     Established in 1906, Canara is currently the fifth largest commer-
cial bank in India. It was one of the 14 commercial banks that were
nationalized in 1969. As at December 31, 1987, it had total assets of
Rs 109 billion and a staff of over 48,000. The bank has its head office in
Bangalore and its 1,864 branches are spread throughout India. It also has
a branch in London. Canara has in recent years developed a reputation as a
highly innovative, aggressively-managed and responsive bank and this is
reflected in the rapid growth of its operations. Over the last five years,
it has outstripped its competitors by a wide margin as measured by
virtually all the major performance indicators. Total assets have grown at
a compound rate of 20Z p.a. and total deposits rose by 18Z p.a to Rs 79
billion, or 6Z of the industry total, over the same period. For the last
five years it has earned the highest profits of all nationalized banks and
in 1987 its net profit of Rs 450 million was virtually equal to that of
State Bank, which is nearly five times larger. The bank expects to



- 29 -
maintain the curreit momentum and pace of growth over the next few years.
Such continued fast growth will pose challenging management issues for the
bank's leadership. Given the more difficult operating environment faced by
all lending institutions as a result of the ongoing industrial
liberalization process, there will be a need for greater emphasis on the
quality of additional assets booked. Canara's participation in the
Engineering Ancillary Development component of the IEP represents the first
time it has worked with the Bank and, as with the other Participating
Commercial Banks, the results to-date have been beneficial. Canara has
developed the institutional capabilities to incorporate economic analyzes
in its project appraisals. It has committed US$4.2 million to 22 sub-
projects under the IEP. Satisfactory arrangements have been worked out
with Canara Bank for implementing the EDP.



-30-
VI. THE PROPOSED LOANS
A. Terms and Conditions
6.01     Both the US$175 million loan to ICICI and US$120 million loan to
the Government would bear the Bank's standard variable interest rate and
would be repaid over 20 years, including 5 years of grace. US$100 million
of the US$120 million Bank loan to the Government would be passed on to
Eximbank and the two PCBs as equity and the balance of the loan of US$20
million would be passed on to the Participating Financial Institutions as
grants for the Export Development Funds to be administered on behalf of
Government. It is expected that the US$2.7 million from the Japanese Grant
Facility would be passed on to the Participating Financial Institutions to
support their Technical Assistance Funds. These relending arrangements
would be set out in financing agreements with each of the financial
institutions to be signed as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
loan.
Term Lending Component
6.02     The relending arrangements reflect the segmentation in the Indian
financial system. In this system, the DFIs, including ICICI, provide
mainly term loans to larger industries and the commercial banks provide
working capital and some term loans to small and medium sized firms. The
relending arrangements for the foreign borrowings of the DFIs are
Government by the ERAS Scheme and for the commercial banks and Eximbank by
-the interest rate regulations of the Reserve Bank of India.
6.03     ICICI.  The US$175 million Bank loan would be made directly to
ICICI on standard Bank terms. These funds would be relent to subborrowers
in rupees at the prevailing ERAS rate (currently 152 with a cap rate of
18Z) or relent in foreign exchange at the Bank rate plus a 2Z spread for
the DFIs (see paras. 2.31-2.33 for discussion of the ERAS scheme). These
arrangements are consistent with the Governments broader policies of having
all foreign exchange loans of the DFIs passed on subborrowers either in
foreign exchange or under the terms of ERAS.
6.04     ICICI requested the Bank to provide technical assistance in regard
to management of its foreign borrowings and its participation in the ERAS
scheme. In response to this request, the Financial Technical Assistance
Unit of Financial Operations Department undertook an identification mission
to India.  On the basis of the mission's findings, a comprehensive
development program for ICICI's liability management staff is expected to
be worked out soon.
6.05    Eximbank and PCBs.  Of the US$120 million Bank loan to GOI, US$100
million would be passed on to PCBs and Eximbank as equity to finance their
term lending under the project. The interest rates charged by PCBs and
Eximbank would be 14Z for large and medium size enterprises and 13.5Z for
small scale industries consistent with RBI guidelines and IDBI refinancing
rates for term lending to small and medium-scale industry. The Government
would periodically review these relending rates in telation to chaniges in



-31-
inflation and other market conditions and adjust these rates as necessary
to ensure that they remain positive in real terms and reflective of market
conditions and sufficient to provide a reasonable spread to the financial
institutions.
6.06     Subproject Eligibility Criteria.  An eligible enterprise is
defined as an industrial enterprise in the private, joint and cooperative
sectors, which is engaged or intends to engage in manufacturing, processing
or exporting. An eligible subproject would involve the establishment,
expansion and/or balancing, modernization and replacement proposal of an
eligible enterprise which meets minimum economic and financial viability
criteria and is export-oriented. An export-oriented subproject would con-
tain a satisfactory strategic export plan as described in para 4.13. All
appraisals (in addition to an export plan) would include detailed sub-
project analysis showing the economic and financial rates of return of
subproject proposals, which to be acceptable to the Bank would generally
have a minimum economic rate of return of 12Z and a financial rate of
return of 15Z. An enterprise should have an acceptable capital structure
such that with the new subloan the debt:equity ratio of the enterprise
would not exceed normally 70:30.
6.07     Subloan Terms and Conditions.  The relending terms and conditions,
reflect the policies of the institutions and agreements reached with the
Bank as follows:
(a)   all subloans would be denominated in rupees; except that ICICI
would also have the option to make foreign currency denominated
loans;
(b)  subloan maturities would be at least 3 years and up to a maximum
of 15, including a grace period of up to 3 years.
(c)  all subloan proposals submitted to the Bank for authorization or
approval will include strategic export development plans,
estimates of financial and internal economic rates of return and
domestic resource cost analyses.
For ICICI
(a)  the final interest rate charged would be either the Bank's
standard variable rate plus 2? (in the case of foreign currency
denominated loans), or a rate determined by the Exchange Risk
Administration Scheme (ERAS) (in the case of rupee denominated
loans). In either caee, the rate would be variable;
(b)  the free limit will be US$8.0 million; and
(c)  the amount of the Bank loan allocated to a single enterprise would
not exceed US$30 million.
For Eximbank
(a)  the interest rate would be 13.5Z for small-scale enterprises and
14? for all other subprojects or the applicable rates set after
review of interest rates established under the earlier projects;



-32-
(b) the maximum subloan would be US$1.0 million; and
(c) the free limit would be US$500,000 and since this would be the
first Bank loan to finance Eximbank's lending operations, the Bank
would review the first 5 subproject proposals regardless of size.
(d) Eximbank will also make loans, strictly for software expenditures.
to larger firms.  Such loans will not be used to fund any
production assets and "he loan limit will be US$1 million, unless
otherwise agreed to by the Bank.
For PCBs
(a) the interest rate would be 13.5? for imall-scale enterprises and
142 for all other subprojects, or the applicable interest rates
set after the interest rate review under this and earlier
projects;
(b) the maximum subloan would be US$1 million;
(c) the maximum size of the enterprise supported under this loan would
be US$4.0 million in fixed assets (excluding land and buildings)
prior to the credit; and
(d) the free limit would be US$500,OOC.
Under these guidelines, 20? of subprojects by number and accounting for 302
of the amount of the loan are expected to be above the free limits.
EDFs
6.08     Of the IBRD loan to GOI. US$20 million would be allocated to
Export Development Funds; US$7 million through ICICI, US$7 million through
Eximbank and US$3 million each through Bank of Baroda and Canara Bank. The
financial institutions would manage these funds on behalf of GOI. Satis-
factory draft Statements of Policies and Operations Procedures have been
developed for these funds (paras. 4.06-4.09 and Annex V).
TAPs
6.09     It is expected that a Japanese Government Grant of US$2.7 million
would be passed on to the four financial institutions as grants to finance
the technical assistance programs. The structure, financing, operating
procedures, and accounting and reporting requirements for the TAPs are
given in Annex VI. In particular, these requirements provide that the
Initial Training Program would be managed by ICICI and Terms of Reference
for the program would be issued and opened for bids immediately after
effectiveness of the loan. The remaining portions of the TAFs would be
used for hiring of consultants and purchase of information on external
markets.



-33-
B. Administrative Procedures
6.10     Procurement.  Under the ICICI credit component, for contracts
exceeding US$8 million equivalent to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Bank loan, the financial institutions would i'.ist that sub-borrowers
follow international competitive bidding procedures in accordance with Bank
Guidelines. A preference of 152 or the level of customs duty, -hichever is
lower, would be afforded to domestic bidders. For other contracts,
procurement would be done in accordance with ICICI's internal procedures
which have been used on a number of previous Bank projects and are
acceptable to t1e Bank. Presently, the financial institutions require
their borrowers to solicit three competitive and responsive quotations for
all procurement. Under the PCBs and Eximbank's credit component, goods
will be purchased either directly from overseas or through local commercial
sources for foreign goods. As required under the ongoing Industrial Export
Project, PCBs will need to establish that the goods and services purchased
are of competitive price and quality. For contracts of US$50,000 and over,
PCBs would require subborrowers to evaluate quotations from at least three
qualified suppliers. For each withdrawal application, the concerned
financial institution would have to certify that the agreed procurement
procedures have been followed. The financial institutions would maintain
records of the method of procurement, summarizing offers and awards for
each subproject. The Bank would periodically review these records on a
sample basis in the course of regular project supervision. Table 6.01
shows a breakdown of the procuremsnt methods, by category.
Table 6.01: Procurement Methods
CUSS Million)
Procurement Method
Project Element               ICB/LIB           IS       CON    Total
Credit Component                   35.0          652.0             687.0
--Bank                        (25.0)         (250.0)           (275.0)
Export Development Funds                          38.0      2.0     40.0
--Bank                                        (19.0)    (1.0)   (20.0)
Technical Assistance Funds                         1.0      3.0      4.0
--Japanese Government                          (0.7)    (2.0)    (2.7)
Total                              35.0          691.0      5.0    731.0
--Bank                          (25.0)         (269.0)    (1.0)  (295.0)
--Japanese Government                            (0.7)    (2.0)    (2.7)
Notes:
ICB means International Competitive Bidding
IS means International Shopping
LIB means Limited International Bidding
CON means in accordance with consultancy selection guidelines
Source: Staff estimates.



-34-
6.11     For the technical assistance components, goods would be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of sound commercial practices, and the
employment of consultants by the financial institutions would be in
accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency." Appointment of
all consultants and their terms of reference would be subject to the prior
approval of the Bank. '-ith the exception of small purchases of information
under US$20,000, all expenditures would require prior approval by the Bank.
6.12     Disbursements.  Under the credit component, the Bank loan would
finance 802 of the amount of subloans to eligible enterprises, or 100I of
the foreign cost of imported equipment financed by the subloans. This
procedure has been adopted to allow for reimbursement for estimated average
foreign exchange costs of subprojects. However, there are a number of
cases where the institution finances only equipment imports, particularly
where it is a minority partner under consortium arrangements and in the
case of simple balancing or modernization projects. In these cases, 1002
financing of CIF imports would be appropriate. For the technical
assistance component, the proposed loan would finance foreign exchange cost
of consultants, training and information purchases, and the initial group
training program. For the EDF component, the loan would finance up to 502
of actual expenditures.
6.13     In accordance with the Bank's current disbursement profiles for
development finance projects and the Bank's experience in similar technical
assistance projects, it is expected that the Bank loans will be committed
in three years and disbursed over six years.
6.14     Some disbursements by the Bank would be made on a reimbursement
basis through Special Account., one for the Government (US$10 million) and
one for ICICI (US$15 million), which would be established for the project
with a total authorized allocation of US$25.0 million. After loan
effectiveness, the Bank would deposit into the Special Accounts the stated
amount, through the submission of the usual withdrawal application, which
would scw"' as the revolving fund.  The Bank would replenish the Special
Accounts on the basis of requests for reimbursements on a quarterly basis
or whenever the amount in each Special Account reaches 502 of the initial
deposit. Reimbursements to ICICI through the Special Account would be made
against Statement of Expenditures (SOE) for projects below the free limits.
Supporting documentation under SOEs would be retained and would be subject
to review by Bank supervision missions, and to anuual audit by auditors
acceptable to the Bank, such audit is to be submitted within four months
after the close of each financial year. For all subloans in excess of free
limits having prior Bank approval, ICICI would fully document withdrawal
applications when requesting replenishments to its Special Account.
6.15     Reporting and Audits.  ICICI would submit to the Bank quarterly
progress reports on commitments, disbursements, collections and arrears
under the project and for the institution as a whole, while Eximbank and
the PCBs would only report the same information for the project. ICICI
would also submit financial statements in conformity with the Bank's
standard reporting requirements, incluaing the submission of audited
financial statements, prepared by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank, within four months of the close of each financial year while the



-35-
other participants would submit audited reports in respect of their project
accounts within the same period. Audit of SOEs would be submitted four
months after the close of each financial year. After full disbursement of
a subloan, the financial institutions would prepare a subproject completion
report, comparing actual vs. projected costs and benefits of the sub-
project. After closing of the Project the financial institutions would
prepare and submit an overall operational audit report of the Project's
experiences and results within six months of the closing date.
C. Project Benefits and Risks
6.16     Benefits.  The increased efficiency and continued rapid growth of
industry and, in particular, manufactured exports are essential elements of
the Government's economic sLrategy. In support of these goals, the Govern-
ment has implemented a gradual process of industrial and trade reform over
the last few years. The Bank has provided advice on key elements of the
reform process through its sector work and preparation for this project.
The proposed project would further support Government's efforts in two main
ways. First, the project would support the strengthening of key financial
institutions with the aim of helping them to better respond to the needs of
their clients for advice on export marketing and production strategies and
issues. Thus, the technical assistance component of the project provides
training for a nucleus of staff in each financial institution in export
marketing and project appraisal, and also provides each institution with
ready acces. to international expertise and up-to-date information on
export markets. Ir. addition, the Export Development Fund component would
encourage firms to prepare and implement coherent export development plans
by providing them matching funds and technical assiatance in product devel-
opment and market entry. Second, the project would help meet the needs for
long term funding of export investment projects through the provision of
term loans under the credit component. Sub-projects would have a minimum
financial rate of return of 152 and an economic rate of return of 12Z. It
is projected that the EDF component would support about 300 firms, while
about 350 sub-projects would be assisted under the credit component. The
project will also have positive environmental impact. ICICI has adopted
clear environmental guidelines in its policy statement to promote
investments required for cleaner processes in existing industries, and to
abstain from financing new projects that do not meet the Government's
environmental guidelines.
6.17     Risks.  Given the historical emphasis of Indian industrial policy
on developing productioa capabilities largely for the domestic market, the
commercial banks and development banks have had only limited experience in
analyzing export projects. It will be essential that the participating
financial institutions improve their capability to promote and appraise
investments for export production; the technical assistance and export
development funds are designed to ensure that they can do this effectively.
The proposed Exchange Risk Administration Scheme is an important innovation
linking the relending rate to the cost of funds through floating rates.
Since this scheme is new, the Government, ICICI and the Bank will monitor
developments closely to ensure that the relending rate adjusts properly to
cover the costs of foreign borrowings and meet the needs of the financial
institutions and sub-borrowers for some predictability in their financial
planning.



- 36 -
VII. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
Agreements
7.01     Agreements were reached on:
(a) the contents of the Loan Agreement between IBRD and the Government
and Financial Agreements between the Government, Eximbank and the
PCBs, as they apply to financing of export-oriented subprojects;
conditions of participationt disbursement; procurement; sub-
project review and reporting requirements; arrangements for
proceeds to be retained as equity by the institutions, in amounts
equal to eligible disbursements of IBRD funds; onlending rates and
Government assumption of foreign exchange risk and repayment
obligation to IBRD; provision for IBRD supervision of end use;
reporting, accounting and auditing requirements for project
accounts (paras. 5.07 (Eximbank), 5.08 (Baroda), 5.09 (Canara),
6.01, 6.05, 6.06-6.07 and 6.10-6.15);
(b) the contents of the Loan Agreement between IBRD and ICICI; the
procedures for onlending on ERAS terms and spread; subproject
eligibility criteria; provisions for subproject review; pro-
curement and disbursement procedures; debt to equity and debt
service coverage limits; staffing and organizational strategy; and
reporting and auditing requirements (paras. 2.31-2.33, 5.04, 6.01,
6.03-6.04, 6.06-6.07, and 6.10-6.15);
(c) the contents of the Financial Agreements for the Export Devel-
opment Funds (EDFs); Statements of Policies and Operating
Procedures for the EDFs (Annexes V); Organization and imple-
mentation strategies for the Funds; Steering Committee
arrangements and delegations of powers to the participating
institutions; and Disbursement arrangements (paras. 4.06-4.11,
6.01, 6.08-6.09 and 6.10-6.13).
7.02     The Signing of financial agreements between the Government and
each of the Participating Financial Institutions would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan.
Recommendat.ons
7.03     The proposed Export Development Project constitutes a suitable
basis for a Bank loan of US$120 million to India and a Bank loan of US$175
million to ICICI at the Bank's standard variable rate, and terms of
20 years including 5 years of grace.



_37_                        ANNEX I
Page 1 of 6
THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA, LIMITED (ICICI)
1.      ICICI was established in 1955 to provide term finance to private
sector industrial firms. Since then it has grown into one of India's
leading financial institutions and it now provides a broad range of
financial services including: term loans, equity, leasing, merchant
banking, export finance and venture capital finance. It advises Government
on the promotion of industry and the financial markets and undertakes other
developmental activities. From its head office in Bombay and three
regional offices in New Delhi, Madras and Calcutta, ICICI operates
nationwide. The company has grown rapidly and total assets stood at Rs 36
billion and total equity was Rs 3.2 billion as at March 31, 1988. ICICI is
responsible for about 451 of all foreign currency loans made by the
financial institutions to Indian firms. In keeping with its role as an
important source of foreign funds the organization has established itself
in tbe international financial markets. To date it has raised over US$1.5
billion in multi-currency foreign loans and recent transactions have
involved complex capital market tecbniques and instruments such as interest
and currency swaps. However, as discussed below the ongoing liberalization
of industry and recent monetary policy measures will have some negative
effects on the institution, such as weakened portfolio quality and reduced
lending spreads, at least in the short term. The Bank has made 15 loans to
ICICI, the latest one being a US$105 million facility under the recently
signed Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project (US$360
million). The recently completed Project Completion Report for the 13th
loan to ICICI noted that the loan was committed and largely disbursed
within two years of the effective date.  It is too early to judge the
Project's overall financial performance but results to-date are mixed,
although a major negative factor has been the heavy burden on firms of
foreign exchange and interest rate movements.
OwnershiP
2.      At inception ICICI was privately owned.  However, with 812 of its
shares held by public sector institutions, now it is classified as a
government company under the Companies Act for certain purposes such as
appointment of its auditors. The breakdown of shareholding is as follows:
Shareholder                                     Proportion (2)
Public Institutions (including LIC, UTI              81.5
and nationalized commercial banks)
Private Indian investors                              9.2 (approx. 7,500)
Foreign investors (mainly commercial banks)           9.3
Total                                          100.0
ManaRement and Staff
3.      ICICI's day-to-day operations are guided by the policies laid down
by a 15-member Board Of Directors. One of the Board's operating functions
is to decide on individual projects involving exposure of over Rs 35



-38-                        ANNEX I
Page 2 of 6
million. The Chairman and Managing Director, Mr. N. Vaghul, came to the
institution in 1985 and has led it through a period of impressive growth
and profitability. In recognition of the changed business climate, his
current priorities involve finding new and cheaper sources of funds,
developing new financial projects with better spread than loans, addressing
portfolio quality issues, and collecting overdues.
4.      ICICI has a strong management team which is consistently able to
attract, motivate and retain highly competent staff. As at December 1988
total ataff strength was about 805. The institution is divided into five
administrative groups: operations, planning, special operations, finance
and administration.
5.      The Operations Group consists of lending and rehabilitation.  The
former is headed by a General Manager. It is responsible for the lending
function including appraising new loans, monitoring existing ones and
making collections. The regional offices report to the General Manager to
whom market research department also report. Rehabilitation function
including coordination with the Board for Industrial Finance and
Reconstruction (BIFR) is headed by a Deputy General Manager.
6.      Corporate Planning and Resources, headed by a Deputy General
Manager, develops and coordinates the ovrerall strategy and direction of the
Corporation. It is also responsible for funding the institution both in
domestic and foreign currencies. The increased importance of this function
has been reflected in the organization structure.
7.      Special Operations is under a General Manager.  This group's
responsibilities include merchant banking and leasing. The IEP is handled
by this group which will also be in charge of the EDP.
8.       Finance, Accounts, Administration and Personnel are supervised by
two separate General Managers.
Business Strategies
9.      ICICI has continually expanded the range of financial instruments
and services it offers in response to the perceived needs of the business
community and Government's industrial development priorities.  The
organization's latest Policy Statement, which was drawn up against the
background of the Seventh Plan projections, was adopted in 1987.  It
identified six priority areas for support:  modernization and technology
upgradationt export promotion; eaerging industries such as electronics and
communications; core industries; and energy conservation and pollution
control equipment.
Appraisal of Proiects
10.      ICICI's appraisal techniques are thorough and of a high standard.
The economic and financial rate of return norms used are usually 12Z and
15Z respectively. For projects of more than Rs 25 million or for which the
ICICI loan will exceed Rs 25 million, a domestic resource cost calculation
is done. For appraisal of export-oriented projects, ICICI officers would
benefit from training programs aimed at increasing their awareness of



-39-                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
current practices and trends in the international environment. The
technical assistance component of the EDP will play an important part in
addressing this need. through provision of training and access to on-line
data bases and export marketing specialists.
Developmental Activities
11.     In addition to its basic project financing functions ICICI also
undertakes activities to help the overall development of Indian industry
and financial markets. Thus the institution takes an active part in the
dialogue on topical issues affecting industry and finance, through
memoranda to policy makers and Government committees. It regularly carries
out suhsectoral studies and provides training and institutional development
support to national and foreign financial institutions. ICICI's has set up
a credit rating agency in conjunction with Unit Trust of India. Such a
service will provide support for any eventual move towards the development
of a lending system based on variable interest rates which are determined
by the level of risk. ICICI has provided since 1986 venture capital-type
financing through conditional loans. In order to improve and expand its
venture capital services it recently established a venture capital company-
-Technology Development and Investment Company of India (TDIC)--which will
focus on investments in high technology ventures. The new firm is expected
to receive support from the Bank under an upcoming proposed Technology
Development Project.
Financial Performance
12.     ICICI's financial performance has been impressive, as the figures
in Table 1 show. It has ach'.eved rapid growth and rising profits over the
last five years.  Total assets increased to Rs 36 billion at the end of
March 1988 from Rs 14.3 billion in 1983.  This represents an annual
compound growth rate of about 25Z. During this period the loans and
investments portfolio increased to Rs 32 billion from Rs 13 billion and net
profits almost quadrupled to Rs 770 million. Consequently return on equity
averaged 23Z p.a. during this period. However these impressive figures
will be difficult to sustain in future years unless problems of increased
borrowing costs, narrower spreads and deteriorating collections are
satisfactorily resolved. Gradual deregulation has meant increased
competition in the industrial sector and higher risk to financial
institutions. Net spreads (before administrative expenses) on the rupee
loan portfolio have fallen from 3.48? in 1986 to 1.90? in 1987188 due to
increased borrowing costs in the domestic market and fixed lending rates.
Spreads on foreign currency loans have been maintained. In recognition of
these trends ICICI's management has already embarked on a strategy that
involvess (i) greater emphasis on finding new cheaper funding sources;
(ii) increasing non-funded assets and fee income activities; (iii) pursuing
new and more profitable lines of business; and (iv) vigorously pursuing
collections of arrears.
Funding
13.      ICICI funds its rupee assets largely through the public issue of
bonds and debentures and to a small extent, through increases in paid-up
capital. Like the other development banks it has historically benefited



-40-                        ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
from access to long term funds at concessional rates. However, it has seen
the average cost of its borrowed rupee funds rise dramatically, from 7.55S
in 1983 to 8.252 in 1986, to 9.32 in 1987188, for two main reasons. First,
its lending growth rate of about 25Z p.a over the last five years far
outstripped the 10? official limit on increases in annual capital market
borrowings at concessional rates and the additional requirement has been
funded at the prevailing non-concessional rates of 12.5Z-132. 11 In 1980,
70S of rupee borrowings were at the concessional rate. By 1988 this figure
had fallen to about 54?. Second, the current concessional rate for issues
by the Development Banks increased from 7.5S-8.75Z p.a in 1983 to the
present 1 p.a. (l1.5Z for 15-year bonds) along with rates on all bonds.
ICICI's foreign funding operations have become increasingly sophisticated
a; it has taken up the benefits of increased competitiveness and
innovations in financial engineering on the international capital markets,
and the country's favorable credit status, to lower foreign funding costs.
Recent transactions have established the institution in the Euro-Commercial
paper and interest ratelcurrency swap markets. However, the spread charged
on all foreign currency loans is set by GOI and is currently 1.52, and thus
the lower borrowing costs are passed on in full to Indian borrowers with
only indirect benefit to the institution. The Bank has been an important
source of funds to ICICI and Bank loans currently account for 36? of all
foreign currency borrowings and 14Z of total borrowings. The Bank's funds
under the currently ongoing projects will be an important source of added
profitability for ICICI. Under the terms of three ongoing Bank projects
the institution was given a spread of 3S compared to 1.5? on other foreign
currency loans. 2, ICICI will be one of the financial institutions
participating in the proposed Exchange Risk Administration System, (ERAS)
which is being introduced to minimize the foreign exchange and interest
rate risk, of Indian firms on commercial foreign currency loans, obtained
through the financial institutions. This will put even greater demands on
its funding officers to skillfully manage its foreign currency liabilities
and the Corporation is keen to maintain its current impressive performance
by strengthening its skill in this important area. ICICI recently
requested the Bank to assist it in developing its liability management
strategies, systems and staff skills. In response, the Financial Technical
Assistance Unit (FTA) of the Bank's Financial Operations Department visited
India in November 1988, to identify areas for supporting ICICI's liability
management efforts.
Loan Portfolio
14.      As at March 31, 1988, ICICI had disbursed loans and made
investments in equities and debentures totaling Rs 46.3 billion, for
predominantly large and medium scale firms. Outstanding loans and
investments were Rs 31.6 billion and the sub-sectoral distribution of loans
was as follows: engineering sector, including metal products, mechanical
1/ ICICI is allowed to issue government guaranteed bonds and debentures
for up to 15 years at an administered rate of 11? and these securities
qualify for SLR of commercial banks.
2/  The three projects under which ICICI Is able to make rupee-denominated
foreign currency loans are the IEP, the Cement Energy Saving Project
and the Industrial Finance and Technical Assistance Project.



-41-                        ANNEX I
Page 5 of 6
and electrical machinery and transport equipment (24Z); chemical and
petrochemical industries (222); textiles (13Z); basic metal (9Z): cement
(92); and pulp and paper (42). For project sizes up to Re 30 million ICICI
would normally provide the debt finance directly. Projects greater than Rs
70 million are funded through the inter-institutional syndicate mechanism
involving IDBI and IFCI as well as the all-India investment institutions,
the State Financial Corporations and the commercial banks.
15.      Portfolio quality has deteriorated in recent years as reflected in
falling collections ratios from 1983-1986. However, collections before
rescheduling, improved slightly as at March 31, 1988, to 74.4Z (15 months
figure) as compared with 73.1Z in 1985, when the industrial liberalization
process gathered momentum. Total arrears stand at 3.1Z of portfolio
although about 64Z of these are accounted for by firms in five industries:
sugar, textiles, cement, jute and paper, which face long term structural
problems. The difficuilties caused by the more competitive operating
environment have, in many cases, been exac,rbated by the depreciating
exchange rate which have increased effective interest rates to over 30Z
p.a., for many firms with foreign exchange denominated loans.
Profitability
16.      As a result of the interest rate squeeze, ICICI's spreads have
deteriorated to the extent that, at the margin, it's basic lending business
is barely profitable. At present 12.5Z of total assistance is at
concessionary rates averaging about 12.02 p.a which yields a negative
spread, when marginal borrowing costs of 11.52 p.a, and administrative
expenses and provisions are taken into account. Furthermore the overall
situation will become worse over time as the older and cheaper funds mature
and are replaced with funds at prevailing higher rates. Given these
developments, ICICI has used a three-point strategy to preserve its
financial profitability. First, it has concentrated on increasing volumes
in its most profitable activities such as leasing and lines of credit for
equipment suppliers. Second, it has successfully held down administrative
costs in the face of rapid growth from 0.4Z of total assets in 1983 to 0.3Z
in 1987/88. Third it has placed increased emphasis on collections, through
the adoption of a comprehensive collection strategy.
Future Prospects
17.      Loans are expected to grow at an average rate of 152 p.a. over the
next five years, compared with about 202 p.a. for the 1983-88 period. As
the projections in Table 2 show, following five years of steadily rising
profits, ICICI is expected to experience a slow down in profits growth with
no change in current cost of funds and lending rates. Between 1983 and
1988, there was an almost fourfold increase in profits and return on equity
averaged 23Z.  Over the next five years, with no change in spreads. ROE is
expected to decline to about 14Z.  Spreads will narrow due to higher
borrowing costs as maturing cheap funds are replaced by higher cost funds
and weak collections squeeze profitability. Profit performance will also
be influenced by the extent to which ICICI succeeds in its plans to
diversify its funding sources (in order to tap cheaper funds), increase fee
income and successfully launch new higher yielding products and services.
The debttequity ratio is expected to stay mostly below 10:1 and minimum



-42-                        ANNEX I
Page 6 of 6
debt service coverage is projected to be 1.5. The key underlying
assumptions behind the projections are that: (i) there will be continued
rapid growth in high profit areas and non-funded business; and (ii) the new
debt collection strategy should improve the collection ratio, presently
74.42 (15 months). The declining interest rate margins are a cause for
concern and should be kept under close review by the Government and ICICI.



Table 1.1:  The Industrial Credit and Investment CorsOration of India Limited (KCMI)
(Actual anO Projected Incom* Shees)
(Rs billions)
Flscal Year End March 31 /             1983  1964   16S6  1966  HE"-             99  1990  1991  1992  1998
Incoo
Interest on Loans and Debentures       1.80   1.64   1.98  2.61   8.82          8.37  4.09  5.00  5.97   7.11
Fee  and Comission                     0.06  0.07  0.14  0.27  0.80             0.84   0.62  0.74   0.97   1.28
Other Income                           0.01  0.01   0.01  0.15  0.40            0.48   0.44  0.62   0.63  0.66
TOTAL INCOME                           1.88  1.62   2.11   2.98   4.a8          4.17   6.06  6.26   7.47   6.99
Exoxsm
Intr"et                                0.90   1.16  1.44   1.62  8.08           2.94   8.87  4.44   5.41  6.56
Provisions/Write Off. b                0.08   0.00   0.00  0.16  0.00           0.00  0.00  0.00  0.00   0.00
Salaries and Personnel                 0.08   0.08   0.04   0.06  0.11          0.08   0.07  0.09  0.10   0.12
Depreciation                           0.02   0.02   0.02  0.11  0.16           0.19  0.28   0.42   0.64   O."6
Oter                                  0.04   0.05  0.07  0.07   0.04           0.05   0.06   0.07  0.08  0.09
TOTAL EXPIENSES                        1.02   1.26   1.67   2.20   8.41         8.24   8.98   6.02  6.18   7.47
Profit Before Tax                      0.84   0.86   0.64   0.78   0.92         0.98   1.07   1.24   1.84   1.42
Tax                                    0.18   0.16  0.16  0.12   0.15           0.16  0.17   0.21  0.24   0.26
Profit After Tax /c                    0.21  0.26   0.88   0.81   0.77          0.78   0.90   1.08   1.10   1.17
Dividends                              0.04  0.08  0.08   0.09  0.16            0.14   0.15  0.17  0.19  0.21
Reerves                               0.17  0.22  0.80  0.52  0.81             0.64   0.75  0.66   0.91  0.96
Rati on:
ROE                                    21.2X  28.2x  24.6x  29.0x  27.1X        22.11  21.13  19.93  17.93  16.83
ROA                                     1.6   1. OX   1. 9X  2.4X   2.4X         2.03   2.03   2.0   1.6X   1.63
La Flscal Year End Is Deember 81 up to 1966 and March 81 from 196 onwards. March 1966 figures are for
15 months.
1b Interest incom  for 1984, 19865 is net of provisions and write-off.
tc The 1964 figure includes write back of Rs 70 million *rom doubtful debt reserve.
Source: ICICI.



Table 1.2: The Industrial Credit and Investment Cororatlon of India Limited (ICICI)
(Actual and Projetewd Balanee Sheets)
(Re billions)
Fiscal Year End March 81 /a           1983   1984   1ess   198e   Ig!s             1989   199o   1991   19    199e
Asoete
Cash and Bank Balances                0.88   0.42    1.47    1.51   0.75           2.10   2.60   2.60   2.60   2.50
Other Assets and Advances             0.80    1.05   1.27   1.65    8.18           1.18    1.10    1.16    1.18    1.16
Current Asset                         1.18   1.47   2.74   8.04   8.98             1.42    2.10   2.92   3.87   5.02
Loans (rupes)                         7.70   9.40  11.40  14.12  19.00            22. Wi  27.02  84.11  41.66  60.28
Loans (fx)                            4.60   5.60   6.88   9.27  11.00            12.83  18.88  15.06  18.28  17.09
Investments                           0.80   1.00   1.20   1.80   1.64             1.80   2.02   2.26   2.59   2.99
Net Fixed Aseote                      0.06   0.20   0.24   0.40   0.86             1.68   2.82   8.07   8.85   4.67
TOTAL ASSETS                         14.88   17.67  22.41  28.18   36.48          48.00  51."6  01.07  71.76   84.59
Liabilteet and Net Worth
Current Liabilities                   0.76   0.98   1.09   1.28   0.98             1.65   1.65   1.65   1.65   1.65
Rupe Debt                             0.41  10.12  13.02  15.27  20.00            23.17  27.82  38.68  40.08  49.08
Foreign Currency Debt                 4.08   6.14   6.6B   9.16  18.22            14.84  17.48  20.19  28.48  26.18
Not Long Term Debt                   12.49  15.26  19.58  24.48  88.22            37.61  46.80  58.77   63.47  76.21
Share Capital                         0.27   0.41   0.49   0.67   0.80             0.80   0.90   1.00    1.10    1.24
Reserves                              0.81   0.92   1.25   1.80   2.41             8.04   8.80   4.06   S.54   8.49
Total Equity                          1.08   1.88   1.74   2.47   8.21             8.84   4.70   6.66   0.64    7.78
TOTAL LABIIUTIES                     14.83  17.67  22.41  28.18  86.48            48.00  51.66  61.07  71.76  84.69
AND NETWORTH
Ratios:
Dobt:Equity (time) /b                10.30   9.80   10.40   9.60   9.50            9.40   8.00   8.20   8.50    9.10
/a Fiscal Year End Is December 31 up to 1986 and March 81 from 1988 onwards. March 1988 figures are for 15 mnths.
Lb Debt: Equity as defined In World Dank Loan Agreement form 1988.
Source: ICICI.



Table 1.8: The Industrial Credit and Investment Coreoratlon of India Limited (ICICI)
(Actual and Projed CFah Flow Statements)
(Rs bi l ions)
Fiscal er End Varch 81 /              19883   1984    1985   1998   1987           1986   1989   1990    1991   1992
-~~~~~ Il                                                GT*-------ict*d-- --
Sources
Operations                            0.88    0.5W    0.65    0.90    1.87         1.16    1.44    1.78    2.06    2.36
Share Capital                         0.00   0.0?    0.09   0.16   0.18            0.00   0.10   0.10   0.10    0.14
Loan Drawdownn                        2.28    8.18    4.69   4.64   18.48          5.82    9.37  10.8?  11.98   16.82
Repayments and
Disposal of Investments              0.86    1.14    1.84    2 29   8.64          8.83    4.48    6.16    6.04    6.42
TOAL                                  8.47    4.87    6.85   0.09   18.67         10.80   15.39  17.40   20.18   24.74
Us"s
Fixed Assets                          0.08   0.12    0.18   0.28    0.62           0.10   0.10   0.10    0.10    0.10
ODsburs_ents                          8.09   8.67    4.18    5.77   8.66           9.66   12.06   18.94   16.09   18.80
Invostente                            0.16   0.14    0.26   0.81   0.64            0.86    0.41    0.47    0.66   0.63
Repanymen                             0.41   0.68    0.98   1.16   S.64            1.58    1.68    1.91   2.28   4.07
Dividends and Other                   0.81   0.20   0.24   0.64   0.98             0.72   0.84   0.98   1. 6    1.14
Change In Cash und
Short-term Invewteente              -0.58   0.04    1.05   0.04   2.05           -1.4S    0.40   0.00   0.00   0.00
TOTAL                                 8.47   4.87   6.86   8.09   18.51           10.80   16.39  17.40  20.18   24.74
DSCR                                  1.60    1.60    1.60   1.70   1.80           1.40   1.70   1.60    1.50    1.40
L   Fiscal Year End Is December 81 up to 1We -w4 March 81 from 1988 onwards. March 1988 flurs are for 15 months.
Source: ICICI.



Table 1.4: The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited (ICICI)
Collection Performance Before Rescheduling
(Re billions)
Year                                     1983     1984     1985     1986      1987/1988 la
Amount Overdue at Beginning              0.27     0.31     0.37     0.56         0.83
of the Year
Amount Falling Due                       1.72     2.36     3.00     3.73         6.00
During the Year
Amount Collected                         1.49     1.96     2.46     3.10         5.08
During the Year
COLLECTION RATIO:                        74.92    73.42    73.0    72.3Z        74.42
Collection Performance After Rescheduling
(Rs billions)
Year                                     1983     1984     1985     1986      198711988 /a
Amount Overdue at Beginning              0.27     0.31     0.37     0.56         0.83
of the Year
Amount Falling Due                       1.72     2.36     3.00     3.73         6.00
During the Year
Amount Collected                         1.49     1.96     2.46     3.10         5.08
During the Year
Amount Reschedued                        0.19     0.35     0.35     0.35         0.62
During the Year
COLLECTION RATIO:                        82.8?    84.5?    81.5?    78.7?        81.8?
/a Fifteen months.
Source: ICICI.



Table 1.5: The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited (ICICI)
Arrears of Principal Before Rescheduling
(Rs billions)
Year                                     1983     1984     1985     1986    1987188 /a
Amount Rescheduled
During the Year                        0.09     0.17     0.17     0.19      0.30
Arrears At Year End                      0.16     0.20     0.31     0.44      0.63
Loans Outstanding                       12.52    15.26    18.65    23.88    30.36
ARREARS RATIO:                            2.02     2.42     2.62     2.6Z      3.12
Arrears Of Principal After Rescheduling
(Rs billions)
Year                                     1983     1984     1985     1986      1987
Arrears At Year End                      0.16     0.20     0.31     0.44      0.63
Loans Outstanding                       12.52    15.26    18.65    23.88    30.36
ARREARS RATIO:                            1.3Z     1.32     1.72     1.82      2.12
la Fifteen months.
Source: ICICI.



'able 1.6: The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited (ICICI)
Average Spreads
Foreign Currency Loans                     1983     1984      1985      1986    1987188
Average yield on foreign                  11.96S   12.842   12.242   12.50Z    11.252
currency loans
Average cost of funds                      8.79Z    9.362    8.45Z    8.48Z        7.20Z
Gross Spread                               3.172    3.482    3.792    4.02Z        4.05Z
Risk                                       0.59Z    0.952    1.412    1.322        1.602
Administrative Expenses                    0.40Z    0.392    0.362    0.302        0.302
(2 of assets)
Net Spread                                 2.18Z    2.14Z    2.022    2.402        2.152
Rupee Loans
Average yield on rupee loans              12.702   13.302   13.302   13.53Z    13.212
Average cost of funds                      7.55Z    7.802    8.192    8.252        9.302
Gross Spread                               5.15Z    5.502    5.11Z    5.282        3.912
Risk                                       1.87Z    1.782    1.652    1.802        2.01Z
Administrative Expenses                    0.402    0.39Z    0.362    0.30Z
(2 of assets)
Net Spread                                 2.88Z    3.332    3.102    3.182        1.612
Source: ICICI.



Table 1.7: The Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India Limited (ICICI)
Resource Position as at December 31, 1988
(Rs billions)
Share Capital                     801
Reserves                        2,408
Loans                           3,326
Deposits and Others               112
Total Resources                36,546
Loan Portfolio                 29,334
Investments                     1,640
Advance Payments
for Creditors                    670
Other Assets                    1.341
Cash Available
for Disbursement             32,984
Undisbursed Commitments /a      4,837
N.B.
Ja Includes US$116.72 million in foreign currency loans.
Rs 100 = US$6.84



-50-                         ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK OF INDIA (EXIMBANK)
1.      The Export-Import Bank of India was established by an act of
Parliament on January 1, 1982 to finance exporters and importers and
promote India's international trade. Wholly owned by the Government, it
took over the export loans and guarantees portfolio of IDBI, and became the
central body for coordinating the activities of financial institutions
engaged in the financing of exports and imports. It has its headquarters
in Bombay, three regional offices in New Delhi, Calcutta, and Madras and
three overseas representative offices in Washington, D.C., Abidjan and
Singapore. Its primary function is providing medium and long-term finance
for exports. Eximbank is a well managed bank which has grown rapidly and
maintained a sound financial coudition. Total assets grew to Rs 12.8
billion as at December 31,1987 from Rs 3.6 billion in 1982, representing a
compound annual growth rate of 192 p.a. Net income has risen consistently
over the same period to Rs 199 million from Rs 62 million and equity has
tripled to Rs 2.5 oillion.  Eximbank is the implementing agency for an
IFC-funded US$15 million Agency Credit Line (ACL) for supporting small and
medium size exporters and the Export Marketing Fund component of the
ongoing IEP. To-date it has committed about US$7.2 million for about 120
subprojects under the IEP.
Management and Staff
2.      Eximbank's operating policies are decided by a 15-man Board of
Directors headed by Mr. Kalyan Banerji, an experienced banker, who has been
Chairman and Managing Director since 1985. The rest of the Board includes
the Secretaries of Commerce, Finance and Industry, the Deputy Governor of
the Reserve Bank, the chairmen of the Reserve Bank, IDBI, the Export Credit
Guarantee Corporation, Chairman of SBI and Canara Bank and Chief Executives
of selected exporting firms.
3.      Eximbank is organized into six major operational groupss  (i) the
Project Finance Group handles overseas construction and turnkey projects
and technical services exports; (ii) the Trade Finance Group provides
export finance and refinaiice and funding for imports; (iii) the Overseas
Investment Group finances the equity contributions of Indian firms in
overseas joint ventures; and (iv) the Co-ordination Group is responsible
for liaising with various domestic and foreign institutions and agencies
including the multilateral organizations. Two other groups are responsible
for administration and planning respectively. Eximbank has 200 employees.
The Bank continues to attract and retain high calibre staff who get the
opportunity to develop specialist knowledge of export products and markets.
Operations
4.      Eximbank's main financing role is the provision of medium and long
term credit for export activities. Short term pre-shipment finance is
largely the domain of the commercial banks while Eximbank refinances their
long term exposure on pre-shipment finance. It provides post-shipment
finance through direct credits and refinancing of commercial banks' loans.
Eximbank has continually expanded the range of financing schemes and
services that it offers exporters. It has been able to remain a lean and



-51-                        ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
highly responsive organization. Eximbank also works with clients'
commercial banks, giving expert analysis of export markets and project
proposals and participating in export transactions either directly, or by
providing refinance in the case of smaller projects. Eximbank currently
offers 14 export financing programs.
5.      Eight of these programs allow Indian exporters of goods and
services to give term credit to their overseas customers, namelyt Direct
Financial AssistLnce to Exporters, Consultancy and Technology Services,
Overseas Buyers' Credit, Lines Of Credit(to foreign government agencies),
Refinance of Export Credit, Relending Facility, Export Bills Rediscounting,
Small Scale Industry Export Bills Rediscounting. The other six programs
enable Indian exporters to finance pre-shipment and investment activities:
Pre-shipment Credit, Hundred Percent Export Oriented Units, Overseas
Investment Finance, Computer Software Exports, the IFC Agency Credit Line
and the IEP Export Marketing Fund.
6.      Eximbank is the chairman of the Working Group on export project
finance. The Group also comprises representatives of the Ministry Of
Commerce, the Departments of Exchange Control and Industrial Export Credit
Control of RBI, ECGC and the Commercial Banks. The Group's main function
is to approve and facilitate Indian firms' bids for overseas contracts in
excess of Rs 20 million. Smaller contracts may be cleared by the
commercial banks, while those between Rs 50 million and Rs 200 million may
be cleared by Eximbank.
Developmental Activities
7.      Eximbank continues to play an important role in increasing the
knowledge and awareness of Indian firms about export opportunities. It
provides information on bidding opportunities for contracts offered by
multilateral agencies and is currently building up a detailed database of
importers of products which could be sourced from India. In addition Exim
regularly sponsors seminars and workshops on export marketing. Under the
IEP, it is working closely with firms to help them develop viable export
plans. However it needs to increase the number and skills of its staff
that have responsibility fcr helping firms identify overseas market niches
and develop appropriate export plans. The technical assistance component
of the proposed EDP will assist in this process by providing training for
selected staff as well as continuing access to data bases and international
experts.
Funding
8.      Eximbank operations are currently funded mainly with Rs 2.5 billion
in equity capital and reserves and borrowings of Rs 8.6 billion. About Rs
1 billion or 13Z of total borrowing is in the form of foreign currency
loans. Between 1982 and 1988 Eximbank raised about US$130 million and one
billion Japanese yen in the international markets through loan syndications
and swaps on increasingly favorable terms. A substantial portion of
Eximbank's borrowed resources are provided by the Government and the
Reserve Bank at concessional rates, in order to allow it to finance export
activities at below-market rates. Out of its total domestic borrowings of
about Rs 7.6 billion, Rs 4.35 billion or 57Z is in loans from the Reserve
Bank at 7Z p.a. In addition Eximbank inherited about Rs 1 billion in low-
priced debt (6Z) when it took over IDBI's export portfolio in 1983.



-52-                         ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan Portfolio
9.      Given current average borrowing costs of about 8.4Z and the fact
that 15Z of total resources are provided by equity the bank is able to earn
a comfortable net spread of about 3Z; despite the fact that about 952 of
its lending is priced at 7.52-8.5Z p.a. The portfolio is of high quality.
Between 85Z and 902 of the non-funded portfolio of guarantees is counter-
guaranteed with the Export Credit Guarantee Corporation and of the funded
portfolio about 14Z is short term commercial bank risk; 142 is long term
commercial bank risk which has been refinanced by Eximbank and the other
72Z of loans is 851-902 covered by ECGC.
Profitability
10.     Eximbank's five-year historical results are provided in Table 2.
The bank has maintained a rising trend of growth and profitability since
its establishment. In 1987 the value of overseas turnkey and construction
contracts approved by the Working Group rose 4002 to Rs 82 billion,
disbursements were up 142 to Rs 6 billion and guarantees issued increased
by 38Z to Rs 548 million. Net income was up 172 to Rs 199 million. Return
on average assets (1.7Z) and return on average equity (7.8Z) and the
debt:equity ratio (2.92) are low, reflecting the promotional nature of the
organization and its conservative liability structure.
Future Prospects
11.     In addition to maintaining its current profitability and sound
financial condition, the bank expects to receive a total of about Rs 1.75
billion in Government equity contributions over the next five years.



Table 2.1: Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbank)
Audited Income Statements
(Re millions)
Fiscal Year End December 31                 1983      1984      1985      1986      1987
---------------    Actual-----------------
Income
Interest and Discount                      324.3    497.5    617.2    733.9    908.8
Exchange, Commission, Brokerage
and Fees                                 12.8      14.4      13.3      10.7      11.4
Other Income                                 0.7       3.1       6.3       2.2       4.5
Total                                      337.8    515.0    636.8    746.8    924.7
Expenditure
Interest                                   196.5    323.8    391.6    475.0    594.0
Credit Insurance                             3.6       3.8       4.4       3.3       5.5
Administrative Expenses                     19.3      24.3      31.7      36.4      44.3
Provisions                                  24.7      36.5      46.2      54.4      72.3
Depreciation                                 5.6       6.4       9.2       8.2       9.8
Total Expenses                             249.6    394.7    483.1    577.2    725.9
Net Income                                  88.1    120.3    153.7    169.6    198.8
ROE (2)                                                8.78      8.76      7.9       7.75
ROA (2)                                                2.0       2.06      1.81      1.71
Source:  Eximbank.



Table 2.2: Export-Import Bank of India (Eximbank)
Audited Balance Sheets
(Rs millions)
Fiscal Year End December 31              1983     1984      1985      1986       1987
-------------------Actual------__________
Assets
Cash and Bank Balances                   257.5    476.7    312.4      827.0   1,398.8
Investments                            1,906.1  1,690.2  1,822.9   2,475.2   3,484.2
Bills Discounted                         459.0    500.0    927.3   1,000.0   1,000.0
Loans and Advances                     2,471.2  3,647.3  4,616.8   5,437.8   6,231.5
Other Assets                             257.5    359.8    431.5       682.1     646.0
Net Fixed Assets                          17.9     16.8      52.1       52.0      51.7
TOTAL ASSETS                           5,369.2  6,690.9  8,163.1  10,474.1  12,812.2
Liabilities and Net Worth
Current Liabilities and Provisions       133.3    167.3    244.6       367.9     521.8
Other Liabilities                         34.0     58.4      81.5     294.7      846.1
Dividend Payable                          20.0     30.0      40.0       50.0      60.0
Borrowings                             3,486.1  4,337.7  5,089.7   6,235.2   6,992.4
Notes, Bonds and Debentures              530.0    530.0    780.0   1,175.0   1,609.5
Total Long Term Debt                   4,016.1  4,067.7  5,869.7   7,410.2   8,601.9
Share Capital                          1,000.0  1,275.0  1,475.0   1,725.0   1,945.0
Reserves                                 120.9    211.2    324.9       444.4     583.1
Reserve for loan loss                     44.9     81.3    127.5       181.9     254.2
Total Equity                           1,165.8  1,567.5  1,927.4   2,351.3   2,782.3
TOTAL LIABILITIES
AND NETWORTH                         5,369.2  6,690.9  8,163.1  10,474.1  12,812.1
= m=       _      __= c= = = _z0
Guarantees Outstanding                 4,515.0  5,102.0  4,661.0   5,290.0   4,844.0
Source: Eximbank.



-55-                           ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BANK OF BARODA
1.       Bank of Baroda was set up in 1908 and nationalized in 1969.  It is
currently one of the ten largest commercial banks in India with total
assets of Rs 101 billion.  It operates nationwide with a network of over
2,000 branches, and internationially, through 52 branch offices in fourteen
countries. The bank employs about 42,500. Like the other major national-
ized banks, Baroda has grown steadily in recent years and enjoyed rising
profits. Compound asset growth was 11.5 2 p.a between 1983 and 1987 and
net profits rose 1532 to Rs 218 million over the same period. Net worth
currently stands at Rs 1.6 billion, or 1.6Z of assets. Bank of Baroda is
one of the Participating Commercial Benks under the Industrial Export
Project. Its performance under the project has been satisfactory. It has
made sub-loan commitments of about US$ 4.4 million to 22 firms to-date.
Furthermore the Bank's project appraisal skills and procedures have been
developed, to include economic analysis, as a result of its participation
in the IEP.
Ownership, Management and Staff
2.       Baroda has been 1002 Government-owned since 1969.  The bank's
operating policy guidelines are laid down by a Board of 4 Directors,
including one representative of the Government of India and one from
Reserve Bank of India. Day-to-day operations are handled by a senior
management team comprising the Chairman and Managing Director Mr. Premit
Singh, one Executive Director and five General Managers in India and one
based in London. They are assisted by 13 Deputy General managers with
functional responsibilities.
Operations
3.       The bank's domestic operations are divided into 12 zones, each
headed by Deputy General Manager, or in the case of smaller zones-an
Assistant General Manager. Below this level there are about 52 Regional
Managers, who each control 40-50 branches. Baroda has the largest number
of foreign branches among Indian banks. The European operations are
handled from branches in London and Brussels, while the New York branch
covers the Americas and the Pacific. Baroda provides a full range of com-
mercial banking services and also offers various capital market products
including management of public issues of equities and debentures, under-
writing, funds management and financial advisory services. For its basic
lending business the bank has decentralized approval authorities right up
to the branch level, with provisions for post-sanction scrutiny of loan
decisions. Proposals involving amounts in excess of Rs 30 million are
decided by the Board of Directors.
Funding
4.       About 902 of Baroda's total funding is provided by deposits with
the balance coming from long term borrowings (6.3Z), equity (1.72) and
other sources (2Z). Deposits rose 172 in 1987 to Rs 86 billion, with
current accounts representing about 162 of total. At the international
level, the bank maintained its presence in the capital markets with two
Floating Rate Certificate of Deposit issues for a total of USS 60 million.



-56-                           ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
Loan Portfolio
5.       In 1987 Baroda's loan portfolio grew 162 to Re 47 billion.  As
with other commercial banks in India only limited information is available
on portfolio status. The bank has referred about 64 medium and large scale
companies representing loans outstanding of Rs 1.3 billion (2.7? of total)
to the Board for Industrial and Financial Reconstruction (BIFR), for finan-
cial rehabilitation. Baroda continues to place emphasis on improving
credit quality. An important part of this process is staff training in
credit analysis as well as the ongoing computerization of its operations,
which should help provide more timely information and facilitate closer
monitoring of accounts. In addition the procedures for economic rate of
return analysis of investment projects, introduced as a result of its
participation in the Industrial Export Project is helping to upgrade the
bank's project analysis capabilities.
Profitability and Future Prospects
6.       Baroda's profits doubled between 1985 and 1987 to Rs 218 million,
reflecting a rapid increase in business volumes and return on equity
increased 302 to 13.61 over the period.  The bank has a strong commitment
to supporting exports, and in particular, manufactured exports.  It has
recently set up five International Business Branches to provide specialist
services to export clients. In addition, the bank has established six
export advisory cells, to assist smaller firms with the planning and imple-
mentation of their export strategies. Baroda intends to build on the gains
achieved uader the IEP during implementation of the Export Development
Project. As part of its preparation for the new project it has carried out
a preliminary market survey to highlight the geographical areas and product
groups on which it will concentrate its marketing efforts under the EDP.
Like the country's other lending institutions the bank will need to pay
closer attention to the quality of loans made,given the more diffictit
lending environment that is developing as a result of the ongoing indus-
trial deregulation and other policy measures. The management has expressed
its commitment in this important area.



Table 3.1:             Bank of Baroda
Audited Profit and Loss Statements
(Re billion)
December 31                            1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Income
Interest and Discount                  4.20    5.10    5.86    6.46    7.61
Commission, Exchange & Brokerage       0.33    0.35    0.42    0.57    0.72
Other                                   _      0.01      --     0.01    0.06
Total Income                        4.53    5.46    6.28    7.04    8.39
8xpenditure
Interest                               3.22    3.88    4.45    4.94    5.99
Salaries and Allowances                0.85    1.10    1.28    1.36    1.51
Administration and Taxes               0.13    0.15    0.17    0.21    0.24
Depreciation                           0.03    0.04    0.04    0.07    0.10
Other                                  0.21    0.22    0.24    0.27    0.33
Total Expenditure                   4.44    5.39    6.18    6.85    8.17
Profit After Tax                       0.09    0.07    0.10    0.19    0.22
ROE (2)                                        0.79    1.38    1.81    1.74
ROE (Z)                                        0.11    0.15    0.24    0.24
Source: Bank of Baroda.



Table 8.2:     Bank of Broda
Audited Balance Show
(Rs Bi ll on)
Docember 1                     1988    1984    1985    1986    1987
Cash ond Short. Term Funds     10.65   11.98   11.11   14.76   16.66
Investments                    18.68   18.68   10.24   18.68   25.18
Advanes                        27.84   31.98   85.76   40.18   46.66
Bills Receivable                8.86    8.84    4.81    4.78    6.02
Net Fixed Assets                0.26    0.80    0.88    0.88    0.40
Other Assets                    8.88    8.65    4.48    4.89    4.80
Total Assets                68.47   65.81   72.28  88.8   9  101.2
Liabilities
Deposits and Other Accounts    61.94   68.12   61.87   78.80   86.60
Borrowinp                       1.86    8.68    8.76    2.95    6.986
ills Payable                    0.28    0.31    0.60    0.47    0.41
BIlls Roeivablo                 8.86    8.84    4.81    4.70    6.02
Other Liabilities               0.65    0.92    0.84    0.98    1.42
Total Liabilities           65.04   64.82   71.28   82.48   99.61
Eaulw
Share Capital                   0.14    0.14    0.52    0.68    0.66
Rmrves                          0.29    0.86    0.48    0.78    0.98
TotI Equity                  -0.48    0.49    0.06    1.41    1.61
Total Liabilitie  and Equity    68.47   76.21 7.83    88.89  101.22
Contra Ites                     2.64    2.B1    8.26    8.48    4.65
Source: Bank of Baroda.



Table 3.3i Bank of Baroda
Spread Analysis
Spreads
(2 of deposits)                                1984       1985       1986
Average Yield on Loans & Investments /a        8.592       8.972     8.512
Average Cost of Funds                          6.542       6.812     6.512
Gross Spread                                   2.052      2.162      2.002
Fee Income                                     0.592      0.642      0.752
Establishment Expenses                         1.842       1.96Z     1.802
Net Spread                                     0.792       0.842     0.962
NB.
la Net of provisions.
Source:  Indian Banks' Association-Financial Analysis of Banks, va:rous
issues.



-60-                          ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
CANARA BANK
1.       Founded in 1906 Canara Bank is today the fifth largest commercial
bank in India. As ai December 31, 1988 it had total assets of Re 109
billion and employs over 48,000 people. The bank has its head office in
Bangalore and its 1,864 branches are located throughout the country. It
also has a branch in London. In recent years Canara has developed a
reputation as a highly innovative, aggressive and responsive bank and this
is reflected in the rapid growth of its operations. Over the last five
years (1983-87) it has outstripped the other nationalized commercial banks
in virtually all the major performance indicators. Total assets have grown
at an annual compound rate of 202, deposits and other accounts rose by
182 p.a. to Rs 79 billion, or 6? of the total for all Scheduled Commercial
Banks. Reflecting the massive profitability of the bank total equity has
grown at an annual compound rate of 452 since 1983, making Canara one of
the best capitalized of all the nationalized banks. Net profit rose by
148Z to Rs 455 million in FY87. The bank expects to maintain the current
momentum and grow at a similar rate in the coming years. Such continued
fast growth will pose challenging management issues for the bank's
leadership. Given the more difficult lending environment that has resulted
from the ongoing industrial liberalization there will be a need for greater
emphasis on the quality of additional assets booked. Canara is one of the
Participating Commercial Banks under the Engineering Ancillary component of
the IEP. This is the first time that Canara has worked with the Bank and
the results have been beneficial. Canara has expanded its appraisal
methods to incorporate economic analysis of projects. The Bank has
committed US$4.2 million covering 22 sub-projects to-date.
Ownership
2.       Canara Bank is 100X Government-owned.  It was one of 14 commercial
banks that were nationalized in 1969, as part of the Government's efforts
to direct credit and investment patterns in harmony with national
priorities and social objectives.
Management and Staff
3.       Canara Bank's dynamic growth has been maintained under the
leadership of Mr. N.D. Prabhu, who became Chairman and Managing Director in
1988, after previously serving as Executive Director. Mr. Prabhu is a
seasoned banker, who has spent practically his entire career at Canara and
has risen rapidly through the ranks since joining the bank in 1958. The
rest of the 4-man Board is made up of representatives of the Central
Government, the Reserve Bank, an Executive Director and an employees
representative. As with other large commercial banks Canara has a highly-
decentralized organizational structure, based on branch, region and circle-
level management tiers. The management team comprises 6 General Managers
and 16 Deputy General Managers.
Operations
4.       Canara provides the full range of commercial banking activities.
A hall-mark of the bank's rapid growth has been the aggressive pursuit of
market-share through the introduction of new products and services. A



-61-                          ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
variety of consumer banking services and savings schemes have been brought
to the market in quick succession. Furthermore the bank established a
merchant banking division in 1983 to perform a variety of capital market
services,including, issue management, underwriting, corporate finance and
investment advisory services. The bank has a dominant role in merchant
banking; it enjoyed a 322 market share of all new issues business in 1987.
Merchant banking profits contributed significantly to total profits in
1987. A new subsidiary-Canbank Financial Services Limited-is now
responsible for merchant banking business. The subsidiary entered the
leasing business in 1987 and this activity is expected to grow rapidly and
make a strong contribution to profits, given the higher spreads that accrue
to this activity. Other highly profitable activities into which the bank
has recently diversified, with considerable success, are mutual funds and
secondary market-making for Government bonds. As a direct result of its
participation in the IEP the bank has upgraded its project appraisal
methods to include economic rate of return and domestic resource cost
calculations. The technical assistance component of the EDP will enable
the bank to further develop its institutional skills for handling export
projects.
Funding
5.       Canara Bank's deposits have grown rapidly in recent years and
provided the basis for the expansion of its lending activities. The bank
has a 6.22 share of the deposits of all Scheduled Commerical Banks. In
1987, Canara had total deposits of about Rs 79 billion which represented
record growth of 162. However, the share of term deposits rose to nearly
60Z from 55? the previous year and the proportion of savings deposits also
rose slightly, with a corresponding reduction in the proportion of current
account funds. This led to a rise in overall funding costs and if
continued, this trend will adversely affect profitability.
Profitability
6.       As mentioned above Canara bank has, like other lending
institutions in India, diversified into financial services which are higher
yielding by virtue of the fact that their pricing is not administered by
ti- authorities.  One area in which the bank was especially successful was
in the active management of its investment portfolio and the secondary
market trading of Government securities. Record profits of Rs 450 million
in 1987 point to the success of the bank's overall strategies and
initiatives.
Future Prospects
7.       Although Canara has had impressive and sustained growth and
profitability in recent years, it remains to be seen how well it can manage
the results of such growth. Aware of the need to consolidate the gains
already made senior management is already focusing on achieving improved
collection rates. Nevertheless the bank appears poised to maintain the
current pace of expansion.



Table 4.1:              Canara Bank
Audited Profit and Loss Statements
(Rs billions)
December 31                     1983       1984       1985      1986       1987
Income
Interest and Discount           3.15       4.18        5.50     6.77       8.48
Commission, Exchange            0.21       0.25        0.34     0.45       0.59
and Brokerage
Other Receipts                    --         --          --     0.01       0.01
Total Income               3.36      4.43        5.84      7.23       9.08
Expenditure
Interest on Deposits,
Borrowings                    2.21      2.92        3.91      4.93       6.16
Salaries and Allowances         0.76       1.02        1.25     1.37       1.58
Administrative Expenses         0.16       0.21        0.26     0.32       0.42
Depreciation                     .03        .04        0.06     0.1        0.11
Other Expenses                  0.15       0.18        0.25     0.33       0.36
Total Expenditure               3.31       4.37        5.73     7.05       8.63
Profit After Tax                0.05       0.06        0.11     0.18       0.45
Ratios:
ROE (2)                        19.23      13.04       14.19    13.74      22.28
ROA (2)                         0.13       0.13        0.18     0.23       0.49
Source: Canara Bank.



Table 4.2:       Canara Bank
Audit;Tga Banee Shoets
(Rs million)
December 31                       1988       1904      1986      )988      1987
Assets
Cash and ShoK Term Funds           5.87       8.4       9.60     10.88     16.78
Investments                       10.60      12.35     14.98     21.53     27.22
Advances                          21.40      28.14     3F.60     41.68     46.69
Bills Receivable                   2.08       2.75      a.04      3.42      8.91
Not Fixed Assets                   0.25       0.31      0.67      0.70      0.91
Other Assets                       1.99       1.76      8.04      7.40      6.77
Total Asets                  41.54     65.70      89.78     85.19    100.18
Liabilities
Depolits and Other
Accounts                         84.60      43.26    65.28      68.19     78.78
Borrowing                          2.80       8.84      5.31      6.97     10.59
Bills Payable                      0.62       0.70      0.86      2.94      1.18
Bill Receivablo                    2.03       2.76      8.04      8.42      8.91
Other Ltabilitile                  1.22       8.11      8.26      3.08      8.25
Total LiabilIties            41.17      58.16    68.78      88.67     97.71
Equity
Share Capital                      0.07       0.07      0.30      0.42      0.42
Resorves                           p.80       0.48      0.70      1.20      2.0
Total Equity                 0.87       0.56      1.00      1.62      2.42
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EqUITY      41.64      63.70     69.78     85.19    100.13
Contingents                        2.86       7.18      6.46      8.0       8.85
Source: Canara Bank.



Table 4.3:    Canara Bank
Spread Analysis
Spreads
(I of deposits)                                1984      1985      1986
Average Yield On Loans and Investments La    8.97Z    8.93Z    9.132
Average Cost Of Funds                          6.27Z    6.352    6.65Z
Gross Spread                               *   2.702    2.582    2.481
Fee Income                                     0.552    0.541    0.622
Establishment Expenses                         2.182    2.022    1.851
Net Spread                                     1.062    1.101    1.252
NB
la Net of proxvisions.
Source: Indian Banks' Association-Financial Analysis Of Banks,
various issues.



-65-                         ANNEX V
Page 1 of 10
THE EXPORT DEVELOPMENT FUNDS - DRAFT STATEMENT OF POLICIES
AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
Obiectives
1.       The project objectives is to assist actual and potential exporters
to search, enter and maintain export markets. The specific objective of
all four Export Development Funds (EDFs) is to motivate and assist indivi-
dual firms with the preparation and implementation of export expansion
plans, that will create, cost-effective expansion of export sales.
2.       The success of each EDF in achieving this objective will be
measured very simply. Each fund will be expected to generate incremental
exports, directlv attributable to fund assistance, over the 5 years from
project start, of 10 times the arant support given by the iunds. So, for
instance, if an EDF client is already generating modest export growth in a
particular market, proposals must demonstrate how grant-supported activ-
ities can be expected to lead directly to this 10:01 additionally in export
expansion.
Resources and Level of Support
3.       Resources to be Provided.  During the three-year commitment period
of the project, the EDFs in ICICI and Eximbank will be provided with US$7
million of IBRD funds each; and the EDFs in Bank of Baroda aned Canara Bank
with US$3 million each.
4.       Level of Support.  The money will be used to give grant support to
eligible expenditures of up to 502. The intention is that, initially, all
support will be at the standard level of 50X. However, each fund operator
will have the discretion to reduce this standard rate, either in individual
cases, or, during the commitment period, for all further cases.
Eligibility Criteria
5.       Eligible Sub-Sectors.  The funds are to support any manufactured
exports, plus in addition, computer software services exports. Other
service exports, such as in tourism or construction, would not be covered.
6.       Eligible Firms.  To be eligible, firms must be eligible to be
clients of the fund operator, for its normal term lending business. It is
expected that EDP clients will come predominantly from the private sector.
Operations primarily funded from tha central or state budgets would not be
eligible.
7.       Grant assistance is intended primarily for manufacturing firms.
However, non-manufacturing exporters may be considered in exceptional
cases, subject to the following limitations:
(a) The supported export activity should be on the basis of stable
sourcing relationships with manufacturing suppliers, not on the
basis of pure trading.



-66-                         ANNEX V
Page 2 of 10
(b) The exporter should add significant value within the complete
transaction chain, either by providing support services to
manufacturers, that they are not in a position to provide
themselves, or by providing sourcing services to foreign buyers.
8.       Eligible Export Markets.  Support will deliberately be
concentrated on those import markets where the effectiveness of export
marketing and adaptation is most likely to be a signJficant determinant of
export success. Thus, support will be concentrated on exports directed to
the industrialized market economies, plus the newly industrializing
countries.
9.       In exceptional cases, EDF grant assistance may be used for
exporting to other markets, all such cases are to be referred to the World
Bank for prior approval.
10.      Eligible Activities.  In principle, any activity within a properly
formulated eligible export expansion plan, that can be convincingly
demonstrated to be cost-effective in terms of its 10:1 impact on export
expansion, is eligible for support. For guidance, however, a list of
typical eligible activities are:
(a) Desk Research is an important measure in directing field research
at most promising geographical areas, and product market segments.
(b) Overseas Field Market Research, a main input into the formulation
of an export marketing strategy, should aim to answer the four
questions fundamental to such a strategy: (i) Which products are
required? (ii) What are the channels of distribution? (iii) Who
makes the purchasing decision? (iv) What factors affect this
decision?
(c) Minor Product Adaptation. When market research shows product
adaptation to be required/justified, support will be given for
advisory and technical services in product redesign, advice on
packaging and product testing.
(d) Overseas Travel by Company Executives. Travel and subsistence
costs would be supported for purposes directly related to the
company's marketing strategy, e.g., (i) finding and appointing
agents and distributors; (ii) direct selling; and (iii) keeping
up-to-date with product developments. This activity would be
supported only when travel is directly reiated to a strategy based
on adequate market research.
(e) Product Inspection Services. In cases in which overseas buyers
are concerned about product quality and consistency, companies
should be encouraged to use the seal of approval of a recognized
inspection agency. The choice of inspection agency will be open
to the company, but it is likely that most buyers will be
impressed by a seal of approval from an internationally recognized
agency.



-67-                         ANNEX V
Page 3 of 10
(f)  Training.  To encourage a more informed, strategic approach to
export marketing, particularly in industrialized corntries,
support will be given to training in export marketing, including:
(i) export marketing methods such as pricing, distribution
channels, and promotion methods; (ii) export market research;
(iii) organizing an export department; and (iv) export procedures
including GOI support schemes, shipping and forwarding.
(g) Establishing Overseas Operations. While the direct operating
expenses of overseas operation (e.g., warehouses, sales offices)
will not be funded by the EDFs. support will be given during the
planning and start-up phases of such operations for travel by
company executives and the costs of advisory and technical
services on warehouse siting, recruiting local staff, and sales
force organization.
(h) Travel to India by Potential Buyers. Support will apply only
where a buyer is invited by one or more exporters, and will extend
only to the contribution to travel costs made by these buyers.
(i) Productivity Consultants and Technicians assist in analyzing and
implementing: (i) cost reduction and quality improvement moves
which firms could make with or without additional fixed investment
but which would increase sales volume with a focus on improving
material handling, processing methods and tooling to increase
production efficiency and achieve consistent quality; (ii) choice
of process/product technology which would be compatible with a
significant expansion in exports to more demanding markets; (iii)
setting up of Productivity Cells with specific work plans and with
measurable achievements on projected yields and quality of
production; or (iv) shared R&D effort to increase production
efficiency.
(j) Ancillary Development Consultancy. Such assistance would be made
available to supplier development departments of individual
companies, as well as to groups of r- ant firms. It would be
used to identify with larger firms p .acts suitable for
production by ancillaries; to select ancillaries in a position to
specialize, modernize and expand to meet a growing portion of a
larger firm's requirzments; and recommend appropriate internal
organizations for more active ancillary development by larger
firms.
(k) Supervisor TraininR. Trainers and materials to develop and
implement supervisor training in formal sessions and on the shop
floor to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of supervisory
functions, and enable needed improvements in productivity in
relation to either the market in India or abroad.
(1) Design and Product Adaptation. Consultancy and small material
expenditures to undertake design and product adaptation in
response to identified market opportunities at unit level or
through group cooperation and action.



-68-                         ANNEX V
Page 4 of 10
(m) Exposure to plants in competing countries and to other factories
operated with foreign collaborators to tap the strong capabilities
among Indian manufacturers to adapt appropriate production
practices of others.
(n) Workshops, seminars and firm level work by potential collaborators
or institutions which see potential for expanding under exports,
with such exercises directed at productivity and technology
improvement.
(o) Expenditures incurred ons (i) acquiring design/process know-how;
(ii) R&D, especially of developmental nature with a view to
adapting product to export demand.
11.      Normally, grant support will be restricted to one export expansion
plan per firm, or per separate marketing operation within a divisionalized
firm. The intention is that grant support will encourage the firm or
division into a planned approach to export expansion. Once this
encouragement has been given once, it should not be necessary to repeat it.
However, the benefits of advice on export planning; help with clearances;
and the promotion of the benefits of exporting to top management may be
extended, at its discretion, by each operator beyond the first grant-
assisted expansion plan. To monitor this, firms will be requested, in
their applications, to certify that no EDF grant has been received from any
other operator.
12.      Once a firm or separate product division with independent export
marketing management has obtained EDF grant assistance from one of the four
operators, it automatically becomes ineligible for assistance from the EDF
of any other operator.
13.      Eligible Export Expansion Plans.  Such a plan should take a firm,
or division, from its present exporting situation to a future situation
representing a significant expansion in export performance.  Normally, such
a plan would take the form of three distinct stagest
Ca) Market Exploration. An export expansion plan should normally
start with exploration of market opportunities. Desk work in
India should firstly determine the most suitable import markets to
visit. The field marketing research would then use one-to-one
personal interviews with potential buyers and others, to answer
four fundamental marketing questions: (i) What products are being
bought? (ii) What are the channels of distribution? (iii) Who
makes the buying decision? (iv) What factors affect this decision?
This information from the markets is then compared with the firm's
present supply capability, not just in terms of the product
specification itself, but covering all aspects of the supply
package, including delivery reliability, maintenance of quality,
speed of response to letters, etc. This analysis leads into the
next stage.
(b) Supply Package Adaptation. This stage consists of a series of
specific measures, which will upgrade those supply package aspects
highlighted in the first stage analysis. The measures might, for



-69-                         ANNEX V
Page 5 of 10
instance, be in product redesign, quality maintenance systems,
packaging, export office efficiency, training of export staff,
etc.
(c)  Sales Promotion.  Once adequate progress has been made in adapting
the supply package, so as to meet market preferences, then, and
only then, will this third stage begin. Activities directed
specifically at achieving sales will take place during this stage.
They might include, for instance, direct selling visits by
representatives of the firm itself; or visits to appoint agents or
distributors; or participation in specialized trade fairs.
14.      The intention is that adaptation expenditures would need to be
justified by specific evidence from market exploration that these measures
would address critical constraints, and would do so in a manner likely to
be effective in achieving additional export sales. Equally, sales
promotion expenditures would need to be justified by evidence that progress
with adaptation had created a supply package adequately in line with market
preferences, as revealed by the initial exploration.
15.      Eligible Expenditures.  Grant support will be given for
expenditures on services and travel, incurred specifically on eligible
activities. Support will be restricted to once-off start-up costs only.
No ongoing expenditures, such as salaries or rentals, will be supported.
Similarly, support will be restricted to incremental costs only. No 'sunk
costs' will be supported.
16.      Purchase of jigs, fixtures, tools, equipment, machinery and other
hardware will not be eligible. They may, however, be supported separately,
using term loan finance provided under this project. The 50t grant support
is not intended to cover, as of right, every expenditure incurred in
respect of a firm's export activities. The intention is to motivate proper
planned expansion. It is also to encourage particularly the use of outside
expertise, to speed the initial learning curve; and also to encourage the
use of overseas travel, to speed the process of comprehending and meeting
the preferences of distant markets.
GOI Supervision of the Funds
17.      The Two Steering Committees.  The two existing committees
supervising the funds in ICICI and Eximbank will continue. The Eximbank
Steering Committee, chaired by the representative of the Ministry of
Commerce, will extend its coverage to the two new fund operators.
18.      Each EDF will be managed by its operator.  But these operations
will be guided, on behalf of GOI, by the responsible steering committee.
The committee wills
(a) approve this SPOP and any updates;
(b) review progress in each fund, on the basis of qvarterly reports;
and
(c) delegate to the operators the power to approve grants below the
agreed approval limits (see below).



-70-                         ANNEX V
Page 6 of 10
(d) since the present EMF committee will extend its coverage to two
further funds, a representative of the operator concerned will be
seconded to the committee, when discussions concern one of these
two additional funds.
19.      The actual make-up of the committees is expected to continue much
as in the first project. However, additional representation from the
concerned industry could be included as appropriate.
20.      GOI Clearances.  Experience in the first project has demonstrated
the importance of this element of the support package, in offering single-
point clearances, by the various GOI authorities represented on the
committees. Such clearances are given on the basis of fund support for a
firm's ex?ort expansion plan.  This element will be further strengthened in
the new project.
21.      The present EMP Blanket Permit Scheme will be extended to
incorporate the PCBs. In addition, the steering committees will have
delegated to them the following additional specific clearance powers:
- The committees will have the power to approve specific foreign
technical or marketing consultants, required within an approved
export expansion plan.
- On the basis that the EDF's would only support specialized
product-specific trade-fair participation, the committees will
have the power to approve participation within an approved
expansion plan.
- In order to achieve the desired motivational effect in a variety
of travel circumstances, invitations to foreign buyers to visit
exporters' facilities in India will no longer be restricted to the
use of the national carrier.
22.      Approval Limits for individual proposals will be US$100,000 of
grant support for ICICI and Eximbank; and US$50,000 for Bank of Baroda and
Canara Bank. The intention is that each firm would normally go through a
sequence of three approvals, corresponding to the three stages described
above. Each steering committee will therefore retain the power to approve
any proposal which takes a firm or product division through a total
cumulative level of grant support of US$200,000 in the case of ICICI and
Eximbank, or $100,000 for Bank of Baroda or Canara.
23.      The intention is that the average size of an individual proposal
will be substantially less than in the first project. It is hoped that all
but a few proposals for market exploration will be below US$20,000; for
adaptation below US$50,000; and for sales promotion below US$20,000.
24.      No firm may receive total EDF grant support in excess of
US$500,00. In the case of firms with separate product divisions, each
having separate export marketing management, this limit will apply to each
division.



-71-                         ANNEX V
Page 7 of 10
Implementing Arrangements
25.      For convenience, the EDF operated by Eximbank will continue to be
known as the *Export Marketing Fund".
26.      Internal Management Arrangements will be different for each
operator. They are described in more detail in the final section of this
An.ex, under 'Details for Individual Operators.*  However, the common
features is that each operator will have an Export Development Cell,
managed within the operator's head office, responsible for administration
of the fund. This cell will be staffed by specialist Export Development
Officers.
27.      The Extension-Service Concept developed during the first project
will be continued and strengthened in this project. Each EDP officer will
be expected to spend at least 25 man-days each operational quarter away
from base, visiting clients and potential clients. He or she will be
expected to visit each active client at least once each quarter. The
indicators will be monitored in quarterly reports. Each officer will go
out and 'sell' exporting to potential clients; develop with them a basic
strategy on how the intend exports to contribute to total turnover and
profits; and develop with each firm its initial export expansion plan, to
be assisted by EDF support plus loan finance.
28.      During implementation, the officer will monitor compliance with
the approved proposal; give continuing advice and support; and encourage
further expansion beyond the initial plan, on the basis of its demonstrated
contribution to overall profitability.
29.      Processing of Proposals will normally go through the following
stages:
(a) proposal preparation by the client firm and the local EDP officer,
normally at the client's premises;
(b) submission of the completed proposal by the officer, operating as
advocate of the firm, to a higher level within the fund operator,
or to the steering committee; and
(c) negative decis!.ons conveyed to the client in person, by the local
officer.
30.      Monitoring Compliance.  Each operator will need to introduce
systems for monitoring compliance with the terms of each grant approval.
In particular, they will need to view specified outputs, such as market
research reports; overseas visit repoitst etc., in order to satisfy
themselves that grant expenditures have been for specified purposes. In
addition, they will need to satisfy themselves that each grant recipient
has made payments of his agreed percentage contribution to the total cost
involved.
31.      Confidentiality.  Operators will need to gain access to
confidential business information, if they are to be effective in
appraising proposals. Officers will have the right to view such outputs of



-72-                         ANNEX V
Page 8 of 10
grant-aided activities as reports; market entry plans; upgraded prototype
designs; etc. They will not have the right to copy them, or remove them
from clients' premises.
32.      Planning and Reporting Cycles will be common to all four funds.
Each operator will prepare detailed Action Plans for each full 12-month
period of the project, to be approved first by the steering committee, and
then submitted to IBRD 2 months in advance, for approval. Detailed Action
Plans for launching the new funds have been developed by each operator, and
agreed with IBRD.
33.      Each operator will also prepare Quarterly Progress Reports each
calendar quarter. These reports will be submitted to the respective
Steering Committee, and to the World Bank. The reports will indicate in
detail:
- whether or not the specific actions agreed in the Action Plan have
been achieved;
- totals for the quarter, and cumulative to date, for grants
approved internally; grants approved by the Steering Committee;
grant applications rejected; grant applications prepared, but
pending; and grants disbursed (total approvals and disbursements
should be compared with budgeted figures);
- a report on the status of reimbursements, compared with agreed
timetables;
- a list of grants by firm, with export expansion plan projections
for the following five years given for each, plus a computed
expected rate of return" on the grant expenditure for each.
34.      In addition, each operator will submit to the Steering Committee,
and to the World Bank, fully audited accounts for each operating year of
the project.
35.      Quarterly reports are to be submitted to the World Bank within one
calendar month of period end; annual accounts within two calendar months.
36.      Monitoring.  Supervision Missions by IBRD will take place
regularly. These missions will have the same rights of access to firm-
level outputs as does each operator.
37.      In order to monitor progress towards achievement of the target,
10:1 impact of the funds, each operator will commit its client firms to
provide export performance figures, right up to 5 years from project start-
up.  Each operator will also introduce within the first operating quarter
systems for capturing and analyzing this information on a regular annual
basis.  Each operator will report on this at least once each calendar year,
showing expansion plan performance against target, both actual and
cumulative, for each supported firm. This reporting routine will continue
for five years from project start-up.



-73-                         ANNEX V
Page 9 of 10
Details for Individual Operators
38.      ICICI will continue arrangements developed under the first
project. The cell which administered the Productivity Fund will become the
Export Development Cell, with a strength at Head Office of at least five
officers.
39.      This cell will rely heavily on the client prospecting activities
of ICICI's three regional offices. Ahead of effectiveness, formal
presentations will be conducted in each of these centers, so as to inform
all concerned officers as to the details of the EDP scbeme. Similar
presentations will be carried out in Bombay for other officers concerned
with initial promoting of ICICI services, located for instance within the
merchant banking and leasing sections.
40.      The concept of joint appraisal of export-oriented term loans will
be extended under the second project, so as to develop further the
capabilities within Operations in appraising projects relying on
international competitiveness.
41.      Eximbank will also continue arrangements developed under the first
project. The EM? Cell will continue under the direction of one Deputy
General Manager, devoting 502 of his time to the EM?.  At least two
officers will operate full-time on EM? duties; and at least three more 502
on EMF duties. This team will be spread between at least three Eximbank
regional offices.
42.      Bank of Baroda will operate its EDP within the existing Export
Development Cell, currently administering term finance only, under the
first project. This cell will continue to be headed by a Chief Manager
(Technical). He will be assisted at head office by at least three
officers, one of which will be of a level capable of deputizing for the
cell head.
43.      Bank of Baroda will commence EDP operations with an initial
network of ten centers. Each region concerned will nominate a Regional
Export Development Officer, who will spend at least 252 of his time on EDF
work. At least three quarters of this team will be from the Bank's fast-
track cadre of "DRO's".
44.      Bank of Baroda will initially target the following product groups:
castings and forgings; garments, hosiery and silk fabrics; granite, stones
and tiles; leather products; brassware and steelwares; diamonds and
jewelry; plus either chemicals or electronic items.
45.      Bank of Baroda has identified the following ten regions, where ED?
activities in these product groups will initially be targeteds
Madras, Bangalore, Coimbatore, Delhi, IndorelBhopal, Bombay, Pune,
Surat, Ahmedabad and Lucknow.
46.      Canara Bank has established an Export Development Cell at Head
Office, which will continue operations into the second project, dealing
both with term finance and EDF grant appraisals. This cell will consist of
a Project Leader plus at least one officer.



-74-                         ANNEX V
Page 10 of 10
47.      Canara Bank will commence operation with Export Development
Officers appointed in at least three "Overseas Branches,' in Bangalore,
Bombay and Delhi. Initial concentration will be in the following product
groups:
- garments, jewelry, software, auto components and other light
engineering products.
48.      Operations will be ertended in the next phase to Canara Bank's
other Overseas Branches, at Madras and Calcutta.
49.      Canara Bank will have an internal Sanctioning Committee for
approving free-limit EDF grants and, authorizing submission of non free-
limit grants to the Steering Committee.



-75-                          ANNiX VI
Page 1 of 2
THE TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FUNDS - DRAFT STATEMENT OF POLICIES
AND OPERATING PROCEDURES
Ob3ectives
1.       The four Technical Assistance Funds (TAFs) will operate in support
of the main instruments of the project, namely the term finance and grant
support extended by the participating institutions to exporters. The
objective of the TAFs is to enhance capabilities of these institutions in
implementing these instruments. In particular, the objective will be to
enhance capabilities in term finance and grant support appraisal, applied
to exporting activities; and in the advisory support the institutions
extend to new exporters.
Resources and Level of Support
2.       During the three-year commitment period of the project, the
institutions will be provided with the following funds: US$1,175,000 for
ICICI; US$675,000 for Eximbank; and US$425,000 each for Bank of Baroda and
Canara. For these funds, a Japanese grant will be utilized and passed on
to the four institutions as grants, exactly parallel to the arrangements
for the four EDF's.
3.       Support will cover 1002 of the foreign exchange elements of
eligible expenditures. The recipient institution will contribute the local
currency elements of eligible expenditures.
Eligibility Criteria
4.       Eligible Activities.  TAF support will be given for the following
activities:
(a) training of EDF cell staff, but also training extending to staff
from other departments, particularly those with an involvement in
appraisal;
(b) hiring experts with specific technical and marketing skills, on a
temporary basis, to assist staff both in advising exporters, and
in appraising proposals for grantL and term finance support under
the project;
(c) purchasing information abroad, in support of these advisory and
appraisal functions; e.g., simple market pointers, to assist in
promoting the benefit of exporting; and
(d)  promotional activities, aimed at motivating more firms to expand
exports, and to make use of the services offered by the
institutions.
5.       Eligible Expenditures.  TAF grant support will be given for
expenditures on services and on travel only, incurred specifically on
eligible activities. No sunk costs," such as salaries or rentals will be
supported, nor will hardware purchases.



-76-                          ANNEX VI
Page 2 of 2
Implementing Arrangements
6.       Annual Budgets.  Each institution will be required to submit to
IBRD an annual budget for each 12-month period of the project, to reach
IBRD 2 months in advance.
7.       Approval of Expenditures.  With the exception of small purchases
of information of under US$20,000, all proposals for expenditures to be
supported will require prior approval by IBRD. Appointment of all
consultants would be in accordance with IBRD Guidelines.
8.       IBRD approvals for proposals will specify the ^1tputs to be
available for Supervision Mission to view, as evidence of satisfactory
completion of supported activities. These might take the form of
certificates of attendance and performance on training courses; reports
from technical experts; copies of information purchased; etc.
The Initial Group Training Program
9.       The TAF Funds will be used to finance the foreign exchange costs
of an Initial Group Training Program. Each institution will be invited to
nominate four or five candidates, for which it will bear the local currency
costs of the program. The implementing agency for this group program
contract will be ICICI.
10.      The foreign exchange costs will be divided pro-rata per partici-
pant, and debited from each institution's TAF account.
11.      The training program will consist of two modules.  The first will
consist of around 12 days cf residential classroom training in India. The
second will consist of four to five weeks of individual fieldwork in Europe
and/or the USA. If the program is well-received, it may be repeated later
on for other staff, at the discretion of the participating institutions.
12.      The individual fieldwork astignment will represent the core of the
program. Each participant will operate this assignment on behalf of a
particular Indian firm. Before leaving India, each participant will
collect a firm profile, samples, and prices. The assignment will be to
carry out a market exploration exercise in one or two import markets, and
to develop for the firm a full market entry plan.
13.      During the program, participants will be given the opportunities
to establish contact with commercial and other information providers
covering several import markets; and also with organizations operating
registers of technical experts. These contacts will assist staff in the
purchasing of information during the project, and with the selection of
technical experts.



Table 0.1 The Technical Assistnce Funds
Techn ice l Assistance oMponent
(Rs Million)
1988198                  1989490                   1es0/9                   19s1/92
Locl   Foron  Total    Lel Forlon  Total                forinT              Local foreign  Total
Prolect Elmt
Initial Group Training              1.10   8.54   4.71        -       -       -         -       -       -         --      --      -
Consultancy Fen                      -       -       -        2.98   5.92   8.69       3.29   6.67    9.68       2.20   4.41   0.01
Data and Informalon Purchase                 -                0.a    8.s 4.23          0.7    .        4         024   2. .4 .18
Subtotal Base Costs              1.16    8.54   4.71       8.29   2.67   13.17      8.86  10.95   14.61       2.46    7.84    0.79
Physical Contingencies              0.12   0.38   0.47       0.s8    0.99    1.82      0.87    1.10    1.40      0.24    0.73   0.98       -a
Price Contingencis                  0.10   0.81   0.41       0.68    1.74   2.82       0.88   2.U    a.6s        0.81    2.42    s.23
Total                            1.40   4.20   5.60       4.20  12.60  16.60        4.90  14.70   19.60       8.50   10.60  14.00



Table A.l:   ExPrrt Structure and Prformance
Merchandiso Exports, 1980/92-1987198
(St M IIlion at Curront Prices)
1980,01    1981/82   1982/88    083jL4    1984/86    1985/86   1986/87   1987186
Prim ry Exrerta                    1    8,845       8,876     8,244      8,894      8,588      8,889      8,a04      8,818
Met                              2        69         91        87         7o         79         66         88         70
Fish                             a       266        820       895        887        866        8so        a89        480
Rice                             4       279        420       286        121        162        178        187        26
Ollcakes                         5       156        185       161        161        131        118        1s6        142
Cashws                           6       175        207        147       1o6        17i        198        267        261
Coffee                           7       267        187       208        108        202        240        268        216
Tea                              6       580        452       401        548        788        551        467        485
Spices                           9       1U9        118        102       124        198        244        224        258
Tobacco                         10       176        269       269        190        171        149        145         89
Raw Cotton                      11       221         50        li1       177         61         61        1SS         78
Iron Ore                        12       878        402       412        427        441        509        452        444
Other Primary                   18       669        749       714        827        819        722        586        609
Manufactured Exports              20    4,967       5,821      5,148     5,696      6,281      6,072      7,160      9,675
ChemIcals                       21       298        429       878        849        468        847        8ig        640
Leather Manufactures            22       470        464       426        498        648        568        775        94a
Textiles                        28    1,272       1,178      1,031     1,010      1,885      1,108      1,290      1,800
arments                         26       705        762        ess       789        994        974      1,143      1,490
Goms and Jeowlry                29       m          927      1,100     1,877      1,197      1,821      1,774      2,141
Enginerlng Goods                80       994      1,064      900         85S        Ol        887        793      1,170
Petroleum Products              81        81         28        186       880        246        448        Y47        S46
Other Manufactures              82       460        479       4a8        438        498        459        725        844
Total (B.O.P.) /a            40    8,882       8,697      8,888     9,089      9,789      9,481    10,464      12,888
MEMO: Statistical Dlscrepancy    89        185        176       848        807      1,0OS        669        632        760
/a Net of Crude Petrolem Exports. The statical discrepancy betwen  customs and rceipt. date has been
proportionally distributed among the various coponents of export.



TWbA A.2:   Export Structure and Performnce
Morchandise FExports, 1980 /81-1987/8
(US Million at Constant 80/81 Prices)
1990/81    1981/82   1982/83   1988/84    1984/86    1986/86   1988/87    1987/88
Primry Exports                     41    3,845      3,346     3,288      3,330      8,518      8,315      3,757      8,476
meat                             42       89         91        90         78         90         72         72         72
Fish                             43      286        293      388         399        401        366        411        404
RICe                             44      279        348        186        75        110        103         75        102
OIc akes                         46      1S6        150       209        192        189        155        188        130
Cashews                          46      175        173       178        224        204        220        274        212
Coffee                           47      267        284       249        242        289        881        247        298
Tea                              48      630        S13       478        485        574        520        477        492
Spices                           49      189        134       140        178        197        160        169        148
Tobacco                          S0      175        286       289        201        209        169        185        158
Raw Cotton                       61      221         41        189       216         79         65        819        182
Iron Ore                         62      878        416       388        416        499        6S8        618        515
Other Primary                    68                 887       824        881        746        696        827        817
Manufactured Exports               60   4,987       5,848     5,268      5,682      8,401      8,286      6,899      8,694
Chmicals                         61      293        449       447        850        492        408        S10        S88
Leather Manufactures             82      470        728       702        787      1,040        887        999      1,169
Toxtiles                         63    1,272      1,189      1,089     1,029      1,811      1,072      1,207      1,464
armnts                          68       705        870       698        720        937        926      1,118      1,847
Gne and Jewlry                   69      771        780        916     1,146      1,086      1,084      1,489      1,664
Engineering Goods                70      994      1,009       879        811        978        958        769      1,088
Petroleum Products               71       S1         86       326        484        806        578        702        983
Other Manufctures                72      449        491       882        388        2568       379        817        341
Total (B.O.P.) /a             80   8,332       8,693      8,S56     8,M        9,918      9,680     10,657     12,070
MEMO ITEMS: UNIT VALUE INDICE
Primry Exports                   81   100.0       100.9      98.7      101.9      100.6      102.2       87.9       95.8
Manufactured Exports            100   100.0        99.5      97.8      100.8       97.8       96.9      108.8      111.4
Total (B.O.P.)               120   100.0       100.0      98.0      101.1       98.6       98.8       98.2      108.8
/a Net of Crude Petrolem Exports. The statistical discrepancy between customs and receipts data has been
proportionally distributed mong the various components of exports.



Table B.l:   The Financial System
Commercial Bank Spreads
1986      1986  Ja   1985       1985  la   1984       1984  la
Average Yield On Loans        8.742      8.602      8.802      8.681       8.75     8.64Z
and Investments
Average Cost Of Funds         6.37?      6.35Z      6.322      6.32?       6.312     6.31?
Gross Spread                  2.382      2.25Z      2.482      2.36?       2.442     2.33Z
Fee Income                    0.86Z      0.81?      0.78?      0.742       0.782     0.752
Establisnment Expenses        2.10Z      2.092      2.212      2.202       2.212     2.192
Provisions                    0.002      0.00?      0.00?      0.00?       0.00?     0.00?
Net Sfrpad                    1.132      0.972      1.05?      0.90?       1.012     0.892
NB:  Based on data for State Bank Group, 20 Nationalized Banks, and 50 Private Sector
Banks (including 20 foreign).
la Excluding Private Sector Banks.
Source: Indian Banks' Association-Financial Analysis Of Banks, various issues.



Table B.2:                   The Financial System
Structure of the Industrial Finance For the Private
Corporate Sector in India
(Z)
Fiscal Year End March 31          1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Internal Sources
Retained Profits                  20.22   17.72   12.3?   10.9?   11.4Z   12.92   11.52
Depreciation                      30.32   27.52   28.72   35.3?   33.42   27.5?   26.4?
50.6Z   45.2Z   41.0   46.2?   44.8Z   40.3?   37.82
External Sources
Capital Markets:
Equity                            1.6t    3.92    3.8?    4.1?    5.7?    9.3Z   10.0?
Debentures                        1.3?    5.0?    7.12    7.42   10.92   14.02   14.6?
2.9?    9.0?   11.0?   11.5?   16.62   23.3?   24.62
Comercial Bank Credit             20.4?   15.32   23.0?   21.21   19.62   16.62   16.52
Development Finance               19.4?   19.22   18.0?   17.5?   16.8?   16.7?   17.72
Institutions
39.8?   34.5?   41.0?   38.6?   36.4?   33.4?   34.2?
Public deposits                    4.3Z    3.42    3.2?    1.4?    0.5?    1.52    1.92
Booking/dealership deposits        0.4?    1.4?    2.3?    0.62    0.42    0.5?    0.5?
Others (incl. foreign loans)       2.0?    6.6?    1.5?    1.6?    1.3?    1.0?    1.02
Total                            100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0   100.0
Sourcet CMIE estimates.



