Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3059 IN
                   (Export Development Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                                and
               THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
                   CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
                        Dated May 26, 1989
                                               LOAN NUMBER 3059 IN
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated May 26, 1989, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION  AND  DEVELOPMENT  (the  Bank)  and  THE INDUSTRIAL
CREDIT AND INVESTMENT CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED (the Borrower).
     WHEREAS: (A) India, acting  by  its President (the Guarantor)
and the Borrower, having been  satisfied as to the feasibility and
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist  in the financing of Part A (ii)
of the Project;
     (B)  by an agreement (the  Guarantee  Agreement) of even date
herewith between the  Guarantor  and  the  Bank, the Guarantor has
agreed to guarantee the obligations  of the Borrower in respect of
the Loan;
     (C)  by an agreement (hereinafter  called the Government Loan
Agreement) of even  date  herewith  between  the Guarantor and the
Bank, the Bank has agreed to  make  a  loan to the Guarantor in an
aggregate  principal  amount  of  $120,000,000  to  assist  in the
financing of Parts A (i), B and  C of the Project on the terms and
Page  2
conditions set forth in the Government Loan Agreement;
     (D)  the Guarantor is expected to receive from the Government
of Japan a grant in  an  amount equivalent to $2,700,000 to assist
in financing Part D of the Project; and
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set  forth  in  Schedule  7  to  this Agreement (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions, in the Preamble
to this Agreement  and  in  Section  1.02  of  the Government Loan
Agreement have the respective  meanings  therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
     (a)  "Government Loan Agreement" means  the agreement of even
date herewith entered into between  the Guarantor and the Bank for
purposes of carrying out Parts A (i), B and C of the Project;
     (b)  "Prior Loan Agreement" means any outstanding loan agree-
ment between the Bank  and  the  Borrower and any outstanding loan
agreement between the Guarantor  and  the  Bank (pursuant to which
the proceeds of  such  loan  or  part  thereof  were relent to the
Borrower) dated before the date of this Agreement and "Prior Loan"
means any loan provided for therein;
     (c)  "Charter" means the  Memorandum  of  Association and the
Articles of Association of the  Borrower dated January 5, 1955, as
amended to the date of this Agreement;
     (d)  "Financial and Operational Strategy" means the statement
of lending, investment  and  resource  mobilization  policy of the
Borrower approved by its Board on  September 10, 1981, as the same
may be amended from time to time with the prior concurrence of the
Bank;
     (e)  "Sub-loan" means a loan made  or  proposed to be made by
the Borrower out of  the  proceeds  of  the  Loan to an Investment
Enterprise for  an  Investment  Project  and "free-limit Sub-loan"
means a Sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
     (f)  "Investment  Enterprise"  means  any  enterprise  in the
private sector, joint sector (private and public) or a cooperative
which is eligible to receive a Sub-loan;
     (g)  "Investment Project"  means  an export-oriented develop-
ment project  supported  by  a  strategic  export development plan
designed to significantly increase exports to be carried out by an
Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of Sub-loan;
     (h)  "Subsidiary" means any  company  of  which a majority of
the outstanding  voting  stock  or  other  proprietary interest is
owned or effectively controlled by  the  Borrower or by any one or
more subsidiaries of the Borrower  or  by  the Borrower and one or
more of its subsidiaries;
     (i)  "Rupees" and "Rs" means the currency of the Guarantor;
     (j)  "Foreign Currency"  means  any  currency  other than the
Page  3
currency of the Guarantor; and
     (k)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to in
Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the
terms and conditions set forth  or  referred to in the Loan Agree-
ment, various currencies that shall  have an aggregate value equi-
valent to the amount  of  one hundred seventy-five million dollars
($175,000,000) being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the  Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The  amount  of  the  Loan may be withdrawn
from  the  Loan  Account  in  accordance  with  the  provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  amounts  paid (or, if the Bank
shall so agree, for amounts to be paid) by the Borrower on account
of withdrawals made by  an  Investment Enterprise under a Sub-loan
to meet the reasonable foreign currency cost of goods and services
required for the Investment Project  in respect of which the with-
drawal from the Loan Account is requested.
     (b)  A free-limit Sub-loan shall be a Sub-loan for an Invest-
ment Project, in an amount to  be  financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan which shall not  exceed  the sum of $8,000,000 equivalent
when added to any  other  outstanding amounts financed or proposed
to be financed out of  the  proceeds  of  the Loan or of any Prior
Loan the  proceeds  of  which  have  been  or  are  being used for
financing goods and  services  directly  and materially related to
such Investment Project,  the  foregoing  amount  being subject to
change from time to time as determined by the Bank.
     (c)  The Borrower shall, for the  purposes  of Part A (ii) of
the Project, open and maintain in dollars a special account in the
Reserve Bank of India  or  the  State  Bank  of India on terms and
conditions satisfactory to the  Bank.  Deposits into, and payments
out of, the Special Account  shall  be made in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     Section 2.03. (a) When  presenting  a  Sub-loan (other than a
free-limit Sub-loan) to the Bank  for approval, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank  an  application,  in form satisfactory to the
Bank, together with: (i)  a  description  of the Investment Enter-
prise and an  appraisal  of  the  Investment  Project, including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the  Loan  and  the  necessary  domestic resource cost
analyses; (ii) the proposed terms  and conditions of the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization  of the Sub-loan; (iii) the
strategic export development  plan  of  the Investment Enterprise;
(iv) an analysis of  the  Investment  Project showing the economic
and financial rates of  return  which  shall  not, unless the Bank
otherwise agrees, be  less  than  12%  and  15%, respectively; and
(v) such other information as the Bank shall reasonably request.
     (b)  Each request by the  Borrower  for authorization to make
withdrawals from the Loan Account  in respect of a free-limit Sub-
loan shall contain: (i)  a  summary  description of the Investment
Enterprise and the Investment  Project, including a description of
the expenditures proposed to  be  financed  out of the proceeds of
the Loan,  the  necessary  domestic  resource  cost  analyses, the
strategic export development  plans  of  the Investment Enterprise
and the economic and financial  rates  of return of the Investment
Project; and  (ii)  the  terms  and  conditions  of  the Sub-loan,
including the schedule of amortization therefor.
     (c)  Applications and requests  made  pursuant  to the provi-
sions of sub-paragraphs (a)  and  (b)  of  this paragraph shall be
presented to the Bank on or before March 31, 1993.
Page  4
     Section 2.04. The Closing  Date  shall  be  March 31, 1996 or
such later  date  as  the  Bank  shall  establish.  The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
     Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per
annum on the principal amount of  the Loan not withdrawn from time
to time.
     Section 2.06. (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
of such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the end of each Semester,
the Bank shall notify the  Guarantor  and the Borrower of the Cost
of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
     (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.07
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.07. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semi-annually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
     Section 2.08. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
             Management and Operations of the Borrower
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end,  shall  carry  out Part A (ii) of the
Project with due diligence  and  efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative,  industrial,  and financial practices,
and shall  provide,  promptly  as  needed,  the funds, facilities,
services and other resources  required  for  the Project under the
supervision of qualified  and  experienced  management assisted by
competent staff in  adequate  numbers  and  in accordance with the
Charter.
     Section 3.02. Except as the  Bank shall otherwise agree, pro-
curement of the goods, and  services  required  for Part A (ii) of
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
shall be governed by the  provisions  of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment.
     Section 3.03. (a)  The  Borrower  undertakes that, unless the
Bank shall otherwise agree,  Sub-loans  will be made in accordance
with the procedures and on  the  terms and conditions set forth or
referred to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (b)  The Borrower shall  exercise  its  rights in relation to
each Investment Project  in  such  manner  as  to: (i) protect the
Page  5
interests of the Bank and  of  the  Borrower; (ii) comply with its
obligations under this Agreement;  and  (iii) achieve the purposes
of the Project.
     Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section
9.07 (a)  (iii)  of  the  General  Conditions,  the Borrower shall
furnish to the  Bank  quarterly  and  semi-annual reports, of such
scope and in such detail as  the Bank shall reasonably request, on
the progress of Part A  (ii)  of  the  Project, such reports to be
furnished within three  months  after  the  end  of each reporting
period.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The  Borrower shall maintain procedures and
records adequate to monitor and record the progress of Part A (ii)
of  the  Project  and  of  each  Investment  Project  and accounts
adequate to reflect in  accordance with sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of the Borrower.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have its records, accounts and financial statements
               (balance sheets, statements  of income and expenses
               and  related  statements)   and   the  records  and
               accounts for the  Special  Account  for each fiscal
               year  audited,   in   accordance  with  appropriate
               auditing principles consistently  applied, by inde-
               pendent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later  than  four months after the end
               of each  such  year:  (A)  certified  copies of its
               financial statements for  such  year as so audited,
               and (B) the report of  such audit by said auditors,
               of such scope and in  such detail as the Bank shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the Bank such other information concern-
               ing said records, accounts and financial statements
               as well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
               time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain, in accordance with  paragraph (a) of this
               Section,  records  and   accounts  reflecting  such
               expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
Page  6
     Section 4.02. Except as  the  Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall: (a)  conduct  its  operations  and affairs in such
manner as  shall  be  necessary  to  maintain,  at  all times, its
debt/equity  ratio  within   the   limit   referred   to  in  Sec-
tion 4.03 (a) (ii) of this Agreement; and (b) if such ratio shall,
for reasons beyond the  Borrower's  control, be exceeded, promptly
take all such reasonable action as shall be necessary or advisable
to bring such ratio within such limit.
     Section 4.03. (a) Except  as  the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall:
          (i)  not incur or  permit  any  subsidiary  to incur any
               debt if,  after  the  incurring  of  such debt, the
               consolidated debt of the  Borrower and all its sub-
               sidiaries then  incurred  and  outstanding would be
               greater than twelve  times the consolidated capital
               and  surplus  of  the  Borrower  and  all  its sub-
               sidiaries; and
         (ii)  ensure that at all  times its consolidated internal
               cash generation for  each  year  shall  be at least
               1.2:1 times the  consolidated debt service require-
               ments of its consolidated debt for that year.
     (b)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term  "debt"  means  any  debt  incurred by the
               Borrower or any  subsidiary  maturing more than one
               year after  the  date  on  which  it  is originally
               incurred; provided,  however,  that  current repay-
               ments of such debt due  and payable within one year
               shall be excluded therefrom.
         (ii)  Debt shall be deemed  to  be  incurred: (A) under a
               loan  contract  or  agreement  or  other instrument
               providing for such debt  or for the modification of
               its terms  of  payment,  on  the  date,  and to the
               extent, the amount  of  such  debt  has become out-
               standing pursuant to  such loan contract, agreement
               or instrument; and (B) under a guarantee agreement,
               on  the  date  the  agreement  providing  for  such
               guarantee has been  entered  into  but  only to the
               extent that the guaranteed debt is outstanding.
        (iii)  The  term  "equity"  means  the  sum  of  the total
               unimpaired paid-up  capital,  retained earnings and
               reserves of  the  Borrower  not  allocated to cover
               specific liabilities.
         (iv)  Whenever for the purposes  of this Section it shall
               be necessary  to  value  in  terms  of Rupees, debt
               payable in another  currency,  such valuation shall
               be made on the basis  of the prevailing lawful rate
               of exchange at which such other currency is, at the
               time of such valuation,  obtainable by the Borrower
               for the purposes of servicing such debt; or, in the
               absence of such rate,  on  the  basis  of a rate of
               exchange acceptable to the Bank.
          (v)  The term "consolidated debt of the Borrower and all
               its subsidiaries" means the total amount of debt of
               the Borrower  and  all  its subsidiaries, excluding
               any debt owed by the  Borrower to any subsidiary or
               by any subsidiary to  the  Borrower or to any other
               subsidiary.
         (vi)  The term "consolidated  capital  and surplus of the
               Borrower and its  subsidiaries" means the aggregate
               of the  total  unimpaired  paid-up capital, surplus
               and free reserves of the  Borrower and all its sub-
Page  7
               sidiaries after excluding therefrom such amounts as
               shall represent equity interests of the Borrower in
               any subsidiary or  of  any  such  subsidiary in the
               Borrower or in any other subsidiary.
     Section 4.04. The Borrower  shall  not  make any repayment in
advance of maturity  in  respect  of  any  outstanding debt of the
Borrower which would materially  affect  the Borrower's ability to
meet its financial obligations.
     Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take such steps satisfactory
to the Bank as shall  be  necessary to protect itself against risk
of loss resulting from  changes  in  the rates of exchange between
the currencies (including Rupees) used in its operations.
     Section 4.06. The Bank  and  the  Borrower shall from time to
time, at the request of either party, exchange views through their
representatives with regard to  the administration, operations and
financial  condition  of  the  Borrower,  and  the  Borrower shall
furnish to the Bank all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably  request  concerning   the   administration,  operations  and
financial condition of the Borrower.
                             ARTICLE V
                       Remedies of the Bank
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.02  (k) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  Any part of  the  principal  amount  of  any loan to the
Borrower having an original maturity of one year or more shall, in
accordance with its terms, have  become due and payable in advance
of maturity as provided  in  the relative contractual instruments,
or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable.
     (b)  A material change shall  have  been  made in the Charter
which would materially and adversely  affect the operations or the
financial condition of the Borrower.
     (c)  A change  shall  have  been  made  in  the Financial and
Operational Strategy without the Bank's prior consent.
     (d)  A Subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created
or acquired or  taken  over  by  the  Borrower,  if such creation,
acquisition or taking over  would  adversely affect the conduct of
the Borrower's business or  the  Borrower's financial condition or
the efficiency of the  Borrower's  management and personnel or the
carrying out of the Project.
     Section 5.02. Pursuant  to  Section  7.01  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any event specified  in  paragraphs  (a),  (b) or (c) of
Section 5.01 shall occur; and
     (b)  the event specified  in  paragraph  (d)  of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue  for  a  period of sixty days after
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower;
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.01. The following  event  is  specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within
the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions namely,
that all conditions precedent to  the effectiveness of the Govern-
ment  Loan  Agreement,  except   for  the  effectiveness  of  this
Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Page  8
     Section 6.02. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01.  The  Chairman  and  Managing  Director  of the
Borrower (or such other person  as the Borrower shall designate in
writing), is designated as representative  of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
               Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT)
               Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     For the Borrower:
          Industrial Credit and Investment
            Corporation of India Limited
          163 Backbay Reclamation
          Bombay 400 020, India
          Cable address:                      Telex:
               CREDCORP                         11 3062 ICICI IN
               Bombay
                                              Fax:  2046582
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                      RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                    By /s/ Bilsel Alisbah
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                              Asia
                    THE INDUSTRIAL CREDIT AND INVESTMENT
                      CORPORATION OF INDIA LIMITED
                    By /s/ Anil Kumar
                                         Authorized Representative
                            SCHEDULE 1
Page  9
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each  Category and the percentage of expen-
ditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)  Sub-loans for           175,000,000       100% of foreign
     Investment                                expenditures or
     Projects under                            80% of loans for
     Part A (ii) of                            Investment
     the Project                               Projects
                             ___________
          TOTAL              175,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expendi-
tures" means expenditures  in  the  currency  of any country other
than that of the Guarantor for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than that of the Guarantor.
3.   The  disbursement  percentage  for   Category  (1)  has  been
calculated in compliance  with  the  policy  of  the Bank that the
proceeds of the Loan shall not be disbursed on account of payments
for the acquisition of land,  taxes  or  duties; on this basis, if
the cost of land, taxes or  duties represents more than 50% of the
total cost of the concerned  Investment  Project, the Bank may, by
notice to the Borrower, decrease the disbursement percentages then
applicable to Category (1) as  required  to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made:
     (a)  in respect of  payments  made  for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement;
     (b)  in respect of  a  Sub-loan  unless  (i) the Sub-loan has
been approved by the Bank;  or  (ii)  the Sub-loan is a free-limit
Sub-loan for which the  Bank  has  authorized withdrawals from the
Loan Account; and
     (c)  except as  the  Bank  and  the  Borrower shall otherwise
agree, on account of  expenditures  by an Investment Enterprise in
respect of a  Sub-loan  subject  to  the  Bank's  approval if such
expenditures shall have been made  more  than ninety days prior to
the date on which the Bank  shall have received in respect of such
Sub-loan the application and  information required by Section 2.03
(a) of this Agreement  or,  in  respect  of a free-limit Sub-loan,
more than ninety days prior  to  the  date on which the Bank shall
have received in respect  of  such free-limit Sub-loan the request
and information required by Section 2.03 (b) of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The  objective  of  the  Project  is  to  assist  India's key
financial institutions in carrying out a strategy of promoting the
growth of exports.
     The Project consists of the  following Parts, as the same may
be amended from time to time to achieve such objectives.
Page  10
Part A:   (the Borrower)
          (i)  The carrying out of EDF Programs by the Borrower to
               finance part of  the preparation and implementation
               of  the  export  development  plans  of  Investment
               Enterprises;
         (ii)  financing of  specific  Investment Projects through
               Sub-loans  to  eligible  export-oriented Investment
               Enterprises.
Part B:   (Ex-Im Bank)
          (i)  The carrying out of  EDF  Programs by Ex-Im Bank to
               finance part of  the preparation and implementation
               of  the  export  development  plans  of  Investment
               Enterprises;
         (ii)  financing of  specific  Investment Projects through
               Sub-loans  to  eligible  export-oriented Investment
               Enterprises.
Part C:   (PCBs)
          (i)  The carrying out  of  EDF  Programs  by each PCB to
               finance part of  the preparation and implementation
               of  the  export  development  plans  of  Investment
               Enterprises;
         (ii)  financing of  specific  Investment Projects through
               Sub-loans  to  eligible  export-oriented Investment
               Enterprises.
Part D:   (TAF)
     The carrying out of TAF  Programs by the Borrower, Ex-Im Bank
and PCBs to strengthen their  capacity to appraise export oriented
projects and  advise  Investment  Enterprises  on  export strategy
issues.
               *               *               *
     The Project is  expected  to  be  completed  by September 30,
1995.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                            Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                           (expressed in dollars)*
December 1, 1994                               3,215,000
June 1, 1995                                   3,335,000
December 1, 1995                               3,465,000
June 1, 1996                                   3,595,000
December 1, 1996                               3,735,000
June 1, 1997                                   3,875,000
December 1, 1997                               4,025,000
June 1, 1998                                   4,180,000
December 1, 1998                               4,340,000
June 1, 1999                                   4,505,000
December 1, 1999                               4,675,000
June 1, 2000                                   4,855,000
December 1, 2000                               5,040,000
June 1, 2001                                   5,235,000
December 1, 2001                               5,435,000
June 1, 2002                                   5,640,000
December 1, 2002                               5,855,000
June 1, 2003                                   6,080,000
Page  11
December 1, 2003                               6,315,000
June 1, 2004                                   6,555,000
December 1, 2004                               6,805,000
June 1, 2005                                   7,065,000
December 1, 2005                               7,335,000
June 1, 2006                                   7,615,000
December 1, 2006                               7,910,000
June 1, 2007                                   8,210,000
December 1, 2007                               8,525,000
June 1, 2008                                   8,850,000
December 1, 2008                               9,190,000
June 1, 2009                                   9,540,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                            Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                            0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                            0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                              0.55
     not more than 11 years
     before maturity
More than 11 years but not                           0.80
     more than 16 years
     before maturity
More than 16 years but not                           0.90
     more than 18 years
     before maturity
More than 18 years before                            1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
                            Procurement
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Page  12
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods  manufactured  in India may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55  and  2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of $8,000,000 each
or less may be procured in accordance with the standard procedures
of the Borrower acceptable to the Bank for such procurement.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect  to  each  contract  estimated  to cost the
equivalent of $8,000,000  or  more,  the  procedures  set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of  Appendix  1  to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be  modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract  required  to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said paragraph  2  (d)  shall be furnished to the
Bank prior to the making of  the  first payment out of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding sub-paragraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (a)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                 Terms and Conditions of Sub-loans
                     and Processing Procedures
1.   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the principal terms
and conditions of Sub-loans shall provide, inter alia, that:
     (a)  in the  event  that  the  Borrower  makes  available the
proceeds of the Loan to  Investment Enterprises in foreign curren-
cies, such proceeds shall be  relent by the Borrower to Investment
Enterprises at a  rate  of  two  percent  (2%)  above the variable
interest rate of  the  Loan  and  the Investment Enterprises shall
bear the foreign exchange  risk.  In  the  event that the Borrower
makes available the proceeds of the Loan to Investment Enterprises
denominated in Rupees, such proceeds shall be lent by the Borrower
to Investment Enterprises at the  ERAS rate prevailing at the time
of disbursement;
     (b)  the  aggregate  amount  of  all  Sub-loans  made  by the
Borrower under  the  Loan  or  any  Prior  Loan  for an Investment
Project shall not exceed  $30  million equivalent either singly or
Page  13
in consortium with any other financial institution;
     (c)  repayment periods for Sub-loans  shall be at least three
years but shall not exceed fifteen years including therein a grace
period not exceeding 3 years; and
     (d)  investment Projects shall  be  connected with the estab-
lishment, expansion and/or  balancing,  modernization and replace-
ment proposal of an Investment Enterprise.
2.   No expenditures for goods or services required for an Invest-
ment Project shall be eligible  for  financing out of the proceeds
of the Loan unless:
     (a)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
approved by the Bank  and  such  expenditures shall have been made
not earlier than ninety days prior  to  the date on which the Bank
shall have received the application and information required under
paragraph (a) of Section 2.03 of this Agreement in respect of such
Sub-loan; or
     (b)  the Sub-loan for such Investment Project shall have been
a free-limit Sub-loan  for  which  the  Bank  has authorized with-
drawals from the  Loan  Account  and  such expenditures shall have
been made not earlier than ninety  days prior to the date on which
the Bank shall have received  the request and information required
under paragraph (b) of Section  2.03  of this Agreement in respect
of such free-limit Sub-loan.
3.   Sub-loans shall be made  on  terms whereby the Borrower shall
obtain, by written contract  with  the Investment Enterprise or by
other appropriate  legal  means,  rights  adequate  to protect the
interests of the Bank and the  Borrower, including, in the case of
any Sub-loan, the right to:
     (a)  require  the  Investment  Enterprise  to  carry  out and
operate the Investment Project  with  due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with  sound  technical, financial and managerial
standards and to maintain adequate records;
     (b)  without limitation to  the  generality of the provisions
of the preceding paragraph  (a), require the Investment Enterprise
to carry out and operate the Investment Project with due regard to
applicable  ecological,   environmental   and   pollution  control
standards;
     (c)  require that: (i) the goods  and services to be financed
out of the proceeds of  the  Loan  shall be procured in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and (ii) such
goods and services shall be  used  exclusively in the carrying out
of the Investment Project;
     (d)  inspect, by itself  or  jointly  with representatives of
the Bank if the Bank  shall  so request, such goods, works, plants
and construction included in the Investment Project, the operation
thereof, and any relevant records and documents;
     (e)  require that: (i)  the  Investment Enterprise shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against
such risks and in such amounts,  as shall be consistent with sound
business practice; and (ii) without  any limitation upon the fore-
going, such insurance shall cover hazards incident to the acquisi-
tion, transportation and  delivery  of  goods  financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan  to  the  place  of  use or installation, any
indemnity thereunder  to  be  made  payable  in  a currency freely
usable by the  Investment  Enterprise  to  replace  or repair such
goods;
     (f)  obtain all such information as  the Bank or the Borrower
shall reasonably request  relating  to  the  foregoing  and to the
administration, operations and financial  condition of the Invest-
Page  14
ment Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Invest-
ment Project; and
     (g)  suspend or terminate the  right of the Investment Enter-
prise to the use of the proceeds  of the Loan upon failure by such
Investment  Enterprise  to  perform   its  obligations  under  its
contract with the Borrower.
                            SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "eligible  Category"  means  the  Category set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
Part A (ii) of the Project and  to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan allocated from  time  to time to the eligible Category
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $15,000,000  to  be  withdrawn  from  the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
     (d)  notwithstanding the provisions  of  paragraph  4 (b) and
(c) of Schedule 1 to  this Agreement, payments for expenditures to
be financed out of  the  proceeds  of  free-limit Sub-loans may be
made out  of  the  Special  Account  before  the  Bank  shall have
authorized withdrawals from the  Loan  Account in respect thereof.
Such expenditures, however, shall qualify as eligible expenditures
only if the Bank shall subsequently authorize such withdrawals.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit  into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)   (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
                deposits into the  Special  Account at such inter-
                vals as the Bank shall specify.
          (ii)  Prior to or at the  time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish  to  the Bank the documents
                and  other  evidence  required  pursuant  to para-
                graph 4 of this  Schedule  for the payment or pay-
                ments  in  respect   of   which  replenishment  is
                requested. On the basis  of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special
                Account such  amount  as  the  Borrower shall have                
requested and as  shall  have  been  shown by said
                documents and other evidence to have been made out
                of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.
Page  15
All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the Loan
Account under the eligible Category, and in the equivalent amount,
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible Category for Part  A (ii) of the Project, less the
amount of any outstanding  special  commitment entered into by the
Bank pursuant  to  Section  5.02  of  the  General Conditions with
respect to Part A (ii) of  the Project, shall equal the equivalent
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan  allocated to the eligible Category
for Part A (ii) of the Project shall follow such procedures as the
Bank shall  specify  by  notice  to  the  Borrower.   Such further
withdrawals shall be made only  after  and  to the extent that the
Bank shall have been satisfied  that all such amounts remaining on
deposit in the Special Account as  of the date of such notice will
be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment out of the Special  Account:  (i) was made for an expendi-
ture or in an amount not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this
Schedule; (ii) was not justified  by the evidence furnished to the
Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly  upon notice from the Bank: (A)
provide such additional evidence as  the  Bank may request; or (B)
deposit into  the  Special  Account  (or,  if  the  Bank  shall so
request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such
payment or  the  portion  thereof  not  so  eligible or justified.
Unless the Bank shall otherwise  agree,  no further deposit by the
Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 7
                Modifications of General Conditions
Page  16
     For the purposes  of  this  Agreement,  the provisions of the
General Conditions are modified as follows:
1.   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
2.   The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.04.
          (d)  The Bank and the  Borrower  may, from time to time,
          agree upon arrangements for  prepayment  of the Loan and
          the application of such prepayment in addition to, or in
          substitution for, those  set  forth  in paragraph (b) of
          Section 3.04.
3.   Section 6.03 is  deleted  and  replaced  by the following new
Section:
               "Section 6.03. Cancellation by  the  Bank.  If: (a)
          the right of the  Borrower  to make withdrawals from the
          Loan Account shall have  been  suspended with respect to
          any amount of the Loan for a continuous period of thirty
          days, or (b) by the  date  specified in paragraph (c) of
          Section 2.03 of  the  Loan  Agreement no applications or
          requests permitted under paragraph  (a) or paragraph (b)
          of such Section shall have  been received by the Bank in
          respect of any portion  of  the  Loan, or having been so
          received, shall  have  been  denied;  or  (c)  after the
          Closing Date an amount of  the Loan shall remain unwith-
          drawn from the Loan Account,  or (d) the bank shall have
          received notice  from  the  Guarantor  pursuant  to Sec-
          tion 6.07 with respect  to  an  amount  of the Loan, the
          Bank may by notice  to  the Borrower terminate the right
          of the Borrower to  submit such applications or requests
          or to make  withdrawals  from  the  Loan Account, as the
          case may be, with respect  to such notice such amount or
          portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."
