Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3486-BT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR R7CONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$22.0 MILLION
TO THE
WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION
WITH THE GUARANTEE
OF THE
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
FOR A
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
June 14, 1983
Country Programs Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00                                 Pula (P)1.10
Pula (P) 1.00                           US$0.90
Pula 1.00                               100 Thebe (Th)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 cubic meter (m3)           =   220 Imperial Gallons,
264.2 US gallons, or
I kiloliter (kl)
1 meter (m)                  =   3.28 feet (39.37 inches)
1 millimeter (mm)               -0.039 inches
1 kilometer (km)             =   0.62 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)         0.386 square miles = 247 acres
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB    -   African Development Bank
BCL Ltd -   formerly Bamangwato Concessions Ltd.
CDC     -   Commonwealth Development Corporation
DWA     -   Department of Water Affairs (MRWA)
Gibb    -   Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners
MLGL    -   Ministry of Local Government and Lands
MRWA    -   Ministry of Mineral Resources & Water Affairs
SIDA    -   Swedish International Development Authority
UNDP    -   United Nations Development Programme
USAID   -   United States Agency for International Development
WUC     -   Water Utilities Corporation
CURRENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
I



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower                    Water Utilities Corporation (WUC).
Guarantor                   Republic of Botswana.
Amount                  :  US$22.0 million, including front-end fee.
Terms                       Payable in 17 years, including 4 years of grace,
with standard variable interest rate.
Purpose                     The project would help avert the repetition,
during the mid-1980s, of the current water
shortages in Gaborone, Botswana's rapidly-
developing capital, and help meet demand in
Gaborone and the nearby meat-processing center of
Lobatse until about 1988. It would also prepare
for additional supply after that date. The
project would: (i) raise the existing Gaborone
Dam by 8 m; (ii) expand water treatment and
transmission facilities; (iii) investigate the
sites for two additional dams and prepare prelimi-
nary designs for the dams and associated plant;
and (iv) help WUC develop a program for senior
manpower development.
"here are no appreciable risks, although physical
complications could be caused by the rapid rate of
construction required to avoid a future water
supply emergency. However, the likelihood of such
complications is minimal in view of the experience
of the contractors and consultants and the special
precautions being taken on the advice of a panel
of international experts, which will continue to
review safety aspects during construction. A
further concern is the exceptionally large tariff
increases required for WUC to meet its investment
needs and remain financially independent.
However, these are justified in the light of the
importance of security of supply to drought-prone
Botswana and measures proposed by WUC to protect
the poorest consumers, and are fully in accordance
with the Government's policies.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
t cial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:                                         US$ Millions
Local    Foreign    Total
1.  Gaborone Dam                       10.0        18.7      28.7
2. Extension water treatment/
transmission                      2.4        4.2        6.6
3. Site investigations and
engineering new dams and
associated plant                  0.4        1.0        1.4
4.  Manpower development                0.1         0.2        0.3
Base Cost                          12.9       24.1       37.0
5.  Physical contingencies               1.3        2.4        3.7
6.  Price contingencies                  2.1        2.1        4.2
Total Project Cost                 16.3       28.6       44.9
Interest during construction        1.2        3.8        5.0
IBRD front-end fee                   -         0.1        0.1
Total to be financed               17.5       32.5       50.0
(including insignificant taxes
and duties)
Financing Plan:                                          US$ Millions
Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD                       -        22.0       22.0
CDC                       0.3       10.5       10.8
Government               11.7         -        11.7
WUC                       5.5         -         5.5
TOTAL                    17.5       32.5       50.0
Estimated Disbursements:
IBRD Fiscal Year               1984       1985       1986
Annual                    8.5        8.2        5.3
Cumulative                8.5       16.7       22.0
Economic Rate of Return:   About 8 percent (based on proposed tariffs)
Appraisal Report         :   No. 4378-BT (May 9, 1983)
Maps                     :   IBRD 16921, IBRD 16922 and IBRD 16923



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE WATER UTILITIES CORPORATION OF BOTSWANA
FOR A THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Water Utilities Corporation of Botswana for the equivalent of US$22.0
million to help finance a Third Water Supply Project. The loan would have a
term of 17 years, including 4 years of grace, with a variable interest rate,
and would be guaranteed by the Republic of Botswana. A loan for about
US$10.8 million would be provided by the Commonwealth Development
Corporation.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The most recent economic memorandum on Botswana (Report No.
3647-BT) was distributed to the Executive Directors in August 1982. This
description is based on that memorandum and information obtained on
subsequent missions.
3.        Botswana is a landlocked country in Southern Africa, bordered by
the Republic of South Africa, Namibia, Zambia and Zimbabwe. With an area of
570,000 sq km and an estimated population of 941,000 (preliminary estimate
based on 1981 Census) it is for the most part sparsely populated. Over 80
percent of the population is concentrated along the relatively fertile
eastern third of the country, however, as two thirds of the country is
covered by the Kalahari Desert. Rainfall is erratic and drought frequent.
4.        The 1970s were a decade of rapid economic growth and budgetary and
balance of payments stability. The mining of diamonds and nickel/copper,
which started in the early 1970s, led to real increases in GDP of 10 percent
a year during the decade. As a result, per capita GNP1 rose from US$110 in
1970 to about US$900 by 1981. Increased receipts from the Customs Union,2
direct taxes and mineral royalties caused recurrent revenue to rise nearly
33 percent a year, which was substantially in excess of the growth in
recurrent expenditure. Recurrent budgetary surpluses, together with grants,
covered nearly half of the steadily growing capital expenditures, and since
1 Calculated by the Bank Atlas method.
2 The Southern Africa Customs Union, comprising Botswana, Lesotho, Swaziland
and South Africa, is administered by South Africa. Import duties and
excise taxes are levied and collected by South Africa, deposited into a
common pool and then distributed to the members based on each country's
share in production and trade.



- 2 -
external borrowing exceeded requirements, the Government became a net
creditor of the banking system. The economy also showed overall surpluses in
the balance of payments, due primarily to the rapid rise in exports and to
large private capital inflows associated with mining investments. By the end
of December 1980, net international reserves had risen to about US$261
million equivalent to more than five months' merchandise imports. Inflation
was moderate throughout most of the past decade; however, instability in the
world economy caused domestic prices to increase more rapidly in recent
years. The pula was revalued on several occasions in 1979 and 1980 in an
effort to reduce the impact on the domestic economy of external price
increases.
5.        During 1981, the slump in world demand for diamonds and metal
prices had major repercussions on Botswana's mineral-led, export-dependent
economy. Real GDP declined in 1981/82 and exports and foreign exchange
reserves fell sharply as the diamond mines began stockpiling part of their
production. Receipts from nickel/copper exports also fell, causing severe
financial problems for the mining company (para. 20).
6.        Total export receipts in 1981 declined by 21 percent, whereas
imports continued to grow. The deficit in the trade and service balance
increased sharply and was not sufficiently covered by inflows on the transfer
and capital account. For the first time in over a decade, Botswana recorded
an overall balance of payments deficit, amounting to US$71 million. Foreign
reserves had fallen to about 3-1/2 months of imports by the end of December
1981. To cope with the economic strains of reduced mineral exports and
revenues, the Government sought to control the growth of aggregate demand by
raising interest rates, restraining domestic credit expansion, imposing a
general wage freeze in early 1982, devaluing the pula by 10 percent in May
1982, and cutting the Government's development budget for FY82/83 by over 15
percent.
7.        In mid-1982, the prospects for Botswana's economy started to
improve again following the opening of a third diamond mine. Although
Botswana continues to stockpile part of its total diamond production, the
opening of the new mine, at Jwaneng, led to higher export quotas and
earnings. By the end of 1982, a surplus in the overall balance of payments
was restored and foreign reserves covered almost 4-1/2 months of imports.
8.        The outcome of the 1982/833 budget is also likely to be more
favorable than expected because of higher mineral revenues and cuts in capi-
tal spending.  Nonetheless, the overall deficit is estimated to amount to
about 8 percent of GDP. While disbursements from foreign loans are expected
to cover over 60 percent of the deficit, the Government has had to reduce
sharply its cash balances with the domestic banking system.
9.        To reassess the growth prospects for Botswana's economy in the near
future and the fiscal and balance of payments implications, the Government
is conducting a mid-term review of its Fifth National Development Plan
(1979-1985). Prepared at a time of brighter macro-economic prospects, the
3 The fiscal years runs from April 1 to March 31.



Plan foresaw expanded production and exports from the new diamond mine conti-
nuing to fuel rapid overall growth of about 10 percent a year and help
maintain strong balance of payments and public finance positions. To reflect
the recent deterioration in the Government's financial accounts, the current
review will pay particular attention to the size and composition of the
public investment program during the remaining years of the Plan.
10.       Despite very rapid growth during the 1970s, Botswana's economy is
still at an early stage of development, extremely vulnerable to changes in
international mineral and metal markets and to drought and recurring out-
breaks of animal diseases. The mineral-led development has not encouraged
the building up of linkages within the economy and only modestly increased
the number of employment opportunities for Botswana's labor force. Histori-
cally, Botswana's economy has been centered on livestock and, until today,
traditional agriculture and cattle raising have remained the main economic
activity for about 80 percent of the population. However, an increasing
concentration of cattle ownership, partly resulting from drought which
affected mainly owners of small herds, has reduced the options for about 50
percent of the population to make a reasonable living from agriculture alone.
11.       The major challenge for the Government in the present decade is,
therefore, to provide the infrastructure and services required by the more
labor-intensive productive sectors to foster linkages and to create lasting
employment opportunities for Botswana's labor force, which is growing at over
3 percent a year, and is vulnerable to reductions in employment opportunities
in South Africa. These sectors, however, face formidable constraints, and
diversifying the economy's productive base and generating a sufficient number
of attractive work opportunities will be difficult.
12.       One of the most serious constraints on growth of the productive
sectors is the severe shortage of skilled technical, managerial and profes-
sional manpower, which greatly impairs the country's absorptive capacity,
encourages the use of capitUl intensive technology, raises production costs,
and stifles investment. A 1igh proportion of skilled and professional posi-
tions is filled by expatriates and many posts in Government (particularly in
local government) and the private sector are inadequately staffed. The manu-
facturing sector is further constrained by the small domestic market, the
country's limited raw materials base and landlocked position, and competition
from South Africa and Zimbabwe.
13.       The agricultural sector, particularly arable farming, is looked
upon as the main source for future employment. Crop farming, however, is
circumscribed by the limited availability of suitable land, sparse and
erratic rainfall, and frequent droughts. The sector's ability to support
additional labor may therefore always remain limited. Ecological conditions
render most parts of the country more favorable to livestock than crop
production. However, the system of communal grazing, the traditional values
associated with cattle and the granting of substantial subsidies to cattle
owners, have given rise to overstocking and progressive land degradation. If
sustained, this trend could further reduce the sector's growth and employment
opportunities.



- 4 -
14.       The Government is moving ahead with programs to deal with these
constraints. The Fifth National Development Plan accords high priority to
education, with emphasis on primary education, as a means of alleviating the
country's manpower constraint. Industry is being supported through promo-
tional activities by the Botswana Development Corporation and through the
provision of tax breaks, preference in bidding for government contracts,
favorable interest rates, seed-capital for investors, and payroll and train-
ing grants. A Tribal Grazing Lands Program (TGLP) has been implemented since
1975 with the primary aim of controlling overstocking and range degradation,
while increasing incomes from cattle-raising by improving herd quality,
enhancing range management and boosting operating efficiency. An Arable
Lands Development Program (ALDEP), a multi-faceted operation designed to
raise productivity in crop farming, was introduced in 1979. Both ALDEP and
TGLP are expected to permit more labor-intensive use of the land. However,
TGLP has not yet been successful in rationalizing government investment and
pricing policies in the livestock industry and has focused largely on commer-
cial ranching much to the neglect of improving the productivity of cattle
smallholders. Experience with the ALDEP program is still limited. Efforts
to identify labor-intensive investments will have to continue, however, if
the country is to avoid serious unemployment and to maintain stable growth.
15.       Multilateral and bilateral agencies have extended substantial
assistance to Botswana on highly concessional terms. The Bank Group has been
the main multilateral source, but the EEC, the African Development Bank and
OPEC sources have also been active. Bilateral assistance has come from
numerous sources. In 1978 almost two-thirds of Botswana's outstanding bila-
teral debt was converted into grants. At the end of 1982, total external
debt outstanding and disbursed was estimated at US$245 million, debt service
payments were US$15.9 million and the debt service ratio, 3.3 percent.
Botswana's future external capital requirements will depend on the evolution
of the world mineral market and the outlook for diamonds in particular.
While Botswana is expected to continue to receive substantial assistance from
bilateral and multilateral sources on grant or concessional terms, these may
have to be supplemented by loans from commercial sources should current
account deficits rise. However, diamond exports are expected to continue to
recover and Botswana should remain creditworthy for the required borrowing.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BOTSWANA
16.       The Bank Group began operations in what was then Bechuanaland in
1964, and has approved 13 loans (US$175.2 million, including US$43.5 million
on Third Window terms) and 6 credits (US$14.7 million) for a total of US$190
million (net of cancellations). These loans and credits have financed five
roads projects, three education projects, two livestock projects, two urban
projects, two water supply projects, one development finance corporation
project, one thermal power project, and three operations to help provide
infrastructure for mining development. The Bank's most recent loan of
US$32.5 million for a pithead thermal power plant at Moropule will enable
Botswana to be self-sufficient in power and complete a national power grid.
IFC has had one investment in Botswana, a US$370,000 equity participation in
the Botswana Development Corporation, approved in March 1979. Summary
statements of Bank Group Operations in Botswana are provided in Annex II.



- 5 -
17.       The Bank is considering further assistance to Botswana through the
development of small and medium-sized industrial enterprises; a proposed
first project for family planning and primary health organization; agricul-
tural and livestock development; and education. A Government-Bank team
recently carried out a comprehensive study of livestock marketing in
Botswana, and the findings are being discussed with the Government.
18.       The Bank Group's share of Botswana's external debt (disbursed and
outstanding) at the end of 19824 was about 36 percent (IBRD - 30 percent,
IDA - 6 percent), and its share in debt service was about 30 percent. The
Bank's exposure in Botswana increased sharply following the conversion of
external debt into grants in 1978 (para. 15). Since then, it has been
falling and will continue to decline as the Government's borrowings from both
official and commercial sources have been increasing sharply during the past
three years.
19.       Botswana's project planning and execution have been good, and
Bank-assisted projects have encountered relatively few complications. The
most problematical has been the Second Livestock Project (Ln. 1497-BT for
US$6.5 million, 1978), which has not been successful in its objectives of
raising offtake rates and increasing beef production or in alleviating
overstocking and range degradation. Therefore, its emphasis has been shifted
to improving livestock marketing systems by upgrading trek routes, holding
areas and sidings, and strengthening credit; and these activities are proving
successful.
20.       Another problematical operation with which the Bank has been asso-
ciated is the Shashe copper/nickel mining complex based at Selebi-Phikwe, the
infrastructure for which was financed with the help of Bank loans totaling
US$37.5 million (Loans 776-BT and 776-2-BT). Although the infrastructure
works were completed on schedule in 1976, the mining operation itself has
experienced a prolonged financial crisis, caused mainly by depressed metal
prices. This has resulted in three financial restructurings of the mining
company, BCL Ltd., which is indirectly controlled by the Anglo-American
Corporation of South Africa Ltd. and AMAX Inc. of the United States, with a
15 percent equity holding by the Botswana Government. The latest restructur-
ing, approved by the Bank's Executive Directors in June 1982 (Memorandum
R82-191), is intended to reduce the mining company's debt burden by
continuing deferrals of interest and principal payments and converting a
large proportion of senior debt to subordinated debt. In addition, existing
subordinated debt has been converted to preference shares. The restructuring
also provided for injections of working capital through 1982, and this
financial support has continued from Anglo-American, Amax and the Government.
Disbursements
21.       Botswana's overall disbursement performance has been quite good.
It has weakened in recent years because of difficulties in moving funds under
the Second Livestock Project and delays in a component for building material
4 Preliminary estimate.



-6-
sub-loans in the Second Urban Project, although the Government has taken
satisfactory measures to hasten disbursements. Between 1970 and 1980, the
disbursement profile for nine current loans shows that 89 percent of the
funds committed were disbursed within five years after loan effectiveness.
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY SECTOR
Introduction
22r       Botswana is at the center of the great Southern African plateau and
its average elevation is 3,000 ft. The climate is semi-arid and average
annual rainfall is 475 mm, although this is unevenly distributed. The rains
occur between November and April. Temperatures range between 50C and 380C.
Most of the country outside the Kalahari Desert consists of bush and tree
savannah, and only about 5 percent of the land area has sufficient rainfall
and suitable soil for arable agriculture.
23.       Botswana's population, estimated at 941,000, is mainly concentrated
in the country's eastern quarter, which includes the urban centers of
Gaborone, Francistown, Lobatse, Selebi-Phikwe and Orapa. Although less than
20 percent of the population lives in towns, Botswana has one of the world's
highest urban population growth rates -- of almost 12 percent a year. There
has been a notable increase in urban squatter settlements as a result of the
drought of 1982/83, the worst experienced by Botswana in 50 years, in which
many small stockholders suffered serious herd losses.
Water Resources
24.       Botswana's total water resources are believed to be substantial,
estimated at about 21 billion m3 (18 billion m3 on the surface and 3 billion
m3 as groundwater), However, about 85 percent of the surface water is
located in the Okavango River and its delta in the remote north-west, while
inundation of most other rivers is erratic. The most significant source of
surface water is the Limpopo and its tributaries along Botswana's eastern and
south-eastern borders. Botswana's groundwater potential has not been fully
investigated, and most boreholes (totaling 5,000 registered and about 2,500
unregistered) are located in the country's eastern quarter. Almost all rural
water is obtained from boreholes. Yields from this source are small, many
wells dry up during drought, and water quality is affected by high salinity
or nitrate concentrations. Boreholes are often contaminated by unlined pit
latrines or cattle that are watered near them.
25.       Several potential new sources of water supply for eastern Botswana
have been investigated in recent years. A study financed by the African
Development Fund resulted in the Bank-financed Second Water Supply Project,
which linked Francistown to the Shashe Dam 25 km to the south. A UNDP-
financed study found that a proposed scheme for transfering water by pipeline
from the Okavango Delta to the populated areas was not practicable. Another
study by the Department of Water Affairs indicated that the principal sand
rivers of eastern Botswana had potential for supplying smaller villages but
could not be counted on as a major source.



-7-
Urban later Supply
26.       More than 80 percent of the urban population has access to piped
water. The United Kingdom, USAID and the World Bank have provided much of
the finance for development of urban water supply. Investments of about
US$90 million ale planned for urban water supply schemes up to 1988,
including supply extensions for Francistown, Lobatse, the mining communities
of Selebi-Phikwe and Jwaneng, and Gaborone.
27.       Gaborone's Water Supply Needs.  Gaborone, formerly a traditional
settlement of fewer than 6,000 people, was developed after Botswana's
independence in 1966 as a modern administrative capital and commercial
center. Its population in 1982/83 was estimated to be 67,000, and the
population growth rate of 8 percent of recent years is expected to prevail,
resulting in a population of 124,000 by 1990/91. The entire population of
Gaborone has access to water, about 62 percent through private connections
and the rest through standpipes. The meat-processing center of Lobatse,
which receives a supplementary supply from Gaborone, has a population of
19,000, which is expected to grow to about 27,000 by 1990/91. Future
development of the capital is planned mainly in Gaborone West, which will
contain three industrial areas, a number of commercial zones, 3,000 housing
plots and recreational facilities. The first phase of this development is
proceeding at a cost of US$22 million, although work on the next phase is
being delayed until water supply is assured under the proposed project.
Annual water demand in Gaborone and Lobatse combined is estimated to increase
from 7.9 million m3 in 1982/83 to 11.7 million m3 in 1987/88 and 14 million
m3 in 1990/91. Thus, the 11.5 million m3 annual yield of the Gaborone dam
resulting from the proposed project will satisfy demand only until 1987/88,
when an additional dam on the Kolobeng river, yielding 4 million m3 a year,
will be required, while a dam on the Metsemotlhaba river is likely to be
required during the 1990s (para. 53).
Rural TWater Supply
28.       The Government has made remarkable progress in recent years in
providing water to rural areas. An intensive program, financed substantially
by the Swedish International Development Authority (SIDA), has provided
water,primarily from groundwater sources, to some 70 percent of the rural
population, which is a high proportion by regional standards. All major
villages (i.e., with a population above 3,000) are now served, although the
level of supply has often failed to keep pace with population growth and
development of small-scale industries in the villages. The Government is
investigating additional water resources to meet the demand of the larger
villages, and plans to reach all unserved communities by 1988. Investments
of US$90 million are at present planned for water supply schemes in more than
200 minor villages and in 17 larger ones.
Sewerage and Sanitation
29.       In urban areas, piped waste water systems are limited to high and
medium-cost housing plots and to institutional, commercial and industrial
properties. The remaining population use septic tanks or improved pit
latrines. The Government has, over the past five years, developed extensive



- 8 -
and successful on-site sanitation programs for low-income groups. In some
areas, pollution of the groundwater due to poor latrine siting or
construction is causing concern, and health education and improved sanitation
are thus given priority in the current National Development Plan (1979-85).
Sector Legislation
30.       To keep abreast of physical developments, the Government has asked
SIDA and UNDP to study existing water legislation and obligations concerning
domestic and international water use and to recommend reforms. The studies
are now underway, and the Government has agreed that the Bank should comment
on their findings before new legislation is introduced (draft Guarantee
Agreement, Section 3.02).
Sector Organization
31.       The principal ministry concerned with water supply is the Ministry
of Mineral Resources and Water Affairs (MRWA), which, through its Department
of Water Affairs (DWA), is responsible for the overall development of water
resources. It provides hydrological and hydrogeological services, monitors
and develops groundwater and helps villages plan and implement water supply
projects. It provides technical training for its own staff and for staff of
district councils. The Water Utilities Corporation (WUC), a parastatal body
under the Ministry, is responsible for water supply to Gaborone, Francistown,
Lobatse and Selebi-Phikwe.
32.       The Ministry of Local Government and Lands (MLGL), as the agency
responsible for overall urban development, is assisted by the Department of
Water Affairs and the Water Utilities Corporation in water supply planning.
MLGL is also responsible for developing sewerage and sanitation in urban and
rural areas, although town councils operate most systems. The Ministry of
Health monitors the environmental aspects of sewerage and sanitation.
Cost Recovery
33.       The Government requires urban water supply to be financially self-
supporting. The Water Utilities Corporation charges private customers for
metered consumption, and standpost supplies are charged also on a metered
basis to the town councils, which in turn levy a flat-rate charge on plots
using standposts.  In effect, standpost users benefit from a cross-subsidy
from private customers. In the rural areas, where water supply is subsi-
dized, district councils charge only private customers on the basis of
metered consumption. All water tariffs are fixed by the operating agency
with Government approval. Charges for sewer service are based on full cost
recovery. Fees are collected either through property taxes on serviced plots
or through monthly service levies charged in sites and service areas.
The Water Utilities Corporation
34.       Organization.  The Water Utilities Corporation (WUC) was esta-
blished in 1970 as a parastatal entity.  Its Board is appointed by the Minis-
ter of Mineral Resources and Water Affairs.  It is organized into two opera-
ting divisions: for Gaborone and Lobatse, based in Gaborone, and for the



Shashe River area, based in Selebi-Phikwe. The former division is the sole
supplier and distributor of water in the Gaborone-Lobatse area. The Shashe
Division supplies and distributes water to Francistown and provides bulk
supply to Selebi-Phikwe. It proposes in the near future to take over from
the mining community the treatment and distribution in Selebi-Phikwe and
provide a full commercial service to Jwaneng.
35.       Staffing.  WUC's staff totals almost 400.  Expatriates occupy 20 of
the 31 senior positions. The present Chief Executive Officer has been in the
post since 1982, his services covered by a two-year renewable contract. He
is supported by a Divisional Engineer for each of the two operating divi-
sions, a third Divisional Engineer in charge of planning and supervision of
new waterworks, a Principal Administrative Officer, a Chief Accountant and a
Project Engineer recently appointed to supervise the raising of the Gaborone
Dam in the project now proposed.  Quality of management has traditionally
been high.
36.       Manpower and training.  The chronic shortage of technical and
administrative skills in Botswana is reflected in the preponderance of expa-
triates in WUC's key positions, a situation which is duplicated in the
Department of Water Affairs.  The Bank-financed Second Education Project,
approved in April 1980, is helping to address the country's skills problem in
the long-term. Meanwhile, WUC has developed a sound training program for
advancement up to artisan level, and the project would help expand its scope
(para. 53). WUC expects that qualified Batswana staff will occupy all
water-works superintendent posts and accountant posts by 1990. In engineer-
ing, the mining industry and the private sector continue to attract the few
available Batswana civil engineering graduates.
37.       Despite such problems, WUC has over the years maintained a conti-
nuity of staffing, which has enhanced the establishment of sound technical
and commercial practices. However, during the past 12 months five senior
staff members, consisting of the Chief Executive Officer, three Divisional
Engineers and the Chief Accountant, have left the Corporation at expiry of
their contracts. The main reason is Botswana's accelerating rate of infla-
tion (12-13 percent in FY83) combined with devaluation of the pula. As a
matter of policy, the Government has not allowed WUC to compensate staff
direct for the effects of devaluation, although a recent 8 percent salary
increase for the public sector has helped to alleviate the situation.
38.       Cost Recovery.   WUC's billing has been fully satisfactory, total
accounts receivable averaging 35 days. Billing is done on a divisional
basis, and meters are read monthly. As the present mechanical billing system
has reached its capacity, the Corporation is investigating a computer system.
39.       WUC's Financial Position.  The Corporation's financial performance
has been excellent, and, as a result of its readiness to adjust tariffs, it
has consistently met or exceeded the rate of return requirements of previous
Bank Group projects (para. 43). At March 31, 1982, WUC's assets totaled
US$35.7 million, including net fixed assets of US$33.6 million. Its capital
structure comprised borrowings of US$27.6 million and equity of US$8.1
million, resulting in a debt/equity ratio of about 3:1. The Corporation's
equity represents retained earnings and consumers' capital contributions to



- 10 -
investment in distribution systems. Apart from the latter, investments are
financed by Government long-term non-concessionary loans and long-term
external borrowings.
40.       The Corporation's financial needs over the medium-term are consid-
erable. Besides contributing 11 percent (or US$5.5 million) of the proposed
project's costs, it must provide for major future investments, current minor
investments and working capital. To help achieve this, WUC will be required
under the project to maintain a minimum 8 percent financial rate of return on
net revalued assets according to a method acceptable to the Bank (draft Loan
Agreement, Sections 5.04 and 5.05). The Corporation will also need to treble
the Level of tariffs for Gaborone/Lobatse over the next three years. The
Government is fully aware of the implications of this and remains firmly
committed to its policy of not subsidizing urban water supply operations.
Tariffs for the Gaborone/Lobatse Division for FY84 have been increased by an
average of 50 percent, and WUC's Board has agreed in principle to increase
tariffs further by 50 percent for FY85 and by 30 percent for FY86. This
would result in the present tariff of US$1.63 per 1,000 gallons increasing to
US$4.77 per 1,000 gallons in FY86. The bulk of the increases will be borne
by the large consumers (e.g., Government, industrial and commercial enter-
prises, hotels, diplomatic missions and higher-income residential areas), as
the Government supports WUC's proposals for a new progressive tariff
structure that will limit increases in water charges to the poorest consumers
to about 20 percent in FY84, and provide similar relief to the next stage of
consumers. The Bank has accepted that, because water sales must be curtailed
to conserve supplies during the drought, the Corporation's rate of return
target of 8 percent is unlikely to be achieved in FY84. To ensure an
adequate cash flow during this period, the Government will provide the
Corporation with special funding of US$2.7 million as a long-term conces-
sional loan.
41.       At the proposed tariff levels, WUC forecasts that water sales of
the Gaborone/Lobatse Division will by FY87 increase at about 5 percent a
year. Thus revenues are forecast to increase from US$3.3 million in FY83 to
more than US$12 million in FY86, which will maintain the Corporation's
liquidity at a satisfactory level. Despite the substantial scheduled borrow-
ing to be incurred, WUC's debt-service ratio is expected to improve to the
acceptable level of 2:1 as a result of additional consumers' capital contri-
butions of US$10.5 million and retained income and a Government emergency
contribution (para. 40) totaling about US$17 million during FY83-86. To
avoid undue strain on these finances, WUC has agreed to seek the Bank's
approval for any new borrowings unless internal cash generation covers 1.5
times the maximum future debt service (draft Loan Agreement, Section 5.06).
This limit is inconsistent with more restrictive covenants in previous agree-
ments involving the Bank and the Water Utilities Corporation, viz for the
Second Water Supply Project (para. 43) and the financial restructuring of BCL
Ltd. (para. 20). Therefore, the Government, WUC and the Bank have agreed to
suspend the previous stipulations for the duration of the proposed project
(para. 71).



Bank's Role
42.        The Bank has been the leading source of finance for urban and
industrial water supply in Botswana. Five Bank Group operations approved
during the 1970s assisted this development, reflecting the Bank's full
support for the Government's according water supply high priority.
43.        The First Water Supply Project (Credit 233-BT, US$3 million, 1971)
successfully supplemented the supply of water to Lobatse and its abattoir by
linking the town's distribution system by pipeline to the Gaborone Dam; and
improved the supply to Gaborone itself. The Project Performance Audit Report
of December 30, 1976 found that the project had put the Water Utilities
Corporation on a viable, commercial footing. The Shashe Infrastructure
Project (Loan 776-BT, US$32 million, 1971; and Loan 776-2-BT, US$5.5 million,
1974) helped finance a major water supply component to serve the copper-
nickel mine and township at Selebi-Phikwe. These facilities were commis-
sioned in 1976 after minor delays and cost overruns. The Francistown Urban
Development Project (Credit 471-BT, US$3 million, 1974) included water supply
and sanitation components, and the Second Urban Project (Loan 1584-BT, US$8
million, 1978) expanded the Francistown supply and distribution system and
improved distribution in Selebi-Phikwe. The project's physical works have
been completed successfully. The Project Completion Report of February 25,
1983 noted that the project was a turning point in the introduction of
enlightened urban policies in Botswana. The Second Water Supply Project
(Loan 1763-BT, US$4.4 million, 1979) completed extension of the Francistown
system and prepared a third (and the currently proposed) water supply
project. The main component of the second project have been successfully
completed with modest cost overruns.
44.        The Bank's future assistance to the water supply sector is likely
to continue to be urban-based in view of Botswana's high urban population
growth rates and the pace of industrial development, e.g., a large new
abattoir will be built in Francistown and, in Gaborone West, considerable
industrCal expansion is pr(.posed consistent with the Government's efforts to
diversify the economy. The Bank's operations are complementary to extensive
development of rural water supply in which SIDA has a major financing role,
and to numerous studies of potential new water resources which have been
financed by the UNDP, the AfDB and others.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project Background
45.        Preparation of the proposed project was financed by the Second
Water Supply Project (para. 43), which included engineering investigations
and preliminary design for increasing the capacity of the existing Gaborone
Dam reservoir. The Bank-approved consultants, Sir Alexander Gibb and
Partners (Gibb), investigated seven possible sources of increased supply for
the Gaborone area before confirming that raising of the Gaborone Dam by 8 m
was the least-cost solution.



- 12 -
46.       Preparation of the project was accelerated as a result of the
continuing drought in the Gaborone area, which has reduced water in the
Gaborone reservoir to about a quarter of its capacity. The Bank in turn
agreed to advance processing of the project, as WUC considered it critical to
complete the dam-raising in time to impound the rains of November 1984-April
1985 and reduce spillage due to inadequate capacity. WUC appointed at the
Bank's request a panel of three international experts to review the design
and safety of the dam (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02(c)). The panel's
report of January 1983 was reviewed and accepted by WUC and the Bank, and its
recommendations have been incorporated in the contract for the dam-raising.
47.       The Government has contacted South Africa, Zimbabwe and Mozambique,
which are the riparians on the rivers concerned, namely the Notwane and the
Limpopo, and informed them of the proposed project. The riparians have
either expressed no objection to the project or given explicit agreement to
its execution. The Bank mission reviewed the documents concerned and was
satisfied with the actions taken by the Government.
48.       Negotiations were held in Gaborone on April 18 and 20, 1983.  The
Botswana delegation was led by Mr. B. Gaolathe, Permanent Secretary, Ministry
of Finance and Development Planning. Annex III contains supplementary
project data.
Project Objectives
49.       The project would help prevent threatened water shortages during
the mid-1980s in Gaborone and meet water needs to 1988. In particular, it
would provide water for the second phase of the industrial development of
Gaborone West, and supplement supply to Lobatse, which is the center of the
country's meat-processing industry. The project would also help prepare for
additional water supply after 1988 for a combined population of about
150,000. In addition, the Water Utilities Corporation would be assisted in
planning its long-term manpower development.
Project Description
50.       The proposed project consists of:
(a) raising of the Gaborone Dam by 8 m, including dam
earthworks and concrete works for spillway and outlet;
(b) expansion of treatment, pumping, transmission and
storage facilities;
(c) site investigations for two additional dams on the
Kolobeng and Metsemotlhaba rivers and preliminary design
for the dams and associated treatment plant and water
mains; and
(d) manpower development.



- 13 -
Physical Features
51.       The Gaborone Dam was built in 1964 on the Notwane River, a tribu-
tary of the Limpopo. It is the capital's sole source of water supply, as
well as serving as a supplementary source for Lobatse. In the proposed
project, the earthfill structure will be raised by 8 m to a height of 12 m,
thereby doubling the yield. The expanded reservoir area would require
acquisition of land and realigning of sections of the road and railway to
Lobatse, the cost of which is included in the project. The Government would
reimburse WUC for any land acquisition costs above US$180,000 (draft
Guarantee Agreement, Section 3.03). Special precautions (e.g., extra
provision for drainage) are being taken on the advice of the experts' panel,
which will regularly review construction. Cost of the dam-raising component,
including engineering costs but excluding contingencies, is estimated at
US$28.7 million.
52.       The dam-raising will require extending capacity of the existing
treatment plant by 20,000 m3 per day, increasing storage capacity by 29,500
m3, and extending the primary distribution system. This component is
estimated to cost US$6.6 million including engineering but excluding
contingencies.
53.       The sites to be investigated for additional dams to supply Gaborone
are located on the Kolobeng and Metsemotlhaba rivers to the west of the
capital. The sites were identified by the consultants preparing the present
project as the least-cost sources next to raising the Gaborone Dam. The
proposed project will finance site investigations and preliminary design for
the dams and associated treatment and distribution works, at an estimated
cost of US$1.4 million. The US$300,000 provided by the project for manpower
development would finance a study to prepare a program for training Batswana
for professional and sub-professional service with WUC, and assist the first
phase of a senior staff development program. WUC has given assurances
that, if required, a suitably qualified consultant to assist with the study
would be appointed by March 31, 1984 (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02
(b)).
Costs and Financing
54.       The project's total costs, including contingencies, are estimated
at US$44.9 million, of which US$28.6 million (or 64 percent) are foreign.
The total financing required, including interest during construction of US$5
million and the Bank's front-end fee of about US$50,000, is estimated at
US$50 million. Taxes and duties are likely to be insignificant as the provi-
sion of equipment for the project is limited. The base cost of the raising
of the dam is the awarded contract price, while the base costs of the remain-
ing components are in June 1983 prices. Overall, 10 percent has been added
for physical contingencies. Price escalation for foreign expenditure is
included at 6 percent for 1984 (for 9 months only), 7.5 percent for 1985 and
7 percent for 1986; and for local expenditure at 9 percent, 12 percent and 10
percent respectively for the three years. Costs of secondary and tertiary
distribution are not included, as these will be prepaid by developers to
WUC. The developers, mainly Government-controlled agencies, will recover
their investments through the sale of plots to be served. The Government



- 14 -
would guarantee timely provision of funding for the secondary and tertiary
distribution (draft Guarantee Agreement, Section 2.02 (b)). The per capita
cost of the project in relation to the beneficiaries is high by normal
criteria. However, exceptionally high rates of population growth and indus-
trial and commercial development are projected for the area to be served by
the project. An additional dimension to the project's per capita cost is the
high absolute cost of water and the limited sources of supply in Botswana,
dictated by unfavorable climatic and hydrological conditions. Although the
raising of the Gaborone dam is the least-cost solution, the site is not
ideal, and realignment of road, railway and other services is required. The
rapid rate of construction imposes additional costs in terms of the physical
resources the contractor needs to concentrate on the site.
55.       Official external financing totaling US$32.8 million is required,
representing 66 percent of total financing. This financing will be provided
by the Bank (US$22 million) and the Commonwealth Development Corporation
(CDC) (US$10.8 million). The Government will provide US$11.7 million and the
WUC US$5.5 million from internally-generated funds. The proposed Bank loan
will finance 68 percent of foreign expenditure and 44 percent of total
financing required, and will be for civil works on the dam and consultants'
and engineers' services. The CDC loan will be for 17 years, including 4
years grace, at 10.5 percent interest per annum and would help finance
foreign exchange costs of the dam-raising and of the treatment plant. The
Government loan will be at 10 percent, payable in 25 years including grace
until commissioning of the expanded system. Effectiveness of the Bank loan
will depend on effectiveness of the Government and CDC loans (draft Loan
Agreement, Section 8.01).
Project Execution
56.       The project would be implemented by the Water Utilities Corporation
(WUC), which is described in paras. 34 to 41. WUC has appointed a Project
Engineer to oversee the dam-raising, and intends to recruit a Project
Accountant, who would eventually become the Corporation's internal auditor.
The operation and maintenance of the project's facilities would in due course
become the responsibility of the Engineer in charge of the Gaborone-Lobatse
Division, whose staff would be increased. WUC would continue to consult with
the Bank before any new appointment of the Chief Executive Officer (draft
Loan Agreement, Section4.04). The project provides for 483 manmonths of
foreign consulting services for the dam, the extension of treatment and
distribution facilities and site investigation and preliminary engineering
for the future dams, at an average cost of US$6,150 per manmonth. In
addition, a total of 100 mandays would be provided for the experts' panel at
an average cost of US$900 per manday. Consultants' qualifications and terms
of employment would be satisfactory to the Bank (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.02 (a) and (c)).
57,       Detailed engineering work for the dam raising was completed by
WUC's consultants, Gibb, by October 1982, and the contract was awarded in
January 1983 to Stirling International, a British company. Work began on the
site in February 1983, and civil works on the dam is expected to be completed
in October 1984. The experts' panel was appointed in November 1982, and it
submitted its initial report in January 1983.



- 15 -
Procurement
58.       The contract for civil works on the dam, valued at US$32.7 million
with contingencies and to be financed by the Bank loan, was awarded on the
basis of international competitive bidding according to the Bank's procure-
ment guidelines and after the Bank reviewed the tender documents and bid
evaluation. Procurement for extension of the treatment and distribution
system is also expected to be by international competitive bidding to meet
CDC's requirements. Consultants would be retained according to Bank
guidelines (draft Loan Agreement, Section 3.02 (a)).
Disbursements
59.       The Bank loan would be disbursed against 60 percent of civil works
expenditures for the dam incurred after signing of the Bank loan, up to a
total of US$17.3 million. Disbursements for consultants would be against 100
percent of total expenditure up to a total of US$4.7 million. Disbursement
will be fully documented and is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.
60.       The Bank would retroactively finance expenditures up to US$1.7
million incurred before signing of the loan and after July 1, 1982, for: (i)
consultants' services costing up to US$700,000 for preparation of preliminary
engineering, bid documents, evaluation and contract award for the dam-raising
and extension of treatment plant and main supply system, for initial supervi-
sion of construction work for the dam-raising, and for the experts' panel;
and (ii) site investigations and preliminary engineering costing up to US$1
million for the two additional dams. These services were procured according
to Bank guidelines, and consultants and terms of reference have been approved
by the Bank. This retroactive financing is justified in the light of the
urgency of tackling Gaborone's immediate water supply problems and enabling
work to begin in 1985/86 on the first additional dam. Also, the Government's
immediately available finances are constrained because it has had to advance
WUC US$4.8 million for mobilization costs and provide US$2.7 million emer-
gency funiding in FY84 while making substantial capital investments in other
sectors.
Monitoring and Evaluation
61.       Project monitoring guidelines have been established and access to
the reports and records needed to monitor the project's progress were agreed
upon during negotiations. WUC would submit a Project Completion Report to
the Bank six months after completion of the project (draft Loan Agreement,
Section 3.04 (e)).
Audit and Accounts
62.       WUC's accounts are well kept and its annual financial statements
have been published promptly. External audit of WUC's accounts has been
carried out to a high standard by the international firm of Coopers and
Lybrand. The audited annual accounts include separate accounts for WUC's
Gaborone-Lobatse Division, Shashe Division, and the Francistown undertaking
in order to measure the varying rate of return undertakings established under
previous loan agreements. The annual accounts have been submitted consis-



- 16 -
tently to the Bank as required under the Bank's previous loans. WUC will
continue to appoint independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and the
audited accounts and auditor's report, including the separate divisional
accounts described above, will continue to be submitted to the Bank within
five months of the end of each fiscal year (draft Loan Agreement, Sections
5.01 and 5.02).
Environmental Impact and Conservation
63.       There will be no adverse environmental impact as a result of
raising the reservoir level of the Gaborone Dam. There is no bilharzia in
the reservoir, and WUC's monitoring measures are adequate. The project would
maintain the present high standards in the quality of urban water supply, and
would be complementary to the sanitation and health education activities
supported by the Gaborone Town Council, the ministries concerned with water
supply and sanitation, and the UNDP-financed Public Health Engineering
Project (BOT 79/00), which is executed by the Bank. Assisted by the latter
project, WUC is exploring water-usage systems that would conserve water and
minimize the effect of on-site water disposal.
Justification and Rate of Return
64.       The project would avert water shortages in drought-prone Gaborone
in the mid-1980s and enable the second phase of the industrial, commercial
and residential development of Gaborone West to proceed. The supplementary
supply to Lobatse will be essential for the community's major meat-processing
activities. By preparing for the construction of two new dams, the project
would secure the water supply for Gaborone and Lobatse into the 1990s as the
combined population doubles to 150,000. The Water Utilities Corporation
would be further strengthened to become more capable of assuming full respon-
sibility, under the Government's long-range plan, for all aspects of water
supply to all of Botswana's urban centers. The project's least-cost solution
to Gaborone's immediate water supply problems is particularly significant at
a time of Government budgetary stringency.
65.       In estimating the economic rate of return of the project, capital
and operating costs and all measurable benefits attributable to the invest-
ment were taken into account in the cost and benefit streams. Incremental
water revenues, calculated on proposed average tariff charges in real terms
(based on 1983 price levels), were taken as the best proxy of the benefits
attributable to the investment. On this basis the project's estimated econo-
mic rate of return is about 8 percent. This would be higher if the unquanti-
fiable health, environmental, and social benefits and consumers' surplus
could have been included. The rate of return is sensitive to a 10 percent
increase in costs or decrease in benefits by about one percentage point. A
combined 10 percent increase in costs and 10 percent reduction in benefits
would still result in an economic rate of return of about 6 percent.
Risks
66.       There are no major risks, although physical complications could be
caused by the rapid rate of construction required to complete the dam-raising
before the rains of 1984/85 (paras. 46 and 51). However, both contractor and



- 17 -
consultants are experienced in this kind of structure, and WUC has incorpo-
rated in the design and the construction contract special precautions, such
as extra drainage, which were recommended by the panel of international
experts. The experts' panel will continue to review the safety aspects
throughout construction.
67.       A further concern is that the exceptionally large tariff increases
(para. 40) required for WUC to meet its investment needs and remain finan-
cially independent could reduce consumption and threaten WUC's revenue posi-
tion. However, the Government's reaffirmation of its policy not to subsidize
water supply is justified in the light of the scarcity and high cost of
supplying water in Botswana and the limited possibilities for developing new
sources. Security of supply will remain more important than cost in these
circumstances. To alleviate the burden on consumers, the tariff increase
will take place over three years, and will be limited for the poorest.
Compared with other costs, such as those for transportation, energy and raw
materials, the cost of water is likely to remain modest for industrial and
commercial customers; and WUC forecasts steady growth in water sales (para.
41) during the decade.
68.       The recent loss of key expatriate staff by WUC because of the
erosion of their compensation package is also a matter for concern,
especially in view of the acute shortage of trained Batswana. However, an 8
percent increase in public sector salaries in April 1983 helped to compensate
for inflation. Given Botswana's long-term success in maintaining an
effective expatriate corps and in view of the highest possible priority
accorded to the project by the Government, it is unlikely that the water
utility will experience chronic problems in maintaining an adequate expa-
triate staff while WUC, assisted by the project, trains Batswana to take over
management and technical positions.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Water Utilities
Corporation, the Draft Guarantee Agreement between the Republic of Botswana
and the Bank, and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
70.       Special conditions of the loan are listed in Section III of Annex
III of this report. Special conditions of effectiveness of the Loan and
Guarantee Agreements are effectiveness of the CDC and Government loans (draft
Loan Agreement, Section 8.01).
71.       Section 5.06 of the draft Loan Agreement for the proposed project
is inconsistent with certain provisions, concerning debt limitation of WUC,
of the Project Agreement for the Second Water Supply Project (1763-BT) dated
January 9, 1980, and the Amended and Restated Loan Agreement (Shashe Project)
(776-BT) dated March 15, 1978. Provision has been made for suspension of the
inconsistent obligations in the earlier agreements (para. 41). This has been



- 18 -
agreed with the Water Utilities Corporation and the Government (Section 7.01
of the Loan Agreement for the proposed project and Section 4.01 of the
Guarantee Agreement).
72.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
73.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Washington, D.C.
June 14, 1983



-19-                                            ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
BOTSWANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BOTSWANA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE AGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            600.4                                 MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME            MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     453.6               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   80.0       160.0     910.0                1053.2                   1253.6
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)         ..          ..     423.5                 610.1                    713.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)   507.0        633.0     819.0
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 1.8           9.5      18.8                  28.3                     47.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        1.7
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                          5.5
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                  2105
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         0.8         1.1       1.3                  54.7                     35.8
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       1.2         1.4       1.8                 129.9                    420.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         45.9         48.7      49.7                  46.0                     44.3
15-64 YES.                         51.4         48.5      47.7                  51.1                    52.4
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7         2.8       2.6                   2.8                      3.3
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                               1.6         2.2       2.6                   2.8                      2.8
URBAN                              17.9        19.1       9.4                   5.2                      4.6
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      49.9        50.5      50.4                  47.2                     41.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)      24.6        20.5      16.3                  15.7                     12.2
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE               3.2         3.2       3.2                   3.2                      2.9
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..           ..      11.3/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..            ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          91.0         96.0      95.0                  90.7                   100.4
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   88.2         84.9      90.7/c                93.9                   108.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)          72.3         68.9      71.5/c                54.8                    71.9
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       35.5         33.6      35.17?                17.0                    18.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     22.6         18.7      14.2                  23.9                    15.1
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.6         44.6      49.9                  51.0                     56.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          114.5        100.1      83.3                 118.5                   104.3
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OP
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        29.0      45.0/d                  ..                    59.1
URBAN                               ..         71.0      95.07                   . .                   83.1
RURAL                                ..        26.0      39.0/d                  ..                    39.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                                ..          ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         25350.0      15439.0    9972.2/d             14185.2                  4015.5
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON     5408.2/e    1248.5    1319.97?               2213.2                  1802.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            497.5        381.3     345.3/f              1036.4                   641.7
URBAN                               ..           ..      61.37?               430.8                   538.3
RURAL                                ..          ..    4189.4/f              3678.6                  2403.3
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..        15.3      27.0/d                  ..                     25.5
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                               ..           ..       5.0
URBAN                               ..           ..       4.8
RURAL                               ..           ..       5.0
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..           ..
URBAN                               ..           ..
RURAL                               ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..           ..        ..
URBAN                                . .
RURAL                                * *



- 20 -                                             ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
BOTSWANA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
BOTSWANA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVE7AGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE) a
MOST RECENT           MIDDLE INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  NORTH AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  42.0         66.0      93.0                   83.3                      88.7
MALE                  35.0         62.0       84.0                  96.1                     104.5
FEMALE                48.0         70.0      103.0                  80.4                      72.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   1.0          7.0      20.0                   15.3                      39.7
MALE                   1.0          8.0       19.0                  19.4                      49.3
FEMALE                 1.0          6.0       22.0                  11.3                      29.0
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (% OF SECONDARY)   4.2           19.4       10.8                   4.7                      10.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             31.5         36.5      32.2                   38.6                      34.1
SECONDARY                           11.6         14.7      16.9                   23.4                      23.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         20.0/g         ..       35.0                  35.6                      43.3
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           2.6          2.8       4.5/c                 31.9                      17.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           4.1         31.6      81.5                   71.8                     131.3
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..           ..        ..                   17.9                      44.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..         20.5      21.3                   19.1                      31.5
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            0.2       0.1/d                  0.6                       1.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)        258.2        295.8     354.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    49.8         52.6      52.9                   36.5                      10.6
AGRICULTIRE (PERCENT)               92.0         87.0       78.3                  56.5                      42.4
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   3.0          4.0       7.7                   17.7                      27.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 50.9         46.7       43.2                  37.0                      26.0
MALE                                  53.2         47.7       44.0                  46.9                      46.2
FEMALE                                48.9         45.9      42.6                   27.2                       5.6
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.0          1.1        1.2                   1.3                       1.9
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..         28.1/h
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..           60.3/h
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          1.6/h
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          7.67h
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     284.0                  507.0                     279.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..     154.0                  200.6                     178.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     303.0                  523.9                     403.6
RURAL                                 ..           ..     303.0                  203.6                     285.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      40.0                     ..                      22.1
RURAL                                 ..           ..      55.0                     ..                      30.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1977 /d 1975 /e 1962; /f 1976; /g Prier to 1965; /h 1971-72 economically active population.
May, 1982



- 21 -                                                                         ANNEX I
DgPONITIfUAS OP SOCIAL MIOCATO&S
Hete.:  Although the dte are drain  ire. souce  generally judsed the _st authoritative and reliable, it should ab. hented that they may sot be inte-
natioslly compraIbl  becus  of the lack of etadordiond dftitions end concpts used by differet counries Lo collecing the data.  The data  r,oe
thees., osefal to d-uribe orders of muginodo, indicate trends, and charotnino cetain major differences betwee  coutrie..
The ref ar-o  groups are (1) the sam  country group of the ashiect coun~try and (2) a c.outry group with  --Aum           ru high- enovrge income then rth  country group
oftheahnucoty              cp  forl,"Sih incos    oil ~pvetes*   group who   'Middle Iscoen North Afnico and Middle Sultn Ln choe ...              caob-   of srne
aur-e-nutoa  a.ffinities):"p.Inthe ref erlr.u gs-p data the  -vrg.. are population weighted arith-tic means for each idicaton and show  only when
majonity of the c           L.tn    in    geoup has data for that Indicator.  Sinor. the coverage of c truntle  amog thidiatrsdepends on the a-ilability of data
aed to ournafora, catio   ut he coeriond in ralagiog  arrg of non jodicaorto ano.ther.  Th... acrae                       tar  col  osfa  a0 c-pario  the valu  of
one idicot-r at a time ameg the eaa..ory and referenc  groups.
AREA (thoassed aq.km.l                                                                           Population pEe fsina  Bed - rtota, orhan, and cuarl - Population  (.tota,
Toct1 - Total sorfacs ama cuprlitig laud area ud inlad waters; 1929 dats.                         urbn   ndrrl  din0"fided hy thei -epeati-n oumbo  of hospital beds
Aaei-aItro1 - Estiatte voaf     inoa  are  used temporrily or potmnetly                          avilable in public and private genera  nod upenialieed hospital end In-
fur urops. pastonen, marhot and kitcbro gardaa on to lie fallow; 1979 data.                    babiliration  cetr . nPitois are . ntblish-sts permaenty  teifod
by at leas t .ne physicia   E. tata ih -tbesn   pr-idig poriIipally cusne-
flIPPI  CAPITA (500) -GIP per canito estiats t   curren  n 'thnrto.cl                               dial cant ar  not incu,Ided.  luo-l hospinalo. hoiser, tlucde heaItb
OMlee  by _er  nenefnmthod au World Sa    ta  (1978-80 basIs1); 1~960,                          and mdical c--er   re p-rmunly seafind hy a pbyuocia  (but bya
1870. sad 19 dn.dIca sitant, noose, midwife, etc.) ahich ofier lu-patient aces-
ds tie end Prov.ide a lime.d rouge of medical focilities. Pee star-
ENERGY COsgSUMPION PER CAPITA - Annua  t-smti-n of conea   nrgy I(oo                                tical purposes orhu  ho-pinsI.isnlude WHOa.rsialgurlhospitals,
and lipeite. penroleum. natur.1 ga. and hyd-en-. ur-a and geothermal91e-                         aId rota  hospitals, local or coral hospitals sod medical and  anerity
teicicy) In kilogram   of cool equivalent pnt capita; 1960, 1970. ad 1979                        c.oten. .Specili.nd hospitals ore inofed noly under total.
data.                                                               Admiasioou ~~~~~~~~~~~pe,r Hopital Bed - Total nuber of adesinsi   tn or dihbarges
tre "osital  dividnd by the ouut- of beds.
POPUJLATION5 AND VITAL STATISTICS
Tonal Porul-ti-, Mid-Teat (ehoua...de) - A. of July 1; 1960. 1970. aud 1980                  Hofflife
data.                                                                                        Average Site of Huunod (Pe....s pee  ....hold)   l otal.  nbu,; and rursi-
Uran. Peruani   (peroent of total) - gaifo of urhue ra total pepolatice;                         d hoanehld: oousnof a grou  of lodirid_al  who   ar  liro   qu-recr
diffeno  definitions vf urban oman say afot coparbility at data                                 and the ir main mauls.  A hoarder cv lodger may ormy no  be  oi-uded it
_meg eusatriLg; 196i, 1970. and 1980 danat.cth.  ousnbhld for staiticolpui                                                            oes
PI'll.etlon Projections                                                                        Average ate- of person, per tm-toa,  unban, and coral - annege .o.
poultonI  year 2000 - Current popu1utico projeotiens aebsd on 1980                       her of porson  Per room in all  -rau        dr 1u nccpied conretioca
toa   oealeby age  osot  their sorcaty sad faIIlinyratc-eelno  r-opectlneiy.  D-lingo  -ocldcncv.-p-.eetetruooureeaa.d
Projection pocantcrn f or mortali-p ratoan ls   of thre  lvsauo-ncupied Pote.
Log life esptac.oancyo  birth Luor.aning nb eurepacpit               a income -             ....rs  t. ZI-ctrctry (percent of delInog) i- octal, orha, and trurl 
leve, ad femin  lfe rupctanty tcabllisiog at 27.5 yearn.  The pana-                          C.nvenniun..l dellings witheltrcyInivg quater   s  ecetg
acorn for fenc4'iiy race also hon  thre- eesunne  decline in                                 of toa,urban, and rural dwell legs  epriiy
ferilIty ancurding no incom  level and past foslly plasaing pettosauc..
lath coutry is then easigond on  of thene nine cotbietiona of martality                  EDUCATtION
and fntillity  -rndn for projection  P.pnrpno.                                             Adjooted EInr1lmet lotion
iranionory noulatioc - leantatiooacy pPoLato   thers to no growth nic-              Prsnyuhovi - total, sale and nln-IronsI   .tota, male and femal
th,obirthro'teineqiualcccho  doth  ro,atdoiee  tbeageacr-ctut Il-                             otL=atoalasatIpnsclvooIeretge    ieeern
males constant.  T I. to ohiend only after ietil.icy  -racr  decin  to                   pir  school-age populations; normally ioclude  childoco aged h-1l
the reiaemo           leve     -iunt an  reprdodetiae rate. when  -h genertion                 y-oru hat odj,sted f or differeot lengths of primary educ.tiun; for
of wome  replacen itself noartly.  The s.taion..ry population alto wncutries withuiera   dnatfen enrol1m t ma  n-red 100p percet
estimatd on the basis of the projectedohtceits oftepupulacluc                                  ol    sm   ppl  are belo  orbove thn official  ohor  age.
In  ho peso 200D, and thw rote of dectln  of fortiliny rote to replace-                     gecodar  schou  - ftal., male and fesale - Computed an ahov; ne..odony
atIleve.                                                                                      Ldoaiu re'ir"sa   bun ..t tour pours of approved Pr imayiotnci
Tsar itotioeny potuloloti. la...tbed - The year when atationry population                        po-id.n ge..Ial, vctoa,or curher traIini   Iat ..tLcti                foa inPupils
acwill he teathod.                                                                          uully of 12 to 17 years of age; ocrneaPodenecurn   anngeurelly
Pen a. ha.- Mid-year population par aqou.r  kilomter (100 bottom) of                         V-ctl.oel nrllt    (pecet  of....   Meondamv  - Vocational  institut Ion
totlrea  1960. 1970 and 1979 data.                                                           Ouclodo recheucal  loduotrial, or other Frog-com  whIch  -oprte isdepend-
Per so. ha. ari-curcca  lund - Cop.ted on above for agricultural land                          ently nr an dep-r-mont  of neccadary Lnstitut iont
ol;16.1970 and 1979 data.                                                           Pupil-...chot ratio  -  rmr,ad onnod,r  - -ITotal  atdo            -ruIed i
Population Ae Itmuctun p rurea)   Children (0-14 yeao,ul. wokIng-age (15-                 primary und  -ecedar4  Irvel  divided by  uo          f tscroith
64 pFsts), and reiterd (65 yenra and oe)u  porc..ntagn  of eod-ycar puPo-                      c.treepondiog levola
ltion; 1960. 1970. aId 19010 data                                                           Matlctayrte (corc...t) - Literate adolt  fal   totrd sad snite)
Popu_etie  ir_c  Ste (or_teni  - tuot.l - Annua  growth retno ot ntal. eld-                                       ofprenae0  total odult popolutico aged 15 yearn andovr
you  poulaio  fo  190-b.  960-70, -d 1970-80.
Poplaio  Inet  Dna(pecet)-  Ma  - Aooal grownh rates of urban pupa-                CiNSnWT5ION
lainte.  for 2910-60  1960-70,. ad 1970-80.                                                  Caane      .on  rmeean  rnlre)-P....ngar car, caPrinmae
Crude gitIh Ra'te (per thouned)  A- Anl lIve births prr thousand of mid-you                      cae-etiglesthan night p-r-o; ...cludes a-bulsons, heorsee and
Crude Sooth loi  (pmI thousand) -A...a  mahprthuad  of mid-pie                                 Radio R.celcer  (Pertosn"ulnu)-Allypos of  eccivenfr  ai
pupslation; 1960. 1970, end 1980 into                                                          bra  et          eea  pulc  v  tosad0tppuaio;tnldeen
GIrs  Reprduct io  loIn-Average number of daughneruanso   ill heat is                             III .c.nsd Ic.c.ivoro  In . concion and In yearn  he.. gata Inof raIo
her norma  rep-d-ti-e period if she  uperien..,e .. pent aeseIfic fec-                         net eo  in. If foci; data for  _c  yearn may con he comparable siet
tilty rtune; usually fvi-y-a  .vrgaedi.g In 1960, 1970, end 1980o.                             most countries abolIshed ilcni- g.
Pamily Ponoiug-cvnrcnr. Annua  (thuonoodo) -     . Anoelnuber of accptors              T 10  ncivers (norP thousad rurulation.       Oreevr  for bcondcn-  to
ci bioth-concroL dence   ndr  upie  ci  aione  faIly plnigprogrun.                             oerlubiprthonurd popobotion  nolde, unI icnud TV t-elrc
faiy    ..PIIa e-inr.-  (p-orn  of married woen  - P.iceonege of married                      iccuoutrirn and In yours shoergia  mouf TV nets wa  in effect.
womenof chi1d-be-iog ego (15-44 pout) who une bi,tb-cetrot  deviren to                        NowpapEc C:icculati-n (ret thouan-       upltln       h-Obe  the avrage cii-
all maried  -na  10 nam  age gecup.                                                            cuono  ci"dull0  generall inerect sr-pPor". definedanaPeroia
Publ"icalo  devotd primecily no teurtu   gnrl  ovn   It is cnsidered
POOD An  NUTRITION                                                                                 to hr 'daily   if In appeuro atlan   o    ie  a-ak.
inAne of Fund Production rer Canita (1969-71-100) -Lode  of per capita ounol     CInm  Ana Attendance pen Capita Per oan  - Honed on the nter- of
Preutina of nl  fon  coanfdities.   -rdctuenldna seed ned fend oaf                             tiohets sold during the year. innludiu  adminsint en driv-i.In LIema
is us talend-r year base. Cnandiie-n toner primany goods (e.g. augtan                          and moile  nia
instead of mgar) whiob ar  eible ol_         eauuri e ufro.   (e.g. coffee aud
tea. are anldnd).  Aggrgte production of each cIustry in. bused -LABOR0 PORiCE
notlnualaverageproduce  pric  weghs;26262   970.ad1:800 data.                          Tte labor Perc  (cho...uodo)- lormcal   ci" peroesa  iscioding
Per canto srety of culnins (percet of reunirteQn   - Compncnd item                      armed fatten adLuos-pIoynd but eec lading ho..enines j,utu~det.- ec.
enrgy sani    of ant fund supp Ill avilable Is coutry Pe  r.cpIta                            cv ig ppuato   of aL egos.  Definition- nntu  cuntrien are
per dyp.  Available supplies comprien domesti  produnti-n  imports lens                        non cop-rble; 1960. 1970 and 1980 data.
euports, and       . chage   tu . suk,  eN  npplino  -1rlde anima  fend, seds.-mIn (prercot  - reIlo leAtbort  an  p-rcrtcge of Itota  laborfre
quntitind needh In fund pnur               I.....adlose  In distriibtico.  geqoice-            Attcicur(ote)-lbo   oc  to frng, foencry, hestint sad
ans ter  esimated by PAOPb hnd c bpynioloici.  needu f or   -1ma  anti-                   f uigaspcenge of  tota  labo  forte; 196.  1970 end 1910 dana.
ciyndhelh coielgenru                    fltemperature, body weighte, age                      aury(ecn)-lbrfroi.ilg Locrouclt,  eofutarig
nedansdhist'~rihuin   of  pploin,sd a11liogo 10 percet for waute at                            an  eecrciy,oue  eA  o  anpretge of' intel'                    - furc-;
houehod leve; 291-65 197 nod 197  daeL90,17ad10  data.
Pu .nPlta spply ofPrtIn (aa   pen day) - Protein c-tent of pit ..pit.                        Perticiacton Rat  (por;tet) -o. tu1tu;,mle,. sad female - Pu-niipotieno
oet supply of food per day.  Het supply of food is defined as tent   Ro-                       untitiy  ..t  are ceptn   s  oa, sale, and fr1m  labor force as
qnirs_tt  for al  cotoe  estublinhad by 0106 pruvide for mdinis                                p_otootges of total, nair and female pupolatiro of all 0gm  repectively;
alloance  of 60  gama of nuca1 prtni  per day and 70 gesma of animal and                       1960, 1970,..ad 1980 date.  Thes  are..  base.d en 11,0'u potticipatiun eatro
pulse protria, of which 111 g-am  hbnld hr entiloten   Th-etand-                               reflec ing ag- sa trucuo-of the populunico. and lcng nima trend.  A
rda are Iowo  then tAunt o  71geao         1ua  protein and 23 grama of                       io  eteae   ar    envtioL scn
satmal protein  se   vrg  for the arId,-pr-usd by rAOi tn ho Third                         tru iem   D. Ospedot  Raic --Ratio c  ppulato   under 12 and blond near
Ofonid Pond lorey; 1961-61. 1970 and 1977 fee.c  the tunl  abr  nre
PeF_ ct ertInspply frun sai_ul end pus  -_Protein supply of fond do--
round frmI   "msad Pulses IA grmape  fy; 1961-61, 1970 nad 1971 data.                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
Child (ages I-)Dahln(prcond) - heAu..l dnarbs per thousan.d in                                 PercetagetofPninotInome (both in c-.h and kInd) - gemmeid bpounbent
age g..up I-4 yeses, to children in this age group; f- ormat dolpingcnn                           pret.nc t Z .I.pecot. poorest 20 percen.t, sad _poet 40P. pert
tries data derivedfreletaes  1960, 170 and 1980 dote,                                          of households.
HEALTH                                                                                         POVEogn TURGIT GROUIPS
Life Raetan..y at Bioth fY..ar) - Averoge  -,sh- of year  ot life remanig                      The followingesmts ar oy appruoi-lat  a                    oue    f povetrty level.,
at brt;  960. 1970 sad 1900 deco.                                                              Iesoldh1I  he inepetdnthcoidahocto.
Infant Mr-olity Sate (run thounef)_A.-Anui deaths of infants under nu  yea                     Ra_tim d AburL_t Poet             _      _oo ae  (Illes  c rte   -   bn  .od rurl-
of egs pee thousad Ive birh;160, 1970 and 1980 date.                                           Abslatr poverty Lnnorn lee  is 1L  that fora leve  below wheh A minim1
Ace... goRin Saner: (pret of pol9            s   -  oa.ura,ad total - Maw                        eatrirlonally adequate dier pine esenil  o-fond revuiremea  LA net
her of punpie (rtota, urban, and nuratl wIsh .o.s lbleacs   osf                                 fodbe
a_t.r supply (1oolden treofe  eafaro etera or untreated but aasaecd                          Etimatdf iRanti-ePvryCcalvl(0   e  osrit) - urha  andtart1
water s.-b as that from protected bunholes  sprIngs. and sanitary wails) as                    Rurl-     atv   povrtInom leeIIA up-third of avrage per -pita
peenetoges of their repective pepuatin.In an  rban are  a public                               persona  incor  o:f Ithey utry.  Urba  level is derived fro, the renal
foaenostandpost luneted not are thee 000 atera  from a hoe sup he                              level with adjuncan  for highe  cost of lintig In orbs . ras
tcidme  as hotsg wnis .aenbls aene  of tha   os.I   ua   te                               Eaaismatd Por-ain I alo 8-Absolute Povert  Incer levl (pret)-uben
rensble ecnnse woud imply that the h.--nIf. or'  "es of the househld                        and true        era   fpplea   aba   a   ua)ws  n   aelt
do met h-sto spee-d a disproportisate porn of the day  In fethbing the                          ot'
family's esnor safe.
AeMs to gncvet Ogaunel (earnet ofpelatle)-  tote.1 arba, and rurl 
Mater of Pe-PIe (fatal. sebm. and fralp         ere  by esoreta disposal.I
per..stages of thete  -epetiva pepaltio-s    ant  disposal ay iclad
the unliedo  so  diseosL. wish en edis_t _e_`-t. e    r     santm
sad was-te-me  by eate-burm   ypat-  or the  s  of pit pfieiia sod slut-
Pnoisamee   hehea  - Poslen.ies, divIded by n.s.o  of prataing physt-                                                        lo.Esauf.o ad OSni  Data Dinisim
classqanlf la  f n. a   d too  snhaa  as teineesiy lans.                                                                   -.saJi  AnelysLo  -d Prnjeetiese   apannast
PEe -ese  pa Ues     Paeran - Peewlatio  419Usd.  by 'w&en of ptantiegig                                                                         May 1962



- 22 -
ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5
BOTSWANA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980/81                                ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (% constant prices)
USS Mln.    %                               1980/81
GNP at Market Prices             959.8    100.0                                7.5
Gross Domestic Investment        411.1      42.8                               1.5
Gross National Saving            457.1      47.7
Current Account Balance          -91.3       9.5
Exports of Goods, NFS            479.5      50.0                              13.7
Imports of Goods, NFS           676.4      70.4                               28.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND            Value Added               Labor Force  1/           V.A. Per Worker
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1980/81         USS Min.      %               Min.      %               USS    % of Ave.
Agriculture                      114.4      12.2             0.428    84.0               267      14.4
Industry                         370.6     39.5             0.028      6.0           13,235    715.8
Services                         454.2     48.3              0.052    10.0             8,735    472.4
Unallocated                        .          .             _            ._.__
Total/Average                 939.2    100.0              0.508   100.0             1,849    100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                            Central Government
(P. Min.)               % of GDP
1980/81     1980/81      1978/79 - 1980/81
Current Receipts                                 269.5         33.8              31.1
Current Expenditures                             166.8         20.9              19.5
Current Surplus                                  102.7         12.9              11.6
Capttal Expenditures                             142.2         17.9              16.1
External Assistance (net)                         10.9          1.4               1.9
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                           1978       1979       1980       1981       1982
(Million P Outstanding End Period)
Money and Quast Money                              88.1      172.7     219.7       207.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector 2/                     1.9        1.3        0.7         0.2
Bank Credit to Prtvate Sector                      74.5       78.0       91.3      140.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP                  24.9       34.3       31.9       26.0
General Price Index (August 1980=100)              78.4       89.8      100.0       117.1      130.2
Annual percentage changes In:
Bank Credit to Public Sector                      -26.9      -31.6     -46.2       -71.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector                       6.9        4.7       17.1       54.2
1/ Labor force is defined as persons of 10 years and over engaged either In family agriculture or In
cash employment. MTgrant workers In South Africa are excluded.
2/ Excludes parastatals.
not available                                                                    EAl DB
not applicable                                                                   March 1983



- 23 -
ANNEX I
Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      MERCHANDISE EXPORTS 3
(AVERAGE 1980-82)
1979     1980      1981                                      USS Mln.    %
(Millions  US$)
Exports of Goods 1                    443.3    545.9    392.9            Meat and meat products       72.2    16.4
Imports of Goods 2                    443.1    604.2    672.5            Diamonds                    234.7    53.3
Balance of Trade (deficit= -)            0.2    -58.3   -279.6           Copper/nickel                83.5    19.0
All other dommodities        49.6    11.3
Non-factor Services (net)             -68.4    -76.9    -77.3              Total                     440.0   100.0
Factor Services (net)                 -24.0    -72.0       20.6
Net Transfers                          92.7      80.4    136.1
Balance on Current Account              0.5   -126.8   -200.2            EXTERNAL DEBT, DEC. 31, 1981
USS Min.
Direct Foreign Investment             109.4    125.4    109.7
Net MLT Borrowing                       12.2     12.7      17.3          Public Debt, Incl. guaranteed    164.4
Disbursements                        15.7      18.4      24.0          Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Amortization                          3.5       5.7       6.7          Total Outstanding & Disbursed    164.4
Capital Grants                         36.5      47.6
Other Capital (net) )                                                    DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1982 4
Other Items n.e.i.  )                 -16.5      33.7       2.1                                                 %
Increase In Reserves (-)             -104.6    -92.6    +71.1
Publlc Debt, incl. guaranteed        3.3
Gross Reserves (end year)             259.2    328.8    280.7            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed        3.3
Fuel and Related Materials
Imports 3                           555.9    697.4    777.0
of which:  Petroleum               74.8      90.9     99.5           IBRD/IDA LENDING (March 1983)
Exports 3                           465.8    545.9    392.9
of which:  Fetroleum                -                  -                                      (Million USS)
IBRD   IDA
RATE OF EXCHANGE 5                                                       Outstanding & Disbursed   91.0   14.2
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981    1982         Undisbursed                 64.6
Outstanding Incl.
US$1.00 = P            0.828  0.828  0.813  0.775  0.848   1.028           Undisbursed              155.6   14.2
P 1.00 = US$           1.208  1.208  1.230  1.290  1.179   0.973
1  Recorded customs statistics adjusted for timing and coverage.
2  Recorded customs statistics adjusted for valuation (exclusive of duties, insurance and freight) and
coverage.
3  Unadjusted trade figures.
4 Ratio of Debt Service to Exports of Goods and Non-factor Services.
5 Annual averages.
Not available
Not applicable
EAlDB
March 1983



- 24 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 6
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS iN BOTSWANA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(as at March 31, 1983)
Amount
(less Cancellations)
------US$ Million------
Number    Year      Borrower           Purpose                           Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Five loans and six credits fully disbursed                               56.84  14.74
1408      1977      Botswana       Fourth Road Project                   20.00             4.15
1497      1977      Botswana       Second Livestock Project               6.50             4.28
1584      1978      Botswana       Second Urban Project                   8.00             2.88
1763      1979      Botswana       Second Water Supply Project            4.40             1.15
1828      1980      Botswana       Second Education Project              10.00             8.92
1941      1981      Botswana       Fifth Road Project                    17.00             9.28
2057       1982     Botswana       Third Education                       20.00            20.00
2209      1983      Botswana       Power Project                         32.50            32.50
Total                                                             175.24  14.74    83.16
of which has been repaid                                         18.67   0.54
Total now outstanding                                             156.57  14.20
Amounts sold                                             10.00
of which has been repaid                                8.37      1.63    -
Total now held by Bank/IDA 1/                                     155.64  14.20
of which is undisbursed                                                  0.00    83.16
P=s=a   ====n
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 6
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT
(as at March 31, 1983)
Investment                                                          USS Million Equivalent
Number    Year   Borrower          Type of Business                Loan    Equity   Total
448-BT     1979   Botswana          Development Finance
Development        Company
Corporation                                        -      0.37    0.37
Total Gross Investments                                        -       0.37    0.37
Less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                          -
Total now held by IFC                                          -       0.37    0.37



-26 -                            ANNEX II
Page 3 of 6
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
(March 31, 1983)
Loan No. 1408-BT      Fourth Road Project; US$20.0 Million Loan of May 20,
1977; Effectiveness Date: August 18, 1977; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The project is financing construction of the Mahalapye-Serule Road
(150 Km) to all-weather standards, the preparation of a feeder road program,
technical assistance and equipment for road maintenance and strengthening of
the Roads Department. The project was amended in 1978 to use savings to pave
the 17 km road between Gaborone and Tlokweng Gate. Construction of both
roads financed by the project has been satisfactorily completed. Extension
of the District Roads Maintenance Pilot Project is about 2-1/2 years behind
schedule.
Loan No. 1497-BT      Second Livestock Project; US$6.5 Million Loan of
December 30, 1977; Effectiveness Date: November 27,
1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is being intensively reviewed by the Bank and Govern-
ment in the light of poor performance by small livestock owners in increasing
cattle production and offtake and reversing overgrazing trends through the
establishment of commercial ranches and communal grazing areas. Preliminary
findings suggest that the project was based on insufficient understanding of
the economic and social implications of the Government's Tribal Grazing Lands
Policy, which it was designed to support. The project's emphasis has thus
shifted to improve livestock marketing by upgrading trek routes, railway
sidings and holding areas and strengthen the agricultural credit division of
the National Development Bank, and these components are proceeding well.
Loan No. 1584-BT      Second Urban Project; US$8.0 Million Loan of September
11, 1978; Effectiveness Date: June 20, 1979; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The project is financing provision of about 2,000 upgraded and
1,000 settlement plots for Francistown and about 2,000 upgraded, 1,500
settlement and 300 low-cost sewered plots for Selebi-Phikwe. Basic infra-
structure and community facilities have been provided in the project areas,
as well as industrial and commercial sites. In addition, building material
loans for both site and service and upgraded plots are included in the
project. Good progress has been made with the implementation of all physical
work. The Government and local authorities are taking legislative and other
action to improve cost-recovery. The project is also providing technical
assistance for preparation of a subsequent urban project.



- 27 -
Annex II
Page 4 of 6
Loan No. 1763-BT      Second Water Supply Project; US$4.4 Million Loan of
January 9, 1980; Effectiveness Date: September 18,
1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project is expanding and improving the Francistown water supply
system, and has financed the preliminary investigations and design for the
proposed expansion of the water supply system in the Gaborone area.  Work on
the main contract was substantially completed a few months behind schedule.
Loan No. 1828-BT      Second Education Project; US$10.0 Million Loan of April
16, 1980; Effectiveness Date: June 13, 1980; Closing
Date: June 30, 1985
The project is helping to finance about 7 new Community Junior
Secondary Schools and the expansion of 11; about 7 new Brigade Centers and
about 9 Agricultural Brigades; and expansion of the Botswana Institute of
Administration and Commerce and the Institute of Development Management.
Sites for all the Community Junior Schools have been selected, sketch plans
completed and five of the 17 schools are being built. The Brigades component
has been held up pending Government decisions on its future relationship with
the Brigades.
Loan No. 1941-BT      Fifth Road Project:  US$17.0 Million Loan of February 6,
1981; Effectiveness Date: May 4, 1981; Closing Date:
October 1, 1984
The project is completing the paving of an extension of the north-
south road to link with Zimbabwe; improving access to Selebi-Phikwe, parts of
the Tuli Block and adjacent areas; strengthening road maintenance and improv-
ing training. The project began promptly and progress is satisfactory.
Loan No. 2057-BT      Third Education Project;  US$20.0 Million Loan of
November 10, 1981; Effectiveness Date: April 23, 1982;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
The project is intended to improve the quality and efficiency of
primary education, especially in the rural areas, through construction,
furnishing and equipping about 500 classrooms (involving about 20,000 student
places), providing about 200,000 textbooks and teachers' guides, constructing
primary teacher training college with a capacity for 300 students and provid-
ing technical assistance for the primary school program. Implementation is
progressing well, and contracts for about a quarter of the first year's
program of classroom construction have been awarded.



- 28 -
Annex II
Page 5 of 6
Loan No. 2209-BT      Power Project; US$32.5 Million Loan of November 16,
1982; Effectiveness Date: July 7, 1983; Closing Date:
June 30, 1987
The project consists of a 90-MW coal-fired pithead power plant at
Moropule. The plant will be connected to the existing supply system and
result in an integrated national power grid. The project will also finance
tariff and organizational studies, training and coal drilling programs and
engineering consultancy services. The project will meet Botswana's power
needs through FY88, substituting local resources for high-cost energy
imports.



- 29 -
Annex II
Page 6 of 6
D. EXISTING IFC INVESTMENT
Botswana Development Corporation, 448-BT
IFC has subscribed to preference shares in the Botswana Development
Corporation and is providing technical assistance to its management by being
represented on the Board of Directors.



- 30 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.    Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare project            2 years
(b)   Preparation by WUC                       3 months
(c)   First presentation to Bank               September 1982
(d)   Appraisal mission departed               October 31, 1982
(e)   Appraisal mission returned               November 29, 1982
(f)   Negotiations                             April 18-20, 1983
(g)   Planned date of Effectiveness            October 3, 1983
1I.   Special Bank/IDA Implementation Action
None
tII. Special Conditions
(a)   Conditions of Effectiveness
(i) Effectiveness of Government and CDC loans (para. 55).
(b)   Other Special Conditions
(i) Bank to review findings of studies on water legislation
(para. 30).
(ii) WUC to adjust tariffs to achieve 8 percent financial rate
of return (para. 40).
(iii) Government to reimburse WUC for any additional land
acquisition costs (para. 51).
(iv)  Government to guarantee timely funding of secondary and
tertiary distribution systems (para. 54).
(v) WUC to consult Bank on any new appointment of Chief
Executive Officer (para. 56).



- 31 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(vi) WUC to seek Bank approval of new borrowings if
debt-coverage in doubt (para. 41).
(vii)  Timely appointment of manpower development consultant
(para. 53).
(viii)  Appointment of panel of experts and continued review of
safety (para. 46).



I



, ANGOLA    !          ZAMBIA   3r  ;'MALAWI
ANGOLA          r-._   X                                                 G A)/B RO <NGE A        N E
r  \ZIMBABWE X    /                                                    |   |2iUSINES
20'   NAMIBIA                                          20                                                     C ENTER
-Gaborone,/
Ic.-  ,f               (4sWAZILAND
SOUTH AFRICA
30                               ""T'ESOTHO           30t                                                             'it
Spillway
2,0                  300                                                                         GABORON
__ __ __ __ __ __ _ __ __/___  __  _                                                                   DAM  
1110 rnap ha' breen prep-red by
lr e Wprrd reeks slat enorOfr-ely
for the   -o-nrblce ot tf the
rea-ers an d ,s eOOlaovely r The!                                        /
_a    o The World Bank
onned foe Tlhernr d-- tanCe,                                                                                                                    BOTSW ANA
roo,d and IhO b_r,rd`-r sho
Cor oalo  The da n m ral n "                                      ,y  -    th
pn Is may dhoW0ld013iplon I n/.                                                                                                  THIRD  WATER  SUPPLY  PROJECT
onarlQl  dof Worl Lmlarr and lIe
epattori,trohneawrUrrnr                   !.9.1 .Wi.          11-/                                        'GABORONE    DAM    RAISING
any joraref gerr lIrhe legal slatus
of any teIrOldoe or any
nrrdorsemnof ar accnpfancn of                    
wu(hb-und-,,es                          -              /J                                                                            .      .  Main roads
Road realignment
.  --/-     '  '  'Railroad
Railroad realignment
Water pipeline  to  Lobatse
;//    .  /                     Water pipeline diversions
//  i.. /               __ Existing dam
Dam  extensions
Notwane Dam                        S O  U T H       A  F R I C A                                   New  boundary fence
Present f;ood  s-irface  level
Future  flood  surface level
River                                         _
r X KILOMETERS  0        1         2          3                         -International boundaries
MILES 0123                                                                                                               - ~
O'
.~~~ .0 - 



I



I BRD 16922
Ti Vo/ePOin'e    .rc frlrowr,  FEBRUARY 19831
BOT SWA N A
THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT                                                                                              GABORONE
CATCHMENT AREA OF GABORONE DAM
Towns                                                                                                        N
d    GABORONE  DAM           ,<
Rordls                                             09O/          CATCHMENT
i  i  Railways                                  <~o /~         1,500 SQ. MILES
Cotchment bound,ries
New FS.L.                                     /
--  7Z7    R x   vers|     
-*-*-  z:o-rr tonca bacsdcres
n            5            10 MILES                  _         =         X       <   |LE
n  5   1t       15      nK~~~~~ILOMETERS    r \        / 8           ,,              
I          / fr      <   Ik R~~AMOTSWA         
____________________ Nil..<, t ~S 
C::DRANAKA !
~~~~~~1                                   M~~~~~~~~~~~OCOEAINE 
KANYE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II
rO  Gnso:t   /  /   \ \     \              (   ~~~/        /    .                    
f~~~~~~~\- Iojw 'k                         ' ,0'  1X'   Xm1T--
TSKLANE                                      OTSE<,
CATCHMAENT             /                      /                     /  
N ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~I~
NK                                 (_0  dMgz  /0 /gjQ't
CATCHMENT I\ / ACHMENT
j   \s a ,1 185 X MIL?<,J_S\  !a <    0 ~~~~~~~S O U T H //A F R IC A
N\   / |\> RA W
B 0 T S W A N A                            _   '                       0^\                                
!                                            \            .X01             1/ >         v5\-.  '\
00000000 0OIi0   \ Z I M B A B W E
B O T S W A N A
2z4j                          /p/          244-
240               280             /                  1' tloT    ,    .o
2f l   24   r      2B             /              c-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ thegl~ ! Satuk oranf  rrit lelc  or-yEtosEeto  c  p   c   lsc  b-tad- ue



I



ZAMBIA <           )                                                                                                     /
ANGOLA
r       , ZIMBABWE? .           20                                                                                       /
0504 BTS/A NA._                                                                                            N  i'- -           ,/
5 WAZiLND- 
. %,    SOUTH AFRICA  Sl                         /                                                                      N'                            -I
mof                                                                      N 7                 5  S0   X\a                  
/                                         - z  \;   w    ::  S  .y:  i  E   ./  N   ,
SOot 0JPdak s   ,A2 ccwstt y          /                          
/   Sewerage syste    f l
msdeN ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ ~ t th. Br.k,s ma v  s m-g,,,                                              s
GI,MS                                                                                                     B-d 01  h-- Vd EfxiA  /   '   ,
endsis mntmac elwnsent/   Ga:borone West will connect                                                           ,f rVcI->@303'<     J
D.:bwiwtwmm'     to the ProadShooss Sewa ge   /     c,                                                                    'F      fi 3 F~E
MO,GODI=tSEA8/  //X /on5                                                                                                                                             .
,~~~~~~~        ~~~~                     R                                               BtzSS /Z    ,        OX   
\  0        /                                                                                            Sege Works
MOGOOITSHANE    /                   /                     /lS                                               O           t             losidation goads
0tt                /                                     /;                       I ; i(xdhnod)>   ?~t
J>  9-<   N    /                     -5=            \S  Estensson of                                          BNorthern
&  Sewage Works
92\a_ /: 5  0:  ''                                                                                   asidatIon ponas)
a. n esi                                                                               Pomping .
/  -    -        Ponpin  Stato       I                                                                  Sttomeesnm)
S   -            t      X      rABORONE-                        t-=j          _                         ReserABORON
</    '   ,_,    ~~~~~~~~  :  X                N                    I      | Rctllrood~~~~~~~~~~I 
t   <   ,, .f TonSovgnit
/                                             _                                          I        T  Power Station 
2r2v MILES L ~~~~~~~~~~i                                  i                                9entoa onasss 
Works
(-odati-n ponds)             r
itEatensi- of                                           BOTSWhANA
Ct                                                   N ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~G.aborane Waterk               THIRD WATER SUPPLY PROJECT
7reotmnrrnt Works and P.
Foarae" iso                                                              ~Eaeso  of                             EXISTING  AND  PROPOSED  WATER
St.loge S te  ~   ~              ~            ~             N No'asWanrI                      SUPPLY AND SEWERAGE SYSTEMS
coig    Water SpplyjttFoiltios Sn-sige System
Station       ~Protet      E.isririg      E-i-g          Na.Ppeie
EXISTING                                                                re-smnt Plants
GABORCNE                                                                -
.-Lobatse P-mpig Main                                   DMMorn oacos
-Ri,er
Ceta   a   esd,strict
TribaI   loage aea
Nt                                                                                       tctw~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N~   . d is,.,tcct..  -tO'~~d
E-~~~~~~~~~~~



