Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
Report No. 13827
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(LOAN 2971-BR)
DECEMBER 29, 1994
Environment and Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution and may be used bv recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(June 1, 1994)
Currency Unit                 Cruzeiro Real (Cr$)'
Cr$1.00        =      Cr$ 1,000.00
US$1.00        =      Cr$ 1,8502
CR$1.00        =      US$ 0.0011
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric system
FISCAL YEAR OF THE GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL
January 1 to December 31
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
BACEN          -      Banco Central do Brasil
Central Bank of Brazil
BTN            -      Bonos do Tesouro Nacional
National Treasury Bond
CD             -      Certificate of Deposit
CLC            -      Comite de Limites de Credito
Credit Limits Committee
DTN            -      Departamento do Tesouro Nacional
National Treasury Department
FEBRABAN    -         Federacao Brasileira das Associacoes de Bancos
Brazilian Federation of Bankers' Associations
IGP-DI         -      Indice Geral dos Precos-Disponibilidade Interna
General Price Index - Domestic Supply
IPC            -      Indice de Precos do Consumidor
Consumer Price Index
MCR            -      Manual de Credito Rural
Rural Credit Manual
oRTN           -      Obligacoes Readjustaveis do Tesouro Nacional
Readjustable Obligations of the National Treasury
PB             -      Participating Bank
PNDA           -      Programa Nacional de Desenvolvimento Agroindustrial
National Program of Agro-Industrial Development
PNDR           -      Programa Nacional de Desenvolvimento Rural
Notional Program of Rural Development
PRONAGRI    -         Programa Nacional de Asistencia Agroindustrial
National Program of Assistance to Agro-Industries
SNCR           -      Sistema Nacional de Credito Rural
National Rural-Credit System
STN            -      Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional
National Secretariat of the Treasury
SUDAM          -      Superintendencia do Desenvolvimento da Amazonia
Amazon development superintendency.
TR             -      Taixa Referencial
Reference Rate
The Cruzeiro Real was introduced in November 1993, replacing the Cruzeiro (Cr$) at a one-thousand-
to-one ratio. The Cr$, which replaced and was equal to one of the Cruzado (NCz$), was Brazil's
currency from March 15, 1990, until the end of November 1993. The Cruzado was Brazil's currency
at the time the loan became effective.
2      At June 1, 1994.



THE WORLD BANK             FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation                                                       December 29, 1994
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR)
Attached is the PCR on the Brazil-Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 2971-BR)
prepared by the Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office, with Part II by the Borrower.
The project was the twin of the Fourth Agro-Industries Credit Project (Loan 2960-BR) with similar
objectives, design, scale and experience.
The project aimed to support productive on-farm investments and to liberalize credit
in the agricultural sector, with a US$300 million loan mostly for local expenditures. The loan was
considered necessary because investment finance had virtually disappeared in Brazil's unstable
economic environment.
Driven by pent up credit demand and subsidized sub-loans (since indexation lagged
high inflation), most of the funds were committed within a week of loan effectiveness (by Banco do
Brazil, the traditional public source of credit for agriculture), but erosion of the real value of
Treasury's project account led to such sub-loans being discontinued. Credit demand then fell sharply
and US$21 million of the Bank loan was canceled. Progress reporting and Bank supervision were
inadequate.
The PCR provides little information on the composition or quality of the sub-loan
portfolio, other than stating that a broad spectrum of activities contributed to significant productivity
gains. It notes Lhat this type of project can be a useful tool for policy reform towards more efficient
intermediation in rural credit markets, and that the project supported a key sector of Brazil's economy
at a time of financial turmoil and economic uncertainty. However, the PCR concludes that a
follow-up project should be postponed until the economic environment regains stability and inflation
abates to a more acceptable level. Also, that achieving a meaningful degree of financial liberalization
remains an elusive objective as long as macro-economic instability distorts financial markets.
Given the project's failure to liberalize credit and its negative fiscal impact, the outcome is
rated as unsatisfactory. Sustainability is rated as likely, but institutional impact as negligible. The
main lessons are not new: as suggested in the current guidelines, the Bank should hesitate to lend for
credit lines in countries where inflation is high; the fiscal risks of credit lines in highly inflationary
times; the difficulty of achieving credit liberalization in a monopolistic environment, and the need for
good monitoring and reporting.
An audit is planned together with the twin project.
Attachment                                       (             I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
I official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2971-BR)
Table of Contents
PREFACE ................................................. i
EVALUATION  SUIMMARY   .....................................   ii
Objectives . ............................................ ii
Project organization   ......................................   ii
Implementation experience .................................. iii
Project Results ......................................... iv
Sustainability .......................................... vi
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE ....                                                    .......... 1
Project Identity .               ........................................  1
Project Background   ......................................   1
The Structure of Rural Credit  ................................   2
Special Agricultural Credit Programs ............................   5
Project Origin .            .......................................... 6
Project Description and Organization  ............................   7
Relation to Other Bank Loans   ................................   9
Project Implementation .................................... 10
The Bank's Performance ................................... 13
Project Results ......................................... 14
Lessons Learned ........................................ 16
Sustainability and Replicability ................................ 17
II. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE ... ...... 19
Project Implementation .................................   19
Project Results ................................                                                           21
HI. SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA .                                      . ....................... 22
1. Related Bank Loans ................................                                                     22
2. Project Timetable ................................                                                      23
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements .................. 23
4. Project Costs and Financing ............................... 24
5. Project Results ....................................     25
6.  Status of Legal Covenants   .             ............................... 26
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






i
PROJECT COMPLEIION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2971-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Project-Completion Report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Credit Project, Loan 2971-BR (PNDR), which was approved on June 23,
1988. The approved Loan amount was US$300 million for a total project cost
of US$600 million. The US$300 million in counterpart funding was to be
financed by beneficiaries of sub-loans and participating banks in freely
negotiated proportions. The purpose of the Loan was to provide investment
finance and working capital to agricultural enterprises and cooperatives, at a
time term finance for investment had virtually disappeared in Brazil's unstable
economic environment.
2.    The Loan and Project Agreements are dated May 31, 1989. The loan
became effective on August 22, 1989 and closed on December 31, 1993. The
balance of US$20,897,427.91 in uncommitted funds that remains in the Special
Account is being recovered by the Bank.
3.    Part I of this PCR is the work of the Agriculture and Environment
Division of Country Department I (LA1EA) of the LAC region. It is based on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the President's Report, the Loan and Project
Agreements, Bank Supervision Reports, STN's audit reports of the project,
other project documents, and correspondence and internal memoranda
pertaining to the Project. Part II was prepared by the Federal Treasury in
Brasilia.






ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2971-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Objectives
1.    The project's main objective was to shift lending to farmers and rural
cooperatives, away from the official credit system to voluntary lending by
commercial banks, at market rates. The Bank's support for that effort was
important because term credit had virtually disappeared from Brazil's financial
intermediation, at a time when uncertainty and high inflation were disrupting
economic activity and distorting financial intermediation. In 1988, when the
project was negotiated, 90 percent of agricultural credit was from official
sources, mostly short-term and at subsidized interest rates.
2.    The project ran in tandem with another loan--the Fourth Agro-
Industries Credit Project (Loan 2960-BR -- PNDA). PNDA's structure is
comparable to that of this project and had the same broad policy objectives,
but provided medium-term financing to agro-industrial enterprises. Together,
the two projects aimed to consolidate all Bank support for, and credit to,
Brazil's agricultural sector under two credit lines. This was a departure from
the earlier practice of including agricultural and rural-credit components in
broader projects.
3.    Through gradual liberalization of agricultural credit, the project also
sought to relieve the Brazilian Treasury of the fiscal burden of providing large
volumes of subsidized credit. This would eliminate the existing regressive
practice of allocating scarce fiscal resources to subsidize credit, instead of
funding priority social programs (the estimated cost to the Government of
providing agricultural credit subsidies in 1986 and 1987 was more than
US$800 million equivalent).
Project organization
4.    Eligible investments: PNDR funds have been used to refinance
commercial-bank loans to farmers, agricultural cooperatives and firms that
provide contractual services (such as plowing, harvesting, and irrigation) to
farms. The intention was to help agricultural producers raise their productivity



iii
and output by financing new fixed investments and working capital (for the
purchase of farming inputs).
5.    PNDR financed up to 50 percent of each subproject, with the remainder
to be divided between beneficiaries and PBs in freely-negotiated proportions.
There was no counterpart funding from the government. Sub-loans up to
US$1 million or the equivalent in local currency, could be committed freely by
PBs, but had to be screened by BACEN for compliance with the project's
guidelines on eligible sub-projects. Sub-loans above the free limit of US$1
million had to be approved by the Bank, and no single beneficiary could
borrow more than US$15 million (5 percent of the Loan amount).
6.    Loan Administration and Supervision: BACEN and STN, the two
implementing agencies, share responsibilities for local supervision. BACEN
had to (i) accredit commercial banks by applying normal prudential criteria,
(ii) verify that sub-loans comply with the project guidelines on eligible
borrowers, investments and expenditures, and (iii) withhold funding for, or
cancel all sub-projects that do not comply with the guidelines.  T  was
responsible for the financial management and supervision of the project. It
made disbursements to, and must recover funds from, the PBs. STN also had
to prepare monthly and quarterly financial summaries of disbursements.
7.    Currency options: At the PBs' and sub-borrowers' option, refinancing
could be in the Bank's Currency Pool (option A), in U.S. dollars (option B),
or in local currency (option C).
Implementation experience
8.    Phased implementation: The loan was implemented in two phases: (i)
disbursements on all contracts signed between October 1989 and September
1990 were in local currency (option C); (ii) all subsequent disbursements
involve the other two options (but, with only one exception, have all been in
US dollars -- Option B). Option C was discontinued in October 1990. Given
the complexity of the Bank's Currency Pool and difficulty of hedging the
foreign-exchange risk on the Pool, practically all subsequent refinancing was
in US dollars. It included supplementary financing on existing sub-loans, to
restore the real value of existing 'C' subloans, and enable beneficiaries to
complete investment projects. On the whole, after 1990 disbursements
dropped sharply because the cost of dollar-based funding was considered too
high by most farmers.
9.    The skewed distribution of funds among PBs: Ten PBs participated in
the first round of PNDR. Banco do Brasil (BdB), the largest source of farm
credit, has used over 98 percent of PNDR funds and accounts for 83 percent



iv
of all sub-projects. By comparison, the second largest user of the loan, Banco
de Credito Real of Minas Gerais (Credireal), financed 44 sub-projects Oess
than 0.5 percent of the total) and used about 10 percent of the loan amount.
10.   The pace of disbursement: Loan commitments and disbursement were
much faster than expected: over 90 percent of the loan was committed to PBs
during the first month of effectiveness and two-thirds of the loan had been
disbursed by end-1989. The pace of disbursements became irregular and much
slower after Option C was discontinued in October 1990. At closing, US$20
million in uncommitted funds remained on the Special Account and are being
recovered by the Bank.
11. Problems with loan supervision: The quality of local supervision has
been affected by conjunctural factors (hyper inflation and economic instability)
and by the difficulty of reconciling STN's disbursements to PBs with the PBs'
own data on disbursements to beneficiaries.
12.   Differences between PNDR and PNDA: In PNDA the use of funds was
far less skewed (the three largest participants used 60 percent of the funds),
the average size of sub-loans much larger (US$1.6 million), the pace of
disbursements was much slower, and only 80 percent of the loan was
disbursed.
Project Results
13.   At appraisal, total project cost was estimated at US$600 million, of
which US$300 million (50 percent) would be financed by the Loan. At
closing, on December 31, 1993, total project costs had been revised to
US$558.2 million, of which US$279.1 million (50 percent) were proceeds
from the Loan, and the rest from counterpart funds. The shortfall of 7
percent, relative to the original forecast, has had no significant impact on the
project's results.
14.   PNDR's results have been generally satisfactory. It has helped reduce
the volume of official rural credit at subsidized rates, restored term financing
at market rates and covered a broad base of beneficiaries. PNDR has already
funded close to 9,500 sub-projects, at an average project cost of US$61,000
(after including counterpart funding). By covering such a broad spectrum of
agricultural producers, PNDR has had a significant impact in helping finance
this sector.
15.   A key measure of the project's success is that it has exceeded its targets
for the reduction in the volume of official agricultural credit. In real terms, the
project had targeted a reduction of official agricultural credit of 14 percent



v
from 1987 to 1990, and 12.5 percent from 1988 to 1990. The actual result for
the 1988-90 period was a reduction of the order of 70 percent Moreover, the
share of official credit in all lending to agriculture dropped from 85 percent in
1988 to 79 percent in 1990. What stands out, however, is that, during the
same period, total lending to agriculture declined by some 67 percent.
16. Despite its generally good results, the project's performance would have
benefitted from macroeconomic stability and lower inflation during the key
phase of implementation. Aspects of PNDR were particularly affected by the
prevailing economic uncertainty include:
a. Lending in Local Currency: Lending in Cruzados was ill-adapted to an
environment of extreme exchange-rate volatility and hyper-inflation of
more than 30 percent per month, especially so because technical and
legal problems caused occasional delays in the release of funds by
STN. Under the circumstances, any delays in disbursing committed
sub-projects caused financing gaps for PB sub-borrowers. On the other
hand, after disbursement, Cruzado loans contained an implicit subsidy
to borrowers because the inflation-correction index (the value of the
National Treasury Bonds -- BTN) of the amount owed by PBs to STN
lagged behind actual inflation. Until 1991, when a more reliable
indexation mechanism (TRD) replaced BTN, the subsidy to end-users
of PNDA resulted in a foreign-exchange loss for STN, because there
was a mismatch between the value of STN's Cruzado assets and that of
the government's borrowing from the Bank in the Currency Pool.
b. Foreign exchange losses: STN has incurred a combined foreign
exchange loss of US$62.6 million, being the result of (i) an unrealized
loss of US$24.4 million for the dollar-equivalent revaluation adjustment
of its currency-pool debt to the Bank, and (ii) US$38.2 million actual
loss, due to unexpectedly fast loan disbursements, financed out of
STN's own account, without protection against Special Account foreign
exchange losses.
c. Loan Suprision: Because of difficulties in reconciling data on
disbursements to PBs with the PBs' disbursements to their clients,
supervision by BACEN and STN could not be as thorough as intended.
At the same time, competing work priorities within the Bank prevented
supervision at the desired six-monthly intervals. This has undoubtedly
affected the project's implementation.
d. Ineligible expenditures: BACEN had to check compliance with the
loan's eligibility criteria for a huge number of sub-projects. In the first
rush of applications several projects involving ineligible expenditures



vi
were not detected. Most of these cases involve simple technical errors
in interpreting eligibility criteria. There were also several irregularities
in the use of funds, and BACEN had to suspend the accreditation of
five of the ten PBs. Since most cancelled loans were quite small, this
has had no significant impact on the loan's performance.
Sustainability
17.   PNDR's excellent reception, as evidenced by the rapid pace of
disbursements to a large number of sub-participants, shows that this type of
operation is important in supporting rural development through more efficient
agriculture. Thus, despite some implementation problems, there is no doubt
about PNDR's sustainability.
18.   As for a follow-up operation, it should only be considered if three
conditions can be met. First, there should be relative macroeconomic stability,
to make it more likely that real financial liberalization and deepening can be
achieved, in a less distorting financial environment. Secondly, all future
onlending by STN should be exclusively in US dollars, meaning that the PBs
take the local-currency/dollar risk and the Government the dollar/currency-
pool exchange-rate risk. Thirdly, participation should be distributed more
evenly across the banking system, rather than monopolized by a single
dominating bank.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2971-BR)
I. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Identity
Name                     Agricultural Credit Project
Loan Number              2971-BR
RVP                      Latin America and the Caribbean Region
Country            :     Brazil
Sector             :     Farming and Agriculture
Project Background
1.    The project was appraised at a time of relative slowdown in agricultural
production. During the first half of the 1980s, the rate of growth of the area
for planted crops had declined to 1.7 percent per year, compared to 3.3
percent per year in the 1970s. Moreover, the production of basic food crops
(wheat, maize, casava, potatoes, rice and beans) had remained relatively
constant. This meant that per capita food production was declining, and
Brazil's imports of food increasing. Another indicator of problems at the time
is that the consumption of fertilizers declined by close to 30 percent during the
1980s.
2.    Given its place in Brazil's economy, support for agriculture is
important. Though the share of agriculture in GDP declined somewhat during
the 1980s, it still stood at 10 percent in 1991. Despite that relative decline,
the average growth rate in agriculture during the 1980s (2.6 percent per
annum) was still higher than in any other sector of the economy, except
services. Agriculture also accounts for close to one third of the country's
exports, and is a major main source of employment.
3.    Looking at the social and economic importance of the farm subsector,
there are over six million farms in Brazil, nearly half of which are in the
northeast, with the next highest concentration in the south (about 20 percent),
and southeast (17 percent). The north and center-west are of marginal
importance. The regional shares of crop values are even more
disproportionate, with the south and southeast -- where productivity is greater



2
and infrastructure highly developed -- accounting for close to three quarters of
the total.
The Structure of Rural Credit
4.    Rural credit in Brazil's financial system: Given the importance of
agriculture in Brazil's economy, rural credit features prominently in the
financial system. There are three basic types of rural credit: (i) credit at
managed interest rates, where the degree of interest-rate subsidy is a function
of each farm's annual income, or of the type of activity being financed (ii)
lending at market rates by banks and other sources, such as crop buyers and
exporters, and (iii) special funds and regional programs that target particular
activities or types of producers. Of these three sources, the first is, by far, the
largest. It includes the financial institutions that are part of the Sistema
Nacional de Credito Rural (SNCR). BdB, the country's largest commercial
bank, is the dominant player in SNCR.
5.    The preferential interest-rate program: This program covers the bulk
of lending at subsidized interest rates, and is regulated by the Central Bank.
There are three levels of preferential rates (IP), with subsidies depending on
farms' and producers' co-operative annual gross income. TP lending is at
positive real rates (but, when converted to dollar equivalents, real rates can be
negative in periods rapid depreciation of the cruzeiro), expressed as fixed
spreads over the nominal Taxa Referencial Didria (RD). TRD fluctuates
widely in a high-inflation environment. The spreads over TRD are:
a. 6 percent p.a. for mini producers, with gross annual income of up to
US$6,000 equivalent (at end-February 1993 exchange rates);
b. 9 percent p.a. for small farms and producers' cooperatives, with gross
annual income between US$6,000 and US$18,000 equivalent;
c. 12.5 percent p.a. for medium and large farms and producers'
cooperatives whose annual gross income exceeds US$18,000
equivalent. At present, 70 percent of TP lending goes to large farms
and cooperatives, in the 12.5 percent rate bracket.
6.    All credit institutions, except BdB and regional development banks,
must allocate 25 percent of all funds on deposit in sight accounts to TP
lending. Of that total; (i) at least 80 percent must be allocated to priority



3
activities', and (ii) not less than 30 percent must be loaned to mini and small
farms. BdB, and the regional development banks must allocate 65 percent of
lending to agriculture. Most of it goes to large farms, at spreads of 12.5
percent. Loans can be for up to 3 years
7.    BdB, the country's largest bank, is, by far, the largest single source of
rural credit and the main channel for official credit at subsidized rates. BdB's
agricultural-credit portfolio includes lending at market rates, but there is been
no clear pattern for the relative shares of BdB's official and commercial
agricultural credit. In recent years, official credit, as a percentage of BdB's
total agricultural lending has varied considerably, as has the total volume of its
lending to that sector.
8.    During the 1988-1990 period, BdB's official lending to agriculture
dropped sharply in real and nominal terms. In real terms, its official
agricultural credit in 1990 was less than 25 percent of its 1988 volume. In
fact, had it not been for the extremely sharp involuntary contraction in BdB's
rural lending, the project's targets for the reduction of official credit could not
have been met. Even so, BdB remains by far the largest source of official
lending. Its share dropped from 90 percent in 1998 to 72 percent in 1990 and
1991 (see Table 1 below). As for the other sources of official rural lending --
the other official federal banks and commercial banks -- the volumes of their
lending continues to vary widely from year to year.
9.    The characteristics of agricultural credi: 'Mini-producers' usually
have no access to formal credit, unless they produce exportable cash crops (in
which case they can obtain pre-financing by buyers/exporters), or are in
regions, such as the Northeast, where they can benefit from specially targeted
rural-credit programs. The reason for this is that commercial banks are
generally unwilling to accept the high transaction costs, insufficient collateral
and excessive risks involved in lending to the smallest farms. In this context,
regional funds and other special programs that target these small producers are
means of reducing rural poverty and generating employment. However, as a
rule, subsidizing interest rates on agricultural credit is inefficient and
regressive from the point of view of income distribution: even with targeting,
scarce official resources seldom go to priority areas.
1.Priority activities that are covered at TP rates include, (i) the production of most cash
crops and staple foods, (ii) fish farming, (iii) poultry and dairy production, (iv) the purchase
of poultry and cattle feed, (v) investment for soil conservation and improvement, including
soil recovery in sugar-cane plantations, (vi) production costs and investments by all mini and
small farms, and (vii) the refinancing of short-term (90-day) loans from the Federal
Government.



4
Table 1: Agricultural Credit in Brazil - 1990 (value In inMion cruzd)
Toyf             Operating Expenses    |        Invenment        |        Marketing        |           Total
Benefit         Number   |   Value         Number  |   Value   J  Number  |   Value   |   Number               Value
AGRICULTURE
Small                   506.033      120.461       45.321        8.876        4.643         3.730       555.997       133.068
Medium                   83.983       84.161        5.222        6.992         1.699        2.958        90.904        94.112
large                    34.515      136.217        3.655       17.345         1.475       11.701        39.645       165.263
Coop                      1.977       50.170           43        1.022        2.503        37.523         4.523        88.716
Othen                     4.004        1.597        2.741        1.041         1.092       22.650         7.837        25.290
TOTAL                   630.512      392.607       56.892       35.276        11.412       78.563       698.906       506.447
RANCINCG
Small                    26.499        5.768       16.291        11.053          IS            7         42.808        17.000
Medium                    7.411        4.024        4.311        5.964            3            5         11.725        10.000
Large                     3.351       13.372        1.956        8.635            1            0          5.30S        22.007
Coop                        102        1.224           14           70           41          431            157         2.724
Other.                     498            32       56.082           56            0            0         56.580           88
TOTAL                    37.861       24.420       78.654       25.778           63          443        116.578        50.642
GENERAL
TOTAL                   668.373      417.028      135.636       61.054        11.475       79.007       S15.494       557.089
Source: Central Bank
10.     The 1990 distribution of SNCR  lending by borrower and type of
activity is shown in Table 1. This is the most recent year for which detailed
data are available. Those data are consistent with trends in previous years. As
the table shows, patterns differ considerably in agriculture and ranching.
a.  Agriculture.  The bulk of lending, both in number of projects and
amounts loaned, has been for operating expenses, with comparative
neglect of investment in plant and equipment, and soil conservation.
On average, about 15 percent of lending is for marketing expenses.
Surprisingly, the trend is the same across all categories, except that
coops and the unspecified 'others' allocate more funding to marketing.
b.  Ranching.  Here the position is reversed.  Almost equal amounts go to
investment and operating expenses, and only a minimal amount to
marketing. Surprisingly, small ranchers spend a larger proportion on
investment than large ones.
11.    Other, nonbank sources of credit at market rates, such as discounting
warehouse certificates for agricultural commodities, are limited because of
outdated laws and regulations. This shows that there is great need for reform
and modernization in more specialized areas that directly support agricultural



5
financing, especially the system of warehousing agricultural commodities, and
the classification of such commodities. Such steps would help supplement
agricultural lending at a time budgetary pressures are likely to cause further
reductions in official lending, while commercial banks remain reluctant to
provide investment credit in a high-inflation environment.
12.   One interesting initiative in agricultural credit has been developed by
the Sate Bank of Sao Paulo, Banespa. Of the bank's 600 branch offices in the
sate of Sao Paulo, some 370 specializes in agricultural lending. Through those
branch offices, Banespa has launched a program of crop financing, where the
principal amount of the loan is indexed to the market price of the crop being
financed. This removes the producers' risk of having loan repayments that
exceed the value of crops. Under Banespa's system, if the market price of a
given cash crop drops, Banespa reduces the principal amount of its loan by an
equivalent percentage. At the same time, Banespa rolls over the borrower's
obligation to repay the difference between the original and reduced loan
amounts to a future date. The program is available for all cash crops, except
sugar and oranges, and cannot finance livestock.
Special Agricultural Credit Programs
a. Rural credit governed by Law 8.023/90 and Central bank Circular
2147/92: This applies to all financial institutions that are part of SNCR
and accept term deposits. They must allocate at least not less than 60
percent of their total term deposit base for lending at real interest rates
up to a maximum of 12.5 percent p.a. Eligible borrowers are all
agricultural producers, including cooperatives. The tranche of lending
at 12.5 percent p.a. must go to the same priority activities as all other
TP lending.
b. Loans funded with Depositos Especiais Remunerados (DER) -- Law
8.024/91: These loans are funded with the proceeds of former blocked
Novo Cruzado accounts, that were converted into Cruzeiros. 40
percent of the proceeds of such conversions must be allocated to
lending at the three TP rates. DER-funded loans are made by the same
financial intermediaries that lend at the TP, except certain credit unions
and mortgage lenders. Lending must be for the same projects/activities
as other TP loans, as well as to (i) pre-finance crops for co-operatives,
(ii) discount agricultural trade receivables, and (iii) finance stocks of
agricultural commodities and the production of ethanol for motor fuel.
c. Rural credit governed by Treasury Law B. 409/92: This is a special
credit facility, funded by the Federal Budget and managed by the
Ministry of Planning. All formal financial intermediaries can



6
participate in this program, acting on the Ministry of Planning's behalf.
Refinancing by the Ministry can be at one of three types of interest
rates, at the borrower's option: (i) the Cruzeiro-equivalent cost of a
reference currency basket, plus 8.2 percent p.a. (ii) exchange-rate
variations of the Cruzeiro, plus 9.7 percent p.a., or (iii) TRD plus 10.5
percent. There is also a 'special' rate of TRD plus 5 percent p.a., for
rural development programs. Onlending must be to (i) finance price-
stabilization stocks and programs, (ii) finance the government's
strategic coffee stock, (iii) invest in agricultural production and special
farming programs, or (iv) 'colonize' new farming land.
Project Origin
13.   PNDR was the first Bank-supported, free-standing loan for farm credit
in Brazil. Given the conditions in Brazil's financial system at the time of
appraisal, the project's main policy objectives were to:
a. Help stimulate sustainable growth of agricultural production by
providing funding for productivity-boosting investment in agro-
industrial enterprises that play an important role in the domestic and
foreign-trade sectors.
b. Together with PNDA, streamline the Bank's lending to agriculture and
agro-industry by regrouping it under two specific long-term credit lines.
c. Gradually phase out directed official credit at subsidized interest rates --
and the associated fiscal burden for the Government -- by setting a
three-year target for the reduction in the volume of official agricultural
credit and reducing the agricultural sector's dependence on official
credit (by raising the volume of lending from commercial sources).
d. Make financial intermediation more efficient and responsive to
borrowers' needs by fostering a culture of voluntary, long-term
commercial lending, at market rates for productive investment.
14.   In seeking to reduce official involvement in financial intermediation,
PNDR was an important part of the Bank's policy dialogue with the Brazilian
Government. To achieve its objectives, it had to help bridge the gap between
what commercial banks could do (provide short-term loans) and what was
needed for productive investment and working capital for agricultural
producers (long-term loans).



7
Project Description and Organization
15.   Eligible investments: Under the terms of PNDR, eligible sub-
borrowers are: (i) individual farmers; (ii) cooperatives of agricultural
producers; and (iii) firms providing contract services to agriculture with
mechanized equipment. The project excluded financing for computers and
vehicles. International competitive bidding applied only to contracts of US$3
million equivalent or more, and Brazilian suppliers and contractors would
receive a 15 percent preference over foreign bidders.
16.   All onlending to eligible borrowers is through the refinancing (i.e.,
rediscounting) of PB loans to sub-borrowers. As in the case of PNDA, PBs
had to be accredited by BACEN. For subloans up to US$1 million, or the
equivalent in local currency, any accredited PB could freely commit the funds
and have sole right of approval. The PB only had to inform STN that the loan
had been made by submitting the appropriate loan documentation. That was
consistent with the Bank's wish to eliminate discretionary. Sub-loans of more
than US$1 million had to be approved by the Bank, and no single beneficiary
could borrow more than US$15 million (5 percent of the loan amount).
Matching counterpart funds had to be provided by PBs and beneficiary agro-
industrial enterprises, in freely-negotiated proportions.
17.   Loan administration and supervision: BACEN and STN were jointly
responsible.
a. BACEN's role was to (i) administer the PNDA Special Account, by
obtaining timely replenishment of the account to enable STN to
refinance eligible PB sub-loans, (ii) accredit PBs for participation in
PNDA -- to be accredited by BACEN, PBs had to be financially sound
and able to appraise sub-borrower projects, (iii) check each PB's
compliance with the projects guidelines on eligible sub-projects, and
deny funding for all sub-projects that were not in compliance, (iv)
cancel and recover all disbursed subloans that violate eligibility criteria,
and (v) if necessary, suspend or cancel the accreditation of PBs. In
accrediting individual PBs, BACEN had to set credit ceilings, based on
the recommendations of CLC.
b. STN's task was the overall coordination of the financial aspects of the
project, through a special unit that was set up in 1988 to administer all
official credits to the Federative Republic of Brazil. STN's role was to
(i) make disbursements to accredited PBs on all sub-loans under the
US$5 million free limit, unless BACEN had stated that the projects
violate PNDA regulations, (ii) monitor balances outstanding with each
PB, (iii) apply monetary correction to Option C loans, (iv) verify that



8
counterpart funds were available and disbursed on time, (v) ensure that
loans that have been declassified are recovered, and (vi) provide
monthly and quarterly financial summaries of the loan, with quarterly
data showing disbursements, disaggregated by PBs, type of sub-
borrower and geographical region.
18.   Refinancing options: The Federal Government's liabilities to the Bank
are denominated in the Currency Pool. To pass on the foreign-exchange risk
to PBs and sub-borrowers, the project initially offered PBs three options:
a. Option A: This option involves on-lending to PBs in the Bank's
currency Pool, so that PBs take on the full foreign-exchange risk on the
Pool. This is the most straightforward solution from the Government's
point of view, since it involves no risk of exchange-rate loss: the
principal outstanding in PB refinancing is automatically readjusted by
the same exchange-rate factor as the Government's own debt to IBRD.
Option A is also the most difficult (and potentially costly) for PBs.
b. Option B: Here the Government took the Currency-Pool/US dollar
exchange-rate risk and on-lends to PBs in dollars. The PBs, in turn,
take the dollar-local currency exchange-rate risk, when on-lending to
beneficiaries in Cruzado. The Government, in this case, charges the
PBs the Bank's variable rate plus a premium to cover its dollar-Pool
risk.
c. Option C: This option was introduced at the Government's own
request. In this case, the PBs have no exchange-rate exposure
whatsoever: their assets (the sub-loans) and liabilities (to STN) are
both in domestic currency. All sub-loans that are refinanced under this
option must be indexed to inflation, so as to ensure maintenance-of-
value of their principal amount, and protect the Government against
value erosion (relative to its own debt to the Bank). At the time of
appraisal, Brazil's inflation-correction index for financial contracts was
the value of the BTN (National Treasury Bonds) as corrected from time
to time. Option C was discontinued in October 1990.
19.   The pricing of loans to PBs: The Govemment's cost of funds (i.e., the
Bank's variable lending rate) was passed on to PBs. At negotiation it was
agreed that the PBs' refinancing rate would include a spread of 1.0 percent
p.a., to cover the Govemment's cost of administering the Loan, and an
additional 0.25 percent p.a. to cover the commitment fee on undisbursed
balances. Under Option A the PBs' base cost was the Bank's variable interest
rate on the currency Pool plus those spreads. Refinancing under Option B
carried a premium to cover STN's foreign-exchange risk, and Option C



9
involved inflation indexation. In July 1992, the Bank and STN agreed that the
exchange-rate premium on Option B would be maintained at 1.5 percent for
the duration of PNDA.
20.   The value adjustment of Option C proved quite complicated. When the
loan first became effective, Brazil's inflation-correction index for financial
contracts was the BTN Index (i.e, the value of National Treasury Bonds). But,
because that index trailed inflation, there was real-value erosion, thus a
shortfall in STN's liabilities to the Bank (denominated in the Currency Pool).
In July 1991, the TRD became the general index for all financial contracts and
the basis for adjusting the principal balances of subloans under the
discontinued Option C. Since the TRD tracks inflation (as measured by the
retail-price index), there have been no further capital losses on existing Option
-C contracts. Since July 1991, STN has kept a constant real rate of interest of
12 percent on PBs' C contracts (see Table 1 below). This is in contrast with
negative real rates on Option C when the BTN was the monetary correction
index. Based on experience to-date, the current formula should be enough to
cover STN's cruzeiro/dollar cross-currency risk.
Relation to Other Bank Loans
21.   PNDR marked the continuation of the Bank's long involvement in
providing finance for Brazil's agro-industrial sector, which started in 1973,
when the First Agro-Industries Credit Project became effective. Including this
Loan, as of December 31, 1993, the Bank has made 61 loans -- including
supplemental loans -- totalling US$51,341.2 million (net of cancellations), for
agricultural and rural development in Brazil. These loans include: (a) one
agricultural credit and export Loan for US$301 million; (b) one agricultural
credit Loan (loan 2971-BR) for US$300 million; (c) one credit and marketing-
reform Loan for US$495 million; (d) four loans--including the Loan under
review--for agro-industries, for US$758.8 million; (e) three loans (US$111.5
million) for livestock, including a Loan for a livestock disease control project
of US$51 million; (f) one Loan (US$18.2 million) for grain storage; (g) three
loans (US$147 million) for agricultural research; (h) two loans (US$255
million) for agricultural extension; (i) one Loan (456.6 million) for land-tenure
improvement; (j) 22 loans (US$1,176 million) for rural-development projects;
(k) nine loans (US$771.5 million) and two supplemental loans (107.5 million)
for irrigation development; (1) eight loans (319.3) for natural-resource
management, and two loans (US$96 million) for land management and soil-
conservation projects in the States of Santa Catarina and Parana; and (m) two
loans (US$372 million) for zoning and native-forest protection.



10
Project Implementation
22.   At appraisal, total project cost was estimated at US$600 million, of
which US$300 million (50 percent) would be financed by the Loan. Matching
counterpart funds had to be provided by PBs and beneficiary agro-industrial
enterprises, in freely-negotiated proportions. There was no counterpart
funding by the government. At closing (12/31/1992) total project cost was
US$558,205,144, of which US$279,102,572 were in project funds. The
balance of US$20,897,427.91 in uncommitted funds that remains in the Special
Account is being recovered by the Bank.
23.   Despite the loan's general success in reducing the volume of official
agricultural credit (see below) and encouraging commercial-bank lending at
market rates, a number of factors have affected its implementation. They are:
(i) the two-phase implementation of the loan and delays in the implementation
of phase-two projects, (ii) problems of indexing sub-loans; (ii) the skewed
distribution of PNDR funds among PBs, (iii) problems with loan supervision,
and (iv) ex post loan cancellations and the suspension of accreditation of
several PBs. Most of those problems were almost direct consequences of the
prevailing macro-economic instability.
24.   Phased implementation: The particularities of the three currency
options explain why the loan was implemented in two phases. All refinancing
of sub-loans with contracts signed between October 1989 and September 1990
was under Option C. After Option C was discontinued, all refinancing has
been under the other two options. However, the demand for PNDR funds
tapered off rather sharply. The main reason for this is that there were
competing and cheaper lines of credit (e.g., FINAME program of BNDES).
25.   Due to the complexity of the Bank's Currency Pool and the difficulty of
hedging the currency exposure on the pool, virtually all post-1990 refinancing
has been in US dollars. Much of it was for supplementary financing of
existing 'C' sub-loans, to restore their real value, and enable beneficiaries to
complete investment projects.
26.   Delays in the release of funds to PBs: At various stages during
implementation, there were delays in the release of funds by STN to PBs. In
November and December 1989, legal issues and the need to review STN's
refinancing agreements with PBs caused delays of up to two weeks. There
were also delays of several delays in October 1989, and in early 1990.
Because these delays occurred in a period of hyperinflation, they caused
significant cash-flow problems for PBs and beneficiaries. The reason for this
is that inflation indexation was initially done on the basis of BTN. BTN was
based on the retail price index (IPC) and trailed inflation. In addition, BTN



11
was set at the beginning of each calendar month and remained constant
throughout the month. Thus, any delay in releasing funds to PBs meant that
the actual cost of sub-projects continued to rise, whereas disbursements were
based on beginning-of-the-month BTN values. As a result, when funds were
released, the allocation often feU far short of the Bank's 50 percent share.
27.   This combination of factors caused severe financing gaps for many
borrowers who had pre-financed investments with short-term commercial
loans. While some sub-borrowers applied for additional PNDR financing in
US dollars (which raised total financial charges), or used their own resources
to cover the gap, others scaled down the scope of projects, or, in extreme
cases, abandoned them.
28.   The reciprocal of the PBs' and sub-borrowers' loss was that STN made
windfall savings, due to the lag between BTN and actual inflation. Between
October 1989 and mid-may 1990, these 'savings' amounted to US$28.2 million
equivalent on PNDR sub-projects. The proceeds of these savings have been
used to make additional refinancing.
29.   Changing the indexation of C sub-loans: Given the problems that
resulted from occasional delays in the release of funds, the indexation base
was modified. As of July 1991, the TR became the general index for all
financial contracts, includes 'C' subloans. Since the TR tracks inflation (as
measured by the retail-price index), there have been no further capital losses
on existing Option-C contracts.
30.   Foreign-exchange losses: Notwithstanding delays in the release of funds
on certain occasions, in the early stage of the loan's implementation the pace
at which refinancing was committed and disbursed led to losses for STN. The
reason for this is that, because balances in the Special Account were often
insufficient to cover those disbursements, STN refinanced some sub-loans to
PBs with of its own resources. In most of those cases, STN did not have the
Bank's 60-day protection against foreign-exchange losses on expenditures
financed through the Special Account. The crux of the matter is that, because
BTN was fixed on the first day of the month, any delay in obtaining funds
from the World Bank without foreign-exchange protection meant that STN
would receive a lower dollar equivalent value, because the Cruzado was
depreciating by 1.5 percent to 2 percent daily. Due to this, STN incurred a
foreign-exchange loss of US$38.2 million on PNDR.
31.   Another source of foreign-exchange losses for STN is that the principal
value of subloans indexed to BTN has been falling, relative to that of STN's
currency-pool liabilities. Between October 1989 (the date of first 'C' subloan)
and end-1993, the dollar equivalent value of Option 'C' contracts dropped by



12
57.5 percent. Taking the revaluation adjustment on the loan, through January
15, 1994 (i.e the dollar equivalent appreciation of STN's currency pool
liability to the Bank, since the loan has become effective), the principal
outstanding was US$ 303,505,447.74, which represents an unrealized
adjustment loss of US$24,402,875.65 for the Government. Fortunately for
STN, a part of that foreign-exchange loss was offset by the above-mentioned
"savings".
32.   The skewed distribution of funds among PBs: Although ten PBs have,
so far, received PNDR funds, Banco do Brasil has used over 98 percent of
total resources and accounts for 83 percent of all sub-projects. By
comparison, the next largest user of the loan, Banco de Credito Real of Minas
Gerais, financed 44 subloans (less than 0.5 percent of the total) and used about
10 percent of the loan amount. Though unfortunate (because it reenforces
Banco do Brasil's virtual monopoly in rural and farm credit), that
concentration was almost inevitable. Banco do Brasil has a unique,
dominating position in Brazil's financial system, and is the only bank with a
country-wide branch network that covers small rural towns. It is also the
country's main source of farm credit. That gave this bank a considerable
advantage in preparing and submitting sub-projects to be financed with PNDR.
The first-come-first-served allocation of funds to PBs generally favored BdB,
which had accumulated a large pipeline of sub-projects, in anticipation of
PNDR's launching. Given the broad distribution of its PNDR portfolio, Banco
do Brasil also had a larger proportion of disqualified sub-projects.
33.   Loan Supervision: Several factors have affected the quality of loan
supervision. In particular, STN has experienced considerable difficulties in
reconciling its data on disbursements to the PBs, with the PBs' data on loan
disbursements to beneficiaries. Another difficulty is that the PBs' own reports
to STN are not standardized. This can cause reporting errors and
discrepancies, especially in an environment of high inflation and rapidly
depreciating domestic currency, where differences of even a few days in
reporting dates can seriously affect the reported results. STN's monthly and
quarterly summary financial reports on of the Loan have always been on time.
However, they did not include data on project implementation progress in
terms of the location of and nature of sub-projects being refinanced.
Admittedly, that information was only requested by the Bank in late 1992.
34.   A further complicating factor is that there was no reliable central
mechanism to monitor cases of non-compliance by PBs or to check continued
observance of PNDR's regulations and eligibility criteria for subloans, and
compliance with the MCR rules for rural credit. Thus, because the PBs --
especially Banco do Brasil -- were asking BACEN to review hundreds of sub-



13
projects at any one time quite a few ineligible sub-projects were cleared and
had to be disqualified after disbursement.
35.   The cancellation of Ineligible Sub-loans. Cancellation of disbursed
subloans can take place for several reasons, including purely technical
violations of PNDR's eligibility criteria, the refinancing of expenses outside
the allowed period of 180 days, and irregularities in the use of funds. Another
reason can be failure to provide counterpart funding, given the prevailing
hyper-inflation. This happened often, especially for the smaller sub-
borrowers, some of which tried to pay 'in kind' with land and existing
equipment.
36.   Though practically all PBs had some of their sub-loans cancelled, there
were relatively few cases of blatant irregularity, and auditors have reported no
cases of deliberate misallocation and misuse of funds, or of use of false
documents. The problem has remained within manageable proportions, and its
impact on the overall financial performance of PNDR fairly limited.
However, taldng the combination of irregularities in the use of PNDR and
PNDA funds, and general prudential concerns, BACEN had to suspend the
accreditation of five PBs. This makes them ineligible for refinancing. One of
the PBs with suspended accreditation is BNCC, whose final liquidation is still
pending. Fortunately, BNCC's US$2.2 million in PNDR sub-projects
outstanding are performing well, without major difficulties. Once BNCC is
liquidated, its PNDR and PNDA portfolios will be taken over by Banco de
Brasil. STN is negotiating that transfer.
37.   Most PBs have already repaid cancelled loans to STN. Nevertheless,
some PBs, including some that are no longer accredited, have appealed
BACEN's decision with the National Monetary Council, and are holding back
repayment to STN, pending the Council's decision.
The Bank's Performance
38.   Because of competing work priorities, Bank staff were only able to
supervise project at nine-month intervals, which made it difficult to detect, or
attempt to deal with, some of the implementation problems. Other factors that
have weakened the quality of the Bank's supervision are (i) the lack of
continuity in task management, (ii) excessive reliance on a consultant, as the
main repository of 'institutional knowledge' of the project, and (iii) the fact
that mission and supervision reports, and aide memoires invariably lumped
together PNDR and PNDA. This may have blurred critical perspective in
dealing with implementation problems.



14
Project Results
39.   Despite its implementation problems PNDR has had good overall
results. It had a measurable impact in reducing the volume of official rural
credit, succeeded partly in liberalizing interest rates for farm lending, was
disbursed rapidly -- though not in full -- and touched a broad base of
producers, including many medium-sized farms. PNDR did so by making
funds available to agricultural producers nation-wide through thousands of
individual subloans.
40.   Reducing the volume of official rural credit: The project succeeded in
reducing the volume of official agricultural credit by more than had been
projected at the time of appraisal. In real terms the project had targeted a
reduction of official agricultural credit of 14 percent from 1987 to 1990, and
12.5 percent from 1988 to 1990. The actual result for the 1988-90 period was
a reduction of the order of 70 percent. Another indicator, the share of official
credit, as a proportion of total agricultural credit fell to 70 percent in 1990,
compared with 85 percent in 1988. As was stated earlier above, the fact that
the target reductions were exceeded is entirely attributable to the extremely
large reduction in the volume of Banco do Brazil's agricultural lending.
41.  Interest rates: Real interest rates on agricultural credit are now higher
than before the loan had become effective. The Government's cost of funds
(i.e. the Bank's variable ending rate), was passed on to PBs, with a spread of
1 percent per year, to cover the Government's cost of administering the loan,
and an additional 0.25 percent p.a. to cover the commitment fee on
undisbursed balances. Under Option A, the PBs' base cost was the Bank's
variable interest rate on the Currency Pool. Refinancing under Option B
carried a premium to cover STN's foreign-exchange risk, and in Option C,
monetary correction, (see the table below). In July 1992, the Bank and STN
agreed that the exchange-rate premium on Option B would be maintained at
1.5 percent for the duration of PNDA. In onlending to beneficiaries, the PBs
added a freely-negotiated spread over that cost of refinancing from STN.
These spreads range between 2 percent and 4 percent p.a. plus, in the case of
Option C monetary correction, and for the other options the exchange-rate
risk, relative to its sub-loans in domestic currency. Thus, in broad terms, real
interest rates to PBs and sub-borrowers under this credit were market
determined (see the table 2 below).
42.   Since July 1991, the real rate of interest on C contracts has been at 12
percent per year, except in the first half of 1992. This is in contrast with
negative real rates on Option C when the BTN was the monetary correction
index. However, from July 1991 through April 1992, the rate of devaluation
of the cruzeiro, relative to the dollar (22.6 percent per month) exceeded the



15
rate of inflation (21.2 percent per month). Thus, in dollar-equivalent terms,
there was erosion of principal value, which translated into a negative
refinancing rate of minus 3 percent for PBs.
Table 2 Rates for the Refinancing of PBs
Period                  Option     Interest rate
(in % p.a.)
5-1-89 to 12-31-89       A:               8.15
B:              9.65
C:             10.45
1st half 1990            A:              8.15
B:              9.65
C:             12.00
2nd half 1990            A:               8.25
B:              9.75
C:             10.55
1991                     A:              8.20
B:              9.70
______________     ~C:             12.00
lst half 1992            A:              8.20
B:              9.70
______________           C:             12.00
2nd half 1992            A:               8.20
B:              9.70
C:             10.50
1993                     A:              8.10
B:              9.60
C:             12.00
Source: STN
43.   Rapid commitments and disbursements: As noted, the fact that the
pace at which PNDR was committed and disbursed was faster than had been
expected at appraisal resulted in cash-flow problems and foreign-exchange
losses for STN. However, the pace of commitments and disbursements was
also a measure of the loan's success: two-thirds of the loan amount were
disbursed in the first quarter after it became effective, and by end-June 1992.
A total of 93 percent of the loan had been disbursed, as opposed to an



16
appraisal forecast of 73 percent. More than 90 percent of the loan amount had
already been committed to PBs, within five weeks of the loan's effectiveness.
44.   That situation is attributable to a combination of factors: (i) a large sub-
project pipeline had been built up between the time of loan preparation and
effectiveness, (ii) the absence of other sources of long-term investment credit
for agriculture, and (iii) the availability of financing in local currency (Option
C) during the first phase of implementation. The demand for refinancing
dropped off sharply after the cessation of Option C, and there have been
hardly any disbursements after mid-1992. The reason for this is that, after
factoring in the exchange-rate risk, the real cost of financing was quite high.
The US$20.9 million in uncommitted funds that remain in the Special Account
are being canceled by the Bank.
45.   A large number of beneficiaries: With thousands of small sub-loans,
PNDR was also able to touch a broad base of borrowers. Banco do Brasil
took the lion's share of the funds and covered over 90 percent of the
participants. It did so by using PNDR as an additional 'window' for its
traditional rural clientele, and making efficient use of its nation-wide branch
network to promote the PNDR program.
46. A broad spectrum of activities to improve agricultural productivity:
The types of activities and inputs covered by PNDR sub-projects include: (i)
the purchase of lime (to reduce soil acidity and rain fertility), (ii) the purchase
of tractors, combine harvesters and other agricultural equipment (for improved
mechanization), (iii) the installation of irrigation equipment, (iv) the purchase
of chemical fertilizers for soil improvement, and (v) technical assistance and
extension services. Together, these have contributed to significant productivity
gains and increased output.
Lessons Learned
47.   As the Bank's first free-standing credit for agriculture in Brazil, PNDR
was well received by the PBs and beneficiaries alike. The project's nation-
wide coverage, involving thousands of sub-participants, shows that this type of
project can be a useful tool for policy reform in support of rural development
and more efficient financial intermediation in rural credit markets. Together,
these factors have been important in supporting a key sector of Brazil's
economy at a time of financial turmoil and economic uncertainty.
48.   However, experience to date contains a number of important lessons,
both for the remaining life of PNDR itself, and for a possible second-
generation operation:



17
a. As was stated in several Bank supervision reports and mission Aide
Memoires, ongoing local supervision by BACEN and STN is crucial to
the project's success and should be strengthened. Supervision
mechanisms and procedures should include a central system to monitor
non-compliance with the project's regulations and with those of Brazil's
Credit manual, and a framework for the prompt resolution of cases of
non-compliance, and of suspended PB accreditation that are under
appeal with the National Monetary Council.
b. STN's quarterly reports should be expanded to provide data on the
project's local impact (e.g., type of producer, geographical distribution,
amounts of loan cancellations and prepayments, funds available in the
pool for re-lending).
c. Because on-lending by STN to PBs has been for shorter maturities than
those of the Bank's loan, the reflow of PNDR funds to STN's general
pool of extemal funding should be used to finance additional sub-
projects (but excluding add-ons to existing projects), and adhere to the
same eligibility criteria as at present.
d. All future refinancing should be in US dollars, to the exclusion of all
other options. This means that, if actual subloans are financed by PBs
in local currency, the PBs take on the local-currency/dollar risk and the
Govemment the dollar/currency-pool exchange-rate risk.
e. Unlike PNDA, where it is recommended that there be an auction
mechanism, the allocation of funds for PNDR can continue on a first-
come-first-served basis. This is because the relatively small size of
projects, and nation-wide coverage of loan demand would make it
highly impractical to adopt an auction system.
f. There should be deliberate efforts to involve broader, and more
significant participation by PBs, so as to introduce more competition in
rural financial markets. Though Banco do Brasil's de facto monopoly
has yielded good results so far, it is not desirable from an efficiency
point of view.
Sustainability and Replicability
49.   While there is no doubt that the project is sustainable, it would be
premature to consider a second-generation agricultural development project.
That decision should be postponed until Brazil's macroeconomic environment
regains stability and inflation abates to a more acceptable level. The reason
for this is that projects of this type blend two objectives, namely rural



18
development by providing financing for agriculture, and financial
liberalization. The difficulty is that achieving a meaningful degree of financial
liberalization and deepening remains an elusive objective, as long as
macroeconomic instability distorts financial markets. The implication is that
when there is doubt about prospects for near-term improvements in the
institution and macroeconomic environment for project implementation, going
ahead with a project usually causes more problems than delaying it.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2971-BR)
U. PROJECT REVIEW FROM THE BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
Project Implementation
50.   Project implementation has been generally satisfactory, given the
difficulties of operating in an environment of high inflation, unpredictable
foreign-exchange markets, and general macro-economic instability.
Particular aspects of implementation that must be emphasized include:
a. Multiple currency options: The menu of three options for the
refinancing of PB sub-loans proved to be complicated, and ill adapted
to the operational environment of the project. Though it was financially
attractive to beneficiaries, Option C for refinancing in Cruzados
experienced problems of value indexation during the first phase of
project implementation. Because the resulting erosion of the principal
amount of Option-C loans entailed a risk of loss for STN (relative to
the Government's borrowing from the World Bank in the Currency
Pool), Cruzado refinancing had to be stopped in October 1990. As for
on-lending in the World Bank's Currency Pool (Option A), there has
been practically no demand, due to the complexity and foreign-
exchange exposure that option entails. In conclusion, all future
refinancing should be done exclusively in US dollars, as has already
been the case during the second phase of project implementation.
b. Eligibility Criteria: On balance, the project's criteria on eligible
expenditures were too vague. This has created uncertainty for the PBs
and their clients. It has also, undoubtedly, contributed to the high level
of rejections of sub-projects at application, and to the disqualification of
many disbursed sub-loans. The rush of applications in the first months
after PNDR's effectiveness (plus the fact that BACEN had the check
eligibility of PNDA sub-projects at the same time) have further
complicated that task.
c. Local supervision: The effectiveness of local project supervision has
been affected by conjunctural factors, namely high inflation and
economic instability. In addition, STN has experienced considerable
difficulties in reconciling its own figures on disbursements to



20
participating banks, with the banks' data on disbursements to clients.
Those difficulties are due to then fact that, with high inflation and
extreme volatility in foreign-exchange markets, differences of only a
few days can result in substantial differences, both in Cruzeiro and in
US dollar equivalent disbursement data. Moreover, (i) the participating
banks have, so far, failed to provide the necessary information, and (ii)
the banks' reporting standards are not uniform, which makes
reconciliation in a single data base difficult.
d. STN's quarterly reports: In 1992 the World Bank requested that STN's
quarterly statements also include information on disbursements by sub-
sectors and region.  That request was only made in 1992, and the
Bank did not give enough details on the type and format of the
information it needs. STN has not been able to provide that
information, because its internal data base is not adapted to processing
that information. Moreover, the commercial banks have failed to
provide implementation data.
e. Foreign-exchange losses: In the early stage of the loan's
implementation, STN had to finance some sub-loans to commercial
banks out of its own resources, because balances in the Special Account
were insufficient to cover the high level of PB refinancing. Because
STN made these disbursements without the Bank's 60-day protection
against foreign-exchange losses on expenditures financed through the
Special account, it incurred a foreign-exchange loss of US$38.2 million
on those disbursements.
f. The highly-uneven distribution of funds among participating banks:
Although ten commercial banks have participated in the first round of
PNDR lending, Banco do Brasil took the lion's share. Its refinancing
accounts for over 98 percent of loan funds and 83 percent of all sub-
projects. Given that the project has used a first-come-first-served
method to allocate funds to commercial banks, and that Banco do Brasil
is the country's most experienced agricultural lender, that outcome was
virtually inevitable.
g. Difficulties in raising counterpart funding: Unlike in other sector
loans, in PNDR (and PNDA) the participating banks and beneficiaries -
- not the government -- must provide matching counterpart funds.
Project implementation shows that, in the prevailing economic
environment, a number of beneficiaries experienced problems in raising
the matching funds. In such cases the sub-projects were either
abandoned or cancelled.



21
Project Results
51.   The initial response to the project has been extremely positive: more
than 90 percent of the loan was committed to participating banks during the
first month of effectiveness and two-thirds of the loan was disbursed in the
first quarter, all of it for the refinancing of sub-projects under Option C.
52.   Although there has been no independent evaluation of the project's
results, and there are no socio-economic data to measure its sectoral impact,
PNDR's term lending for productive investment in agriculture proved
invaluable, at a time when rural commercial lending was drying up. The
project has covered an extremely large number of agricultural producers
throughout the country, and contributed to modernizing this sector of the
economy, and maldng it more efficient. Through forward linkages this has
benefitted agro-industry by providing it better quality inputs at lower prices,
which points to the useful complementarity between this project and PNDA:
the productivity gains achieved by PNDR have benefitted agro-industry, and
magnified the positive impact of PNDA.
53.   In addition, notwithstanding an extremely unfavorable and unstable
macroeconomic environment, PNDR has managed to advance the process of
liberalization in Brazil's financial markets. Moreover, because target
reductions in the volume of official agricultural credit, at managed interest
rates, have been exceeded, PNDR has helped diminish the fiscal burden of
providing interest-rate subsidies.



22
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT PROJECT
(Loan 2971-BR)
m. SUMMARY OF STATISTICAL DATA
1. Related Bank Loans
LOAN TITLE               PURPOSE                    YEAR OF        COMMENTS
APPROVAL
& STATUS
Agro-Industries Credit I    Support investment       1973          Refinancing through Central Bank
928-BR                   program to further the     Completed      restricted to 5 state development
US$54 million            growth of exports of                      banks, a limited range of activities
processed agricultural                   and the central and southern regions
products
Agro-Industries Credit II   As above                 1977          As above, but with more state
1317-BR                                             Completed      development banks participating
US$83 million
Agro-Industries Credit m    As above. In addition,   1983          As above, for nation-wide
2268-BR                  reform for liberalization of   Closed     investment in the development of
US$400 million           credit.                     12/31/89      effort-oriented agro-industrial
enterprises. Support for institutional
development of commercial banks
and reduction of official credit for
agro-industries.
Agro-ladustries IV       Promote productive         1988           Final on-lending terms to be freely
2960-BR                  investments in agro-       Effective      negotiated by sub-borrowers and
US$300 million           industry and the           August 1989   participating private and official
liberalization of credit                 banks. Only 80 percent of the loan
has been disbursed.



23
2. Project Timetable
ITEM              J PLANNED  | REVISED         ACTUAL
Identification      --           --            12/85
Preparation                                    12/86
Appraisal Mission                              12/87
Loan Negotiations                              05/88
Board Approval      06/88                      06/88
Loan Signature      05/89                      05/89
Loan Effectiveness    08/89                    08/89
Loan Closing        12/93                      12/93
Loan Completion     06/93                      06/93
3. Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
(US$M)
_            F       FY90           1FY92  FY93 F
Appraisal Estimate      40      90       150     220      300     300
Actual                  --    226.9    274.9   278.9   279.1   267.71
Actual as % of estimate    0   252.1    183.2   126.7    93        89.2
US$11.4 million was paid back due to delinquent projects and US$32.3
million was cancelled.



24
4. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Cost (US$ million)
APPRAISAL ESTIMATE    I           REVISED ESTIMATE'
__  Local    Foreign     Total      Local    Foreign   Total
F ixed and Associated |lllll
Working Capital Credit 1510       90         600        n/a       nla         535.41
1 Actual data on project costs for all subprojects not available
n/a = not available
B. Project Financing
SOURCE                               PLANNED LOAN                    REVISED ESTIMATE
L_____________________j AGREEMENT
Bank                                 300                             267.7
Participating Banks and Sub-borrowers   300'                         267.7
l  Proportions negotiated freely between PBs and Sub-borrowers.



25
5. Project Results
[MONETARY CORRECTION INDICES
MONTH/YEAR    |        BTN % CHANGE         |   CUMULATIVE % CHANGE
11/89                         40.21                             40.21
12/89                         53.46                            115.16
1/90                          56.27                            236.24
2190                          71.93                            478.12
3/90                          44.86                            737.46
4/90                           0.43                            741.09
5/90                           4.23                            776.64
6/90                           9.78                            882.41
7/90                          11.39                            972.01
8/90                           9.78                           1,076.88
9/90                          12.49                           1,223.79
10/90                         14.35                           1,413.77
11/90                         16.23                           1,659.40
12/90                         18.57                           1,986.06
1/91                          19.78                          2,398.73
MONTHIYEAR              IRD % CHANGE        J   CUMULATIVE % CHANGE
2/91                           7.00                           2,635.69
3/91                           8.50                           2,868.23
4/91                           8.93                           3,133.29
5/91                           9.00                           3,424.29
6/91                           9.40                           3,755.57
7/91                          10.05                           4,143.06
8/91                          11.95                           4,650.10
9/91                          16.78                           5,447.17
10/91                         19.77                          5,543.84
11/91                         30.52                          8,571.54
12/91                         28.42                          11,036.00
1/92                          25.48                          13,873.45
2/92                          25.61                          17,452.05
3/92                          24.63                          21,775.12
4/92                          21.08                          26,386.40
5/92                          19.81                          31,633.35
6/92                          21.05                          38,313.22
7/92                          23.69                          47,413.31
8/92                          23.22                          58,445.90
9/92                          25.38                          73,304.86
10/92                         25.07                         91,707.45
11/92                         23.29                         113,089.41
12/92                         23.95                         140,198.27
1/93                          26.78                         177,742.09
2/93                          26.40                         224,692.40
3/93                          26.18                         283,543.05
4/93                          26.22                         363,587.12
5/93                          28.68                         467,882.59
6/93                          30.08                         608,664.76
7/93                          30.37                         793,546.61
8/93                          33.34                       1,058,148.39
9/93                          34.82                       1,424,513.88
10/93                         36.53                       1,944,925.48
11/93                         36.16                       2,848,245.69
12/93                         36.80                       2,648,246.69
Source: STN



6. Status of Legal Covenants
(As of March 31, 1994)
Overall
Loan       Agreement/    Type of                                                      Original   Revised                 project
Number        Section        Covenant              Description of Covenant                Date        Date      Status   Rating                     Comments
29714-R         L.A                                                                                                          2
3.01 (b) & (c)      F       The Boower shal enter kito a partidpatig                                 OK                The TR Is a satisfactory substute for the now
agreement acceptable to the Bank and Inclungthe                                           extinct lBGE IPC, 6.- mwnetary correction hldex
terms and conditins set forth In Sched. 6 to the LA                                       stipulated In Sched. 6 of LA for adjusting the
with each participating bank Except as the Bank                                           princpal beance of DTN loans to PBs. Sched. 6 of
shall otherwlse agree the Borower shall not amenrd,                                       th LA was amended to rep4ace the IPC with the
TR.
Waive, abrogate or fail to enforce the proviins of
any such Parttpatin Agreement.
3.02            M        Procurement of goods and works required for project                     OK                                                              a
shall be In accedan  with provisions of Sched. 4 of
the LA.
3.03            M        Participating Banks (PBs) would be accredited by                        ACT               Four of the fourteen PBs have had their
the Central Bank accordig to agreed criteria                                              accreditation suspended.
concernn financial soundress and loan appraisal
capability. PBs not accredited hall not make further
subbans while they are unsecredited.
3.04 (a)          M       DTN to carry out supervision of the project, In a                       ACT               STN lacks a managemrent information system to
manner satisfactory to Bank with Mgt. and staff                                           monitor PNDR operations considered by the Central
adequate in number, qualifications and experience                                         Bank to be not in compliance wth PNDR
and utilizin approprae finacil coro systems.                                              rguaion.
3.05            E        Proposed subloans of US$SmliWon or more should                          OK
be submitted to the Bank for Ks review and approval.
The first four free-limit sublown should be submitted
to the Bank for Its review.



3.06            E       Govt would prepare and submit to the Bank quarterly                    ACT               Annual reports submitted to the Bank have proved
reports on the status of implementation of the Govts                                    sufficient as a basis for revewing the program.
program to contact officl credit to the agricultural                                    Data problems have occasonally delayed
sector, and the Govl would meet wkIh the Bank on                                        submission to the Bank of the reports on official
an anmul basis to review t program.                                                     agro-Industrial credit .
4.01 (b)(ii)       F       Govt would furnish to the Bank a certified copy of                     OK
the audi report on the proect accounts not later than
sbi months after the end of each fiscal year.



