Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7583
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN ^!72-PAK)
DECEMBER 30, 1988
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North America Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World   *, t  1 47 f



THIE WORLC) BANK              FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Wash.nhton DC 20413
_SA
Offe of OtnCc
December 30, 1988
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Pass-Through Audit Report on Pakistan
Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2172-PAK)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled
"Pass-Through Audit Report on Pakistan-Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation
Project (Loan 2172-PAK)" prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North
Africa Regional Office. Full evaluation of this project has not been
made by the Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT O;U"AN 2172-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
PREFACE                                                                 i
BASIC DATA SHEET                                                       ii
HIGHLIGHTS                                                             iv
I.    INTRODUCTION                                                            1
II.    PROJiCT BACKGROUND                                                      2
A. Project Identification, Preparation, Appraisal
and Loan Effectiveness                                              2
B.  Project Objectives and Description                                  4
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT                                   7
A.  Achievement of Project Objectives                                   7
B.  Project Management and Execution                                    9
C.  Manpower Development and Training                                  10
D.  Performance of Consultants                                         12
E.  Performance of Engineering Contractors                             12
F.  Procurement and Performance of Suppliers                           13
G.  Project Implementation Schedule                                    13
H.  Capital Costs and Disbursements                                    14
IV.    OPERATING COSTS                                                        16
A.  Commissioning and Start-up                                         16
B.  Production Build-up                                                17
C.  Marketing                                                          18
V.    FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE                                                  18
A.  Pricing Policy                                                     18
B.  Financial Rate of Return                                           19
C.  Financial Results and Covenants                                    19
VI.    ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE                                                   21
A.  Economic Rate of Return                                            21
B.  Foreigr. Exchange Savings                                          21
C.  Technology Transfer                                                21
D.  Environmental Aspects                                              22
VII.    BANK ROLE                                                              22
VIII.   CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED                                        23
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciip.ents only in the perfornance |
of their offMcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (cont'd.)
Page
ANEXES
1-1  Production Capacity and Capacity Utilization                     24
1-2  Fertilizer Production and Imports                                25
1-3  Fertilizer Offtake                                               26
1-4  Consumption of Fertilizers per Hectare of Arable
Land and Permanent Crops, 1985                                27
3-1  Project Management Organization                                  28
3-2  IBRD Financed Procurement of Foreign Goods and Services          29
3-3  Project Implementation Schedule                                  30
3-4  Capital Cost Estimate                                            31
3-5  IBRD Loan Disbursement Schedule                                  33
4-1  Initial Operating Performance of Multan Urea Plant               34
5-1  Assumptions for Economic and Financial Rates of Return
Calculations                                                  35
5-2  Cost and Benefit Streams for Financial Rates of Return           36
5-3  Income Statement and Balance Sheet for PFL                       39
5-4  Income Statement and Balance Sheet for PAFL                      41
5-5  Income Statement and Balance Sheet for NFC                       43
6-1  Cost and Benefit Streams for Economic Rate of Return             45
6-2  Foreign Exchange Savings                                         48



PAKISTAN
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2172-PAK)
PREFACE
This Project, supported by Loan 2172-PAK of US$38.5 million (reduced
to US$25.4 million during implementation partly due to changes in the Project
scope and partly duc to lower than expected international prices for
equipment), consisted of rehabilitation and rationalization of the fertilizer
production facilities of two companies of the National Fertilizer Corporation
(NFC), and enhancement of the capability of the NFC group of companies through
operational, management and training improvement programs. The loan was
closed on the revised Closing Date of March 31, 1988. Final disbursement was
made on April 14, 1988 raising the total disbursed amount to US$25.4 million.
The amount of US$13.1 million remaining undisbursed was cancelled on April 14,
1988 and the account was closed on that date. This Project Completion Report
(PCR) was prepared by the Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
based on the Bank's appraisal report, supervision reports and other documents
in the Bank's files and on the findings of a project completion mission which
visited Pakistan in February 1988.
The PCR summarizes the main points of interest. The loan was the
third of a series of loans to Pakistan's fertilizer industry which have helped
expand fertilizer production capacity and develop local fertilizer plants into
efficient entities.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this Project Completion Report was read by the Operations
Evaluation Department (OED), but the project was not audited by OED staff.
Following standard procedures, OED sent copies of the draft report to the
Borrower for comments; however, none were received.



- ii -
BASIC DATA SHEET
KEY PROJECT DATA
(Amounts in US$ Million)
As of 3/31/1988
Loan No.     Original      Disbursed       Cancelled      Repaid       Outstanding
2712-PAK       38.5           25.4            13.1           -             25 4
A. Cumulative Disbursements
1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
i)  Appraisal Estimate        2.0   11.0   27.5   37.8   38.5   38.5   38.5
ii)  Actual                    0.6    4.3    8.8   19.1   23.0   24.8   25.4
iii)  (ii) as Z of (i)         28.5   39.3   32.1   50.4   59.6   64.6   66.0
B. Project Schedule
Appraisal
Estimate    Actual
(mo./yr.) (mo./yr.)
Board Approval                                                             06/82
Signing Date                                                               06/82
Effective Date                                                             10/82
Completion Date, including:                                     07/85      06/88
i) Multan Rehabilitation/Expansion   - Preliminaries 1/   04/82         01/84
- Commissioning       05/85      04/86
ii) Multan Rationalization: Chromate   - Preliminaries 1/   07/82         03/85
Removal/NOX Abatement Units         - Commissioning       05/85       03/86
Modernization and Product           - Procurement Start  08/82        07/85
Despatch Equipment                  - Commissioning       10/83       02/88
iii) Daud Khel Rehabilitation            - Preliminaries 1/   03/82        03/82
- Commissioning       07/84      10/84
iv) Technical Training Centre           - Preliminaries 1/   12/82        05/83
- Recruit Trainees   12/83       09/85
v) PFL Expatriate Sexvices.            - Start                  -        07/80
- Finish                -        06/82
vi) Management Development Program      - Start                  -        01/82
- Finish                -        12/86
vii) Technical and Operating Program:
a) Establish Engineering Services  - Start                  -         01/86
Department (Study)               - Finish                -         06/88
b) Cost Reduction .nd Productivity - Start                  -         01/86
Improvement Program (Study)      - Finish                -         09/87
c) Inventory Control Program        - Start                 -         01/86
(Study)                          - Finish                -         03/88
Loan Closing Date                                               06/86      06/87
1/ Completion of Studies, Design Engineering or Selection of
Architect/Consultant.



- iii -
C. Project Costs (Rs. Million)
Appraisal Estimate   Actual    2 Variance
Total Installed Cost                   43.9          33.9          - 25
Working Capital                         0.2           -            -100
Interest During Construction            4.6           4.2          -  9
Front-end Fee                           0.6           0.5          - 18
Total Financing Required               49.3          37.7          - 24
D.  Economic Rate of rLeturn (X)                54.0           20.6          - 62
STAFF INPUT
FY79  FY80  FY81  FY82  FY83  FY84  FY85  FY86  FY87  Total
Preappraisal             3.0   9.0   8.3                                    20.2
Appraisal                            43.0   0.8                             43.8
Negotiation                          12.4                                   12.4
Supervision                           0.3  10.6  10.4   7.2   3.7   4.2   36.4
Other                                       0.2                              0.2
Total                    3.0   9.0  64.0  11.6  10.4   7.2   3.7   4.2  113.0
MISSION DATA
Month       No. of        No. of
Year        Weeks         Persons        Report Date
Appraisal                  11/81        1. 1/2          3             05/12/82
Post-appraisal             02/82        1 1/2           2             03/04/82
Supervision                06/82        1               1             07/14/82
Supervision                11/82        1               1             12/17/82
Supervision                07/83        1               1             08/03/83
Supervision                11/83        1               1             12/09/83
Supervision                05/84        (2 days)        1             06/11/84
Supervision                02/85        (2 days)        1             03/27/85
Supervision                01/87       1                1             02/25/87
OTHER DATA
Currency Unit                          Pakistan Rupee
Appraisal Year                         US$ 1.0 = Rs. 10.0
Investment Period                      US$ 1.0 = Rs. 11.5-17.4
Project Completion Year                 1.0 = Rs. 17.4
Borrower     :             Government of Pakistan (GOP)
Beneficiaries:             National Fertilizer Corpo' ation (NFC)
Pakarab Fertilizers Ltd.(PFL)
Pak-American Fertilizers Ltd.(PAFL)
Fiscal Year for Borrower and Beneficiaries: July 1 - June 30



tv
PAKISTAN
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2172-PAK)
HIGHLIGHTS
(i) The purpose of the Project was to rehabilitate and rationalize the
fertilizer production facilities of two companies of the National
Fertilizer Corporation (NFC) Group and to enhance the capability of
the NFC Group through operational and management improvement, and
training (paras 2.07 to 2.15).
(ii)    The Project has fully accomplished its objectives.  It shows a
re-estimated economic rate of return of 20.6%, considerably lower
than the appraisal estimate of 54% (para 6.02). The difference is
mainly due to lower world fertilizer prices than projected at
appraisal and partly due to the Project delay (specifically for the
Multan subproject), which together more than offset the gain from
lower capital costs and higher overall capacity utilization since
Project commissioning.
(iii)   Total financing required for the Project was US$37.7 million, about
24% lower than the appraisal estimate of US$49.3 million (para
3.31). The decrease in capital costs was mainly due to lower
international prices for equipment due to depressed market conditions
and also exchange rate movements (i.e., appreciation of the US dollar
and depreciation of the Pakistani rupee during the Project
implementation period).
(iv)    The Government of Pakistan had originally agreed under the IDA
Fertilizer Imports Credit (1066-PAK) to eliminate fertilizer
subsidies by June 30, 1985. The Government initially made good
progress towards reaching that target by gradually increasing
fertilizer prices to farmers, but subsequently requested a waiver.
In May 1986, it decontrolled the prices of straight nitrogenous
fertilizers (which accounted for about 84% of the total fertilizer
consumption in 1986/87) and significantly reduced the subsidy
burden. However, it is currently continuing with the price controls
and subsidy for phosphatic, complex and potassic fertilizers as their
consumption is low in the country. The Government intends to
continue to supply them at subsidized prices in the near future so
that farmers would increase the use of such fertilizers (along with
nitrogenous fertilizers) to achieve balanced fertilization (para
7.02).



PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABIITATION PROJECT
(LOAN 2172-PAK)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
L INTRODUCTION
1.01     Agriculture remains the mainstay of Pakistan's economy, accounting
for about one-third of the Gross Domestic Product (GDP), more than 502 of
total employment and about 60% of total exports. The Government of Pakistan
(GOP) gives high priority to increasing agricultural production in its
economic development effJrt. Due to the limited scope for expanding the area
under farming, more i.,.ensive farming practices based on fertilizers and other
related inputs are ol critical importance for boosting farm output. Du ng
the last decade (1976/77 - 1986/87), fertilizer consumption increased at an
average annual rate of about 10%, reaching nearly 1.8 million nutrient tons in
1986/87. Six consecutive five-year development plans have given priority to
the development of an efficient fertilizer industry to ensure timely supply of
fertilizers to farmers without heavy dependence on imports. To support the
country's efforts, the Bank Group has so far provided about US$210 million
equivalent for five fertilizer operations in Pakistan which included capacity
expansion, plant rehabilitation and fertilizer imports.
1.02     There are four fertilizer companies in Pakistan -  one in the public
sector, one in the joint sector and two in the private sector. The public
sector company, the National Fertilizer Corporation (NFC), which operates five
fertilizer subsidiaries in different locations, accounts for about 50% of the
nitrogen (N) capacity and 100% of the phosphorus (P) capacity. The total N
production capacity in the country is currently about 1.1 million tons
compared to 88,000 tons of P capacity. The country depends entirely on
imports for meeting its potash (K) requirements, which are comparatively low
(42,600 tons in 1986/87).
1.03     The capacity utilization for N and P is uniformly high in all local
fertilizer plants (Annex 1-1) primarily because of trained manpower,
satisfactory compensation levels, and a sound performance evaluation and
monitoring system for the public sector. In 1986/87, the average capacity
utilization in the fertilizer industry (based on design capacity) was 103% for
N and 1061 for P. However, the local production of N and P is not adequate to
meet all the country's needs. In 1986/87, the local production covered 84% of
the requirements of N compared to 23% of P.
1.04     Annexes 1-2 and 1-3 show the pattern of Pakistan's fertilizer
production, imports and consumption during the last two decades (1966/67 -
1986/87). During that period, N production increased from 50,500 tons to
about 1.12 million tons, while P production increased from about 700 tons to
93,300 tons. In spite of increased local production, the country continues to
depend on imports, with the imports i.i 1986/87 reaching 210,000 tons for N and
554,000 tons for P. Consumption of all fertilizers grew at an average annual
rate of 14.6% during 1966/67 - 1986/87. N continues to be the predominant
fertilizer nutrient used, accounting at present for about 751 of the total,



- 2 -
with P and K accounting for 23% and 22, respectively. The growth of
fertilizer consumption is expected to continue in the future with the
Government's plans for increased agricultural production. Furthermore,
consumption of fertilizer per hectare of arable land (Annex 1-4) in Pakistan
(73.7 kg of nutrients/ha) is significantly lower than in some other developing
countries (e.g., 94.6 kg/ha in Indonesia and 167.4 kg/ha in China). The
Government has projeeted fertilizer demand to grow at an average annual rate
of 52 during the Seventh Five-Year Plan (1987/88 - 1992/93) compared to 8%
during the Sixth Plan. The projected growth rate appears realistic.
1.05     The Government of Pakistan has been encouraging investment on
rehabilitation of the existing plants to conserve energy, reduce costs and
maximize capacity utilization while promoting capacity expansion based on
local inputs. As a result, the fertilizer industry has become internationally
competitive, particularly in the N fertilizer field. The Government
decontrolled N fertilizer prices in May 1986. However, price controls were
continued for P fertilizers. The Government felt that the consumption of P is
low in relation to N and, for balanced fertilization, the consumption of P
should go up at a faster rate than that of N. To facilitate this, the
Government decided at that time to continue price control for phosphatic as
well as compound fertilizers.
1.06     The total fertilizer subsidy in 1986/87 was Rs 1,284 million (US$ 74
million equivalent) including Rs 399 million (US$ 23 million equivalent) on
locally produced fertilizers and the remaining Rs 885 million (US$ 51 million
equivalent) on impor'ed fertilizers. The total fertilizer subsidy in 1986/87
was about 47% lower than in the previous year partly because of the price
decontrol on locally-produced N fertilizers and partly because of the lower
fertilizer import prices. In the context of the recently negotiated
Agricultural Sector Adjustment loan, 1/ which has yet to be presented to the
Board, the Government has agreed to phase out the unit economic subsidy on
phosphatic and potassic fertilizers over periods of four to eight years,
provided that international prices of fertilizers do not rise significantly
above medium-term trends. Such a gradual phase out of the remaining
fertilizer subsidies and relaxation of regulatory controls on fertilizer
investments and imports will help further improve the competitiveness of the
fertilizer sector in Pakistan. Currently gas is being supplied to fertilizer
plants at approximately less than half of its economic price. The Government
could consider rationalizing th* price of natural gas, the main input for N
fertilizers, so that the price of gas reflects its economic opportunity cost.
H. PROJECT BACKGROUND
A. Pronect Identification. Preparation. Apprsisal and Loan Effectiveness
2.01     The Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project (Loan 2172-PAK) was
identified, firstly, by the need to rehabilitate and rationalize the
fertilizer production facilities operated by two companies of the National
Fertilizer Corporation (NFC) Group - namely, the Pakarab Fertilizers Ltd.
(PFL) plant located at Multan and the Pak-American Fertilizers Ltd. (PAFL)
plant at Daud Khel - and, secondly, to enhance the capability of the NFC
Group through operational, management and training improvement programs. Its
1/  Report No. P-464-PAK



implementation was planned on the basis of five main components: (i) Multan
Ammonia/Urea Rehabilitation and Expansion; (ii) Multan Plant Rationalization;
(iii) Daud Khel Plant Rehabilitation; (iv) Improvement of NFC's
Operational, Management and Training Systems; and (v) Study of Pakistan's
requirements for Additional Fertilizer Production Capacity. While the first
four components were financed under the loan, the fifth was financed under a
previously negotiated Technical Assistance Credit (1256-PAK).
2.02     The Project stemmed partly from the Bank's second operation in
Pakistan's fertilizer industry, which cofinanced in 1974 the Multan Fertilizer
Expansion Project (Loan 988-PAK) consisting of new large-scale facilities to
produce ammonia, nitric acid, calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN) and
nitrophosphate (NP). The original plants (constructed in 1962) *Iere all of
small scale and the existing ammonia and CAN units were closed down. Only the
urea and nitric acid plants remained in operation by the time the Expansion
Project started production early in 1979. Production from the old 180 tpd
urea plant had been consistently low due to restricted ammonia availability.
This imbalance, however, was corrected when the new 910 tpd ammonia unit came
on-stream. As the urea unit was able to attain reasonable capacity
utilization, it was kept in operation.
2.03     NFC's other aged fertilizer operation is at Daud Khel, where PAFL
produces ammonium sulphate (AS) from the original unit (constructed in the
1950s) and from a secord plant built in 1969.  The original design capacity of
the two gypsum-based AS plants was 109,000 'y, but this was derated to 95,000
tpy because of their age. Although most of the equipment functioned well due
to PAFL's good operational and maintenance practices, some equipment items
close to the end of their useful life needed replacement and some equipment
needed major overhaul to ensure continued reliable operation.
2.04     Further, in connection with an ear'ier IDA Fertilizer Imports Credit
(1066-PAK), a Study of the NFC Group's organization and management was
undertaken by SGV & Co. of Manila. The SGV Study recommended measures to
strengthen NFC and assist its adaptation to the demands of a complex
manufacturing organization. Among others, these included: (i) aligrnment of
the Group's organization with the proposed plant manning structures; (ii)
institution of integrated training programs for employees; and {iii)
development of management systems and controls. Stemming from this, several
management, operational and training components were identified for inclusion
in the scope of the Project.
2.05     The increasing fertilizer demand in Pakistan indicated the need for
additional production capacity, both for phosphatic and nitrogenous
fertilizers. It was, therefore, agreed with the Government of Pakistan (GOP)
that it would undertake a study with the assistance of foreign consultants to
determine the options for additional capacity, taking into account the
long-term requirements of the country, its raw mn.terial and financial
resources and pricing policies. The Study was also to focus on the likely
future closure of the old AS plant at Daud Khel and its replacement by new
fertilizer production facilities.
2.06     Following agreement on the Project's scope and design and the request
by GOP that the Bank assist in financing the Project, a Bank appraisal mission
visited Pakistan in November 1981. On June 8, 1982, the Bank approved a loan
of US$ 38.5 million equivalent to GOP, to be on-lent to NFC and its



- 4 -
subsidiaries. The on-lending terms were for: (i) GOP to on-lend IBRD funds in
Rupees to NBC at an interest rate of 142 p.a. with repayment over 15 years.
including 4 years of grace; (ii) NFC to further on-lend one portion of the
loan to PFL (US$ 24.9 million equivalent) and another portion to PAFL (US$ 7.1
million equivalent) for their respective Project components (at the above rate
or interest) with PFL and PAFL repaying their loan portions to NFC (and NFC to
GOP) over periods of 11 and 6 years, following 4 auid 3 years of grace,
respectively; and (iii) GOP to assume the foreign exchange risk. The Loan
Agreement was signed on June 23, 1982, and it became effective on October 21,
1982.
B. Project Objectives and Description
2.07     Multan AmmonialUrea Rehabilitation and Expansion (Component 1). The
production performance of the old 180 tpd urea plant (Inventa, Switzerland,
design) had improved considerably by 1982 in terms of capacity utilization, 1/
as a result of ths previous Expansion Project. Nevertheless, its operation
had become unecenomic due to high energy usage, increasing maintenance costs
and high consumption of raw materials, chemicals and spare parts. Frequent
breakdowns of equipment and growing production losses would have led to
closure of th.e plant around 1986. Rather than take this action, other
alternatives were considered in order to avoid reduced ammonia output, improve
energy efficiency, prevent the loss of about 80 jobs, and avoid the need to
supply the local market area with urea from more distant sources at higher
transportation costs.
2.08     The main objectives of the urea plant rehabilitation were to prolong
its operating life and increase annual output, while reducing the unit energy
and raw material consumption. PFL engaged Cora Engineers, of Switzerland, for
a technical study of the plant to determine the requirements for its
rehabilitation/debottlenecking. They proposed a program of modification,
overhaul and replacement including an expansion of production capacity to 280
tpd of urea. For verification, the Bank later engaged the consultancy
services of IGSL who confirmed the recommendations of Cora. Bids for the
physical work received from engineering contractors, however, indicated a
viable alternative course. This was to install all new process equipment for
the synthesis, decomposition and recycle sections of the urea facility while
utilizing the existing evaporation and prilling sections, with some
modification; in effect, to depart from the Inventa process and construct a
new front-end section to the plant with modern technology. Further analysis
eventually led to the choice of this alternative, which offered the benefits
of: (i) avoiding a production loss during shutdown for detailed inspection of
the plant; (ii) minimal disruption of production; (iii) energy reduction in
steam and power consumption from the level of 3.5 G cal/ton urea to 1.95 G
cal/ton, equivalent to a saving of 233 Nm3 of natural gas/ton urea; (iv)
additional investment of only Rs. 4.5 million compared to the estimate by
Cora; and (v) the elimination of risk associated with modification and
overhaul of the old machinery and equiment.
2.09     The production capacity for ammonia at Multan was in balance witi the
existing downstream fertilizer plants so that expansion of the urea unit by
1/  From the 30-50% range during 1976-79, to 74% in 1980, and to 35% in 1982.



- 5 -
100 tpd required an additional supply of about 60 tpd of ammonia.
Modification of the Kellogg (US) designed ammonia plant to increase the
unit'scapacity from 910 tpd to 970 tpd was to be secured by debottlenecking
and the addition of a purge gas recovery unit, which would permit production
of the incremental ammonia with about 802 of the unit energy consumption of
the original facility.
2.10     Multan Plant Rationalzaticn (Component ED.  The aim of this component
was to upgrade the overall operations of the Multan complex through pollution
control measures, adequate inventories of spare parts, modernization of
maintenance and training facilities, and procurement of equipment to help
efficient and timely despatch of fertilizers. The pollution jubcomponent was
designed to include: (i) chromate removal facilities for the treatment of
cooling tower blowdown; (ii) nitrogen oxides (Nox) abatement equipment for
controlling the level of emissions to acceptable standards; and (iii)
monitoring equipment to identify sources of pollution and allow systematic
reporting and control. To minimize turnaround time for block-trains
despatching fertilizers, additional rail shunting and bagged-product handling
equipment was to be procured.
2.11     Daud Khel Plant Rebhabilitation (ComponentII).  It was expected that
further deterioration of conditions in the plant would occur and that it would
have to be shutdown by 1986 at the latest, unless remedial measures were
taken. The objective was to rehabilitate or replace equipment in the problem
areas of the plant so that the renovated facility would operate satisfactorily
until at least 1991.  Other objectives served by rehabilitation of the plant
were to: (i) improve its energy efficiency; (ii) retain its skilled labour
force; (iii) continue indigenous supply of AS to those areas of Pakistan where
it was particularly suited; and (iv) continue supply of by-product gypsum,
calcium carbonate, argon gas and sulphuric acid to other factories in the area.
2.12     The rehabilitation was designed to: (i) replace the existing boiler
feed-water plant; (ii) install a new boiler and, subsequently, re-tube one of
the two existing boilers; (iii) renew the converter and waste heat boiler
sections of the sulphuric acid plant; (iv) replace three AS crystal
centrifuges in the old sulphate plant; (v) replace reformer tubes and headers
in the ammonia plant; and (vi) rectify process building foundation vibration
problems due to compressor operation.
2.13     Improvement of NFC's OperationaL Management and Trainiun Systems
(Component V). The objectives of this component were to implement measures
for improving the operational, managerial and training capabilities of the NFC
Group to: (i) ensure that adequate managers and technicians were trained,
thereby compensating for the past heavy drain of skilled staff to more
lucrative jobs in the private sector and the Middle East; (ii) supply the
growing trained manpower requirements of NFC; (iii) provide foreign training
and in-plant experience for key employees to enhance their skills; (iv)
develop management information systems and controls; and (v) study the
potential for plant improvements in productivity and energy efficiency.
2.14     The following subcomponents were designed to achieve these
objectives, with the involvement of both local and foreign consultants:



- 6 -
SubcomPonent A. The hiring of nine expatriates, each for a period
of about 18 months, to assist PFL in plant management, to provide the
expertise ior setting up new departments for inspection and
maintenance planning, and to help reorganization of workshop and
materials handling operations. In addition, they were to be
responsible for the training of their Pakistani counterparts.
SubeomPonent B. A Techaical Training Centre at Multan to serve the
basic training needs of maintenance and plant operating staff for all
the NFC production units. It was designed for an annual trainee
intake of 90 technicians and also 60 foremen/supervisors (for
refresher courses).
Subcomponent C. The Management Development Program for the
training of senior and middle level managers from the NFC Group at
foreign fertilizer plants and management schools to familiarize them
with the latest managerial techniques to operate and maintain
facilities involving sophisticated technelogy. The program was
designed to include: (i) training of 27 unit managers and section
heads in plant operations, maintenance, process engineering and
planning, who would participate in courses to be held at ovferseas
fertilizer plants providing on-the-job training; (ii) training of 22
middle-level managers in production, marketing, finance and planning
at schools and also seminars organized by international fertilizer
agencies; and (iii) training of 21 senior executives in international
business and management schools.
Subeomponent D. The Technical & Operating Assistance Program for
strengthening the Technical and Planning departments of NFC with the
aim of: (i) improving plant productivity and energy consumption; (ii)
instituting modern inventory control sytems at the Group plant sites;
and (iii) providing centralized engineering services for identifying
and carrying out process design modifications and applying the latest
technologies to the fertilizer production units of the Group.
2.15     Under Subcomponent D, three studies were to be implemented by foreign
consultants. First, as the basis for further improvements in NFC's plant
productivity and energy consumption, the Cost Reduction and Productivity
Improvement Program (CRAPIP) was developed to improve the production
efficiency of the Group through measures such as assessment of the unit
consumption of the various plant inputs and identification of the
inefficiencies and means (including process design) for reduction of the
consumption ratios, and to study and recommend changes in organization of the
production, technical and maintenance functions and procedures, etc. Second,
to develop an efficient system for managing inventories at the six production
centers of the Group, the Inventory Control Study (ICS) was required for
reduction in the level of spare parts, storages and supplies consistent with
good practices and economy. Third, to acquire the know-how for solving
problems in process and equipment design and also to develop in-house
capability to modify or debottleneck the existing plants, NFC had decided to
establish an Engineering Services Department (ESD) within the Group. A
consultant study was, therefore, carried out to help establish the ESD. In
this respect, the NFC Group staff worked with the consultant's team for the
establishment of ESD.



mL PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Acbievement of Proiect Objectives
3.01     Component L  Following delays due to project scope changes (paras
2.08 and 3.16), measures were successfully undertaken at Multan to modify the
urea plant and to expand the capacity of the ammonia plant commensurate with
the incremental ammonia feedstock requirements for urea production. Since
commissioning, the urea plant has shown a consumption of 0.593 ton of ammonia
per ton of urea compared to the pre-project figure of 0.69 ton, a 142
reduction. Similarly, dramatic reductions in the unit energy consumptions per
ton of urea have been achieved - electrical power reduced by 71.3% and steam
reduced by 56.7X. Also, in the 18-month period to end 1987, excluding the
initial 3-month production build-up period from completion of this project
component, the urea plant production averaged 94.52 of the design capacity.
Due to renewal of the plant's front-end and rehabilitation of the evaporation
and prilling sections, under careful operation and maintenance the urea plant
life is likely to be extended to that expected of a new facility.
Furthermore, the new process licensor, Snamprogetti, has indicated that the
urea plant's present attainable capacity (315 tjd urea) could be readily
expanded to 370 tpd at a modest inves ment of about US$1 million and,
ultimately, to 500 tpd with some more investment.
3.02     Internal debottleneck'ng of the relatively new ammonia plant was not
found necessary as it was subsequently confirmed that the incremental ammonia
needs could be met, along with the benefit of energy zonservation, by
installing a purge gas recovery unit (PGRU) alone. During FY 1987, after
commissioning of the PGRU, ammonia production increased by 4.8% (42 tpd)
compared to the average production for the two previous years. This increase
In output (less than the 60 tpd initially planned) is adequate to meet the
incremental ammonia requirements of the expanded urea plant, since its unit
consumption of ammonia has been reduced following rationalization. In
addition, the ammonia plant's unit gas consumption was reduced by about 1.7?,
equivalent to annual savings of 7 million m3 of gas. Further benefits
accrued from milder primary reformer operation, better secondary reformer
performance and longer synthesis catalyst life. It should be noted that
internal modification of the ammonia plant also appeared unfavourable since
the original process licensor, M. W. Kellogg, was demanding very high design
fees. However, the process agreement with Kellogg expired in 1985 and a
report by other consultants indicates that the ammonia plant has the potential
to produce over 1,000 tpd of ammonia with relatively minor investment on
future modifications.
3.03     Component .L  Rationalization and upgrading of the Multan complex
was successfully accomplished. With regard to the pollution control
subcomponent, the cooling water blowdown is now treated to bring chromate in
the effluents to satisfactory levels by installing a chromate removal plant.
Nitrogen oxides emissions have been reduced to the required limit of 400 ppm
by installing No, abatement equipment and pollution monitoring systems.
Further, satisfactory procurement was carried out with respect to the other
items of the program.



- 8 -
3.04     Component m. Although the production build-up of AS has been
slower than the appraisal estimate of 100Z capacity utilization in the first
operating year (FY 85), the physical rehabilitation of the PAFL facility at
Daud Khel has been carried out satisfactorily. Continuity of AS production
has been ensured and achievement of the 95,000 tpy production is dependent
upon the natural gas supply, which is currently restricted during winter
months. The cumulative savings in energy consumption during 1985-1987
following rehabilitation are estimated to be about US$ 2 million equivalent.
The rehabilitation works (para 2.12) have all been implemented. The
foundation vibration problem was solv zd by installing dynamic absorbers on the
compressors.
3.05     ComponentWV.  Under the expatriate services program (Subcomponent
A), five specialist engineers were hired and used effectively in planning,
inspection, instrumentation, workshop and compressor fields and to augment the
capability of PFL's technical and managerial staff for the day-to-day running
of the Multan complex. With the qualified local staff available at Multan and
engineering contractors on site to rectify problems with the CAN and NP
plants, PFL decided that it was not necessary to engage the services of four
other specialists previously envisaged.
3.06     As planned, and with the use of local and foreign consultants, NFC
established the Technical Training Centre (TTC) at Multan (Subcomponent B)
TTC has been equipped with modern training facilities, including audio-visual
aids, laboratories, mini-urea plant and process simulator, etc. The trainers
themselves were trained by the consultant responsible for the basic design and
commissioning of the TTC facilities and developing the training curricula. So
far, two courses for operators have been completed successfully, each
consisting of nine months in class and three months in the plant.
3.07     The Management Development Program (Subcomponent C) was effectively
organized by NFC. The participants were required to provide bonds promising
that they would continue to work with NFC for two to four years after
completing their training. In most cases, the trainees were well satisfied
with the courses. However, in a few cases trainees found some management
courses to be geared more towards meeting the needs of the developed rather
than developing countries.
3.08     Under the Technical and Operating Assistance Program (Subcomponent
D), consultants in the field and home offices completed the Cost Reduction and
Productivity Improvement Program (CRAPIP) Study which: (i) identified key
areas requiring modifications and additional or replacement facilities, and
pointed out the obsolescence of the Daud Khel plants and need for their
replacement by modern fertilizer production facilities; and (ii) made specific
recommendations for potential energy improvement measures and detailed
modifications throughout the plants to improve operating efficiency and cost
performance.
3.09     The same consultants carried out the Inventory Control Study (ICS) in
two phases: First, to examine the status of inventory management at the
plants, identify potential improvements and recommend changes and, second, to
implement recommended inventory control systems at the plants by introducin3



- 9 -
classification procedures, training NFC personnel abroad, and using
computerized systems of inventory control at Multan. The program is scheduled
to be installed at NFC plants by the end of 1988, when NFC and the consultants
would hold a post-review to assess benefits obtained from the ICS. Hence,
about 90 percent of the objective has been achieved.
3.10     Consultants engaged for development of the Engineering Services
Department (ESD) carried out a study that helped determine an extensive
program of work in all plants of the Group concerning additional facilities
required and equipment problems needing solution. The findings were agreed
with NFC as the basis of the future work plan for ESD which would evolve into
a locally staffed entity for design and trouble-shooting within NFC, distinct
from the existing functions of the Technical and Planning Departments of the
Group. The study also made proposals for: (i) the organization of ESD; (ii)
personnel requirements (9 engineers) and their qualifications; (iii)
responsibilities of ESD and its integration within the NFC Group; and (iv)
suitable location for ESD offices. The objectives have yet to be fully
achieved. The consultants are providing design documents for self study by
staff selected for positions in ESD and will give them orientacion in design
work in Pakistan. ESD staff will then receive training at the consultant's
home office. NFC expects to establish the new department by the end of 1988.
3.11     The Study for the country's requirements of additional fertilizer
production capacity (Component V), was commissioaed with foreign consultants
and a local partner 1/ in 1982 by the Planning and Development Division of GOP
and completed satisfactorily in 1984. It included an investment schedule for
nine future projects, estimated to be financially and economically viable,
that are recommended for implhmentation over the 10-year period to 1995; with
which NFC's long-term planning views are in line.
B. Project hMaagement and Execution
3.12     In the 1970s, the managerial effectiveness of NFC and its
subsidiaries was adversely affected by significant turnover at all levels of
its managerial and technical personnel because of more lucrative employment
opportunities in the private sector and/or Middle East, causing delays in the
Multan Expansion and Pak-Saudi projects. The principal reason for this
problem was the low remuneration of the NFC Group staff, tied to GOP pay
scales, that were well below those obtainable in the private sector.
Subsequently, GOP began to improve pay scales, for certain technical and
managerial staff categories at the major NFC plants. This, together with the
decline of foreign jobs available, reduced the turnover of skilled staff at
the plants and helped improve conditicns for hiring qualified personnel for
project management. Later, GOP also granted "technical pay status" to a
number of selected higher level staff to enable NFC to retain and attract the
experienced staff required by NFC to perform adequately its managerial role,
including implementation and supervision of the Project. NFC and its
subsidiaries were, therefore, able to form project management teams staffed
mostly by those with previous experience in the execution of the Multan
Expansion Project.
1/ Scientific Design Company Ltd. (SDCL) along with the Economic Intelligence
Unit, U.K., and Chemical Consultants, of Lahore.



- 10 -
3.13     Adequately staffed project teams were established in a timely manner
for the project execution. At Multan, assisted by a senior manager
experienced in supervising construction of the Hazara urea plant, the former
General Manager (Technical) of NFC headed PFL's project team of 15 persons as
shown in Annex 3-1. Initially, engineers from the project team were largely
assigned to review the design, engineering and procurement work of the
engineering contractor at the home office in Italy, while receiving on-the-job
training. They later returned to the Project site as the focus in
implementation turned to civil works and then erection of the facilities. PFL
also engaged the services of Scientific Design Company Ltd. (SDCL) of the U.K.
for 24 man-months of consultancy during the execution period to assist the PFL
project team to oversee the work of the engineering contractor in the field
and home office. At Daud Khel, the PAFL Project team (Annex 3-1) was led by a
manager experienced in project engineering as a consultant to contractors in
Saudi Arabia and as a key official with the National Refinery Ltd. of
Pakistan. Project execution was carried out satisfactorily close to schedule
mainly through local civil and erection contractors, using about 16 man-months
of installation services from foreign suppliers since the work mostly involved
addition, renewal or rehabilitation of equipment items. The plant maintenance
department was able to undertake the necessary overhaul of equipment.
3.14     As noted above (para 2.08), there was a major change in scope of the
design basis for implementation of Component I. Bids had been invited soon
after Loan Effectiveness (October 1982) from six prequalified engineering
contractors to rehabilitate and expand the capacity of the Multan urea plant
based on the original Inventa process. Of these, only two firms quoted for
rehabilitation measures and others either declined to bid or proposed
virtually a new plant based on a modern process, utilizing only the existing
rear-end sections. Under these circumstances, after analyzing the economic
implications, NFC with the approval of the Bank, decided to re-invite bids
under the revised scope, which was to revamp the unit using the latest
technology or, alternatively, to build a new front-end section. The
bid-invitation package consisted of four parts: the urea plant modification,
expansion of the ammonia plant, Nox abatement facilities and the chromate
removal system.
3.15     Eight international engineering contractors were prequalified to bid
for the above package and all submitted their bids in February 1983. Only
three firms bid for the complete package. Of these, Snamprogetti Ltd. (SPL)
of the U.K. was recommended for award of the contract on tile basis of NFC's
evaluation of the bids, which was completed in June 1983, compared to October
1982 as estimated at appraisal. Therefore, NFC contracted to SPL the services
for: (i) provision of process licences; (ii) basic and detailed design; (iii)
procurement, inspection and expediting; (iv) site engineering, supervision of
civil works and erection, (v) project management, scheduling and cost control;
and (vi) commissioning and start-up. The remainder of the work at Multan,
involving procurement of equipment for pollution monitoring, maintenance,
training and product despatch was carried out by PFL's project team.
3.16     SPL was requested subsequently to quote additionally for the ammonia
plant to include a cryogenic-based process for the Purge Gas Recovery Unit,
and by the time negotiation of the SPL scope of work was agreed, the contract
terms were concluded and GOP clearances were obtained, signing of the contract



- 11 -
was postponed until January 1984 and Components I and II of the Project
started with a delay of well over a year. A significant part of this delay
was probably caused through an oversight, by all the parties concerned (the
Bank, the original consultants and NFC), focussing undully on rehabilitation of
the urea plant, without recognizing that a licensor/contractor might be able
to replace and modernize the front-end sections as a more economical
alternative.
3.17     Under NFC's Chairman, a Board of Management consisting of NFC General
Managers for Finance, Technical and Planning and CEOs of NFC subsidiary
companies, was established as an advisory body for the administration of the
Technical Training Centre, which was constructed and is operating successfully
under the direction of the Project Manager of the Centre and his staff.
COSMO, of Japan, carried out basic design of the facility's buildings,
development of the curricula, procurement of foreign equipment and its
installation, and assisted during the first operating year of the Gentre.
Progressive Consultants, of Lahore, provided architect/constructisn services
for the facility.
3.18     A committ e, consisting of the Chairman of NFC and the subsidiaries'
CEOs, selected nominees for the senior management training program at such
institutions as Harvard, London Business School and MIT. Middle-level
management trainees attended the Executive Program at the London Business
School. Technical executives received training in fertilizer facilities
abroad, for which the contract was awarded to Chemserv, of Austria. Trainees
were nominated by their respective CEOs and selected by NFC, whose Personnel
Department administered the overall program. The lists of staff selected for
.training were approved by GOP and the Bank and all those intended for training
(70) attended the courses.
3.19     For the Technical and Operating Assistance Program, the contracts for
execution of the CRAPIP and ICS programs were both awarded to Chemserv, of
Austria. Uhde Services and Consulting GmbH (USC), of the Federal Republic of
Germany, was awarded the contract for the ESD Study. Senior NFC engineers
were designated as project coordinators for these studies.
C. Manpower Development and Traiun
3.20     In addition to the formal manpower development and training programs
under Component IV, training was also carried out extensively for lower level
staff employed by NFC and its subsidiaries in connection with the various
services provided by the engineering contractors and consultants as follow:
(a)  PFL engineers deputed to SPL's home office while serving as the
owner's representatives also interacted with their counterparts and
received training in various engineering disciplines;
(b) A team of 10 engineers was sent to Italy for operational and
maintenance training required for the new urea facilities;
(c)  Eight PAFL engineers received training at the foreign vendors'
facilities in efficient equipment operation and maintenance;



- 12 -
(d)  COSMO provided training for 12 instructors and the team leader in
Japan for three months as well as 37 man-months of assistance during
the first year of operation of TTC;
(e)  Under the CRAPIP study contract, the consultants (Chemserv) trained
four NFC engineers, each for a period of one month, in ammonia and
urea technology at plants in Austria;
(f)  Under the ICS program contract, Chemserv trained four NFC engineers
in inventory control at Austrian plants; and
(g)  Under the ESD contract, NFC Group engineers will receive orientation
to engineering design work by USC in Pakistan and then proceed by the
end of 1988 for training at Uhde production facilities in the Federal
Republic of Germany.
D. Performance of Consultants
3.21     The services performed by the several consultants engaged were judged
by NFC to be generally satisfactory and effective in meeting the established
objectives. The SGV study for restructuring NFC was successful in that all
the major recommendations were accepted and implemented. NFC's current
long-term investment plans are in line with recommendations made in SDCL's
study of the country's additional fertilizer production requirements, which
highlighted the need to increase ratios of the phosphatic and potassic
nutrients to nitrogen, and the need to produce multi-
nutrient fertilizers such as diammonium phosphate (DAP) and nitrophosphate
(NP).
3.22     The studies that were financed under the Loan have all been or are
being utilized to good effect: (i) the work by COSMO related to the TTC was
instrumental for the success of the training facility at Multan and NFC is now
thinking of doubling its training capacity by running two shifts, upgrading it
for the training of engineers and forming an affiliation with a foreign
training institution of good repute; (ii) the services by Chemserv for CRAPIP
identified a broad scope of work for future plant improvement by NFC with
respect to productivity and energy conservation, and their ICS work was
satisfactory in identifying improvements needed for the control of
inventories; (iii) USC has developed the work program and organisational basis
for establishing the Engineering Services Department; and (iv) the technical
advisory services provided by SDL for the rehabilitation work at Multan were
well appreciated by PFL.
E. Performance of Ensineering Contractors
3.23     The engineering cotntractor (SPL) at Multan (para 3.15) worked with
local firms which were subcontracted for civil works, erection, and also
piping and welding works. Subcontracts were supervised by SPL, who assigned
16 engineers for 110 man-months on the site supervision work.



- 13 -
3.24     After a long delayed start, activities of the contractor were
compressed to make up for the delay. From the actual contract date, the
implementation schedule was for SPL to reach mechanical completion of the urea
plant within 24 months and to commission and begin commercial production of
urea within 26 months, which meant handing over the plant to PFL by March 1,
1986. The contracted period to start-up was six months less than the
appraisal estimate. Actual mechanical completion took place two months later
than scheduled and start-up was one month late, which was an acceptable
performance by SPL under the circumstances. Some modification to the original
sections of the plant were necessary, however, before it could meet the
requirements of the performance guarantee tests. Since the PGRU for the
ammonia plant involved a relatively small amount of work, its start-up took
place well before the urea plant and the unit was accepted by NFL after
successful performance tests. Both the chromate removal and Nox abatement
units started-up after 27 months from the delayed SPL contract date, with the
actual execution period being comparable to the appraisal estimate. The
services provided by the engineering contractors were satisfactory and
corrective action was taken quickly when difficulties arose during project
execution. Completion of the Multan project component close to schedule and
below the original cost estimate is partly attributable to the bonus/penalty
clause in the contract with SPL.
F. Procurement and Performance of Suppliers
3.25     NFC and its subsidiaries observed acceptable contracting and
procurement procedures during project implementation. International
competitive bidding (ICB) procedures were used in accordance with guidelines
for procuring foreign equipment and materials with Bank funds. Among foreign
suppliers for execution of the Project, the largest share of contracts
financed by the Bank was won by the U.K. (36.62), followed by Japan (18.1X)
and Italy (15.52); these three countries accounted for slightly more than 70%
of the total value (Annex 3-2). In general, the performance of the suppliers
was satisfactory. Problems which arose related mostly to rehabilitation works
and the procurement of certain items and, at times, re-tendering became
necessary. This was particularly evident in the Multan Rationalization
component for procurement of various equipment and spares for which ordering
continued until June 1987 and the delivery period for residual items was
considerably extended. Satisfactory assistance was obtained from suppliers in
correcting equipment problems during early operations.
G. Project Implementation Schedule
3.26     A detailed Project Implementation Schedule is shown in Annex 3-' and
the actual commissioning dates for the main components of the Project are
compared below with appraisal estimates:



- 14 -
Schedule (Months)
Appraisal                   Appraisal
Component             zstimate      Actual        Estimate    Actual
I.   Multan:
- Urea                  May   1985   March 1986       31         27
- Ammonia PGRU         May   1985   Dec.  1985        31         23.5
II. Multan Rational'n.:
- Chromate Removal      June  1984   Jan.  1986       27         27
- NOx Abatement        May   1985   March 1986        37.5       27
- Procurement Items    Nov.  1983   Feb.  1988        15         32
III. Daud Khel               July  1984   Oct.  1984       31         34
IV.  Technical               March 1984   Sept. 1985       21         39
Training Center
The overall delay in project completion of Component I, in comparison with the
appraisal schedule, was 11 months, which was mainly due to a 15-month delay in
effecting a contract with the engineering contractor, resulting from the
change in the scope of design for the urea plant, but four months was
recovered by shortening the execution period. On the basis of the revised
contract date, however, the start-up date was only 6 1/2 months behind
schedule. Similarly, completion of Component II was delayed for the same
reason as Component I but the original 27-month schedule was maintained for
the Nox abatement/chromate removal units. As mentioned, problems arose in
late ordering and deliveries of some equipment for the Multan rationalization.
Implementation of the Daud Khel facilities began much earlier (January 1982)
and were completed in October 1984, three months behind the appraisal
schedule. Deliveries of the major equipment were only one month behind
schedule except for the loss at sea of a new waste heat boiler which was
quickly made up by rehabilitating the existing boiler. Also, installation of
the dynamic absorbers was delayed due to late issuance of the import licence
by the authorities and some mechanical faults in the equipment during testing.
3.27     Implementation of the technical training centre started about 11
months late due to delay in inviting bids and signing the contract with the
consulting firm. Its completion against the execution schedule was about 18
months late owing to delays in: (i) selection of the civil works cunsultant
and revisions to the TOR; (ii) the local authority's approval to amendments of
the Multan township master plan; (iii) civil construction; (iv) the training
program in Japan; and (v) GOP's requirements to restrict the shipments of
equipment to only national flag carriers.
H. CaXitaL Costs. Fancineg and Disbrsements
3.31     The capital costs of the Project are summarized in the table below
and are presented in more detail for each project component in Annex 3-4.



- 15 -
Pakistan-Fertilizer Industry Rehabilitation Project
Summary of Project Capital Costs
(US$ thousand) a/
Appraisal Estimate b/            Actual            Change
Local   Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign Total         %
Equipment, materials,    1,123   21,210  22,333   2,667   13,933  16,600    - 26
spares
Freight, insurance,       1,516    2,131   3,647   1,278        486   1,764    - 52
handling
Engiaeering,                995    7,327   8,322   3,579    6,936  10,515    + 26
consultancy services
Erection and civil        6,801    1,612   8,413   3,557         38   3,595    - 57
works
Pre-op, commissioning       170       999   1,169     210       267     477    - 59
expenses
Total Installed Cost    10,605   33,279  43,884  11,291   21,660  32,951    - 25
Incremental working         200      -        200    -          -       -      -100
capital
Interest during            -       4,640   4,640   1,017    3,213   4,230    -  9
construction
Front-end fee              -         600      600      -        493     493    - 18
Total Financing          10,805   38,519  49,324  12,308   25,366  37,674    - 24
Required
ai Average Rs./US$ exchange rates CYs 1982-1987: 1982-12.2; 1983-13.3; 1984-14.3;
1985-16.0; 1986-16.8; 1987-17.4
b/ Total Installed Cost includes: (i) Physical Contingency (PC) of 10.32 of
Base Cost Estimate (BCE); and (ii) Price Escalation of 18.3S of (BCE+PC).
Total financing required for the Project was US$37.7 million, 242 lower than the
appraisal estimate of US$49.3 million. The decrease in capital costs was mainly
due to lower international prices for capital equipment, due to depressed market
conditions, and exchange rate movements. The exchange rate for the Pakistan rupee
changed "Lrom Rs 10/US$, at appraisal, to the actual weighted average rate of Rs
15.8/US$ for the local component over the main execution period of 1982-86 (during
which the US$ generally maintained its strength against other major foreign
currencies) and resulted in lower local currency capital costs in terms of U.S.
dollars. Other factors contributing to the difference between the actual costs
and the appraisal estimate included: (i) the underestimation at appraisal of local
costs for engineering and consultancy services; (ii) the imposition by GOP of
surcharge duties at 102 of the foreign equipment cost; (iii) overestimation of
freight costs at appraisal and; (iv) more than expected purchase of bulk materials
and other items from local sources. The impact of the scope change in the Multan
ammnwia/urea rehabilitation and expansion component on the project cost was not



- 16 -
significant since the bid price for the urea plant was higher than the original
estimate by only US$0.4 million and the elimination of debottlenecking measures
for the ammonia plant reduced equipment costs by about US$2 million, giving a net
cost reduction of about US$1.6 million.
3.29                           The disbursement for the Bank loan as estimated at
the time of appraisal and the actual pattern, is given in Annex 3-5 and is
summarized below:
Cumulative Bank Loan Disbursement a/
(US$ million)
1982    1983    1984    1985    1986   1987    1988
Appraisal Estimate           2.0    11.0    27.5    37.8    38.5   38.5    38.5
Actual                       0.57    4.32    8.82   19.07   22.95  24.83   25.42
Actual as 2 of Estimate    2R.5    39.3    32.1    50.4    59.6   64.6    66.0
a/ As of March 31, 1988
TV. OPERATING PERFORMANCE
A. Coamissoning8nd Start-up
4.01     At Multan, the PGRU experienced only minor mechanical problems at
start-up, which were quickly solved. Production of urea started March 31,
1986 and commercial operation was declared at the beginning of June, when the
20-day sustained performance test run commmenced but was unsuccessful. The
major equipment problems encountered were mainly in the rehabilitated original
section of the plant and also the quality of the product did n. comply with
the specification. The SPL commissioning team carried out various design,
mechanical and equipment installation changes over the next six months. The
subsequent test run was successful and the urea plant was accepted in February
1987. The production levels and rates of capacity utilization achieved during
1986-87 are given in Annex 4-1. The chromate removal unit also sailed the
initial guarantee test at the end of February 1986. Design faults were
subsequently corrected and thereafter the plant was able to operate to
contractual requirements. The NOx abatement unit started in March 1986,
when its performance test was successfully completed.
4.02     At Daud Khel, the rehabilitation measures for the AS plant were
successfully carried out and the plant was commissioned in October 1984,
except the dynamic vibration absorbers which were put into operation in
October 1985 after the supplier replaced certain defective materials.



- 17 -
B. Production Build-up
4.03     The table below compares the appraisal estimate of production
build-up with the actual achievements by PFL and PAFL on the Multan and Daud
Rhel components, respectively:
Production Build-up
Appraisal Estimates           Actual Achievements
Capacity                       Capacity
Production  Utilization a/       Production  Utilization
(000 tons)       (2)             (000 tons)      (S)
PFL, Multan
Urea
FY84                      16              27             50               54
FY85                                      24 b/          47               41
FY86                      78              85             35               38 c/
FY87                      83              90             87               94
PAFL. Daud Khel
Ammonium Sulphate
FY84                      30              32             73               77
FY85                      95             100 d/          79               83 e/
FY86                      95             100             92               97
FY87                      95             100             92               97
ai  Capacity utilization was calculated on the basis of 180 tpd installed
capacity until FY85 and on the basis of 280 tpd thereafter.
b/ Commissioning of the new urea plant was estimated to take place in May
1985.
c/  The new urea plant was commissioned in March 1986.
d/ Commissioning of the rehabilitated AS plant was estimated to take place in
July 1984.
e/ The rehabilitated AS plant was commissioned in October 1984.
Since the old urea plant at Multan continued to operate during the
construction of the new plant, production during the c.,nstruction phase did
not decline as much as it would have had the old plant been rehabilitated.
The production build-up following commissioning was better than the appraisal
estimate. The production build-up in the AS plant was somewhat slower than
the estimated 1002. The capacity utilization reached 972 in FY86 and FY87.



- 18 -
C. bMarketig
4.04     Fertilizer producers market their output directly through their own
distribution systems or through middlemen. NFC has a subsidiary, the National
Fertilizer Marketing Co. (NFMC) which is entrusted with the responsibility for
marketing fertilizers from all NFC fertilizer plants on a no-profit, no-loss
basis. All fertilizer imports (excluding N fertilizers which are
decontrolled) are channelled through the Federal Directorate of Fertilizer
Imports (FDFI) which is under the Ministry of Food and Agriculture. FDFI
allocates the imported fertilizers amorg the local fertilizer companies for
distribution on the basis of their overall market share in the fertilizer
sector. For imported as well as local fertilizers for which price controls
apply, the Government fixes the average marketing margin as part of the
farmgate price.
V. FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
A. Pricing PoUcy
5.01     Under the prevailing policy in Pakistan, prices of fertilizer output
(excluding nitrogenous fertilizers) and main inputs are controlled by the
Government. As for nitrogenous fertilizers, prices were deregulated with
effect from May 1, 1986 but the fertilizer companies cannot increase the
farmgate prices for those products without providing justification to the
Government.  Therefore, the Government continues to exert an influence on the
farmgate prices for nitrogenous fertilizers. As for phosphatic as well as
complex fertilizers, price control continues. The Government feels that the
consumption of P is substantially lower than what is required to achieve
balanced fertilization and has, therefore, decided to continue price controls
and subsidies for P and complex fertilizers. The farmgate prices and
distribution margins for them are fixed and are uniform throughout Pakistan.
However, the ex-factory prices for those fertilizers vary from plant to plant
and are based upon the formula established at the time the respective
investments were approved.
5.02     NFC is the only producer of i and complex fertilizers in Pakistan.
It is losing money on such fertilizers 'Necause the prices charged to farmers
are substantially lower than the import ' arity prices (by 35-752). Further,
the ex-factory pricing formula is based taon a 15% return on equity. Equity
is defined as paid-up share capital plus LInus shares issued; it excludes
reserves. Further, the Government does not allow the revaluation of equity
for the purpose of calculating the ex-factory price.
5.03     NFC is also losing money on its production of some N fertilizers,
especially CAN (26% N) at Multan and ammonium sulfate (20X N) at Daud Khel
which are being sold to the farmers at prices substantially below the import
parity prices. In the case of urea (462 N), the Government allowed NFC to
raise prices to the farmer by Rs 80/ton in 1987/88. As a result, the company
is expected to show profit on urea sales in 1987/88 (compared to loss in
1986/87).



- 19 -
5.04     The Government also sets the prices of main inputs such as natural
gas and power for the fertilizer industry. Overall, tne natural gas price was
set at about 802 of its economic opportunity cost (i.e., the fuel oil price on
a heating value parity) in 1987 and power tariffs are about two-thirds of the
long-run marginal cost. PFL is currently paying Rs 0.78 (US$0.045)/kwh of
power and Rs 25.3 (US$1.45)/million BTU for natural gas.
5.05     The Government's input-output pricing system for fertilizers, which
has been undergoing changes, is part of a program designed to stimulate
internal competition and efficiency, induce long-term international
competitiveness, and help reduce the fertilizer subsidy. (The subsidy
declined from Rs 2,409 million in 1985/86 to Rs 1,284 million in 1986/87).
This program includes, apart from pricing reform, plant rehabilitation,
phase-out of uneconomic units, management and organizational improvements, and
liberalization of trade and investments. The Bank's dialogue with GOP has
been focussing on these issues, the details of which are included under the
Second Irrigation Systems Rehabilitation Project 1/ and the Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Loan. 2/
B. Financial Rate of Return (FRR)
5.06     The assumptions used in the calculation of the financial rate of
return (FRR) as well as the economic rate of return (ERR) are given in
Annex 5-1. The financial rate of return has been calculated using prices
adjusted for 1987 constant prices. The operating costs and revenues are given
in Annex 5-2.
5.07     The FRR for the Multan (PFL) subproject is now calculated at 15.92
compared to the appraisal estimate of 72. The difference is mainly due to
lower capital and operating costs for the subproject in spite of the
establishment of a new urea plant (280 tpd) *nstead of the rehabilitaiton of
the old 180 tpd urea plant as originally envisaged. However, the Daud Khel
(PAFL) subproject shows negative FRR at the current farmgate price of Rs 1,300
(US$75)/ton of ammonium sulfate. This price is about 472 lower than the CIF
landed price plus the inland transportation and marketing cost of US$110/ton
at 1987 terms. The Daud Khel subproject would show a satisfactory rate of
return of about 12S if the current farmgate prices are increased to import
parity prices.
C. Einancia Results and Covenants
5.08     Income statements and balance sheets for the Project beneficiary
companies, PFL and PAFL, as well as NFC, the holding company, are shown in
Annexes 5-3. 5-4, and 5-5. PFL and NFC are in compliance with all financial
covenants, while PAFL is not for reasons explained in para 5.09 The following
table shows selected financial data for PFL, PAFL and NFC:
1/ Report No. Cr.18888-PAK
2/ Report No. P-4694-PAK



- 20 -
Selected Financial Data
(Rs Million Unless Otherwise Noted)
1985/86      1986/87      1987/88 (est.)
PFL
Gross Sales              2,046.9      1,566.4         1,711.1
Net Income                 188.2          36.7           20.1
Depreciation               261.9        326.8           383.4
Cash Generation            450.1        363.5           403.5
Current Assets           1,213.9      1,145.1         1,151.1
Current Liabilities        700.3        747.1           638.2
Long-Term Debt             595.8        434.7           363.8
Equity                     901.8        864.1           861.0
PAFL
Gross Sales                243.9        142.8           131.8
Net Income                  (1.4)       (56.8)          (84.0)
Depreciation                 4.3          8.9             8.9
Cash Generation              2.9        (47.9)          (75.1)
Current Assets             203.7        184.2            88.4
Current Liabilities        106.1        150.8           126.5
Long-Term Debt              43.7         27.2            29.0
Equity                     120.6         63.7           (20.2)
NFC
Gross Sales              4,532.4      4,768.6         4,902.1
Net Income                 268.1        366.7           141.6
Depreciation               124.5        391.9           360.7
Current Assets           3,107.9      3,830.4         3,296.2
Current Liabilities      1,453.9      1,882.0         1,260.8
Long-Term Debt           2,282.6      1,796.1         1,646.5
Equity                   1,973.9      2,444.9         2,472.2
Ratios
1. Current Ratio
- PFL                   1.7:1        1.5:1            1.8:1
- PAFL                  1.9:1        1.2:1            0.7:1
- NFC                   2.1:1        2:1              2.6:1
2. Debt/Equity Ratio
- PFL                   45/55        36/64            31/69
- PAFL                  28/72        33/67            Neg. Equity
- NFC                   57/43        45/55            41/59
5.09     In the case of PAFL, it is losing money and is not able to meet the
financial covenants mainly because the farmgate price fixed by the Government
for its product, AS, is insufficient to cover its costs. Meanwhile, NFC has
decided to phase out the operation of the Dhaud Khel plants and replace them
with a new complex consisting of a 600 tpd ammonia plant and an 1,000 tpd urea
plant by 1992. When this happens, the financial situation is expected to
improve te a satisfactory level.



- 21 -
VL ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A. Economic Rate of Returm
6.01     For economic analysis, tradeable items have been priced on the basis
of projected international prices adjusted for transportation and handling
charges. The economic price of natural gas has been calculated on the basis
of its calorific value equivalent of fuel oil. Power is valued at its
long-term marginal cost. The price of urea and AS are projected to increase
at 1187 real terms as follows:
Forecast Prices (CIF Landed Price, Karachi Port)
(in US$ at 1987 Reslt terms)
1986/87   1987/88   1990/91   1995196
Urea       131        135       201       231
AS          77         87       117       112
6.02     The Project costs and benefit streams for ERR are shown in Annex 6-1.
The ERR for the Multan subproject and the Daud Khel subproject are now
calculated at 21% and 19.22, respectively. The overall ERR for the Project is
estimated at 20.6%, considerably lower than the appraisal estimate of 54X.
The difference is mainly due to lower world fertilizer prices than projected
at appraisal and partly due to the Project delay (specifically for the Multan
subproject), which together more than offset the gain from lower capital costs
and higher capacity utilization.
B. Forei  Exchane Savings
6.03     The net foreign exchange savings (Annex 6-2) over the seven-year life
of the Project, after deduction of principal and interest payments on the
foreign loans and deducting foreign exchange components of operating costs in
constant 1987 dollars, are estimated at around US$166 million, about 672 of
the appraisal estimate due to reasons explained in para. 6.02).  Most of the
materials (e.g., feedstock and fuel) and services used by the Project are
obtained locally.
C. Technology Transfer
6.04     The Project was implemented with a substantial involvement of
Pakistani firms. About 162 of the equipment for the Project in terms of value
was supplied by local producers, thus creating significant backward linkages
in the industrial sector. Working with foreign process licensors and
engineering firms, the Project staff were able to absorb modern technology.
The plants are completely managed by the local staff who have upgraded their
skills through the training program financed under the Project.



- 22 -
D. Environmental Aspects
6.05     The Project facilities were designed to conform with environmental
regulations and norms agreed at the time of appraisal. Effluents from the
plants are treated and neutralized prior to discharge. This conforms with
State and local water pollution standards. A scrubbing system is installed at
the Multan urea plant to dedust urea from air leaving the prilling tower.
VII. BANK ROLE
7.01     The Bank Group's major objectives in this and other fertilizer
projects in Pakistan have been to support GOP's strategy for increasing local
fertilizer production and minimizing production costs. Emphasis was placed on
improving Project organization and efficiency, expanding capacity,
debottlenecking existing facilities and improving capacity utilization. The
Bank Group's continuing involvement in the fertilizer sector has also led to
increasing attention to sectoral issues to help ensure an economically
efficient fertilizer sector. The dialogue on sectoral issues focussed on
reform of pricing policies, relaxation of regulatory environment, and
improvements through rationalization/restructuring. The impact of policy
reforms on future fertilizer demand and production were examined in a
fertilizer capacity expansion study completed in 1984. Further, the Bank
Group has also been addressing the sectoral issues through the Program Credit
(approved in 1980) 1/ to finance fertilizer imports and the first structural
adjustment loan approved in June 1982.
7.02     The Government had originally agreed under the Program Credit to
eliminate fertilizer subsidies by June 30, 1985. The Government initially
made good progress towards reaching that target by gradually increasing
fertilizer prices to farmers, but subsequently requested a waiver. In May
1986, the Government decontrolled the prices of straight nitrogenous
fertilizers (which accounted for about 842 of the total fertilizer consumption
in 1986/87) and significantly reduced the subsidy burden. However, the
Government is currently continuing with the price controls and subsidy for
phosphatic, complex and potassic fertilizers as their consumption is low in
the country.   The Government intends to continue to supply them at subsidized
prices in the near future so that farmers will increase their use of such
fertilizers (along with N fertilizer) to achieve balanced fertilization,
thereby improving the efficiency of fertilizer use. The Bank's dialogue has
been to focus on elimination of subsidies on phosphatic, complex and potassic
fertilizers and allow fertilizer producers/marketers to import fertilizers
without Government regulations and licensing. Progress on the subsidy issue
has been pursued under the Agricultural Adjustment Loan (para 5.05).
1/ Credit 1066-PAR, September 1980.



- 23 -
vm. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
8.01     Although the Project experienced time overrun, especially in the case
of the Multan subproject, there was cost underrun in U.S. dollar terms mainly
because of the devaluation of the local currency and partly because of lower
than expected equipment costs due to the depressed world market and partly
because of some changes in the Project scope. As a result, a part of the Bank
loan (about US$13.1 million) was subsequently cancelled. The earnings
foregone because of Project delay is partly made up by achieving faster than
anticipated production build-up following Project completion.
8.02     During Project execution, the personnel of PFL, PAFL and NFC became
more conversant with international practices in design, engineering,
procurement and construction. Further, during this period, the companies
concerned greatly benefited from a comprehensive training program which
covered both local and foreign training.
Lessons LeaIed
8.03     Major lessons learned during the Project implementation are:
-   A competent, adequately staffed Project team must be established in
the early stage of project execution (para 3.13).
-   Use of capable and experienced engineering and construction
contractors should be carefully planned and carried out (para 2.08).
-   Bonus and penalty clauses in engineering and construction contracts
should be carefully used to expedite Project execution (para 3.24).
-   Cumbersome government/company procedures need to be streamlined for
early clearance of Project design and procurement recommendations of
the engineering contractor and/or the Project team (paras 3.16/3.27).
-   Intensive technical supervision by the Bank is necessary at the stage
of Project design and bidding by engineering contractors (para 3.14).
-   Participation of experienced expatriate consultants through technical
assistance agreements helps coordination of the activities of various
contractors and vendors in the course of Project execution (paras
3.13/3.22).
-   Adequate training of personnel is necessary to ensure smooth plant
start-up and operation (paras 2.14/3.20).
- Assignment of company personnel to the offices of engineering and
construction cuntractors is essential for expediting and coordination
of activities during Project implementation (para 3.13).
-   Recruitment of competent staff with competitive compensation scales
is essential to ensure smooth Project execution and operation (para
3.12).



PAKISTAN: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITAIO  PRQJECT
Production Capacitv and Capacitv Utilization
(in 000 tons unless otherwise noted)
Year of      -----installed Capacity -----    -----1986/87 Production----                  1986/87
StartkU      Product          Nutrients        Products         Nutrients        Capacitv Utilization tW
N A/        P b/                 N a/        P /                       P _i
I.   National Fertilizer Corooration
of Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd.. Lahore
(1)  Pak-American Fertilizers Ltd.,
Daud Khel
- Am. Sulfate (AS, 21X N)             1962 ./         90            19        _          92           19.2      -          101
(2)  Pak-Arab Fertilizer (Pvt.) Ltd.
Multan
- CAN  (26X N)                       1958 J/        450           117        -         413          107.5      -           92
- Urea (46X N)                       1962 _/         93            43        -          8B           40.4      -           94           -
- NP (23-23-0)                       1979           305            70       70         324           74.4    74.4         106          106
(3)  Pak-Saudi Fertilizers Ltd.
Mirpur Mathelo
- Urea (46X N)                       1980           557           256        -         600          276.0      -          108
(4)  Pak-China Fertilizers Ltd.
Maripur
- Urea (46S N)                       1982            96            44        -          89           40.9      -           93           -
(5)  Llallpur Chemicals and
Fertilizers Ltd.
- SSP (18X P), Faisalabad            1957            20             -        4          24            -        4.3         -           108
- SSP (18   P), Jaranwala            1967 f/         8n            _        14          81            -       IA.6         -           104
Sub-Total                       1.691            549      88       1,714          558.4    93.3         102           106
II.   Exxon Chemicals (Pak.) Ltd.. Daharki
- Urea (46S N)                          1968           256           118        -         256          117.9      -          100           -
III.   Dawood Hercules Chemicals Ltd.
Chichoki Mallian
- Urea (46X N)                          1971           348           160        -         364          167.4                 105
IV.   Fauii Foundation Co.. Goth 1achi
- Urea (46X N)                          1982           570           262        -         596          274.3      -          105
V.   Pakistan Steel Mill. Karachi
- AS (212 N)                            1981            17              3.6.-              10            2.1      -           58
TOTAL                                                     2o ,'    87a                                     112 .       3
a/  Nitrogen    hi  Phosphorus        J/  Expanded in 1968       dl  Expanded in 1978        eJ Modified in 1978        / Expanded in 1976.
SOURCE:   Pakistan Fertilizer Statistics. April 1986 and Supplement 1985-86 and 1986-87, January 1988, of
National Fertilizer Development Center (NFOC);  and National Fertilizer Corporation of Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd.



- 25 -
ANNEX 1-2
PAKISTAN: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. Fertilizer Production
('000 nutrient tons)
N            P
1966/67          50.5         0.7
1970/71         140.1         4.5
1976/77         309.3        11.9
1986/87       1,120.1        93.3
B. Fertilizer Imports
('000 nutrient tons)
N            P          K
1966/67         106.4        16.4        0.6
1970/71         107.8        38.6        5.0
1976/77         137.1       140.1        2.5
1980/81         386.7       302.4       22.0
1981/82          88.9        28.5       15.5
1982/83         133.3       249.8       20.2
1983/84         178.0        15.9       27.2
1984/85          86.8       233.4       21.3
1985/86          67.0       164.0       40.0
1986/87         210.0       354.0       46.0



- 26 -
ANNEX 1-3
PAKISTAN: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Fertilizer Offtake a/
('000 nutrient tons)
N            P          K         Total (N+P+K)
1966/67                    112.8         3.9        0.1             116.8
1970/71                    251.5        30.5        1.2             283.2
1971/72                    344.0        37.2        0.7             381.9
1972/73                    386.4        48.7        1.4             436.5
1973/74                    341.9        58.1        2.7             402.7
1974/75                    362.8        60.6        2.1             42V.5
1975/76                    441.6       103.6        2.9             548.1
1976/77                    511.0       117.9        2.4             631.3
1977/78                    549.9       156.3        6.0             712.2
1978/79                    684.3       188.0        7.6             879.9
1979/80                    806.0       228.5        9.6           1,044.1
1980/81                    842.9       226.9        9.7           1,079.5
1981/82                    830.7       225.3       21.8           1,077.8
1982/83                    952.7       265.3       25.6           1,243.6
1983/84                    914.3       259.8       28.5           1,202.6
1984/85                    934.8       293.8       24.7           1,253.3
1985/86                  1,128.1       349.8       33.2           1,511.1
1986/87                  1,332.4       408.9       42.6           1,783.9
Average Annual
Growth Rate (X):
1966/67 - 1976/77           16.3        40.0       37.0              18.4
1976/77 - 1986/87           10.1        13.2       33.0              11.0
1966/67 - 1986/87           13.2        26.0       35.0              14.6
1970/71 - 1980/81           12.8        22.0       23.0              14.3
1980/81 - 1986/87            8.0        10.4       28.0               8.8
a/  Offtake from the plants and provincial marketing agencies.
SOURCE: Pakistan Fertilizer Statistics, NFDC, Pakistan



- 27 -
ANNEX 1-4
PAKISTAN: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Consumption of Fertilizers per Hectare of
Arable Land and Permanent Crops, 1985
N          PzOs        K20        TOTAL
Pakistan               55.0         17.1        1.6        73.7
India                  33.7         11.5       5.1         50.3
Turkey                 35.1         17.3        1.4        53.8
Mexico                 51.0         15.5        2.8        69.3
Indonesia              62.2         23.9       8.5         94.6
China                l15.6          27.4        4.4       167.4
Portugal               49.6         25.4      12.3         87.3
Yugoslavia             61.3         33.5       32.6       127.4
Romania                82.8         41.8       21.4       146.0
Italy                  86.4         56.7      29.1        172.2
Greece                114.2         45.7       14.0       173.9
France                127.2         77.5       96.2       300.9
Czechoslovakia        130.2        104.1      102.2       336.5
United Kingdom        222.1         61.3       72.1       355.5
Korea, DPR            263.8         57.2       36.6       367.6
Korea, Rep.           198.7         91.9     101.7        392.3
Japan                 145.9        155.7     128.8        430.4
Germany, FR           203.4         98.9     125.1        427.4
Poland                 90.0         61.2       78.7       229.9
U.S.A.                 49.9         19.9       24.0        93.8
Israel                126.3         43.8      50.2        220.3
Egypt                 257.6         79.7      10.1        347.4
SOURCE: FAO Fertilizer Yearbook, 1986



- 28 -
ANNEX 3-1
PAKISTAN: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project CompletLon Report
A. PFL Project Managelent Organization
|Managing Dlrector|
Technical        r_   Prct Cntroller  EnglneerLng
AJ;lYors        _                       Contractor                  _"
Coordl-
Sr. Manager                Sr. Manager                       nation  Sub-
Plannlng                  Conseructlon                               Contractors
Project           Planning              Planning             CIvil
Accounts          Engineer            EE      e             EngLneer              Civil
DocumentatLon       Process             Mech. Erect.       Mech. Utles.            Mechanical
Englneer             Urea/PGR J           TLe-ins
Inspectlon             Quality          Electrical            Electrical
Englneer             Control Engr        Englneer
Instrument          Sr. Instt.           lastrument
Engineer            Engineer
S. PAFL Prolect Management Organizatlon
Managing DLrector
Project Manager
Manager (Tech.)
Dpty Manag      | Doty. Kanager       E Dpty. Manae er    Asst. Manager    ASt  Manager
|(Mechanical )rt   (Electrlcal1)   |(Instrument)  ||(ChemLcal)  || (Clvll)
Engineers 



- 29 -
ANNEX 3-2
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Completion Report
IBRD Financed Procurement of Foreign Goods and Services
Amount
(US$ thousand)          Percentage
Equipment, Materials, Spare Parts
Engineering & Consultants' Services              21,600                  100
U.K.                                              7,934                   36.6
Japan                                             3,927                   18.1
Italy                                             3,367                   15.5
F.R.G.                                            1,990                    9.2
Austria                                           1,756                    8.1
U.S.A.                                            1,350                    6.2
France                                              611                    2.8
Korea                                               320                    1.5
Denmark                                             153                    0.7
Sweden                                               81                    0.4
Finland                                              76                    0.4
Spain                                                67                    0.3
Belgium                                              16                    0.1
Holland                                              12                    0.1



- 30 -                ANNEX 3-3
_ 1 1 1 __.___
1l | * _  1   H _1  He  1 @        a.l -  S
|    @   i  ^  .   *   .  .  .     3    *1~* 
" _      @.   Z                  .S 
fltl,f~~ 0          S__   SnX
21X1l~~ S 



Pakistan - fcwtsllier Industry Rhab ta Ion Prolect
Capital Cost Esl4s(OouS
Multan Ion ia/Urea
Rehabilitation and Exoanston   #aultan Rationali2ation    Daud thel Rehabilitation           Other Comgnnants            Tetal Proiect COSt
LsAl   Farc1tn   Total    Lg;1    Fniraio    otal    L2ac    Farein   1cAta            LSA1   foreiu n   It         Lo Fsrl FaTn  Total
A. SAR Cost [stimate
Equ1prnt *materials
and spares                65    7.935    8.000         250    3.856    4.106        187    3.840    4.027        359      621       910       861   16,252   17.113
Freight, 1nsurance
and Inland handling       568      738    1.306        313      403       716       239       430      669        43        62      105    1.163    1.633    2,796
Engineering and
consultancy services   -         1.S0    1.150         51      200       251       100       100      200       612    4.164    4,776        763    5.614    6.377
Erection and
civil works            2.815        700    3.515       328        85      413    1.466        450    1.916       607       -        607    5.216    1.235    6.451
Pre-operational
Expenses                 -          -        -         -                  -         -         -         -        130        76       206      130        76       206
Coeiassioning              -0440 490                     -        -        -       -            20D       200       -                                       9 ~   ~ 6aD  6O
Bass cost estimate        3.448   11.013   14.461        942    4,S44    5,486    1.992    5.020    7.012    1,751    4,923    6.674    8,133   25.500   33.633
Physical continency         370    1.181    1,551         94       454      548       199       502       701      175       492       667      838    2.629    3,467
Price escalation         7.2       2.256_i 29I62          12       925  1i117   . 5i            a84    1.735    __         1pa 08    1.470    1.634 .Z L.II   6.784.1
Total Installed cost    4.524   14.450   18.974    1.228    5.923    7.151    2.542    6.406    8.948    2.311    6.500    8.811   10,605   33.279   43.884
Increnental
working capital           -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -        200       -         200       200       -        200
Interest during
construction              -      2.130    2.130        -         920      920       -         660       660       -        930       930       -      4.640    4.640
front-end fee
on Sank loan             _          30        0        -         100    1J0         -                   100                100       100      _      _600        fi_ 
Total financing
required                4,524   16.880   21.404    1,228    6.943    8.171    2,542    7,166    9.708    2,511    7,530   10.041   10.805   38.519   49.324
8. Actual Camnlntion Cost
Equtpint. materials
and spares              1.612    6.664    8,276        573    3.350    3,923        129    3.067    :.196        353      852    1.205    2.667   13.933   16.600
Freight, insurance
and inland handling       519       240      759       382         5      387       315       241       556       62       -          62    1.278       486    1.764
Engineering and
consultancy services  2,800    3,156    5.956          291       516      807        58        73       131      430    3.191    3,621    3.579    6.936   lO,SlS
Erection and
civil works             1.641       -      1.641       359       -         359      795        38       833       762      -         762    3,557         28    3.595
Pre-operational and
c ae _  sioning exPenses   -         222      2        -                   -l                  40         0      ;200-               20o        "        257      147
Total installed cost    6.572   10.287   16.859    1.605    3.871    5,476    1.107    3,459    4,766    1.807    4.043    S.850   11.291   21.660   32.951
Interest during
construction              695    1,719    2.414        -         513       513       95       546       641      227       435       662    1.017    3.213    4.230   .. 
Front-end fee
on Bank loan              -                  2237                                             loS. )Os    __-               RI        SI       -        492       491   00 Z
Total financing                                                                                                                                                                X
required                7.267   12.243   19,510    1.605    4.454    6.059    1.402    4.110    5.512    2.034    4.559    6,593   12.308   25.366   37.674    ' e
-_-  -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -     -         a       0 _



Pakistan - fert1112er Industry Rehabilitation Project
Caoital Cost Estimate-Other Component          U
Technical Training Centre.    Technical & Operating         Management Development        Expatriate Assistance.    Total. Other Csmponents
Multan                Assistance Proaram                  Proaram                      Nultan.                       Cost
Lna1   Forain      Total    Lga1   Forelon   Ttl          Local   Foreto    Total    LQal   Foreicn  IToa           Lgul   Foretnt    Total
A. SAR Cost Estimate
Equipment, materials
and spares                359      621       980                          _                                                                   359       621       980
Freight, insurance
and inland handling        43       62       loS                                    -                   -        -                   -         43        62       loS
Engineering and
consultancy services    154    1.797    1,95.          126       531      657       180       870    1.050       152       966    1,118       612    4.164    4.776
Erection and
civil works               607       -        607       -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -        607       -         607
Pro-operational and
comiss ioning             130      46        206       -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -t                           206
expenseS
Base cost estimate        1.293    2.556    3.849        126       531      657        18c      870    1.050        152      966    1.118    1,751    4,923    6.674
Physical contingency        129       256      385        13        53       66                  87       10S        IS       96       11       175      492       667
Price escalation            17     - -AS       7h6       fi1       216      277        113      243       356     . 33  3.            ..        Jas    1.085  J12
Total tnstalled cost    1.600    3,400    5.000          200       800    1,000       311    1,200    1.511        200    1,100    1,300    2.311    6,600    8.811
Working Capital             200       -         200      -         -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         200       -        200
Interest during
construction              -         490      490       -         111       111      -         177       177      -         152       152       -        930       930
Front-end fee
on fank loan            -                           5             12        12  _              I         19      -                    I           -     100 
Total financing
reQ41red                1.800    3.943    5.743        200       923    1.123       311    1.396    1,707        200    1.268    1,468    2.511    7.530   10.041
e. Actual Coomletion r5
[,%ipment. caterials
nd spares                 353       852    1.205       ^         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -         353      852    1,205
freight, insurance
and inland handling        62       -         62       -         -        -         -         -         -        -         -         -         62       -          62
Engineertng and
consulting services        50       554      604       248    1,712    1.960        107       750       857       25       175       200      430    3.191    3,621
Erection and
civil warks               762       -        762       -         -         -        -         -         -        -         -         -         762      -         762
Preparational and
ca 1ssioning
expenses                  200      _         200       -         -         -        -         -     _  -                  _ 200                                   200
Total installed cost    1.427    1.406    2.833          248    1,712    1.960         107      750       857        25      175       200    1,807    4,043    5.850
Interest during
construction               29       207      236        67        34       101      131       194       325      -         -                  227       435       662 ?
Front-end fee                                                                                                                                                                00 z
on Bank loan              -          44       44       -         12      1         _       .Dlh          2s      -         -         -                   81        Hl      '
Total ftnancing
required                1.456    1,657    3.113        315    1.758    2,073        238       969    1,207        25       175       200    2.034    4.559    f.,593
- - - - - -  - - -  -    _ a 



PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
IBRD LOAN DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
Cumulative Disbursement
US$ Million                       Ratios, as Percent
Year      Calendar                     Appraisal                          Actual/        SAR EST./       Actual/
No.        Year         Quarter       Estimate              Actual       SAR Est.         Loan           Loan
1         1982            4             2.0                 0.57         28.5             5.2            1.5
1983            1             3.0                0.76         25.3             7.8            2.0
2            5.0                 1.02         20.4            13.0            2.6
3            8.0                 2.17         27.1            20.8            5.6
2                         4            11.0                 4.32         39.3            28.6           11.2
1984            1            15.0                5.54         36.9            40.0           14.4
2           19.0                 5.80         30.5            49.4           15.1
3           23.5                 7.69         32.7            61.0           20.0
3                         4            27.5                 8.82         32.1            71.4           22.9
1985            1            31.5               12.02         38.2            81.8           31.2
2           34.5                14.38         41.7            89.6           37.4
3           37.0                18.21         49.2            96.1           47.3
4                         4            37.8                19.07         50.4            98.2           49.5
1986            1           38.5                21.38         55.5           100.0           55.5
2                               22.12         57.5                           57.5
3                               22.37         58.1                           58.1
5                         4                                22.95         59.6                           59.6
1987            1                               23.47         61.0                           61.0
2                               24.15         62.7                           62.7
3                               24.68         64.1                           64.1
6                         4                                24.83         64.6                           64.6
1988            1                               25.42         66.0                           66.0
^                            10~~~~~~



- 34 -
ANNEX 4-1
PAKISTAN: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Completion Report
Initial Operating Performance or Multan Urea Plant
Production       2 Capacity
Month and Year          (Tons)          Utilization
April      1986         3,730               44
May        1986         3,207               37
June       1986         6,266               75
July       1986         7,611               88
August     1986         8,713              100
September  1986         8,134               97
October    1986         6,019               69
November   1986         8,298               99
December   1986         8,257               95
January    1987         8,162               94
February   1987         4,934               63
March      1987         7,155               82
April      1987         7,233               86
may        1987         7,719               83
June       1987         6,215               74
July       1987         7,941               92
August     1987         8,887              102
September  1987         4,846               58
October    1987         7,048               81
November   1987         5,092               61
December   1987         9,302              107



- 35 -
ANNEX 5-1
PAKISTAN: FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Assumptions for Economic and Financial Rate of Return Calculations
1.       The economic price of natural gas is assumed to be equal to its fuel
oil equivalent value based on calorific value.
2.       Local variable and fixed costs are converted to December 1987 prices,
and assumed to remain constant in 1987 terms.
3.       It is assumed that bulk urea and ammonia prices would retain their
1:1.14 relationship in the international market.  For bagging, US$15 is added
to bulk urea prices.
4.       Econoniic prices of urea are based on the projected international
prices of urea.  The FOB price of urea (bagged, Europe) is projected to change
from the 1986/87 level of US$116/ton to US$186/ton in 1990/91 and US$216/ton
in 1995/96. The price projection reflects future global demand and supply
balance of urea as well as the projected energy price situation. Added to the
FOB price are sea freight and insurance to Pakistan (US$10/ton) and port
handling charges (US$5/ton). The economic price of urea thus calculated at
1987 terms is US$201/ton for 1990/91 and US$231/ton for 1995/96.
5.       The plant facilities are assumed to operate following rehabilitation
for seven years. The annual operation of the facilities is assumed to be 330
days.



- 36 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHa8ILITATION PROJECT
Pak4rab Fertilizer Plant
Urea/Amonia Rehabilitation 8 flultan Plant Rationhlization Project
Cost 8 Benefit Streas for Financial Rate of Return
(In constant 159? Rupees thousand)
Net
Years    Capital           Posttax           Posttax
Cost           Benefits          Benefits
1982/83     9474                 0             -9474
1983/84    26234                 0            -2234
1984/85    142014                0           -142014
1985/86    145647              125           -145522
1986/8?    46901             77694             30793
1987/88    17262            107886             90624
1988/89                      79491             79491
198/90                      76712             76712
1990/91                      76022             76022
1991/92                      73235             73235
1992/93                      71020             71020
1993/94                      69156             69156
1994/95                      68691             68691
1995/36  -116260             67260            183520
0.20
Posttax Financial Rate of Return      15.92



- 37 -
ANNE 5-2
Page 2 of 3
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INOUSTRY REMBILITATION PROJECT
Pak-American Rehabilitation project
Cost & Benefit Streag for Financial rate of Return
(In constant 1987 Rupees thousand)
Net
Years    Capital           Poattax           Posttax
Cost           Benefits          Benefits
1982/83     8182                 0             -8192
1993/84    55422                 0            -5422
1984/85     3719                 0             -3719
1995/B6     7547            -53526            -61073
1986/87                     -59255            -59255
1987/88                     -52166            -52166
19B8/89                     -44326           -44326
1989/90                     -43716            -43716
1990/91                     -43716            -43716
1991/92    -7487            -43716            -36229
0.3
Financial Rate of Return    -784.71



- 38 -
ANNEX 5-2
Page 3
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER IHDUSTRY REIWILITATI0N PROJECT
Total Project
Cost & Qenefit Strem for Financial Rate of Return
(In constant 1987 Rupees thousand)
Years    Capital                                Net
Cost             enefits          Benefits
199M3       17656                0            -17656
1983/8*    91656                 0            -8l6F.,
1984/85    145733                0            -145733
I9S5/BA    153194           -53401           -206595
986/67     46901             19439            -28462
1987/89     17262            55720             38458
1988/89                      35165              35165
9w990                        32995             3299
1990/91                      32306              32306
1991/92    -7487             29519             37006
1992/93                      71020             71020
1993/94                      69156             69156
1994/95                       8691             68691
1995/96  -116260             67260            183520
0.3
Finncial Rate of Return         2.1t



- 39 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pak-Arab Fertilizer Plant
Incose Stateeent
(In Nil Rs.)             Budget
1985/86          1986187          1987/88
Sales Revenue               2046.90           1566.43          1711.13
Material Cost                250.90           262.16            260.78
Bagging Cost                 105.58            104.89           114.12
Other                         78.61             12.93            93.50
Fuel/oa                      643.97           429.83            23.38
Labor                         70.00            79.16            83.47
Maintenance                  146.14            153.83           186.44
Depreciation                 261.90           326.84            383.42
Production Cost             1557.10           1369.63          1545.11
Grmss Profit                 489.80           16.80             166.02
Admin.Expenss                 29.02            31.94             33.24
Interest expenses             79.50           105.64             92.45
Other Incose                  18.85            12.30             6.70
Before UPPF Tax              400.13            71.52             47.03
IPPF                          20.00             3.57              2.35
Profit Before Tax            360.13            67.95             44.68
Tax                          191.95            31.28             24.57
Net Profit                   188.18            36.67             20.11



- 40 -
ANNEX 5-3
Page 2
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Pak-Arab Fertilizer Plant
Balance Sheet
(In Nil Rs.)            Budget
Current Assets              1985s/6           1986/87          1987/88
Cash & Bank                  126.18             26.63            23.29
Accounts Receivables         565.49           552.04            573.75
Stocks                       466.50            508.21           503.08
Advances & deposits           55.68             58.24            50.94
Sub-Total               1213.85          1145.12          1151.06
Net Fixed Assets            1064.82            892.34           614.67
Deffered Expenses             41.41            45.23             75.50
Investments                   21.34            23.20             44.37
Total Assets                2341.42           2105.89          1885.60
Current liabilities
Accounts Payable             313.15            308.15           234.79
Short Term Loans              43.92             88.17           135.72
Other                        154.21             90.45            92.15
Current laturity LTD         189.00            260.31           175.53
Sub-Total                700.28           747.08           638.19
Long-Term Liabilities
Longtero Loans               595.75            434.67           363.81
Other                        14,59             60.00             22.59
Sub-Total               739.34            494.67           386.40
Equity
Share Capital                743.06            743.06           743.06
Reserves & Surplus           158.74            121.08           117.95
Sub-Total               901.80            864.14           861.01
Total Liabilities           2341.42           2105.89          1885.60
Current ratio                 1.7:1             1.5:1            1.8:1
Debt/Equity                   45.55             36.64            31.69



- 41 -
ANNEX 5-4
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROECT                    Page  I  of  2
Pak-Amrican Fertilizer Ltd. (PAFL)
Incooe Statnent
(In Oil R3.)      (Est.)
1985/886         1986/87           1987/8
Gross Sales                   243.85            142.81            131,76
Less Incidental Charges        23.56             29.79             28.98
Sales Revsnu                  220.29            113.02            102.78
Variable Coat                  51.69             43.89             47.68
Fixed Cost                    126.55             97.02            115.56
Cost of Ceods Sold            176.24            140.91            163.24
Cross Profit                   42.05            -27.89            -60.46
Administrative Expenses         0.27              8.35              9.68
Financial Expenses              5.45              8.70              7.17
Interest on ISRO Loans         11.75              3.23              7.58
Other Expanses                  2.08              0.00              0.00
Other Incoe                     3.44              3.49              0.93
Profit Before Tax              17.93            -44.67            -83.96
Tax                            19.36             12.14              0.00
Net Profit/Lo"                 -1.43            -56.81            -83.95



- 42 -
ANNEX 5-4
Page 2
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHAILITATION PROJECT
Pak-American Fertilizer Ltd. (PAFL)
Balance Sheet
(In Nil Rs.)      (Est.)
Current Assets               1985/86           1986/67           1987/80
Cash A Bank                    13.34              1.90              0.78
kcounts Receivables           113.08            106.42              2.70
Stocks                         50.95             49.72             47.80
Advances I deposits            26.33             26.20             37.12
Sub-Total                203.70            184.24             88.40
Net Fixed Assets               67.65             58.71             49.86
Deffered Expenses               0.65              0.34              0.46
Investments                     2.40              2.42              2.52
Total Assets                  274.40            245.71            141.24
Current liabilities
Accounts Payable               34.03             21.84              9.28
Short Term Loans               37.80             67.73             98.80
Other                          19.40             18.40              3.43
Current baturity LTD           14.97             22.85             15.00
Sub-Total                106.10            150.82            126.51
Long-Term Liabilities
Longterm Loans                 43.75             27.16             28.95
Other                           4.00              4.00              6.00
Sub-Total                 47.75             31.16             34.95
Equity
Share Capital                  90.00             90.00             90.00
Reserves I Surplus             30.55            -26.27           -110.22
Sub-Total                120.55             63.73            -20.22
Total Liabilities             27.40             245.71            141.24
Current ratio                  1.9:1             1.2:1             0.7:1
Debt/Equity                    28.?2             33.67          HNtive
Equity



- 43 -
ANNEX 5-5
Page 1 of 2
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
National Fertilizer Corporation of Pakistan Ltd.
Consolidated Incose Statesent
(In Nil Rs.)               (Est.)
Year Ended June 30            1985W86            1986/87           1987/88
Cross Sales                   4532.44           4768.64            4902.11
Cost of Goods Sold            3116.46            3537.54           3802.05
Gross Profit                  1415.98            1231.10           1100.06
Operating Expenses             549.63             528.27            485.80
Operating Profit               866.35            702.83             614.26
Other Income                    74.12             157.14             69.21
Hon-Operating Expens           322.38             297.64            157.10
Net Profit Before tax          618.09             562.33            526.37
Tax                            3415.99            195.60            38M.91
Net Profit                     268.10             366.73            141.56



- 44 -
ANNEX 5-5
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT               Page  2
National Fertilizer Corporation of Pakistan Ltd.
Consolidated Balance Sheet
(In Niil Rs.)              (Est.)
Current Assets                1985/86           1986/67           1987/88
Cash & Bank                    413.84           1401.04           1123.93
Accounts Receivables           883.59            508.58            916.52
Stocks                        1502.51           1218.33           1226.33
Advances & deposits            307.95            702.42             29.44
Sub-Total                3107.68           3830.38           3296.22
Net Fixed Assets              2923.96           2407.52           2046.81
Deffered Expenses               44.92             48.63             92.44
Investeents                      1.00              2.31             30.53
Total Assets                  6077.76           6280.84           5466.39
A q_
Current liabilities
Accounts Payable               417.41            652.34            422.39
Short Ter Loans                221.46            223.99            138.80
Other                          399.21            450.11            258.60
Current lHaturity LTD          415.76            555.57            40.96
Sub-Total                1453.85           1882.01           1260.75
Long-Term Liabilities
Longtere Loans                2282.58           1796.10           1646.46
Other                          367.40            165.87             86.91
Sub-Total                2649.98           1961.97           1733.38
Equity
Share Capital                  700.25            798.37            798.37
iinority Interest             454.023            455.41            417.62
Reserves & Surplus             819.66           1191.08           1256.18
Sub-Total                1973.93           2444.87           2472.1T
Total Liabilities             6077.76           6288.84           5466.30
Current ratio                   2.1:1               2:1             2.6:1
Debt/Equity                     57.43             45.55             41.59



- 4) -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 1 of 3
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REhABILITATION PROJECT
Pak-Arab Fertilizer Plant
Urea/hAnia ':habilitation I Nultan Plant Rationalization Project
Cost I Benefit Stre. for Econogic Rate of Return
(In constant 1987 Rupees thousand)
Years     Capital                                 Net
cost            Benefits           Benefits
1982923      9303                  0              -9303
19B8V4      25739                  0             -25739
i984/85    139500                  0            -139500
1985/86    143091                125            -142966
1986/B?     46479              63668              17129
1987/6      17010              62046              45036
I98UII9                        80698              80698
1s99/90                       104193             104183
1990/91                       131758             131758
1991/92                       136155             136155
1992/93                       140692             '40693
1993/94                       145380             145380
1934/95                       142401             142401
1995/96   -114337             138039             252376
0.20
Econoaic Rate of Return         21.0S



- 46 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 2 of 3
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INOUSTRY REHABILITATIOI PROJECT
Pak-Auerican Reabilitation project
Cost I Benefit Streu for Economic Rate of Return
(In constant 1987 Rupees thousand)
Years    Capital                               Net
Cost           Benefits          Benefits
i982/83     8009                 0            -8009
1983/84    54247                 0            -54247
1984/95     3640                 0             -3640
1995/B6     7387             -2331             -9718
Is86/9?                      -1255             -1255
1987/88                      13355             13355
1988/89                      30845             30846
1989/90                      51880             51880
1990/91                      64124             64124
1991/92    -7329             66325             73654
2
Economic Rate of Return       19.2Z



- 47 -
ANNEX 6-1
Page 3
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Total Project
Cost I Benefit Strea for Economic Rate of Return
(In constant 1987 Rupees thoumand)
Years    Capital                                Net
Cost            Benefits          Benefits
I982/3      17312                 0            -17312
1983/84     79986                 0            -79986
1984/85    143140                 0           -143140
1985/86    150470             -2206           -152684
1986/87     4679              62253             15874
1987/e:    17010              75402             59392
1988/09                      111543            111543
1989/90                      156062            156062
1990/91                      195802            195982
1991/92     -7328            202490            209809
1992/93                      140693            140693
1993/94                      145390            145380
1994/95                      142401            142401
1995/96   -114337            138039            252376
0.3
Economic Rate of Return        20.6k



- 48 -
ANNEX 6-2
PAKISTAN - FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Foreign Exchange Benefits (In US$ Nil)
1985/86 1986/87  1997/88  1989/89  1989/90 1990/91  1991/92
1. 6ross Foreign
Exchanp swved Less.           21.53   22.08   23.90   26.63   30.86   33.79   34.49
Naterils I Other
Direct costs                   0.32    0.32    0.32    0.32    0.32    0.32    0.32
2. Cross svings
Before debt service           21.21   21.75   23.S8   26.31   30.53   33.46   34.17
3. Debt service: (In current terms)
Interest                       1.21     1.21    1.21     1.21    1.21     1.21    1.21
Debt repayment                 2.48    2.48    2.48    2.48    2.48    2.48    2.48
Sub total                 3.69    3.69    3.69    3.69    3.69    3.69    3.69
4. Debt service: (In 1987 terms)
Interest                       1.46     1.21    1.18    1.14    1.11      1.07    1.03
Debt repayment                 2.97    2.48    2.40    2.33    2.27    2.19    2.10
Sub total                 4.43    3.69    3.58    3.48    3.38    3.26    3.14
S. Net foreign exchap
Savings                       16.78   18.06   19.99   22.83   27.16   30.20   31.03



