Document of                     FILE  COPY
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3323-PAK
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
FOR A
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
May 17, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency TJnit  =  Pakistan Rupee (Rs)
US$1 = Rs 10.0 1/
Rs 1 = US$0.10
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Pakistan and NFC Group
July 1 - June 30
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DH        Dawood Hercules Chemicals Ltd.
Exxon     Exxon Chemicals Ltd.
NFC       National Fertilizer Corporation of Pakistan Ltd.
PAFL      Pak-American Fertilizers Ltd.
PFL       Pakarab Fertilizers Ltd.
tpd       Tons per day
tpy       Tons per year
1/ As of January 1982, the Rupee was placed on a floating basis against a
basket of currencies, following which the rate of the US$ has ranged from the
previously fixed Rs 9.90/US$ rate to about Rs 11.70/US$. Since experience
with this new rate is so far insufficient, a rate of Rs 10.00/US$ is used
t.Yroughout this report.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PAKISTAN
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:               Islamic Republic of Pakistan.
Beneficiaries:          National Fertilizer Corporation of Pakistan Ltd.
(NFC) and two subsidiaries, Pakarab Fertilizers Ltd.
(PFL) and Pak-American Fertilizers Ltd. (PAFL).
Amount:                 US$38.5 million equivalent (including capitalized
front end fee).
Terms:                  Twenty years, including 5 years of grace, with
interest at 11.6% p.a.
Relending Terms:        The proceeds of the loan would be relent to NFC at
14% interest p.a. for a period of 15 years, including
4 years of grace. NFC would relend US$24.9 million
to PFL at 14% interest p.a. for a period of 15 years,
including 4 years of grace, and US$7.1 million to PAFL
at 14% interest p.a. for a period of 9 years, includ-
ing 3 years of grace. The Government would bear the
foreign exchange risk.
Project Description:   The main components of the project are designed to
maintain and increase the output of fertilizer at
existing facilities and improve their efficiency
through: (a) rehabilitation and expansion of the
urea plant and expansion of the amnonia plant at
Multan; (b) rationalization of the Multan complex
to reduce pollution, improve efficiency and increase
product despatch facilities; (c) rehabilitation and
modernization of the Daud Khel ammonium sulphate
plant; (d) improvement in oyerall management
and operations of the NFC Group, including
(i) employment of expatriates to assist in
managing the Multan plant, (ii) a program to
institute improved operations management systems
and controls and to provide overseas training
for local managers and technicians, and (iii) the
establishment of a technical training center. The
project would also include a study of future require-
ments for fertilizer production capacity. The project
involves no special risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-ii-
Estimated Costs 1/
Local   Foreign    Total
--------US$ million------…
Multan Rehabilitation and Expansion                    3.4      11.0       14.4
Multan Rationalization                                 0.9       4.6        5.5
Daud Khel Rehabilitation                              2.0        5.0        7.0
Technical Assistance, Studies and Training             1.8       4.9        6.7
Incremental Working Capital                           0.2         -         0.2
Base Cost Estimates                                 8.3       25.5       33.8
Physical Contingencies                                0.9        2.6        3.5
Price Contingencies                                   1.6        5.2        6.8
Total Installed Cost                                 10.8       33.3       44.1
Interest During Construction                           -         4.6        4.6
Front End Fee                                          -         0.6        0.6
Total Financing Required                             10.8       38.5       49.3
Local    Foreign   Total
--------US$ million------
Financing Plan:
Bank                                              -        38.5      38.5
Internal cash generation 2/                     10.8         -        10.8
Total                                      10.8      38.5       49.3
1/ Taxes and duties are negligible.
2/ NFC: US$2.4 million; PFL: US$5.8 million; PAFL: US$2.6 million.



-iii-
Estimated Disbursements:
FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
-US$ million--
Annual 1/                                        8.0   15.5   13.5    1.5
Cumulative                                       8.0   23.5   37.0   38.5
Rate of Return:       54% average.
Appraisal Report:    No. 3865-PAK, dated May 12, 1982.
Map:                  IBRD 16234.
1/ Front end fee included in estimated FY83 disbursements.



I
I



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN FOR A
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.      I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Islamic Republic of Pakistan for US$38.5 million equivalent (including
capitalized front end fee) to help finance a Fertilizer Industry Rehabilita-
tion Project. The loan would have a term of 20 years, including five years
of grace, with interest at 11.6% per annum. The proceeds of the loan would
be relent to the National Fertilizer Corporation of Pakistan (NFC) with
interest at 14% for 15 years, including four years of grace.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.      The most recent economic report "Pakistan:  Economic Developments and
Prospects" (No. 3802-PAK, dated April 14, 1982) was distributed to the Execu-
tive Directors on April 16, 1982.
3.      The past four years have witnessed a significant economic recovery in
Pakistan. Between FY77 and FY81 GDP growth averaged over 6% p.a. This
growth was accompanied by a recovery in agricultural and industrial produc-
tion well above the rate of population growth, currently averaging 3% p.a.,
and by a rapid growth in exports. Exports increased in real terms by 11%
p.a. Value added in agriculture rose by an average of 4.2% p.a. and in
industry by 8.1% p.a. This performance contrasts markedly with the economic
stagnation of the early and mid-1970s, when the growth of GDP averaged only
3-4% and goods production 1.1% p.a., and export growth was negligible. Fol-
lowing a number of other favorable developments, including the conclusion
of an Extended Fund Facility arrangement with the IMF, a short-term debt
rescheduling arrangement with bilateral creditors of the Pakistan Consortium
and improved external aid inflows, both the budget and the balance of pay-
ments are under reasonable control and the short-term economic outlook has
considerably improved.
4.      The recovery in the economy since 1977 has been aided by several
factors, including favorable weather, improved foreign demand for Pakistan's
exports and higher domestic demand associated with better crops, rising rural
incomes and workers' remittances from the Middle East. Various policy chan-
ges introduced by the Government have also contributed significantly to the
recovery.
1/ Parts I and II are substantially the same as Parts I and II of the Presi-
dent's Report No. P-3275 PAK (Baluchistan Minor Irrigation and Agricul-
tural Development Project) dated April 19, 1982.



5       In recent years the Gover-sment has taken a number of initiatives to
tmprove agricultural, production-  Particular attention has been given to
improving farmer incentives and input supplies0 Support prices for all major
crops have been raised so that they are now closer to world prices; and
efforts have been made to improve the tertilizer distribution system by
expanding the marlketi ng network an.d by ensuring adequate supplies and timely
delivery of fertiliser imoports.  Steps have been takeni to reduce the fer-
tilizer subsidy (which hlas been creatintg budgetary problems) and by separat-
ing it from the development budget for agriculture in order to protect
allocatiorns for other priorlty agricultural projects and programs.  An
Agricultural Pric.es Commission 'nas ,been set up to make recoummendations on
appropriate chaages in crop support and input prices on a consistent and
tirmely basis.
6.      In add ition, the Government bas begun tc address the deep-seated
problems affecting productivity at the farm level,  A start has been made in
improving extension services through the adoption of the so-called training
and visit systema.  Reforms have been iritiated to the agricultural research
system in line wit. the findings of a USAID/WJorld Ba.k study.  The Government
has formulated and begun to implement a new agricultural policy based on the
main recomm-endations of a UNDP st:udy on irrigated aggriculture which
emphasizes the need to improve the efficiency of the water delivery system
through the rehabilitation of distributaries and better scheduling of water
deliveries to the farm.er; and. to expand the role of the private sector, for
exaTaple, through the promotiort of private tubewell development in sweet
groundwater areas,. other programs--in pesticides, seeds, agricultural credit
and farn power--have also been strengthlened.  These iniitiatives are still at
an early stage and a breaktnrough from the problems of low productivity at
the farin level is yet to take place.
7.      Major changes have been made during the past four years in Government
policies in the industrial sector.  The policies pursued in the early and
mid-1970s of extensive nationalizations, tight restrictions on the private
sector, and rapid expansion of the public sector to spearhead industrial
investment and growthi have been graduially reversed. Most agricultural
processinig and some industrial UnitS hale been denationalized; constitutional
safeguards have been provided to privat2 industry against furthler arbitrary
government acquisitions; and the areas open to the private sector have been
widened.  A wide range of incenitives including tax holidays, excise and
import duty concessions, concessioncar  credit andi income tax provisions, and
direct cash rebates nhave been granted to encourage private investment and
exports.  These have bee-  suppl.emented by a partial liberalization of imports
whiclh will improve the availability of inputs.  The investment sanctioning
proceduire has been streamlined,  Tliese nueasures have Led to an improvement in
private sector coafidence and to a saarp increase in proposals for relatively
smaller-scale private investment projects.  There is also evidence of



-3-
increased interest by investors in larger projects, especially in the cement,
chemicals and fertilizer subsectors.
8.      At the same time, the Government has embarked on the difficult and
inevitably long process of reforming the public industrial sector, which has
been plagued by low efficiency and profits. Major studies have been com-
pleted of the management and organization of the public sector, and the
performance of individual enterprises. In accordance with the recommenda-
tions of these studies, the Board of Industrial Management (BI2I) has been
abolished, the nurmber of sector holding corporations has been reduced, and
boards of directors have been established which have helped to increase
autonomy at the enterprise level. Some public sector units which have little
prospect of improved financial performance have been closed down. These
measures, together with additions to capacity and steps to retain skilled
technical personnel through salary adjustments, for example in the fertilizer
subsector, have helped to increase production and capacity utilization sub-
stantially in the public sector. In addition to the denationalizations
mentioned earlier, further public disinvestment is being considered on a
case-by-case basis.
9.      The higher level of economic activity during the past four years and
the Government's efforts to raise existing tax rates, introduce new taxes and
reduce tax evasion have helped to improve public revenues. Nevertheless, the
budget remained under strain as expenditures rose as rapidly as revenues.
The Government's policies of encouraging production and exports through
subsidized inputs and export rebates, and the political and social con-
straints to making substantial price adjustments on a number of items of mass
consumption, inflated subsidies. Rising debt service, following the expira-
tion at the end of FY78 of the four-year debt relief arrangement with member
countries of the Pakistan Consortium, and increased defense spending con-
tributed to the growth in non-development expenditures. In addition, commit-
ments under the ongoing public investment program and higher subsidies for
agriculture led to further increases in development spending between FY77
and FY79. Despite the iacreased revenues, the overall budget deficit
remained around 8% of GNP and the bank-financed deficit around 3-4% of GNP.
10.     The budgetary situation improved significantly during FY80 and FY81.
Government revenues, following increases of 21% in FY78 and 16% in FY79, rose
by an average of 22% p.a. during the two years as a result of the continued
growth of the economy, tax and tariff increases announced in the FY80 and
FY81 budgets, and intensified efforts to improve tax collections. Although
political developments outside Pakistan's borders led to unplanned expendi-
tures, tight restraints were maintained on total spending; the growth of
public expenditures was limited to 11% p.a.  Both developnent and administra-
tive expenditures were cut back, while subsidies other than those on farm
iniputs were hiell to the previous year's level in nominal terms.  These
restraints on expenditures, continued revenue growth and some improvement in
surpluses generated by public sector agenicies helped to increase the



-4-
availability of non-inflationary domestic resources. During FY80 and FY81,
the overall budget deficit averaged 5% of GNP and bank financed budget
deficit of 1.6% of GNP; both figures are well below those of the late 1970s.
11.     Pakistan's export performance has improved considerably in recent
years. Rapidly rising workers' remittances from abroad, from US$578 million
in FY77 to over US$2.1 billion in FY81, have also greatly assisted the exter-
nal position.  These increases have, however, been partly offset by an
increase in the value of imports, mainly petroleum, oil and lubricants,
fertilizer, edible oil and capital goods. The current account deficit was
US$947 million or 3.1% of GNP in FY81, compared to US$1,050 million or nearly
7% of GNP in FY77 in current prices. The financing of these deficits had
presented considerable difficulties to the Government during the past few
years, since program-type assistance from OPEC countries (which was substan-
tial in the mid-1970s) as well as net aid flows from Consortium sources
declined through FY79. However, a strong upsurge of remittances during FY80,
a marginal increase in net long-term capital inflows and substantial extraor-
dinary receipts from OPEC countries eased the external financing problem in
the second half of FY80 and helped to build up foreign exchange reserves to
about US$750 million at the end of FY80, the equivalent of six weeks'
imports.
12.     A number of favorable developments substantially improved the balance
of payments situation in FY81. These included the conclusion of an Extended
Fund Facility arrangenent with the IMF in November 1980; a positive response
from aid donors to the country's improved economic performiance resultina in
increased aid commitments and inflows; and an agreement with bilateral
creditors in the Pakistan Consortium for rescheduling of debt service pay-
ments on official cncessional debt falling due over an 18-month period begin-
ning mid-January 1981.  In addition, both merchandise exports and migrant
remittances expanded by over 20%. As a consequence of improved perforimance
on both current account and capital account, foreign exchange reserves
increased from US$748 million to US$1,058 million during the year; the latter
is the equivalent of about twqo months worth of import of goods and services.
13.     The recent favorable developments represent modest, though welcome,
steps towards the solution of a set of problems whiclh are essentially struc-
tural and long term in nature.  Notwithstanding these improvements, further
wide-ranging measures to address the basic issues which are limiting economic
growth in the longer term are necessary if Pakistan is to sustain its
recently improved economic performance over the present decade and bring
about a modest improvement in the living standards of its population. These
issues include the farm-level factors affecting low productivity in agricul-
ture; the structure and competitiveness of the industrial sector; the need to
improve performance of public sector enterprises; the factors lying behind
continued rapid growth in population; the need to redirect social service
expenditures; and the problems of resource mobilization.



-5-
14.     Agriculture remains the econor.,w's mainstay, accouniting directly for
roughly a third of GDP, employing abou  60% of the labor force and, directly
or indirectly, providing nearly two thirds of total exports. Despite recent
improvements in output and yields, a number of fundamental factors continue
to limit agricultural productivity at levels well below the potential implied
by the resources and technologies already available. Generally, output
growth has not been commensurate with the substantial increases in available
inputs, especially water and fertilizer. While considerable potential still
exists for the additional use of fertilizer and other inputs, it appears
essential to give greater priority to evolving complementary policies and
programs which would have a direct impact on yields at the farm level. The
importance of increasing farm productivity is now more widely recognized in
the Government and a beginning has been made in addressing this problem.
Nevertheless, support for programs to strengthen research, extension, water
management and other programs in the agricultural and water sectors needs to
be intensified, while fertilizer subsidies must be further reduced, accom-
panied by necessary adjustments in output and consumer prices.
15.     Manufacturing contributes about 15% of GDP and during much of the
1950s and 1960s provided a major stimulus to growth. Growth rates in
manufacturing production, though recently better, remain well below those
attained in the 1960s. The textile industry, in particular, which accounts
for nearly 40% of value added in large-scale industry, has suffered from
problems of inefficiency, excess capacity and a lack of competitiveness in
foreign markets, while manufacturing growth has been generally affected by
the inadequate performance of public sector enterprises. Although there have
been some recent improvements in the output and profitability of public
enterprises, these improvements need to be carried further through
appropriate reforms to remove distortions in pricing, improve performance
criteria and incentives to managers and to further rationalize the sector.
To assist and further encourage the recovery in private investment and to
maintain the increased momentum in the industrial sector will require, among
other things, an adequate supply of local and foreign financing, both for
investments and current inputs, and the more rapid provision of necessary
utilities and other infrastructure requirements. At the same time, it is
necessary to ensure that the Government's incentive systemi supports those
industries in which Pakistan has a comparative advantage; more analysis is
needed to determine levels of effective protection for formulating an
appropriate industrial development strategy for the 1980s. The recovery in
industry also needs to be reinforced by improvements in labor-management
relations and by further measures to rehabilitate the textile industry and
generally to increase exports.
16.     The Government's efforts to deal with the energy situation by adjust-
ing domestic oil prices, and by encouraging the substitution of other energy
forms and the exploration and development of domestic oil resources, have met
with some success. Growth of petroleum consumption has been restrained by
the development of hydro electricity and natural gas resources as well as by



-6-
petroleum price adjustments. At the same time, activity in the oil sector
has been stepped up, in some instances through joint ventures with foreign
private companies. Nevertheless, due to a variety of technical, geological
and other reasons, progress on exploration of new fields as well as the
development of existing fields has been slow; and the benefits of Pakistan's
considerable potential in the oil and gas sector are yet to be realized. A
number of issues relating to such matters as energy planning, pricing and
organization will need to be addressed in order to realize this potential.
17.   While it is clearly vital to sustain rapid growth in the com-
modity-producing sectors, it is also necessary to contain the rapid growth in
population, currently running at about 3% p.a., which has seriously hand-
icapped the country's ability to improve living standards. Family planning
programs have so far had little effect and there have been few changes in the
socio-economic environment of a type that usually accompany declines in
fertility. Rapid population growth places severe burdens on government
resources simply to maintain education and health programs at their current
inadequate standards. However, without higher literacy rates, improved
health facilities and a reduction in child mortality, it is doubtful that
population growth rates can be much reduced. Expenditures on social services
remain comparably low and undue emphasis has been given to higher education
and urban health facilities. High priority needs to be given not only to
increased allocations for family planning and social service expenditure but
also to its redirection to serve the wider interests of the population and
the economy. While the substantial migration from Pakistan to the Middle
East over the past few years has to some extent relieved the pressures
resulting from rapid population growth, this clearly cannot be relied upon to
provide an answer to the situation in the long run. The Government has
recently shown more awareness of this problem; a new population program has
been adopted and is in the initial stages of implementation.
18.     Policies that face the longer-term issues in both the productive and
the social sectors will take time to have an appreciable effect and will have
to be implemented in the context of continued domestic and external resource
constraints. To improve the budget and the balance of payments, a fundamen-
tal improvement is required in the overall savings levels in the economy,
particularly in public savings. At 13% of GNP, national savings are substan-
tially above the levels of the early and mid-1970s, but are still low for a
country at Pakistan's per capita income level and stage of development. The
continuation of the Government's recent efforts to restrain public spending,
improve the performance of the public sector and encourage private investment
will help to reduce present imbalances between investment and savings flows.
At the same time, an increase in savings inevitably calls for restraining
private consumption through appropriate price adjustments and selective duty
increases on non-essential imports. While the Government has made several
price increase in the recent past, further adjustments will directly reduce
the budgetary burden of subsidies. Continued restraints on spending and



-7-
measures t.o 'urther improve revenues through improvements in tax administra-
tion and tax and rate increases (for example, property taxes, domestic water
rates and irrigation water charges, are also needed.
19.     Increased agricultural production of major crops (particularly rice
and cotton) will help directly to sustain export growth. Efforts are also
necessary to stimulate the output of minor crops, for exanple, pulses,
potatoes, enions -nd fruits, for which markets exist in neighboring
countries. In qddition, s':bstantial scope exists for increasing Pakistan's
exports of manufactured goods such as textiles and engineering products, as
sell as of a wide range of goods produced by the small-scale industrial
seccor. Tncreased domestic output of wheat, edible oil, sugar, mineral fuels
a-d fertilizer xoulA help to moderate import growth considerably.
20.     As le.cribed above. Pakistan's policies and economic performance have
improved considerably over the past several years.  Improvements in demand
management and in planiing, incentives and government programs in agricul-
ture, industry and energy have helped to create a climate more conducive to
rapid economnic growth and better international trade performance. While Bank
long-terra forecasts show that foreign borrowing on commercial as well as
concessional terms would be necessary to support economic growth of 5-6%
p.a., recent policy initiatives have substantially improved Pakistan's
creditworthiness for commercial borrowing and for a blend of Bank and IDA
borrowing.
21.     At the end of FY80, Pakistan's external public debt (excluding the
undisbursed pipeline) stood at US$8.8 billion, of which US$5 billion was owed
to bilateral members of the Pakistan Consortium, US$1.3 billion to OPEC and
US$1.5 billion to multilateral agencies and the balance to other bilateral
and private lenders. In 1980, The Bank Group's share in Pakistan's external
public indebtedness was 13% and in external debt service vwas 11%. According
to Bank forecasts, provided recent policy improvements are sustained, Pakis-
tan's debt service ratio (debt service divided by exports of goods and factor
and non-factor services), which was about 12% in 1981, should remain roughly
constant through 1985 and, even assuming substantial commercial borrowing,
should rise only slowly thereafter to about 17.5% in 1990.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
22.     The cumulative total of Bank/IDA commitments to Pakistan (exclusive
of loans and credits or portions thereof which were disbursed in the former
East Pakistan) now amounts to approximately US$2 billion. During its long
association with Pakistan, the Bank Group has been involved in almost all
sectors of the economy.  This has included its involvement with other donors,
over a 20-year period, in the major program of works to develop the water



-8-
resources of the Indus Basin. Approximately 38% of total Bank/IDA commit-
ments to Pakistan have been for public utility services, 30% for agriculture,
31% for industry (of which 9% was for industrial imports) and 2% for educa-
tion. Lending for public utility services has included loans and credits for
railways, electric power, gas pipelines, ports, highways, telecommunications
and water supply.
23.     Lending operations in Pakistan have three maain objectives:  first,
to support the directly productive sectors of the economy; secondly; to
support the expansion of, and to improve the institutions which are respon-
sible for, the principal public services supporting economic growth; and
thirdly, to meet basic needs in the areas of rural and urban development.
24.     In pursuit of these objectives, the Bank Group has placed special
emphasis on lending for agriculture, which is the mainstay of the Pakistan
economy. Projects in this sector are aimed at augmenting the supply of
essential inputs, principally irrigation water, fertilizer, seeds and credit;
strengthening research, extension and other agricultural supporting services;
mproving water management; reclaiming land by controlling salinity and
water-logging; and providing essential facilities including tubewells, live-
stock development and dairy processing. An important purpose of this lending
is to assist the Government's program to increase the productivity of avail-
able land and water resources in the Indus Basin through quick-yielding
investmlentsi as recommended recently in a UNDP-financed study for which the
Bank was executing agency.
25.     In industry, most lending for the private sector has been through
the DFCs, principally through eleven loans/credits amounting to US$270 mil-
lion for the Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation (PICIC),
and t-wo credits to the Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan (IDBP),
totalling US$50 million.  Direct lending for industry has also included
assistance to three large fertilizer plants, as well as for small-scale
industry,  IFC has made investments in 14 Pakistan enterprises for a total of
US$7307 million, of which US$63.9 million was by way of loans and US$9.8
oilJtlion by equity participations (these are shown in Annex II).  About
US$33.9 miLllon of these investments remains outstanding. The enterprises
assisted by IFC include three in the field of pulp and paper products, two in
textiles, two in food and food processing, and one each in cement, steel,
fertil-izers, plastics, wood processing and petrochemicals.  IFC is also a
shareholder in PICIC.
26.     The focus of Bank Group lending for transport and communications has
shifted increasingly towards assisting Pakistan to better utilize existing
capacity by improving the efficiency of operations and strengthening the
institutions responsible for these services, especially the Karachi Port
Tr ist, Pakistan Railways, Telephone and Telegraph Department, and Federal and
Provincial highway agencies. In the power sector, the Bank Group has
assisted the Karachi Electric Supply Corporation (KESC) and the Water and



-9-
Power Development Authority (WAPDA) with four and three projects respec-
tively; the sector has also been assisted by the construction under the Indus
Basin Development Program of Mangla and Tarbela Dams.
27.     In the oil and gas sector, the two Sui gas transmission companies
have been assisted with five projects, while IDA has recently financed a
petroleum development project and begun to play an important role in
strengthening the Oil and Gas Development Corporation. These efforts are
assisting in the efficient development and utilization of Pakistan's domestic
energy resources. A second water supply project in Lahore is currently under
implementation. Five IDA credits for education, totaling US$62.5 million,
have assisted in upgrading primary, post-secondary and higher technical and
agricultural education, middle-level training of primary teachers and
agricultural extension agents.
28.     Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IDA credits
as of March 31, 1982, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects. Credit
and loan disbursements have been generally satisfactory. Some projects have
experienced initial delays due to government procedures for project approval,
which are now being strengthened, and to slowness in appointment of consult-
ants. Rapid turnover of managerial and technical staff, in part due to
migration to the Middle East, and budgetary constraints have been problems in
the case of some projects.
29.     A number of further projects for Bank Group financing are currently
under appraisal or being prepared in Pakistan. These include projects for
water supply, population, oil and gas development, and railways. Pakistan
continues to have domestic resource constraints for the reasons set out in
Part I. To assist the Government to finAnce agricultural and other
high-priority projects which have a low foreign exchange component, financing
of some local expenditures in specific cases is justified.
30.     In addition to lending, economic and sector work provide the basis
for a continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government of Pakis-
tan on development strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance
within the Pakistan Consortium.
PART III - THE FERTILIZER SECTOR
General
31.     Agriculture is the mainstay of Pakistan's economy; it accounts for
roughly one-third of GDP, employs about 60% of the labor force and directly
or indirectly, provides nearly two-thirds of Pakistan's exports, principally
cotton and rice. About 48 million acres, or 24% of the country's total area,
are cultivated. About 71% of the cropped areas are irrigated by an extensive



-10-
system of canals and tubewells, one of the largest in the world. The
irrigated area accounts for about 90% of farmn output.
32.     The expansion of Pakistan's agricultural output, one of the Govern-
ment's main development objectives, will depend predominantly on developing
the potential for higher production in irrigated areas.  In order to achieve
this, the Goverament has adopted a new agricultural development strategy (see
Part I) which places high priority on increasing the availability and improv-
ing the efficiency of use of major inputs, of which fertilizers are a prin-
cipal component.
The Fertilizer Subsector
33.     Total fertilizer consumption in Pakistan has increased by
approximately 20% per year over the last 20 years, from about 40,000 nutrient
tons in 1961 to just over 1 million tons in 1981, while per acre use
increased almost four-fold to the present level of 24 kg per acre over the
last decade. The growth of agricultural output has been strongly correlated
with the growth of fertilizer consumption; an approximate elasticity of 0.25
is indicated. The benefits of the growing use of fertilizer have been shared
by small as well as large farmers; surveys show that farms of less than 12.5
acres use as much or more fertilizer per acre as farms in the larger size
groups. Despite the rapid growth in fertilizer consumption, present applica-
tion rates are still only 50%, 21% and 4% of the world-wide average applica-
tion rates for nitrogen, phosphate and potassium, respectively. The con-
tinued encouragement of the increased use of fertilizer therefore remains a
central part of Pakistan's agricultural development strategy.
34.     Domestic Production.  There are now seven fertilizer plants (two in
the private and five in the public sector) in operation in Pakistan with one
additional private and one public sector plant due to come on stream this
year. Domestic manufacture of fertilizers was first undertaken by a govern-
ment-owned corporation which established four small factories between 1958
and 1962; these are now operated by the public sector National Fertilizer
Corporation (NFC) which was founded in 1973. The Bank-assisted Multan Expan-
sion project, also operated by NFC through Pakarab Fertilizer Ltd. (PFL), I/
started production in January 1979. Exxon built the first privately-owned
fertilizer factory in 1968. The second was the Bank/IFC-financed Dawood
Hercules project (DH) which commenced production in 1972. Total domestic
fertilizer production in 1981 was 581,000 nutrient tons of nitrogenous fer-
tilizer and 59,000 nutrient tons of phosphate.
35.     A further fertilizer plant, the NFC Pak-Saudi plant constructed with
financial assistance from the Asian Development Bank and Saudi Arabia,
1/ 48% of PFL's shares are owned by a foreign shareholder.



-1 1-
started production in 1981.  Two other plants, the NFC Hazara plant supplied
by the People's Republic of China, and the private sector IDA-assisted Fauji
project, are expected to commence production in 1982. Donestic fertilizer
production is thus expected to increase to 913,000 nutrient tons per year of
nitrogen and 72,000 nutrient tons per year of phosphate by 1982/83.
36.     The fertilizer industry operated at an overall capacity utilization
of 72% in 1980/81, a rate which concealed wide variations among the various
companies.  Whereas DH and Exxon produced at high levels of capacity utiliza-
tion, the level of operation at the PFL plant was relatively low due to
initial design problems and high personnel turnover, both of which are now
being resolved. After the further modifications to the PFL plant and the
improvement in management and operations contemplated under the proposed
project, NFC's plants should generally reach 90% capacity utilization by
1984/85.
37.     Currently, about 40% of Pakistan's requirements of fertilizers are
imported. Given expected levels of domestic production iTl the mid-1980s and
a projected demand of approximately 1.8 million nutrient tons by FY86 (repre-
senting a projected consumption growth of about 11% p.a.), imports would
constitute about 40% of supplies in FY86, after declining to about 26% in
FY83. Thus, until substantial additional investments in domestic fertilizer
capacity are made, imported fertilizer will remain a significant component of
total supply. Government planning for further investment in the fertilizer
sector over the next dlecade would be supported by a study of future capacity
requirements under the proposed project. The Government intends that much of
this investment should be attracted from the private sector. In this con-
text, the Government, in consultation with the Bank, would assess the ade-
quacy of pricing policies and other incentives for the fertilizer industry
(paragraph 60 below).
38.     At present, manufacturers' revenues are based on ex-factory prices
for fertilizer determined by the Government on the basis of agreements with
each manufacturer. The Formulae established under each agreement differ but
generally allow each manufacturer after-tax profits of between 15% and 20% on
equity provided specified levels of output (typically between 65-70% of
design capacity in the first year of operation, 80-90% in the second year,
and 90-95% thereafter) are reached. Ex-factory prices determined on the
basis of these formulae and tmarketing incidentals allowed to domestic
producers vary widely, ranging at present from Rs 893 per ton of urea for
Dawood 'Hercules to Rs 2,006 per ton of urea for PFL's Multan plant, reflect-
ing differences in production costs. Under the project, the Government would
ensure that ex-factory prices for fertilizer produced by the NFC Group are
maintained at a level that would allow the producers to earn revenues suffi-
cient to meet their operating expenses and debt service obligations and
produce a reasonable return on equity. If these ex-factory prices exceed the
retail price Eor sale to farmaers, the Government would compensate the



12-
producers promptly for the difference between the ex-factory and retail
prices (Sections 4.03(a) and (b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
39.     As indicated above (paragraph 36), the fertilizer manufacturing
plants in the public sector have experienced a number of difficulties,
chiefly related to shortages of key technical and other staff resulting
largely from uncompetitive compensation, To address these difficulties, a
plan of action to improve the capacity utilization of the existing fertilizer
plants and new plants being set up in the public domain was agreed under the
Fertilizer Imports Credit (Cr, 1066-PAK) and is being implemented.
40.     Fertilizer Distribution.  Fertilizer is moved by rail and road to
wholesale outlets and retail stores.  After a period during which fertilizer
distribution was largely landled by government agencies, major changes to
permit greater private participation were introduced in 1975.  These changes
proved effective and the number of licensed private dealers rose rapidly,
reaching currently about 5,000. In addition to licensed dealers, many vil-
lage merchants handling other goods also distribute fertilizer.
41,     Issues related to economical movement of fertilizer from domestic
plants to dealers have been studied by a Fertilizer Transportation Task Force
in accordance with understandings reached with the Bank in 1978 under the
Fauji Fertilizer project (Cr. 846-PAK) and in 1980 under the Fertilizer
Imports Credit. The Task Force recommended that transportation of fertilizer
to constumers within a radius of about 300 km from the plants as well as from
railhead warehouses should be undertaken by truck, and that delivery from
plants to selected warehouses beyond that distance should be by block trains.
The Government has accepted all of the Task Force's recommendations. The
fertilizer companies are in the process of establishing a number of
wasrehouses in market areas, and schedules for operating block trains from
plants to these storage locations are being prepared by Pakistan Railways,
who would be required to promptly implement and thereafter maintain these
schedules (Section 4.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
42.     Due mainly to seasonal factors, private truckers have from time to
time quoted rates for moving fertilizer from NFC plants in excess of the
amounts normally covered by the Government as part of the marketing inciden-
tals wh1ich each producer receives, on a fixed per ton basis, to cover these
and other marketing costs. As a result, manufacturers have been unable on
occasion to get their fertilizer moved from the factories to distributors in
a timely manner,  Under the proposed project, the Government would by March
31, 1983, implement a system, satisfactory to the Bank, whereby marketing
incidentals are designed to adequately compensate NFC producers for costs of
fertilizer transportation, financial carrying charges of inventories, dealer
commissions and other costs related to the marketing of fertilizer (Section
4.03(c) of the draft Loan Agreement).



-13-
Fertilizer Pricing and the Fertilizer Subsidy
43.     Retail prices of fertilizer to the farmer are fixed by the Government
and are uniform throughout the country. Since 1972, the Government has
gradually increased farmgate fertilizer prices; urea prices, for example,
were increased from Rs 1.5 per kg nutritent in 1972 to Rs 4.04 per kg
nutrient in 1980. Nonetheless, the Government has shielded domestic prices
from the post-1973 explosion in world fertilizer prices, resulting in a
substantial increase in the fertilizer subsidy bill.
44.     By 1979/80, the fertilizer subsidy had grown to US$225 million equiv-
alent, more than double the amount allocated to other critical developments
in the agricultural sector. To address this situation, a 50% increase in
retail fertilizer prices was introduced by the Government in February 1980,
representing a major first step to contain the subsidy at manageable levels;
crop output prices were also increased to maintain farmer incentives. In
connection with the Fertilizer Imports Credit, the Government has indicated
its intention to phase out and eliminate the fertilizer subsidy by mid-1985,
and an Agricultural Prices Commission has been established to advise the
Government on appropriate input and output price adjustments. A further
increase in retail fertilizer prices of about 9% was announced in March 1982.
45.     Although the use of fertilizer has remained financially attractive
to farmers following the recent changes in fertilizer and crop prices, the
sharp increase in fertilizer prices in February 1980 appears to have been
responsible for a reduction in fertilizer offtake in 1980 compared to the
corresponding months for 1979. In response, the Government has stepped up
extension and promotion efforts to publicize the continued benefits of fer-
tilizer use to farmers and to improve the efficiency of use of fertilizer.
These efforts are being backed by measures to improve the availability of
credit to farmers through the commercial banking and cooperative systems,
which have been expanded substantially. There is evidence that these
measures to overcome the initial shock caused by the increased cost of fer-
tilizer are beginning to succeed; fertilizer offtake during the 1981-82
winter cropping season increased by about 5% over the comparable period of
1980/81.
Bank Group Involvement
46.     The Bank Group has financed three operations in Pakistan to assist
the fertilizer manufacturing industry. A loan (US$32 million), along with an
IFC equity investment (US$2.9 million), was made in July 1968 to Dawood
Hercules Chemicals Limited for a 345,000 tpy urea plant (Ln. 549-PAK). The
plant began production in July 1971 and has consistently operated above its
rated capacity. The Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) for the Dawood



-14-
Hercules project 1/ found the project to be technically a major success.
Government actions with respect to ex-factory fertilizer pricing, not
anticipated at appraisal, affected the financial rate of return. A second
loan (US$35 million) was made in May 1974 to the public sector company
Pakarab Fertilizer Limited to expand and modernize its existing facilities at
Multan (Ln. 988-PAK). This plant, with a design capacity of 304,500 tpy of
nitrophosphate, 450,000 tpy of calcium ammonium nitrate and 59,400 tpy of
urea, was mechanically completed in late 1978 but has operated below these
levels due to design deficiencies and a lack of sufficiently qualified and
experienced managerial and technical personnel; actions to improve the
utilization levels at the plant are being implemented and the problems are
now being overcome. The PPAR for the Multan Expansion project 2/ found that
the project had suffered from a number of technical problems, and severe cost
and time overruns. A number of factors contributing to these overruns --
high international and domestic inflation after 1973, floods and shipping
accidents, and political disturbances -- were outside the control of the
company. The project rates of return, though lower than expected at
appraisal, were considered to be satisfactory.
47.     The third project, for which IDA extended a US$55 million Credit in
September 1978 (Cr. 846-PAK), comprises a urea plant with a capacity of
569,250 tpy and other facilities being built by the Fauji Fertilizer Company.
The plant is being commissioned and is scheduled to go into production
shortly, about one year later than estimated at appraisal, due mainly to
initial delays in project planning and coordination, procurement, and the
build-up of construction activities; project management at Fauji has been
strengthened substantially with foreign assistance and the company has hired
qualified foreign and local staff for plant operations.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
48.     The proposed project was prepared by the National Fertilizer Corpora-
tion (NFC) and appraised in October/November 1981. Negotiations for the
proposed loan took place in Washington from April 26 to May 4, 1982. The
Pakistan delegation was headed by Mr. Majeed Mufti, Secretary, Ministry of
Production. A Staff Appraisal Report, entitled "Pakistan - Fertilizer
Industry Rehabilitation Project" (Report No. 3865-PAK, dated May 12, 1982) is
being circulated separately to the Executive Directors. A supplementary data
sheet is attached as Annex III.
1/ Report No. 1345, dated November 10, 1976 (SecM76-751).
2/ Report NIo. 3582, dated August 18, 1981 (SecM81-714).



-15-
Project Objectives and Description
49.     The proposed project is designed to assure the continued availability
and increase the supply of domestically produced fertilizer from NFC plants
in order to help satisfy a growing demand which would otherwise have to be
met entirely by imports. The project's main concerns are with rehabilitat-
ing, rationalizing and expanding existing production facilities at two of
NFC's plants; improving NFC's overall operational, management and training
capabilities; and looking at additional production capacity requirements.
50.     The project would:
(a)  rehabilitate and expand the urea plant and expand the
ammonia plant operated by Pakarab Fertilizers Ltd. (PFL)
at Multan;
(b) rationalize and improve the management and operational
efficiency of the Multan plant complex;
(c)  rehabilitate the ammonium sulphate plant operated by
Pak-American Fertilizers Ltd. (PAFL) at Daud Khel;
(d) provide technical assistance and training facilities
in support of improvements in the overall management
and operations of the NFC Group; and
(e) support a study of additional fertilizer production capacity
requirements in Pakistan.
Rehabilitation and Expansion of PFL's Multan Plants
51.     The Multan urea plant was commissioned in 1962.  Despite their long
service, major parts of the plant are in good mechanical condition, with many
years of additional life. By replacing and rehabilitating a number of items
of equipment, the plant can continue functioning for an extended period. The
proposed rehabilitation works, which are based on recommendations made by
consultants after a study of the plant, would include: (a) renewing the
instrumentation and electrical systems; (b) replacing a major part of the
steam piping, some process piping, exchangers and pumps; (c) reconditioning
compressors and plunger pumps; and (d) repairing the ammonia stripper.
52.     The original design capacity of the urea plant was 180 tpd of crys-
talline urea. In 1974 the crystallization section of the plant was replaced
with larger prilling facilities; however, since the rest of the plant was
unchanged, capacity has remained at 180 tpd of prilled urea. By optimizing
the ratio and increasing the flow of ammonia and carbon dioxide to the urea
converters, expansion of urea production would be achieved. This would
involve the installation of an additional carbon dioxide compressor and



-16-
ammonia feed pump and increased capacity in the ammonia recovery and recycle
sections, which would also be designed to improve ammonia consumption rates.
53.     Ammonia production and consumption for the Multan complex are now in
balance. In order to expand the capacity of the urea unit, an additional
supply of approximately 60 tpd of ammonia is required. This quantity would
be secured by de-bottlenecking the existing ammonia unit and installing purge
gas recovery equipment which would increase the unit's capacity from 910 tpd
to 970 tpd and also reduce energy consumption.
54.     Spare parts inventories for the urea plant are depleted and would
be replenished under the project to the level of two years' requirements.
The increased demand for natural gas (approximately 3%), carbon dioxide and
utilities can all be readily supplied from existing capacity without com-
promising operation of the other units of the Multan complex. Bagging and
storage facilities are adequate for the expanded production.
Rationalization Program for PFL's Multan Complex
55.     In order to improve the operational efficiency and then maintain a
high capacity utilization level at the Multan plant complex, the following
critical actions have been identified for implementaton under the proposed
project:
(i) pollution abatement measures to remove chromate from the
cooling tower and nitrogen oxide from the oldest of the
existing nitric acid plants.  Monitoring equipment to
maintain the required emission standards would also be
provided;
(ii) provision of spare parts for the existing nitro phosphate
and calcium ammonium nitrate plants, consisting mainly of
complete equipment assemblies used to rapidly replace
high maintenance units on shut-downs;
(iii) modernization of facilities for maintenance and training
and provision of inspection equipment; and
(iv) additional rail shunting and bagged product handling
equipment to reduce the turn-around time of railroad
block trains for product dispatch.
56.     These measures would substantially assist in strengthening and updat-
ing plant operations, particularly in the crucial areas of maintenance and
training, and would complement recent and ongoing organizational changes in
these departments. The works to be carried out at the Multan complex under
the proposed project are not directly related to the plants which were



-17-
financed under the previous Multan Fertilizer project (Ln. 988-PAK). The
training facilities would be geared to the specialized needs of the Multan
plant and would not duplicate those provided by the proposed technical train-
ing center (paragraph 59 below). The pollution abatement measures would have
a positive environmental impact.
Rehabilitation of PAFL's Ammonium Sulphate Plant at Daud Khel
57.     Over the past three years there has been a substantial decline in
the mechanical reliability of sections of the Daud Khel plant which were
commissioned in 1958 and 1963. Unless remedial measures are implemented,
production at the Daud Khel plant is expected to start declining in the
current year and the plant would have to be shut down by 1985. The proposed
project would finance the rehabilitaton or replacement of critical plant
sections so as to maintain full economic production for at least seven years
after completion, and substantially reduce energy consumption at the plant.
During this interim period the Government would study and, if found
desirable, implement plans for the long-term replacement of the Daud Khel
facilities (paragraph 60 below).
58.     The remedial measures included in this component, which were proposed
by consultants after detailed review of plant operations, include: (i)
installation of a new boiler, retubing of an existing boiler and replacement
of the existing boiler feed water treatment plant; (ii) renewal of the con-
verter and waste heat boiler sections of the sulphuric acid plant; (iii)
replacement of three centrifuges in the sulphur plant; (iv) replacement of
the reformer tubes and air fractionation column intervals in the Koppers
ammonia plant, and (v) rectification of foundation problens. These proposals
were designed to minimize the investments required to assure continuity of
full production. The plant has been well maintained and operated and the
equipment not being replaced or refurbished is judged to be capable of opera-
tion for the projected life of the rehabilitated plant. Existing utility and
raw material supply arrangements and infrastucture are adequate, as no
production expansion would result from the project. This component is not
expected to have any adverse environmental impact.
Improvements in NFC's Management and Operations
59. This component consists of several measures to improve the management
and operations of the NFC Group, including:
(i) hiring of expatriate personnel for a limited period
to ensure that technical operations at the Multan plant complex
are properly managed until such time as local counterpart
managers and technicians have been adequately trained;
(ii) improvements in the management information
systems and controls, as recommended by consultants



-18-
retained under Cr. 1066-PAK (see paragraph 66),
particularly in the new plants which are based on
highly developed technology;
(iii)  training and fellowships for about 21 senior execu-
tives and 48 middle-level managers in technical,
financial and marketing fields not available locally;
(iv)  improvements in productivity and efficiency at the
NFC Group's plants; and
(v)  establishment (including construction and equipping)
of a technical training center at Multan which would
handle approximately 200 trainees per year in order
to help satisfy the demand for skilled operation and
maintenance manpower in the local fertilizer industry.
An experienced international consulting organization
would be retained to set up and manage the center
during the initial two years of operation.
Study of Additional Fertilizer Capacity
60.     As indicated above (paragraph 37), expected increases in fertilizer
demand in Pakistan will necessitate continuing heavy dependence on imports
unless additional local fertilizer production capacity is installed both for
phosphatic and nitrogenous fertilizers. To determine possible options for
the economic expansion of the domestic fertilizer manufacturing industry,
particularly with regard to new phosphatic fertilizer production capacity,
the Government would undertake a study with the help of consultants to assess
domestic demand prospects; review the domestic availability of production
inputs such as natural gas, phosphate rock and sulfur; and analyze the tech-
nical and economic viability of various alternatives to increase domestic
fertilizer manufacturing capacity. The study would also consider the
advisability of establishing a new ammonium sulphate plant to replace the
existing one at Daud Khel. In addition, taking into account inter alia the
Government's desire to increase private investment in the fertilizer
industry, an assessment would be made of the adequacy of current ex-factory
pricing policies and possible alternative policies would be presented for the
Government's consideration. In the light of these findings, the Government
would periodically review with the Bank its fertilizer pricing formula (Sec-
tion 4.03(a) of the draft Loan Agreement).
The NFC Group
61.     As indicated above (paragraph 34), NFC was founded in 1973 as a
government holding corporation for the existing public sector fertilizer
plants. Besides overseeing the operations of these plants, NFC has imple-
mented a substantial expansion program which included enlarging the Multan



-19-
plant and establishing two new plants. From 1973 to 1981, the NFC Group's
output of fertilizer grew five-fold to a present output of 1,018,000 product
tons. With combined 1981 gross revenues of US$179.6 million equivalent, the
Group is the third largest industrial enterprise in Pakistan. Besides its
production subsidiaries, NFC has a marketing subsidiary, National Fertilizer
Marketing Limited, which has developed an extensive country-wide sales net-
work covering over 1,200 dealers.
62.     To date, NFC's role vis-a-vis its subsidiaries has been mainly that
of a holding company and principal shareholder, acting as a financial super-
visor, investment planner, channel of communication with government
authorities and procurement agent for certain specialized items or bulk
purchases. NFC is headed by a Chairman who reports through a Board of Direc-
tors to the Secretary of the Ministry of Production. He is supported by a
small staff of capable individuals who have been working within the fer-
tilizer industry in Pakistan for many years. The NFC Chairman chairs the
boards of all the TFC subsidiaries.
63.     The NFC Group as a whole currently employs about 4,750 people, 900 of
whom are in managerial and technical categories; 2,350 are skilled and 1,500
are semi-skilled laborers. Although staffing is inadequate at the managerial
and technical levels, semi-skilled labor is excessive due to Pakistani labor
laws which make it difficult to lay off redundant personnel. The financial
impact of the excess labor, however, is not significant, as unskilled labor
is paid relatively low wages (average IJS$1,200 p.a.).
64.     The performance of NFC and its subsidiaries has been greatly affected
over the past several years by a significant turnover in all levels of
managerial and technical personnel. The main reason for this problem has
been the relatively low levels of remuneration in Pakistan state enterprises;
these levels are generally tied to public sector industry pay scales and
historically have been well below the levels customary in comparable private
sector industries in Pakistan. The high personnel turnover in the NFC Group
has been further exacerbated by the drain of skilled technicians to the
Middle East. The Bank has urged the Government to allow TFC and other public
sector enterprises using sophisticated technology to raise pay scales in
order to attract and maintain the highly qualified staff needed. Partly in
response to these representations, the Government significantly improved pay
conditions in 1979 in the major NFC plants by allowing them to raise emolu-
ments for certain key technical and managerial staff; further increases were
permitted in 1980 and 1981. While these improvements have reduced turnover
at the plants, difficulties remain in obtaining locally all the qualified
management and technical staff required, due to a large extent to the much
higher salaries offered abroad, principally in the Gulf area. To meet some
of the personnel requirements of PFL for the immediate future, several
expatriates would be hired under the project to temporarily fill management
and technical staff positions and give training to local staff.



-20-
65.     While pay limitations have been eased for NFC's principal sub-
sidiaries, they continue to constrain the ability of NFC to attract and
retain suitable headquarters personnel to permit NFC to perform its project
implementation, monitoring and planning roles adequately. Under the proposed
project, the Government would take all action necessary to enable NFC and its
subsidiaries to attract and retain adequately qualified technical and
managerial staff (Section 4.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
66.     An organization and management study carried out under Cr. 1066-PAK
recommended a number of practical changes in the organizational structure of
the NFC Group which would facilitate its adaptation to the demands of large
manufacturing organizations and of the high level of technology with which
the large NFC plants are now endowed. The principal recommendations of this
study include:
(i)  greater autonomy for the NFC Group in operational
matters, particularly the setting of compensation;
(ii) delineation of responsibility and delegation of
powers between NFC and its operating units;
(iii) restructuring of the organization of NFC and its
operating units and their alignment with recom-
mended plant manning levels;
(iv) development of integrated training programs for
employees, with suitable systems for periodical
appraisal and performance reviews; and
(v)  detailed review and revision of current management
information systems, accounting manuals, etc.
A number of the study's recommendations have already been implemented. In
consultation with the Bank, NFC would complete the management and organiza-
tion program based on the recommendations arising out of the study.
Implementation
67.     The Government would carry out the study to establish the require-
ments for additional fertilizer production facilities; implementation of the
other components of the project would be the responsibility of NFC and its
relevant subsidiaries. PFL would be responsible for implementing all of the
works at the Multan complex and PAFL for the works at Daud Khel.  NFC would
be responsible for the implementation of the remaining components, and would
provide overall coordination and assistance.
68.     Project implementation is expected to take three years.  For the
works at Multan, selection and award of engineering contracts should be



-21-
completed in the third quarter of 1982. Final commissioning is scheduled for
completion by the second quarter of 1985. The works at Daud Khel are
expected to be completed by mid-1984, and all other components by the first
quarter of 1984.
Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
69.     The total estimated financing required for the proposed project,
including interest during construction and capitalized front end fee, is
US$49.3 million. Detailed cost estimates are shown in the Loan and Project
Summary. Costs are based on January 1982 prices, adjusted for physical and
price contingencies. Bank-financed expatriate consultant costs (including
allowances and overheads) have been estimated at US$10,000 per man-month.
Physical contingencies have been provided at 10% of base cost estimates,
except for the expansion of ammonia capacity in the Multan component where
15% has been allowed to reflect possible changes in the scope of the design.
Price escalation rates in dollar terms, based on estimated increases in the
fertilizer engineering industry, have been assumed at 8% in 1982, 7.5% in
1983, 7% in 1984, and 6% in 1985 and thereafter. These international infla-
tion rates have also been used for local equipment and materials, civil works
and erection, on the assumption that differences in domestic and interna-
tional rates will be offset by adjustments in the exchange rate of the rupee.
The rate of inflation in Pakistan in recent years has averaged 10-12% p.a.,
and is expected to remain around this level during the next few years.
70.     The proposed Bank loan of US$38.5 million, which represents about 78%
of estimated financing costs, would finance the foreign exchange costs of the
project (including capitalized front end fee). The proceeds of the loan
would be on-lent by the Government to NWC at 14% interest p.a. for a period
of 15 years, including 4 years of grace. NFC would, in turn, re-lend US$29.4
million to PFL and US$7.1 million to PAFL for project works at Multan and
Daud Khel, respectively. The PFL sub-loan would be at 14%"o interest p.a. for
15 years, including 4 years of grace; the PAFL sub-loan would carry an inter-
est rate of 14% p.a., with a term of 9 years including 3 years of grace. The
Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. Estimated local project
costs of about US$10.8 million would be met by NFC, PFL and PAFL from inter-
nal cash generation.
Procurement and Disbursement
71.     Contracts for items to be procured from the proceeds of the Bank loan
would be awarded in accordance with Bank's guidelines for procurement.
International competitive bidding would be used for equipnient and material
purchases, except for US$3.8 million of proprietary and critical items,
including equipment costing US$100,000 or less, which may be procured through
direct negotiations with suppliers or limited international tendering. For
purposes of bid evaluation, local suppliers would receive a preference of 15%
or the amount of the customs duty for non-exempt imports, whichever is lower.



-22-
Local equipment and services not financed by the Bank would be procured
through the normal commercial practices of the NFC Group which are satisfac-
tory. In order to avoid delays in the implementation of the project, an
amount of US$1.4 million has been included for retroactive financing of the
foreign costs of studies and front-end engineering work, and down payments
for critical equipment made after December 1, 1981 (Schedule I, paragraph 4,
of the draft Loan Agreement).
72.     Disbursements from the proposed Bank loan would be made for 100% of:
(i) foreign expenditures for imported items; (ii) the ex-factory price of
locally procured items; (iii) foreign expenditures on consultants' services
and training; (iv) the front end fee on the loan; and (v) interest incurred
up to completion of the two production-oriented components of PFL and PAFL.
Financial Performance
73.     Following the recent completion of new plants, the NFC Group's finan-
cial results and position have improved considerably; gross revenue increased
from US$50.7 million in 1979 to US$131.8 million in 1980 and US$179.6 million
in 1981. Internal cash generation (US$40.7 million) is now satisfactory,
causing the financial position of NFC and its subsidiaries to be substan-
tially strengthened and permitting the latter to pay dividends. Investments
under the proposed project would have a positive effect on the financial
situation of NFC and its two subsidiaries, PFL and PAFL.
Benefits and Risks
74.     As indicated above (paragraph 36), the projected growth in fertilizer
consumption in Pakistan will result in increasing imports unless existing
domestic production is maintained and is further supplemented by additional
capacity.  The proposed rehabilitation and expansion of the Multan
ammonia/urea and rehabilitation of the Daud Khel ammonium sulphate plants
would assist in narrowing the gap between demand and supply by producing
annual incremental output of 178,000 tons of fertilizer until new production
facilities, to be identified by the study of additional fertilizer capacity,
can be installed (paragraph 60). The strengthening of NFC's management and
organization would assist all NFC plants to attain and maintain high levels
of capacity utilization.
75.     Foreign exchange savings generated by the productive components of
the project are estimated to total about US$250 million over their respective
lives, compared to the foreign exchange cost of these components of US$31.0
million. The incremental economic rates of return for the Multan urea plant
expansion and rehabilitation, the Multan ammonia plant expansion and the Daud
Khel ammonium sulphate plant rehabilitation are estimated at 54%, 96% and
42%, respectively.



-23-
76.     The Multan components are sensitive to a delay in project completion;
rates of return would be reduced to 40% for the urea plant and 66% for the
ammonia plant if production start-up were to be delayed by one year. In the
case of Daud Khel, the returns are more sensitive to changes in operating
*        revenues and costs; a 10% increase in operating costs or a decrease of 10% in
revenues would reduce the rate of return to between 18% and 25%.
77.     In considering the justification for rehabilitating and expanding
the facilities, the economic viability of the companies as a whole, including
existing and proposed facilities under the project, was also analyzed. The
Multan facilities (PFL) were assumed to have a remaining life of ten years
after the expected 1985 project completion, and those at Daud Khel (PAFL) of
seven years after the 1984 project completion. PFL's continued operation is
estimated to have an economic rate of return of 19%.
78.     The project would also help to greatly improve the economics of the
Daud Khel plant, which currently is a high-cost producer. After rehabilita-
tion, its cost of production would be below the import cost of ammonium
sulphate. Due to the age and the small size of the facilities, the plant as
a whole would have an estimated economic return of 13%, though this would
rise to 27% if allowance is made for a price premium for ammonium sulphate
over the nutrient value of urea, which is usual in Europe. By enabling the
Daud Khel plant to continue functioning, the project would maintain its work
force of about 1,000 in an area which otherwise offers only limited alterna-
tive employment. The maintenance of this work force would be of additional
benefit in view of the fact that the existing ammonium sulphate plaxit is to
be replaced by a larger and more economic unit later in the 1980s, provided
that the proposed studies conclude this to be desirable.
79.     The main risk facing the project is the possibility of delays in
implementation. This risk will be reduced by the strengthening of opera-
tional staff, the hiring of expatriates and the involvement of engineering
firms in project design and implementation. Risks associated with project
technology, start-up and operations are moderate as all components are based
on commercially proven technology. Commissioning problems after rehabilita-
tion and difficulties in attaining and maintaining a high operating rate
cannot be ruled out.  However, the involvement of engineering firms in
design, engineering and commissioning should greatly reduce this risk. No
commercial risk is foreseen. Even on the basis of a conservative market
forecast, the country will continue to be deficient in fertilizer.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.     The draft Loan Agreement between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and
the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank, NFC, PFL and PAFL and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii) of



-24-
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
81.     Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex
III. Additional conditions of effectiveness are: (a) the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement has been executed on behalf of the Government and NFC (Section
6.01(a) of the draft Loan Agreement); and (b) the Sub-Loan Agreements have
been executed on behalf of NFC and PFL, and NFC and PAFL, respectively (Sec-
tion 6.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
82.     1 am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
83.     I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
May 17, 1982



- 25 -                                              ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
PAKISTAN              ~~~REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHITED AVEKACES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                 PMTISTAN                             -         MOTRPECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL            803.9                                MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME          MIDDLFE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL     249.9              1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       ASIA & PACIFIC       ASIA & PACIFIC
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                  60.0        130.0     260.0*             232.3              1136.1
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)     136.0       196.1    218.2                499.4              1150.6
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                  *
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 45850.5    60448.9   79705.0*
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL) 22.1        24.9      27.8                17.3                40.8
POPULATION PROJECTION,
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                     141.2
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                       340.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                 2100
POPULAT1ON DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                       57.0        75.2      99.1               153.6               373.1
PER SQ. 101. AGRICULTLRAL LAND    201.0      249.0    309.4                360.3              2382.8
POPULATION AGE STKUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                         43.8        46.3      46.4                37.4                39.8
15-64 YRS.                         51.8        50.5      50.7               59.2                 56.7
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   4.4         3.2       2.9                 3.5                 3.5
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              2.3         2.8       3.1                 2.1                 2.3
URBAN                              4.6         4.0       4.3                 3.4                 3.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TIIOUSAND)    48.4        47.3      44.4                27.7                29.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     22.6        17.4      14.3                10.2                 7.5
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              3.2         3.7       3.2                 2.5                 1.9
FAMILY PLANSING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..      1908.1   2085.0
UlENS (PERCENT OF M.ARRIED WOMEN)   ..          ..       6.0               20.4                 44.1
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDLX Of FOOD YLODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)          89.0       102.0    101.0               107.1                123.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                   83.0        97.0      99.0               98.6                112.6
PROTEINS (GRAYS PER DAY)          55.0        60.0      63.0                56.9                62.5
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       22.0        20.0      20.0                14.2                19.7
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     24.0        18.4      14.8                14.6                 4.8
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)   43.5         48.8      52.2                57.7                64.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          135.0/c        ..        ..                89.1                50.2
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        21.0      29.0               30.1                 45.9
URBAN                               ..        77.0      60.0               65.8                 68.0
RURAL                               ..         4.0      17.0               20.1                 34.4
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0       6.0                17.6                53.4
URBAN                               ..        12.0      21.0                71.0                71.0
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..                 4.8                42.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN        1l000.0/d    4299.0/e  3758.0/e             3857.7              4428.7
POPULATIONIPER NURSING PERSON          .     13305.97e  9984.8Te           6411.8               2229.7
POPUIATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                           1742.9      1860.1   1894.8              1132.8                588.5
URBAN                            507.2       648.5    709.2               322.3                579.6
RURAL                          22850.0     12476.0  11819.6              5600.5               1138.5
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.4         5.3
LRBAN                              5.5         5.5
RURAL                              5.4         5.2
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                              3.1         2.8/f
URBAN                              3.1         2.77        ..
RURAL                              3.1         2.87?       ..
ACCESS TO FLECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF LWELLINGS)
TOlAL                               *-        17.9/f
URBAN                                         54.6/f
RURAL                               ..         4.97?       .



- 26 -                                                  ANNEX I
TABLE 3A
PAKISTAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE CROUPS (WEI HTED AV,RACES
PAKISTAN                              -  MOST RECENT iS,MATE)L-
MOST RECENT           LOW INCOME            MIDLLE INCOuE
1960  lb    1970 /b ESTIMATE Jb        ASIA & PACIFIC         ASIA & PACIFIC
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMAFY:     TOTAL                  30.0         44.0      51.0                 85.9                 99.8
KALE                  46.0         62.0       69.0                94.4                100.6
FEtALE                13.0         24.0       32.0                64.5                 98.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  11.0         14.0      17.01                38.0/aa              53.5
MALE                  18.0         22.0       25.0f)              34.67a               58.4
FEMALE                 3.0          6.0       S.                  ig.o7aa              48.6
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Y OF SECONDARY)   1.0            1.5        1.5LI               3.8                 21.1
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0        41.0       40.0                 32.8                 34.2
SECONDARY                           24.0         20.0      19.0/               19.9                 31.7
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)         15.0/       20.7       24.0                52.8                 86.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           1.0          2.6       2.8                  1.7                 12.7
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           6.0         17.:      66.8                35.3                 174.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          1.6       8.3                 3.7                  50.6
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INtEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPtLATION                    7.0           ..      13.3                 14.6                106.8
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.8            3.0/h      ..                  3.4                  4.3
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    14447.6       17364.1   21787.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                     8.6         9.3       10.4                29.3                  37.4
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               60.8         58.9      57.2                 69.8                 50.2
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  17.9        18.7       19.9                 14.1                 21.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 31.5         28.7      27.3                 39.7                 40.2
KALE                                  55.2         50.4      47.5                 51.5                 49.8
FEMALE                                 5.7          5.5       5.9                 23.3                 31.1
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                1.5          1.7        1.8                 1.1                   1.1
INCOMF. DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
FECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20.3/i         17.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  45.3/i        41.8
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    6.4/i         8.0
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   17.5/i        20.2
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMtATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        68.0      176.0                134.1                248.6
RURAL                                 ..        47.0      122.0                111.6                193.7
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..        34.0       88.0                   ..                249.8
RURAL                                 ..        22.0       58.0                   ..                234.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..        42.0       32.0                41.7                  21.2
RURAL                                 ..        43.0       29.0                 51.7                 32.2
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each Indicator are populatton-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicaLors depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/aa  China included in total only.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for M.st RecenL Estil.ate, between 1976 and 1979.
/c   1962-65;  Id Includes Bangladesh;  /e Registered, not all practicJng in the country,  /f 1973;
/g 1960-62;  /h 1972;  /i 1963-64;  Li 1975.
*     e upLdated 1.9t.O CNP per z.pita and p:'pul;ILir,n cstiratcs r:c
$3Q0 (at 197Fi-192 a80 :-a    pricns) and b2,153,OO  resprtli. .ly.                       Kay, 1981



T                                                                               .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~070700009000 . 000. 0 .Oo.oo.Or.to .. I.r.
_p'lef6I, ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    077077   907   9007                              o£   lfo.HrOj7770
-T-1-30 -1-4 TII ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 07STI07 7P0  107pt-O7107700  007
1061~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~' Eoo-00  t~o07 0007 7070 090oo   00 7.7iC0,704
tOfOaolo4 ~ ~          ~            ~            ~           ~            -                   ...                               IO;ofojpt  9too  1007  1' 090000
oooooo,o  mos20  OOutOd'770  ..o0o10 A0  0  00  77 0  00700 0007.:0~009 70000071P
(T-  PIP ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ 670   0067  10700    777   :770   ooop 077770   9
T~ ~     ~ ~ 070 £00000loo7                        0     '00000t01000
930)TOo:- tItP-J- 1oooa -oOOoOoo-o   --                      - boooo o                    07701ooodo.o;oo7                                               d0.o.d 017 q
770079100  tOlOa0   99   0  77*0070000  t7  0707 0977"..oOOIoo.t
97-107077000009.37000070   011T0)-IooIlo0o:ooo7770Ololooooo;ooo
0007007                 opI00000t1o700   77   71007  7007. '1.7tItO 0Ot
1--vu Aq F-T.-V - P-T~0£6~0                                                      ~o.toPy     7                                   77o t  0 07070003  713
0771077000007 70               oooo--  T-Ol10 906  '0P61                         (,-TtOl0077010p067 
iOOOOdOOOOaOdWtOlOtOOOOa'0t0t46100777a'000.IO-oooOoOOopOoa-oootO.q   090y77   700"a10001
ooo~a A  p.lno   -  3009Pt.900  0177007)    01  ii7'~otoooofl  017700007 7td  770077  077077- 77000077  if61 ij 011t701O(t-  OtO) 16t
ST    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~017710&.  007                         np £761          A7007   7917 _ 707 o0   07   100107000000070
At77077   jd.7600     7A)09.o   0700700t00.10   0
~00A07 4001 10000090 1 00--7T7  771 1-071 T1-91400   70   7a
t.    .o  9p. 1077 0100447  Oi        ljSTpoootooopot  9  '1 coo 7-I ItoP" o",                                     p1-00 to   007 .003.   P..;0 Olaoo  110
0000  000041000040.01  00  00060*0  0004'.00  676-770 '6061 '0961.          -9.0107   0:90  700700107                    1,6000OL6   70-T6 00 T0-7  J  00011
OL1- 000066170  76107  7761- 00T0 '7761, '0,017-                                                   1100    IP770700
0041 10330  00601 1000 70 oloooaoa 00 00  p -J 700o   '717a010 70           70  00  007T73,03 I p  Oo;oo. -     7d-  '01-.19:  70oloqooo  0 
T.'0700                                  ':Tooo   011   1003  00      0000   7007( t.*003  O.q'ooooo   0000000010700o'000  70L7
'00006461000  (6!   96!   000706611000 It.  toooo    00000                   10  100407 001IIIpOto 1T011._7109  00 7700_  F07 T97307000   1
06000oo77'Loooo  '0700700OOo;*000  -      -70000  0001000              -00160   010070060   000670'00000   70  1  000110
'0*0  001100   0  00000*0000   ~61  100     .0700  0004                           '770A'707101077100.T100070900 q0t79ojoooIoo
'0000 661 77000(61 '76) 1oyooodto  000000  Poo0  '0.0. 70  0...007 . 000000170.1.70                                   t   t
03000100000  000000*1  00100007'000 10 0  00 o6oAo  0ootoo  o74o 04 £7000 0  0101000  00007  7707  00.00  OOloloOEbo.
'00   '00900'033000   3160100007  041*00  p00007  os.                       007100409-  iYooo7oo  100000)000007 "                   0000  76000a
300101'ooao   000P       1100000    I070006' 000  700T   10700                          0007 6P1-  '0761T 1-96 091001000700OtOo    0000
ITI~~~~ I            3004.00ox                    0 7009 0  40000  90   70 07170700  o:tot            P177000   0   0
-XI- P  -1              T 'I                                                                                         SO~~~~~70  070    07000*0  0000  70  197030  717  700  7077s000007o
P--P%-- -T  ~ ~  ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    '01001900-                      otT00o...)..007001000P0001700o                       10600407000700
001 -0       p  1- .42 .00  0000 ....011109tO -T 0 Oi-07 771  0011                 0   007077    0710   070709'077000770  1   001010
'Ps¶010  000-00  *1009.0 0I 070099100*7 "Ill                   97           1000  -T-Po ao-l-*0107 -q              ...1 .   I691  00106  00"7,0704 -700 ,0T0:
Uto    00000  0000                IF*ol  00 A1                                                                                                 ITT.0  0  601060070
06001000 0  01'300 10001 39p000a00  IObnod10700A  00100'01---- 0-
-"T-          a-                                                                                                 -I010011000100  00000   00  '71  00'61 '91   1-0 70  00000000.0)  7100  00006T 01
'001010703 03001110  ~ ~         ~         .~~41 - 07677 671  7700, 00061' T16           -010 10
n:.R-.   14 P-pTI,IP 17-1   P.. A.III,.d               -S')000110  '77990   040,6700;000761004aoo
00 0fl0  000600  000 -..  .        I7000  100'00010    0100*09-0,0-1                                                              00077q7767 77- PT 01 7601 14-0
-0600061oioo4o  0190inotada.too*'loO0.oeo  '0006-00010109                                                                 00776-    7700  P--6 '696160001000
00100013  1001000  -  300000 I        10000000,: 0001000100000                         7  00000.d     1  70011E.06000..     o  00161004 0F.770  - 0,       '0  0
0,  pP.-  I-   -71-                     ..j-                         .-'00101T.0             -0-0*0 0010.I                                    000
41-loooooe 070  00*000 0000060000000 1030 70  *004 0! 00 U  0 41.000             ..7060070*09-090-
M10   070100OO  011000700           .0a00100   'p-00  000009....090  4*01...   007T07  9     70070   0010190  "010000
113000 4P*00114` po-Toodl  I0TT---000  06001T-                                              I'Iooo;obto 009006070                                         '10001 000
4*oooooo1000  007736409-T 010,007 000 011000- !T 0-  0*000                          00000070417037   01007  000070 '70o03 000  010
'0001O06  109177  0600000  00  010   -* 014000   00                   0014007700000006   0000   9   00090i0   0000
0000040017000*  00  0001700 01000001000000 9700000000000001  0000140  40-o1000.- T *1700   10  0047                                            A7
007 7*1000010 £0010070 070000  000077177003  oooo(0 077 0000  00100000  90000060 000000707770000 000170  0 1001 000000100I 06
114pel 000110  070001411000 10000100400010000  7010700     1~770000 071 0070076  10077001T0001 .10                 .000000 010
"Id  -Z                  -1'ooino7aT 0...77  0100  00.   AI 100.-000  000I 709640100
'4o -ootoo00107   00   00'00'00   00  00110077 60700000',1:":1, t0                                     .: 0 I0 00000  000117007*00
0000000364 00 00000000 101071 01 40101*000l0 9006 000)110077 1000000070.09  -000* 004   t#o4 77:00  70101179000 Loooo9o*oo 0111  1000  p00 010011~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'T  I:I7
- 1000  00 0*90  1000-  p000111q T 7000*0   00001   000000!010   0   ,000   000100010097   ooodool  o
-W   =   T ~  ~    ~ ~ '004770000                           -00061010070.070t007...1...0001004o00(o
3000000000  000004000  70000001100    41010000  '001107                        '00071003   0   711000007000  70ot    00.00   00
Oloot-770. 00 '060  '10001   I   .        'T- ooooooooo IT7 00 T0 OOOOo             -P0007t700T o---oroA"O
27)9000           6061 700 '0(61 '0961 11 41077 70 10P - (i0i07)00--7 '70107 100
'1000000  (o  0071000010*                 100017001007000671T P`0 '7061 '0661I 1000004000066                                    .10  JO 000000179  0(oOt
4700 P0701010  30017100   10407 00 10-,1 01001d006 100 000                     -0010 1000001 P`00-T 0001000 P'-074   10000  III0'o0  '03700'OOiI
'0y0100  1000010400 I400.00000   016040T 009000..0  101                            00T1001100007   000700  000     717000p01600911
-0100  304  00101100  10.E11000 70ooo  01600700 T000 000P-                             06   (;q6tl6)-TVn                      P-   
T010 000004.00.0700 909oT1000I0717-0 '7040  '00000000 171000'0007  6061 0                                                                                   20  do0
04    009_'1o4a     90077  01000000  0000000 .IT100100   Aq                          61710   001    SO 0170000   01001000   004   000
'00 T 01i100*0   '10109  001 10710  000000  10147-P7a '-10  '0017   00000000007000070   0  4-0-0P.                                               0710      ...17104..
"0000  710000T.,      7.0   007900            '0009   0  0000Aq      00 4q-
903700 d4100   -..0I0 000001900  301000q            *10000011106                    '007I  I1  011301000007000707  7070.00'00007'000  0
-*3 900 10014000 70011010000 000 10000030000100 7700 011904 01 019011000  7100000oo07 00 71140000.00 77000 0000101001001000 70 00001000 - 100071001000~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P"" 
000   ,140   70*90031060009  qP 0117100 I740 '00900                                           '000000 p00   .770.000  00   000040  00000-0  1070 -. AI001
100     - 000100   A- 100000  '097  '10007TP-  -, 770 I10000                                                                 I            .......470   o  0009)  70
..... _W  .7  -.7 :TPP                                                   --T~~~~-007o -00000 :0p0   001000 d9 TOOOlOOOoopiO
700000  090 koooo o  10700 4100o*o ooojOoO   000:    0900000000009101  00 770ooOoOtO 0o10107 0  770370000 0  00000707000.000300.000"1T3'
000  7 50110100006100op.do  ooool 7070903000014060  7000000  90  009   0001771  09000  0177009400000   070007 00.0P710"0
007  70   00070030010   00P0  00001001_    0060   070I0400000009007   000003,q4    )    01103010010o10
1C00077004  7'100  40 1007740140
I xaNw                                                                       -12z-



- 28 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1980: 81                                                                                                   ANNUAL RATE 0F GROWTH (%, conseast prices)
US$ billion         X                                                                  1969/70-1974/75        1975/76-1980/81        1980/81
GNP at Market Prices                          29.99          100.0                                                                       3.5                   6.3                 6.2
Gross Domestic Investment                       4.87          16.2                                                                     -5.5                    5.4                 4.4
Gross National Saving                           3.94          13.1                                                                     -2.1                    8.2                10.3
Current Account 3alance                       -0.95            -
Resource Gap                                  -2.93           -9.8                                                                      6.7                   15.1               -29.4
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1979/8OLa
Value Added              Labor Fbrce        V.A. Per Worker
US$ millios      %       Million     %        US$  million       %
Agriculture                      7,538           30       13.2       54           571            56
Gudautry                        6,490           26         4:5       18        1,442           141
Services                       11,127            44        6.9       28        1,613           158
Total/Average                25,155          100        24.6      100        1,023           100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                                              Central Government
(Rs billion)                 % of GDP                        (Rs billion)                 % of GDP
1980/81            1980/81       1976/77-1980/81            1980/81            1980/81       1976/77-1980/81
Current Receipts                     46.8                16.9             16.2                    36.1               13.0             12.4
Current Espenditures                 36.8                13.3             14.0                    28.6               10.3             10.5
Current Surplus/Defioit             100.0                 3.6              2.2                     7.5                2.7              1.9
Capital Euperdicures                 25.0                 9.0              9.7                    21.5                7.8              7.8
External Assistance  (net)            5.7                 2.0              3.0                     5.7                2.0              3.0
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
1974/75      1975/76       1976/77       1977/78      1978/79       1979/80       1980l 81/b
Me-ey and Quasi Money                           33.1          41.6          51.7          63.7          76.5         90.7          104.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)             17.7           22.9          29.5          34.3         43.1          48.1           53.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)           19.7          23.1          30.1          35.7         42.7          50.6           58.7
Money and Quasi Money as % GDP                  31.6          34.3          38.1          40.5         42.8          42.7           41.7
Wholesale Price Index (1969/70 = 100)    211.3               229.4         255.3         271.4        289.7         316.7          358.8
A.nnual Percentage Change in:
Wholesale Price Inden                           23.6            8.6         11.3           6.3           6.7          9.3           13.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)             21.2           29.4          28.8          16.6         25.6          11.6           11.8
Bank Credit to Private Sector (gross)          26.3           17.3          30.3       ' 18.6          19.6          18.5           16.0
/a Labor force data are official figures of the Ministry of Finance and Planning. Serious underenumeration nay exist, especially of women.
/b Provisional.
Not applicable.
February 1982



-29-
ANNEX I
RALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                      (US$ million)                                          MERCbRNDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGING 1977/7N-IQRA/81)
1976/77     1977/78       1978/79       1979/80       1980/81 /a                                       US$ million        X
Exports of Goods, NFS                               1,404       1,651         2,107         2,955         3,450               Raw Cotton                    259.4            8.5
Imports of Goods. NFS                               2.877       3,297         4,485         5,709         6.385               Cotton Yarn                   179.3            9.8
Renource Gap (deficit   - )                        -1.473       -1,646       -2,378        -2,754        -2,935               Cotton Cloth                  219.2           12.4
Rico                 ~~~~~~383.2      19.6
Interest Payments                                   -172          -183         -261          -285          -322               All Other Conoinditien      1, 034.6          49.7
Work.en' Remittancsa                                  578        1,166        1,395         1,748         2,117                - Total                    2,085.7          100.0
Other Factor Payments (net)                            15           62           134          151           193
Net Transfers                                          ..           ..            ..            ..           ..                      EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1980
Balance on Current Account                         -1,052         -601       -1,110        1,140          -947
Direct Foreign Investment                              ..           ..            ..           ..            ..                                                        US$ million
Net NLT Borrowing                                                                                                             Public Debt, Including Guaranteed         8,775.3
Dinbursements                                       961         841           813         1.134         1,067               Non-guaranteed Privato Debt /f                 ..
Amortieation                                       -175        -122          -235          -310          -358                 Total Outstanding and Disbursed         8,775.3
Sub Total                                           786          719          578           824           709
Transactions with IMF /b                               44           41           -14           78           331                   DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1979/80 /g
Other Items  n.e.i. /c                                 24          163           238          600           217                                                        US0$  illion
Increase in Reserves (-)                              198         -322          308          -362          -310               Public Debt, Including Guaranteed           12.1
Gross Reserves (year end) /d                          372          694           386          748         1,058               Non-guaranteed Private Debt                   --
Net Reserves (year end) In                           -146          150           -92          340           330                 Total                                     12.1
Official Gold (year end;  illio      n                1.6          1.7           1.8          1.8           1.9                 IBRD/IDA LENDIN9 (SEPTEMBER 1981) (US$ illion)
FPol and Related Materials                                                                                                                                             IBRD      IDA
Petroleum Imports                                     413          497           530        1,079         1,535               Outstahding and Disbursed                312.2    825.6
Petroleum Exports                                      27           63            61          178           169               Undisbursed                               36.5    549.9
Outstanding, including Undisborsed    348.7  1,375.5
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Through May 11, 1972      May 11, 1972 - February 15, 1973        February 15, 1973 - January 8, 1982    January 8, 1982 /h
USS - Rn 4.7619                0S$ = 11.00                               US0$   9.90                      US5 - 10.1
R.  - US$O.2100               R.  = 0.0909                               Rs  - 0.1010                     Rs  - 0.09
/a Government estimete.
lb Including Trust FPnd.
Ic Including net short-term berraving and errors snd omissiens.
Id Foreign exchange and SDR holdings of the State Bank.
T. Excluding use of IMF credit.
/f  Private debt is negligible.
At Ratio of debt service to exports of goods, non-factor services and workern' remittanoes; not including ahort-term or IMF charges.
/h  Since January 9, 1982, value of rupee is being  .anaged with reference to a weighted basket of currencies.
Not available.
February 1982



- 30 -                   ANNEX II
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN PAKISTAN
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1982)
(US$ million)
Loan/                                                  (Amount net of cancellations)
Credit  Fiscal                                                                 Undis-
Number   Year    Purpose                                Bank   TW       IDA    bursed
Eighty loans and credits fully disbursed /a            611.2           634.3
492     1974   Fourth Karachi Port                      --              16.0    0.4
1107    1975   Fourth Sui Northern Gas                  53.0            --      0.7
546     1975   Industrial Development (NDFC)            --              30.0    0.5
1208T   1976   Power (Second WAPDA)                     --    32.0      --       1.8
620     1976   Seed Project                             --              23.0    7.5
1326    1976   Development Finance (PICIC X)            25.0            --      0.4
630     1976   Second Lahore Water Supply               --              26.0    7.4
648     1976   Irrigation & Drainage (Khairpur)         --              14.0    7.0
1366T   1977   Livestock Development (Punjab)           --    10.0      __       9.8
1372)   1977   Railways                                 35.0            --     12.8
684 )   1977   Railways                                 --              25.0    1.3
678     1977   Third Education                          --              15.0    7.8
751     1977   Hill Farming Development                 --               3.0    1.6
754     1978   Salinity Control & Reclamation           --              70.0   69.1
755     1978   Hazara Forestry Pre-investment           --               1.7    1.5
813     1978   Punjab Ext. & Agric. Dev.                --              12.5    7.8
846     1978   Fauji Fertilizer                         --              55.0    6.6
867     1979   Toot Oil & Gas Development               --              30.0    2.5
877     1979   Salinity Control & Recl. (Mardan)    --                  60.0   58.8
892     1979   Primary Education                        --              10.0    8.6
922     1979   Sind Agricultural Extension              --               9.0    9.0
957     1979   Agricultural Development (ADBP)          --              30.0   17.6
968     1980   Power (Third WAPDA)                      --              45.0   39.2
974     1980   Third Highway                            --              50.0   41.3
1019    1980   Development Finance (PICIC XI)           -               40.0   29.2
1066    1981   Fertilizer Imports                       --              50.0   29.4
1109    1981   Vocational Training                      --              25.0   25.0
1113    1981   Small Industries                         --              30.0   29.9
1157    1981   Grain Storage                            --              32.0   32.0
1158/b  1981   Agricultural Research                    --              24.0   24.0
1163    1981   On-Farm Water Management                --               41.0   41.0
1186/b  1982   Industrial Development (IDBP II)         --              30.0   30.0
Total                                                  724.2  42.0  1,432.5  561.5
of which has been repaid                            432.3   -         28.4
Total now outstanding                                  291.9  42.0  1,404.1
Amount sold                   23.9
of which has been repaid    23.9                      --     --       --
Total now held by Bank and IDA7TE-                     291.9  42.0  1,404.1
Total undisbursed                                       13.9  11.6    536.0  561.5
ta Excludes the disbursed portion of loans and credits wholly or partly for
projects in the former East Pakistan which have now been taken over by
Bangladesh.
/b  Not yet effective.
/c  Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of March 31, 1982)
Fiscal                                              Amount  In US$   Million
Year    Obligor               Type of Business      Loan   Equity    Total
1958     Steel Corp of         Rolled Steel          0.63      --       0.63
Pakistan Ltd.         Products
1959     Adamjee Industries   Textiles               0.75      --       0.75
Ltd.
1962-    Gharibwal Cement      Cement                5.25    0.42       5.67
1965     Industries Ltd.
1963-    PICIC                 Development            --      0.52      0.52
1969-                          Financing
1975
1965     Crescent Jute         Textiles              1.84    0.11       1.95
Products
1965-    Packages Ltd.         Paper Products        4.43    0.84       5.27
1980
1967-    Pakistan Paper
1976     Corp Ltd.             Paper                 5.38    2.02       7.40
1969     Dawood Hercules       Fertilizers           1.00    2.92       3.92
Chemicals Ltd.
1969     Karnaphuli Paper      Pulp and Paper        5.60    0.63       6.23
Mills Ltd.
1979     Milkpak Ltd.          Food and Food         2.40    0.39       2.79
Processing
1979     Pakistan Oilfields   Chemicals and         29.00    1.82      30.82
Ltd. and Attock       Petrochemicals
Refinery Ltd.
1980     Fauji Foundation      Woven Polypropy-      1.78      --       1.78
lene bags
1980     Premier Board         Particle Board        2.70      --       2.70
Mills Ltd.
1981     Habib Arkady          Food and Food
Processing            3.15    0.17       3.32
Total Gross Commitments                    63.91    9.84      73.75
Less: Cancellations, Terminations,
Repayments and Sales               38.85    1.01       39.86
Total Commitments Now Held by IFC          25.06    8.83      33.89
Undisbursed (including participants)        3.15    0.53       3.68



- 32 -
ANNEX II
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Credit No. 771         Tarbela Dam:  US$35 Million Credit of March 10, 1978;
Effective Date: April 4, 1978; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Work to construct a flip-bucket at the outlet of Tunnel No. 4 is in
progress and will be completed in 1983. Serious erosion in the plunge pool
below the service spillway during 1977 necessitated additional protection
works which, together with work in the downstream channel, were completed in
June 1980. Similar protection work in the auxiliary plunge pool is virtually
completed. Since 1975, irrigation requirements from the dam have been met.
Power generation by the first four units began in 1977. Construction of a
second power plant with six units is in progress. All Credit proceeds have
been disbursed; the Bank continues to administer the Tarbela Development
Fund.
Credit No. 492         Fourth Karachi Port:  US$16 Million Credit of July 8,
1974; Effective Date: September 18, 1974; Closing
Date: December 31, 1981
The project is completed and, as of March 31, 1982, disbursements
amounted to US$15.6 million. The balance is committed and final withdrawals
are expected by end-April 1982.
Loan No. 1107          Fourth Sui Northern Gas:  US$60 Million Loan of May 15,
1975; Effective Date: July 5, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The Closing Date of the Loan has been extended to December 31, 1982
to allow the Borrower to utilize undisbursed funds toward increasing the
capacity of the Islamabad/Rawalpindi natural gas distribution system. Con-
struction should be completed in June 1982.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understand-
ing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strenaths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
Credit No. 546         National Development Finance Corporation (NDFC):
US$30 Million Credit of May 15, 1975; Effective
Date: July 17, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The Credit was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.5 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Loan No. 1208-T        Second WAPDA Power:  US$50 Million Third Window Loan
of February 19, 1976; Effective Date: April 30, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Most of the project components were commissioned in the last quarter
of 1980. Some payments are outstanding pending final comnissioning of the
remaining components. The Government has requested an extension of the
Closing Date to September 30, 1982 to accommodate payment of these sums.
Credit No. 620         Seed Project:  US$23 Million Credit of March 29, 1976;
Effective Date: November 29, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
Project implementation remains behind schedule, with the most impor-
tant delays being the construction and equipping of three processing plants
in Punjab due to disputes with civil works contractors. As presently
scheduled, the Punjab component should be completed by June 1983. The plant
in Sind is complete except for some silos and the machinery is installed.
The Closing Date, originally December 31, 1981, has been extended to June 30,
1983.
Loan No. 1326          Development Finahce Company (PICIC IX):  US$25 Million
Loan of September 14, 1976; Effective Date: November
29, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This Loan was closed on December 31, 1981. The undisbursed amount
(about US$0.4 million) will be cancelled in April 1982.
Credit No. 630         Second Lahore Water Supply, Sewerage and Drainage
Project: US$26.6 Million Credit of June 8, 1976;
Effective Date:  September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
All major works have been contracted.  Construction delays, however,
continue and will probably cause a further delay in project completion.



- 34 -
Credit No. 648         Khairpur Tile Drainage and Irrigated Farming
Development Project: US$14 Million Credit of July 22,
1976; Effective Date: March 14, 1977; Closing Date:
July 31, 1982
Overall progress is currently about two years behind schedule due to
delays in employing consultants and procurement problems. Canal remodeling,
surveys, and extension services are proceeding satisfactorily but the tile
and collector drain construction has progressed slowly. Actions have been
initiated with the Association's concurrence to curtail cost overruns and
reduce completion delays.
Loan No. 1366-T        Punjab Livestock Development:  US$10 Million Third
Window Loan of February 18, 1977; Effective Date;
August 3, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The Government and the Bank have conditionally agreed on a revised
project which would aim to rehabilitate the Lahore Milk Plant and to estab-
lish about 300 Village Livestock Associations and their related service
activities. The contract of the milk plant consultants has been extended to
cover the period of construction and commissioning of the plant.
Loan No. 1372          Tenth Railway:  US$35 Million Loan and US$25 Million
and                 Credit of March 8, 1977; Effective Date:  May 9, 1977;
Credit No. 684         Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
The project is proceeding satisfactorily. The telecommunications and
signaling scheme is making good progress and the complete network is expected
to be commissioned before mid-1983. Procurement has been completed and the
total proceeds of the Loan/Credit have been committed.
Credit No. 678         Third Education:  US$15 Million Credit of February 18,
1977; Effective Date:  July 6, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is generally making good progress. Nearly all of civil
works contracts have been awarded and about 80% have been completed. One
project study has been completed and the two others are nearing completion.
About 70% of the project equipment has been procured and the balance is in
the process of procurement. Technical assistance specialist services are now
being provided satisfactorily and about 90% of the fellowships have been used
or committed. Project implementation in Sind and Baluchistan is behind
schedule by about one year, due to initial delays in building construction.



- 35 -
Credit No. 751         Hill Farming Technical Development:  US$3 Million
Credit of December 1, 1977; Effective Date: March 7,
1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983
Staff vacancies are causing implementation problems, and the com-
ponents dealing with fodders, demonstration farms, apples and land-use are
progressing slowly. Nevertheless, most technical developments are progress-
ing satisfactorily and the training program is on schedule. A draft proposal
for a follow-up project has been received. Expenditures and disbursements
have been less than expected because of cost savings and procurement delays.
Credit No. 754         SCARP-VI:  US$70 Million Credit of January 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 28, 1978; Closing Date:
November 30, 1986
Although the project is about three years behind schedule, sig-
nificant momentum has now begun in project implementation following the
resolution of bu;.getary and other initial problems.  Progress has been made
in awarding the first civil works contracts and obtaining necessary equip-
ment, vehicles and materials.
Credit No. 755         Hazara Forestry:  US$1.7 Million Credit of January 29,
1978; Effective Date: July 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
There has been significant progress in different project activities.
The Guzara socio-economic study, chir pine forest inventory and pulping test
for chir pine, and the first phase of the feasibility study have been com-
pleted. As a result of these developments, the final phase of the
feasibility study is expected to commence in the Fall of 1982.
Credit No. 813         Punjab Extension and Agricultural Development:
US$ 12.5 Million Credit of June 6, 1978; Effective
Date: September 12, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The project is behind schedule despite some progress in staff
recruitment, acquisition of building sites and construction work. Implemen-
tation of the T&V system and the research-extension linkages continue to be
weak. Low salaries for village level staff and delays in recruiting consult-
ants remain problems.
Credit No. 846         Fauji Fertilizer:  US$55 Million Credit of September 14,
1978; Effective Date: December 19, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The plant is nearing completion and commercial production is due to
start in April 1982.



- 36 -
Credit No. 867         Toot Oil and Gas Development:  US$30 Million Credit of
January 12, 1979; Effective Date: April 25, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1983
Tw7o new producing oil wells in the Toot field have recently been
completed despite very difficult drilling problems. However, serious
well-drilling and management problems still persist. Project implementation
is about 15 months behind schedule. The Closing Date, originally December
31, 1981, has been extended to March 31, 1983, to allow completion of the
original 8-well drilling program.
Credit No. 877         Salinity Control and Reclamation Project (SCARP) Mar-
dan: US$60 Million Credit of February 7, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: October 16, 1979; Closing Date: June 30,
1986
Initial budgetary and other problems have been resolved and CIDA (the
project co-financier) is assisting WAPDA in scheduling implementation
activities as well as in preparing subsurface drainage design and specifica-
tions. The project is about two years behind schedule.
Credit No, 892         Primary Education:  US$10 Million Credit of April 18,
1979; Effective Date: October 23, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
Good progress is being maintained. About 80% of the project inputs
including civil works, equipment, staff appointments and training have been
provided with less than six months' delay. The evaluation program is being
redesigned after the exDeriences gained in the first 18 months of evaluation.
Credit No. 922         Sind Agricultural Extension and Adaptive Research
Project: US$9 Million Credit of June 12, 1979; Effec-
tive Date: June 26, 1981; Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Critical staff has been recruited and project implementation has
started. Recruitment of consultants has been delayed pending signing of a
project agreement between INDP and the Government.
Credit No. 957         Fourth Agricultural Development Bank:  US$30 Million
Credit of December 7, 1979; Effective Date: June 5,
1980; Closing Date: December 31, 1982
Overall progress of the agricultural credit component has been satis-
factory and the agricultural engineering training component has begun. It is
anticipated that project completion will be about one year behind schedule.



- 37 -
Credit No. 968         Third WAPDA Power:  US$45 Million Credit of January 10,
1980; Effective Date: July 30, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
Despite some delays, mainly in land acquisition, execution of the
project is proceeding satisfactorily. Procurement action schedules and
construction targets for substations and transmission lines are generally
being met.
Credit No. 974         Third Highway:  US$50 Million Credit of April 9, 1980;
Effective Date: August 21, 1980; Closing Date: June
30, 1984
Of the five rehabilitation contracts, two are nearing completion, one
has been terminated due to poor performance by the contractor and re-awarded,
and work is progressing slowly on the remaining two contracts. Discussions
are in progress on equipment procurement and provision of technical assis-
tance to two provincial governments to improve road maintenance, and several
contractors have shown interest in using loans through IDBP for purchase of
mechanical equipment.
Credit No. 1019        PICIC Industrial Development:  US$40 Million Credit of
May 30, 1980; Effective Date: October 29, 1980; Clos-
ing Date: March 31, 1984
As of March 31, 1982, about US$29 million had been authorized for
sub-loans and US$10.8 million disbursed. The Government and PICIC have taken
corrective measures to improve collections on past sub-loans, and implementa-
tion of the project is proceeding well'
Credit No. 1066        Fertilizer Imports Credit:  SDR 38.2 Million Credit
(US$50 Million equivalent) of October 17, 1980; Effec-
tive Date: December 1, 1980; Closing Date: September
30, 1982
As of March 1982, about US$21 million had been committed. The Clos-
ing Date, originally June 30, 1981, has been extended to September 30, 1982
to accommodate the award of contract for and shipment of the remaining fer-
tilizer under the project.
Credit No. 1109        Fifth Education (Vocational Training):  SDR 19.7 Mil-
lion Credit (US$25 Million equivalent) of April 24,
1981; Effective Date: October 27, 1981; Closing Date:
December 31, 1986
Agreements have been reached with ILO for the provision of technical
assistance services and for procurement of equipment, and a contract signed
with architectural consultants for the provision of design services. The



- 38 -
institutional and in-plant training components are about six months behind
schedule.
Credit No. 1113         Small Industries:  SDR 23.6 Million Credit (US$30
Million equivalent) of April 24, 1981; Effective Date:
October 6, 1981, Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Sub-loan commitment started in January 1982 after key commercial bank
loan officers were trained in November/December 1981. Bidding for equipment
and selection of consultants for the service centers are in progress.
Evaluation of proposals and selection of consultants for the export promotion
and the project development components are ongoing.
Credit No. 1157        Grain Storage:  SDR 26.1 Million Credit (US$32 Million
equivalent) of October 21, 1981; Effective Date: March
15, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
This Credit was declared effective on March 15, 1982.
Credit No. 1158        Agricultural Research:  SDR 19.7 Million Credit (US$24
Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effective Date:
April 29, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This Credit is not yet effective.
Credit No. 1163         On-Farm Water Management:  SDR 33.4 Million Credit
(US$41 Million equivalent) of August 19, 1981; Effec-
tive Date: March 31, 1982; Closing Date: December 31,
1984
This Credit was declared effective on March 30, 1982.
Credit No. 1186         Second Industrial Development Bank of Pakistan
(IDBP II): SDR 26.7 Million Credit (US$30 Million
equivalent) of February 19, 1982; Effective Date:
May 19, 1982; Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
This Credit is not yet effective.



- 39 -
ANNEX III
PAKISTAN
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:            Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
18 months.
(b) Agency which prepared the project:
National Fertilizer Corporation of Pakistan.
(c) Date of first presentation to the Bank, and
date of first Bank mission to consider the
project:
June 1980 and November 1980.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission:
November 5, 1981.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations:
May 4, 1982.
(f) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 1982.
Section II:           Special Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:          Special Conditions
(i) Goverment to ensure ex-factory prices for
fertilizer are kept at a level to allow
producers to earn sufficient revenues; if
prices exceed retail prices, government to
compensate producers promptly for difference



- 40 -
between ex-factory and retail prices
(paragraph 38); government to periodically
review with the Bank its fertilizer pricing
formula (paragraph 60);
(ii)  Pakistan Railways to implement and thereafter
maintain satisfactory schedules for operating
block trains from plants to storage locations
(paragraph 41);
(iii)  Government to implement a system to adequately
compensate producers for marketing costs
(paragraph 42);
(iv)  Government to take all necessary action to enable
the NFC Group to attract and retain adequately
qualified staff (paragraph 65).
The following would be special conditions of effectiveness
(paragraph 81):
(a) execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and NFC;
(b) execution of Sub-Loan Agreements between NFC and
PFL, and NFC and PAFL.



IBRD 16234
62°                                      61 °                                        70°              1                         714'           MARCH 1982
62'                                        66'                                        7'O.74 
U.   S.    S.    R.           <
PA KI SA N                                                           r  -,: -52  CHINA
PAKISTAN
FERTILIZER INDUSTRY REHABILITATION                                                                                                  - a
PROJECT                                                                                   (fO                               36k.
FERTILIZER PLANTS.                                                     k                 >                     -         J
*     PROJECT PLANTS
OTHER NFC PLANTS                                                                                    .                              AppeoxksS
*     PRIVATE SECTOR PLANTS                                                                    .4          S                             Lin.ofC..tr.l.
PSFL   ABBREVIATED NAME OF FERTILIZER PRODUCERS                        Gi  I/Obb*
e PRINCIPAL NATURAL GAS/OIL FIELDS                                                                        HU d  CLFPL  <      AND  KASHMIR
NATURAL GAS PIPELINES
ROADS
=.-t-   RAILWAYS                                                                                                       R w    d
'   RIVERS
----PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES t|_9_<¢g
-.-   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
I RAud Nhe~                                   Gu1rar     OSalkogI
'I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Nal -K ^u-  n'd;                                                                                     *
32-rwalc 0                                                                                                                   100         2           30           0  0
)     0                 100                200                300
<'1  -,    "s,srt      Q-~h.                                                                                    rc
\This map has heen preparad bV the World BaFnk s staff aoocsusowly for the onvonaen
of the readers of the report to which ,t as attached The densminatbisnn coed and thr.
62  66°n70°                              nariehsws  on this ma d notiply,on the partof the World Bank and its
o   acdeptan of 0000 bondaries



