Document of
The World Bank   FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-26 7 la-UG
REPORT AND RECONMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED REOCNSTRUCTION CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
January 29, 1980
This documat bas a resricted distibution and may be used by recipients only In tbe perfonmance of
their ofecl dutl. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed witbout World Bank u Iorizston



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      =        Uganda Shilling (USh)
US$1.00            =        USh 7.5
UShl.00            =        US$0.13
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
RECONSTRUCTION CREDIT
Table of Contents
Page No.
Summary ......................................................i
Part I - The Economy  . ...................... .************...........                  1
Part II - Government Policy and the Rehabilitation Program ........                      5
Part III -Bank Group Operations                  .................................      18
Part IV -The Reconstruction Credit                    ............................. *.    20
Part V- Legal Instruments and Authority   ......... .................    25
Part VI - Recommendation ................................. ............   25
Annex I - Country Data
Annex II - Status of Bank Group Operations in Uganda
Annex III - Supplementary Data Sheet
Annex IV - Imports Eligible for Financing under the
Reconstruction Credit
Annex V - Statistical Annex
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






UGANDA
RECONSTRUCTION CREDIT
SUMMARY OF THE PROPOSED CREDIT
Borrower            : Government of Uganda.
Credit Amount       : US$72.5 million, of which US$17.5 million would
be provided under a participation arrangement with
the Government of the Netherlands.
Terms               : Standard
Cofinancing         : IDA will administer an EEC Special Action Credit of
approximately US$20 million equivalent (on standard
IDA terms) and a grant of Can$3 million (approximately
US$2.6 million equivalent) on behalf of the Government
of Canada.
Purpose                The proposed IDA credit, together with the EEC Special
Action Credit and the Canadian grant would make avail-
able a total of approximately US$95 million to help
meet the priority import requirements of the Government
of Uganda's economic reconstruction program. These
funds would be allocated to the procurement of replace-
ment equipment for manufacturing enterprises, raw
materials and spare parts, agricultural implements and
inputs, vehicles and vehicle spare parts in accordance
with the Government's foreign exchange allocation
budget. Counterpart funds would be allocated to the
recurrent or capital costs of projects included in the
reconstruction program.
The main risk which this operation faces is whether the
Government will take necessary policy actions to remove
the distortions resulting from the present over-
valuation of the Uganda shilling, and whether at the
same time the Government can adequately control the
internal distribution system to prevent smuggling and
diversion of essential commodities away from their
intended users. However, we have received assurances
concerning the administrative and financial actions
which the Government has taken and intends to take in
the near future to deal with this risk.
Estimated Period
of Disbursements   : March - June 1980.
Procurement
Arrangements       : Procurement would be on the basis of normal commercial
practices except that contracts of over US$2 million
would require international competitive bidding. Imports



- ii -
will be procured by the Government, parastatal enter-
prises or private firms. All Government import orders
are reviewed for price and quality standards by the
Central Tender Board of the Ministry of Finance.
Similar review procedures for parastatal and private
sector imports are performed by the Uganda Advisory
Board of Trade. The Bank of Uganda reviews the recom-
mendations of the Central Tender Board and the Advisory
Board of Trade in making allocations of foreign exchange.
Appraisal Report       None.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED RECONSTRUCTION CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
reconstruction credit to the Republic of Uganda for the equivalent of
US$72.5 million on standard IDA terms, of which US$17.5 million would be
provided under a participation arrangement with the Netherlands Government.
The IDA credit would be supplemented by a proposed Special Action Credit
equivalent to approximately US$20 million. The Special Action Credit would
be made to the Republic of Uganda from the EEC Special Artion Account in
accordance with the terms of the agreement of May 2, 1978, between the
Association and the European Economic Community. The Association will
also administer a grant of Can$3 million (approximately US$2.6 million
equivalent) from the Government of Canada in accordance with the terms of
the agreement of April 22, 1977, between the Government of Canada and the
Association, as amended.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        The last economic report on Uganda was circulated in June 1969
(Report No. AE-2). Since 1971 there has been a hiatus in World Bank Group
operations in Uganda, as reviewed in Part III below. However, after the
change in Government in early 1979, two economic missions visited the country;
the first was a reconnaissance mission in July 1979 and the second was an
appraisal mission for this reconstruction credit in September 1979. The
findings of these missions are incorporated in this report. In addition,
analysis of the present situation of the Ugandan economy and its reconstruc-
tion needs has been greatly assisted by a report prepared, at the invitation
and with the assistance of the Government, by a team of experts under the
auspices of the Commonwealth Secretariat. 1/
3.        As the Commonwealth Report eloquently put it:  "The Government of
the National Liberation Movement inherited a country in ruins." Uganda,
which in 1970 had one of the highest per capita incomes in Eastern Africa,
experienced a decline in real GDP estimated at about one percent per annum on
average from the early 1970s through 1978. With population growth averaging
more than three percent per annum, per capita GNP fell by about 25 percent.
The decline was particularly severe in the modern sector, with the output of
monetary agriculture, manufacturing, mining and construction all having
fallen. Only subsistence agriculture achieved some growth, as farmers turned
away from the production of export cash crops (principally coffee, tea, cotton
and tobacco) towards essential food crops. Real investment also fell sharply.
1/   Commonwealth Secretariat, Fund for Technical Cooperation, The Rehabilita-
tion of the Economy of Uganda; two volumes, London, June 1979.



4.        The decline in the modern sector of the economy was reflected in
the changing structure of output. In the early 1970s, about 70 percent of
GDP originated in the monetary economy; monetary agriculture accounted for
some 24 percent; industry 11 percent; and modern tertiary sector activity
about one-third. By 1978, it is estimated that the share of subsistence
agriculture had increased from 27 percent to over one third and that the
non-monetary economy accounted for nearly 40 percent. Almost all modern
sector production declined. The table below compares previous production
levels for selected agricultural commodities and manufactured goods with
estimates for the most recent period.
TABLE 1
Production of Selected Agricultural and Industrial Commodities
Unit                      Production
Peak Year      Latest Year
Monetary Agriculture
Coffee                  '000 metric tons          251 (1969)      120 (1978/79)
Cotton                    of   "      "            79 (1972/73)   15 (1978/79)
Tea                       "    t      "            23 (1971/72)   11 (1978/79)
Sugar                      '   "      '          141 (1970/71)    8 (1978/79)
Tobacco                   '    "      "             5 (1972/73)    2 (1978/79)
Manufacturing                                 Average 1971-73   Latest Year
Consumer Goods
Vegetable oil           "    "      "            14               1 (1978)
Cotton oil            million sq. meters         44             25 (1978)
Blankets              million pieces         1,154             595 (1978)
Soap                  '000 metric tons          11                1 (1978)
Industrial Goods
Steel ingots            "    "                   21               3 (1978)
Corrugated iron
sheets                "    "                  11               2 (1978)
Cement                  "    "      "           171              50 (1978)
Hoes                  million pieces              1               - (1978)
Source: Data provided by the Ugandan authorities.



- 3 -
5.        These output declines were largely attributable to the policies
followed by the Government. In 1970, the Government took majority participa-
tion in a number of large companies. After the change in Government in 1971
this policy was at first reversed; however, when the "economic war" was
declared by Amin many more foreign-owned businesses were nationalized.
In 1972, most Ugandans of Asian origin were expelled and their businesses
allocated to Government nominees. In 1975, more foreign businesses were
expropriated. Uganda did not possess the manpower resources to cope effi-
ciently with this sudden increase in the number of businesses in the public
sector or in the hands of inexperienced businessmen. No program was devel-
oped to augment the manpower resources available (in fact, Uganda lost
trained manpower during this period), or to support and strengthen the
newly-created parastatals and small private businesses. Only bank credit was
provided -- from 1971 to 1978, credit to the private and parastatal sectors
more than trebled, in many cases under pressure from the authorities to lend
to unviable enterprises. As a result, many parastatals became heavily
encumbered with debt. In addition, periodic attempts to impose price control
worsened the parastatals' economic problems and stimulated the trend towards
black marketeering.
6.        The balance of payments situation was seriously affected by these
trends. From 1970-71 to 1978 both exports and imports fell by over 55 per-
cent in real terms. Uganda had formerly exported significant quantities of
tea, tobacco, sugar and cotton, but production of these cash crops declined
precipitously, leaving coffee as the only significant export crop. Coffee's
share in export receipts increased from 53 percent in 1971 to over 90 percent
in 1978, despite a decline in official coffee exports from 175,000 tons in
1971 to 113,000 tons in 1978. The cumulative balance of payments deficit
for the period 1970-78 amounted to over US$130 million, of which some US$100
million accumulated as unpaid arrears. While Uganda experienced some respite
from its balance of payments problems during the coffee price boom of 1976-77
(when higher coffee export earnings permitted some relaxation of import con-
trols and the country was able to import vehicles, spare parts, raw materials
and consumer goods), with the decline in coffee prices in 1978 the balance of
payments again showed a large deficit. By the end of 1978 gross foreign
exchange reserves covered less than two months' import requirements and net
foreign assets were only marginally positive.
7.        In addition to declines in the real value of exports and imports,
Uganda experienced a fall in net capital inflows. In 1971 and 1972, net
official capital inflows were approximately US$30 million per year; by 1978
they had declined to US$12 million, implying a much greater decline in real
terms. At the same time, outflows of short-term capital increased. However,
a corollary of the decreasing level of external assistance flows to Uganda
after 1971 was a correspondingly low level of public debt; recorded external
public debt outstanding rose from US$210 million at the end of 1972 to only
US$270 million at the end of 1978.1/ As a result, the ratio of Uganda's debt
1/   The World Bank Group accounted for 21 percent of total debt outstanding
at the end of 1978, the USSR for 20 percent, and the UK for 12 percent.



-4-
service to export proceeds fell to 5 percent in 1978; however, if payment
arrears on external debt are added to debt service, this ratio would have been
8 percent.
8.        Despite the contracting real economy, the Government's budgetary
operations were strongly expansionist. Total expenditures increased fromi
UShs 1.9 billion in 1970/71 to.UShs 5.2 billion in 1976/77, while revenuep
only increased from UShs 1.3 billion to UShs 3.4 billion, and net foreign
borrowing actually decreased.  Net domestic financing, almost entirely through
the banking system, rose from a little over UShs 350 million in 1970/71 to
UShs 1.6 billion in 1976/77. This heavy deficit financing by the Government
was the major cause of the nearly six-fold increase in the money supply
between 1971 and 1978. While the improvement in coffee prices boosted Govern-
ment revenues significantly and reduced the recourse to deficit financing in
1977/78, the deficit and Government borrowing from the banking system both
rose sharply again in 1978/79. The Government's finances are presented in
Table 2 below (page 11).
9.        Because of the severe shortfalls in domestic production and the
scarcity of imports, coupled with heavy Government deficit spending and
resultant monetary expansion, inflation was rampant. The official low-income
consumer price index (which may actually understate true price inflation) rose
at an average annual rate of 36 percent from 1970 to 1978. Despite this
high inflation rate the official minimum wage was increased only 54 percent
over these years; civil service salaries also fell sharply in real terms.
10.       By early 1979, these trends had resulted in a serious deterioration
in economic and social conditions. The war with Tanzania, which led to
the fall of the Amin regime, and the looting which followed the fighting,
greatly exacerbated the situation. After the war, shops stood empty and
closed; people queued for essential commodities; industrial and repair
facilities lay idle and deserted; tea and sugar estates were overgrown;
the roads, the railway and its rolling stock stood in need of repair, and
the main airport at Entebbe was closed to international traffic. The lorry
fleet, which numbered over 7,000 in 1970, had fallen to about 1,600 shortly
after the liberation, many of the trucks having been driven to neighboring
countries. Buses, private autos and tractors in large numbers were also
stolen. There were shortages of essential drugs and medicines; diseases
which had formerly been largely eliminated from Uganda (such as cholera) had
spread once again; schools and hospitals had been ransacked; and water and
sewerage systems were in a state of severe dilapidation. The discipline and
organization of the modern economy had been undermined; almost everyone,
including Government officials,had to participate in the black market to
survive.
11.       The new Government of Uganda thus faced a most difficult and
demanding set of problems upon taking office. However, the priorities for
action were clear. The first requisite was to reestablish basic law and
order and political stability. This had to be coupled with a resumption of
the flow of essential commodities into normal market channels, which would in
turn depend upon a resumption of the flow of imports and of domestic produc-
tion. Restoration of domestic manufacturing production would also increase



-5-
urban employment and Incomes, thus reinforcing the effort to reduce lawless-
ness and insecurity. Economic revival would obviously depend on both revers-
Ing the deterioration in the administrative and policy environment which had
developed over the previous eight years and on a massive inflow of foreign
exchange. The exchange rate was overvalued, agricultural producer prices
were inadequate, the cooperative and parastatal sectors were seriously in
debt, government finance was out of control and external debt was in arrears.
Both Internal and external transport bottlenecks impeded economic recovery.
Foreign exchange was needed to Increase the flow of essential imports, to
provide the machinery, raw materials and spare parts of which Ugandan indus-
try had been starved for years, to alleviate the transport bottlenecks and to
start the maintenance or rehabilitation of Infrastructure. Since foreign
exchange was a critical element in economic revival, and because restoration
of export production (other than coffee stocks already in the supply pipe-
line) would require some time, It was apparent that the Government would need
substantial amounts of external assistance to begin reconstruction.
PART II - GOVERNMENT POLICY AND THE REHABILITATION PROGRAM
Economic and Social Policy
12.       In October 1979, the new Government issued an economic and social
policy declaration which had been reviewed by all concerned ministries and
endorsed by the interim legislative body, the National Consultative Council.
The policy statement declares the central objectives of the Government to be
rapid economic growth, improved Income distribution, an equitable spread of
development across the entire country, and improved social services.
13.       The respective roles of the Government, the private and cooperative
sectors are defined in the policy statement. The Government will be respons-
lble for social services and essential infrastructure (roads, power, water
supply and telecommunications). In addition, the Government will, through
parastatal organizations, participate in productive sectors in cases where an
industry is of strategic importance, where a development need is evident, or
where capital requirements are too large for private enterprise. Consequently,
the Government will retain a controlling interest in key industries and will
continue to control the marketing of key crops and minerals. It will also
retain its interests in the financial, insurance and external trade fields.
In the statement the Government acknowledges the financial problems inherited
by the parastatal organizations and expresses its commitment to address
them; the statement emphasizes that the Government expects public enterprises
to be efficient and profitable.
14.       The statement notes that the private sector, comprising both local
and foreign investors, will be encouraged either to participate jointly with
the Government in the enterprises in which the Government has decided to take
a controlling interest, or to operate independently in those areas where the
Government is not directly involved. Indigenous private entrepreneurs will be



- 6 -
given certain preferences, but foreign investors will be safeguarded under the
provisions of the 1964 Foreign Investment Protection Act. 1/
15.       The statement highlights the role of agriculture, which is the major
occupation of the people of Uganda. The Government intends to support small-
holders as well as to encourage medium scale farming, by ensuring appropriate
production incentives (adequate producer prices, availability of inputs,
provision of training, extension services and credit). It also intends to
strengthen the marketing and cooperative systems, both of which suffered under
the previous regime. An outline of the Government's priorities in the other
major sectors--livestock, mining, forestry, fisheries, manufacturing, tourism,
housing, manpower and education--is also presented in the policy paper.
16.       The policy paper is essentially a general statement of the Govern-
ment's overall views and the direction in which it wishes to move. However,
during the implementation of the rehabilitation program more specific policy
decisions will have to be made in such areas as the role of controls, invest-
ment incentives, incomes policy, etc.
The Rehabilitation Program
17.       The Government has adopted a two-phase strategy to revive the
economy. The priorities in the first phase (which it was hoped could be
accomplished within six months) are to restore essential service and stimulate
the production and sale through official channels of export cash crops (coffee,
cotton, tea and tobacco). The Government has estimated that imports totalling
about US$670 million would be needed for this first phase, of which the main
components, reflecting the priorities indicated above, would be agricultural
and industrial inputs (24 percent), transport equipment and spares (17 per-
cent), basic consumer goods (15 percent), petroleum (13 percent), housing (12
percent), and social services and administration (11 percent).
18.       The second phase (expected to cover an additional 18 months) calls
for the initiation of a medium-term investment program directed at rehabilitat-
ing the key productive sectors and social infrastructure to the levels which
prevailed in 1970. It comprises a broad range of needed expenditures across
1/   The Foreign Investment Protection Act of 1964 protects foreign investors
against compulsory acquisition and provides for the remittance of bona
fide profits, proceeds of sale, debt service or compensation payments
related to foreign enterprises approved by the Government.



all sectors, many of which (by contrast with phase one) may be more easily
identified as discrete projects. The total cost of the second phase is
estimated at US$1.5 billion, of which US$1.2 billion would be foreign exchange.
A large proportion (36 percent) would consist of social infrastructure, and
15 percent is earmarked for financial institutions (principally the Uganda
Development Bank and the Uganda Development Corporation). The remaining
expenditure would cover industry and tourism, agriculture and transport (each
14 percent of the program), and telecommunications (8 percent).
19.       In addition to adopting the framework of this two-phase approach to
rehabilitation, the Government has had to make a series of policy decisions
on important economic issues. While in many areas specific policies are still
evolving, the Government's present views on the major economic issues are
summarized below:
(a) Domestic Prices and the Exchange Rate
20.       A major obstacle to rehabilitation is the present divergence between
official, black market, and international prices. Black market prices for
basic consumer items generally range from three to five times the official or
controlled retail price, which is in turn usually related to but higher than
the border price of that item, reckoned at the official exchange rate.
Furthermore, while reliable data are lacking, it is apparent that the majority
of transactions take place at black market rather than at official prices.
Correspondingly, the black market exchange rate for the Uganda shilling has
fluctuated between eight and twelve times the official rate in recent months.
In this situation the profit opportunities for those who are able to buy
locally produced goods at official prices, or to obtain foreign exchange
licenses at the official exchange rate but sell the imported goods at the
black market price, are great.  Thus, both the price control system and
the foreign exchange allocation system are being subjected to enormous pres-
sures.  In addition to black market profit opportunities and smuggling, the
present overvaluation of the Uganda shilling has further important adverse
effects on a range of areas; to name a few, the incentives to agricultural
export production, the profitability of import-substitution manufacturing at
controlled prices, the level of rural and urban wages, and the Government
budget.
21.       There are various approaches to the black market aspect of the
problem. In a situation of continuing foreign exchange scarcity it could be
at least partially dealt with through a foreign exchange auction system or by
taxes on the use of foreign exchange. However, either of these might effec-
tively institute a dual exchange rate and would create further administrative
problems. A further measure would be to make more foreign exchange available,
either from increased export earnings, foreign assistance or external borrow-
ing. An increased volume of imports could then be procured which would drive
down domestic prices. Similarly, more foreign exchange allocated to the
procurement of raw materials and spare parts for domestic manufacturing
establishments would permit a resumption of local production; the resulting
increase in supply would have the same effect on the present black market
price level. However, the needs for foreign exchange under this alternative



would be enormous. Similiasly, given the limited domestic production capacity,
even a significant increase in the availability of local goods would still
leave their prices, in most cases, well above their border equivalents.
22.       Of course, on the demand side, downward pressure on domestic prices
can be exercised by reducing li4uidity in the financial system. However, to
reduce black market prices to official levels would probably require a more
massive reduction in money incomes than could realistically be envisaged,
given the present low consumption levels of the population.  It is in any
case doubtful whether the monetary authorities control enough of the pur-
chasing power available to the Ugandan public to enable such strict monetary
control to be effective.  Thus, while some decrease in liquidity may have
resulted from the introduction of a new currency in October, 1979, it is
unlikely to have been substantial.
23.       It is evident, taking all the above factors into consideration, that
an adjustment in the official exchange rate will be required. In addition to
reducing black market profits, a devaluation would bring a number of longer-
run benefits. It should stimulate an increase in export supply over the
medium-term, and quite possibly within a shorter time (perhaps one year),
provided part of the benefits are passed on to producers in the form of higher
shilling prices. The price increase recently introduced for coffee (para.
35 below) has already had a positive effect in attracting more output into
official marketing channels, leading to a higher volume of official exports,
and may also have stimulated some improvements in crop husbandry. A devalua-
tion would also have a positive impact on the Government budget since it would
raise the shilling value of export taxes on coffee, the shilling value of
imports and thereby of customs duties, and also the shilling equivalent of
external financing. Finally, a devaluation could permit an increase in
nominal wages. Such labor-intensive agricultural operations as sugar harvest-
ing and tobacco and tea cultivation are now constrained by the non-availability
of rural labor at the present rural wage. A substantial increase in the
shilling value of these export crops should permit cultivators to pay higher
wages.
24.       Accepting this analysis, the Government sees devaluation as a
key element in the reconstruction program, and has categorically stated that
it will take appropriate action on the exchange rate in the near future,
before the end of the 1979/80 financial year. However, the Government
believes that an exchange rate adjustment would have maximum effect if syn-
chronized with other aspects of the reconstruction program, including a
massive increase in the availability of goods, both from imports and from
domestic production. It is the Government's view that if devaluation were to
take place before a revival in supply, the result could be a short-term
disruption due to a speculative withdrawal of supplies from the market.
In addition, devaluation would be ineffective in stimulating production
if unaccompanied by an increase in the supply of goods. The Government
has therefore concluded that the perceived risks of devaluation would be
much reduced if it were carried out once goods become more readily available
on the market.



-9-
(b) Fiscal Policy
25.       Preparation of the 1979/80 budget was disrupted by the war in the
first half of 1979. As a result, the new Government did not have time to
issue the 1979/80 budget before the beginning of the fiscal year on July 1.
In addition, the fiscal accounts of the previous government required careful
review because monitoring systems and expenditure controls had largely broken
down. As indicated earlier, budgetary performance throughout the 1970s was
characterized by large deficits, which were financed through recourse to the
banking system, by sharp increases in unproductive items of expenditure such
as defense, police, prisons and internal affairs, by misappropriation of
funds, and by accumulation of unpaid bills and extra-budgetary expenditure,
while virtual collapse of revenue administration led to widespread evasion of
taxes.
26.       However, the new Government has given high priority to addressing
these inherited fiscal problems, and specifically to producing a more real-
istic budget. As a result, in early December, after thorough review and
preparation, a comprehensive budget and financing plan were published. These
have been analyzed and accepted by the IMF as part of the understandings in
the recently approved program for use of Fund facilities (para. 53 below).
Data assembled in Table 2 bring out the salient features of the new budget,
together with comparative figures for the past four years. The 1979/80 budget
shows total revenue of UShs 4,871 million, including external grants for
rehabilitation of UShs 504 million, compared with UShs 3,197 million in
1978/79. The actual revenue for 1979/80 would be further improved when the
Government adjusts the exchange rate.
27.       Recurrent expenditure in the past two years ranged around UShs 4.1
billion but is projected at UShs 5.0 billion in 1979/80; this amount includes
UShs 821 million for financing security arrangements with Tanzania. However,
it does not include any provision for public sector salary increases which
will, in due course, be needed if incentives are to be restored in the public
service. These will only be affordable once revenues increase significantly
through the general revival of economic activity and an exchange rate
adjustment.
28.       Development expenditure in 1979/80 is estimated at UShs 1,815 mil-
lion; of this total, UShs 965 million is to finance on-going projects, while
only UShs 850 million is earmarked for new capital expenditures under the
rehabilitation program, an amount determined by the level of foreign aid
commitments received to date and not by absorptive capacity. The bulk of the
capital outlays for rehabilitation will be on-lent to the parastatals and some
will be lent indirectly to the private sector. Of the UShs 1,048 million
external aid (grants of UShs 504 million, loans of UShs 544 million) committed
for rehabilitation during the 1979/80 fiscal year (the data differ from those
in paragraphs 40-43 below on the balance of payments which are on a calendar
year basis) some UShs 943 million will finance capital outlays (with UShs 105



- 10 -
million or 10 percent financed locally.) The rehabilitation program included
under the 1979/80 budget is, however, only a very small proportion of the
total reconstruction effort; the bulk of it has to await the mobilization of
additional external resources from the international community. If additional
aid is committed well before the end of the fiscal year, absorptive capacity
exists to increase the rehabilitation component of the development budget
accordingly.
29.       The overall deficit in 1979/80 is estimated at UShs 1,934 million,
as compared with UShs 2,244 million in 1978/79. Of the overall deficit,
foreign borrowing (net) is expected to cover UShs 344 million (UShs 43 million
in 1978/79), while borrowing from the domestic banking and non-bank sectors
will cover UShs 1,590 million (UShs 2,201 million in 1978/79).



- 11 -
TABLE 2
Uganda: Central Government Financial
Accounts, 1975/76 - 1979/80
(In Millions of Ugandan Shillings)
1975/76  1976/77  1977/78 1/  1978/79 2/  1979/80 3/
REVENUE
Recurrent revenue        2,223    3,369       5,841       3,156        4,305
External grants             107        2       -           -             504
Development revenue         13        21         15           41          62
Total                  2,343    3,392      5,856        3,197        4,871
EXPENDITURE
Recurrent                2,954    3,632       4,113       4,134        4,990 4/
Development                816    1,037       1,755       1,098        1,815
Other 5/                   257       496        419         209         -
Total                  4,027    5,165      6,287        5,441        6,805
(of which:  Defense)   (678)    (992)   (1,187)          (967)      (1,403) 4/
OVERALL DEFICIT             1,684    1,773        431        2,244       1,934
FINANCING
Foreign (net)              280       148         68           43         344
Domestic (net)           1,404    1,625         363       2,201        1,590 6/
Banking system        (1,373)  (1,459)       (323)     (2,052)
Non-bank                 (31)    (166)        (40)       (149)
1/   Provisional.
2/   Estimate.
3/   Budget.
4/   Includes Shs821 million for financing Tanzanian security forces.
_/   Includes extra-budgetary expenditure, the difference between cheques
issued and paid in the same fiscal year, and unrecorded cash outlays.
6/   Includes UShs61O million domestic sale of Government stock.  Information
is not available on the distribution of this stock sale between the
banking and non-bank sectors.



- 12 -
(c) Foreign Aid Mobilization
30.       The new Government has exerted considerable effort to mobilize the
foreign economic assistance essential to mount the reconstruction program.
An aid coordination office has been set up in the Ministry of Finance and
technical assistance to this department is being provided by the Bank Group.
An initial conference of bilateral and multi-lateral aid donor representatives
and non-governmental aid organizations was convened in Kampala in July 1979.
A follow-up meeting to review the priority needs of the transport sector was
held in August. However, the response to these initial appeals was minimal.
Therefore, in order to provide the framework for a more comprehensive approach
to the donor community, in November a Consultative Group Meeting of donors was
held in Paris with the assistance and under the chairmanship of the Bank Group.
At this Meeting, following a full and frank discussion of Uganda's problems
and external assistance needs, more concrete assurances of assistance from
donors were forthcoming. However, as elaborated below (paras. 41-43), the
amount of quick-disbursing assistance now likely to be available over the
coming year is still well below the requirements of the first phase of
reconstruction.
(d) Planning
31.       The initial attention of the new Government correctly focussed on
the priorities of the short-term rehabilitation program.  However, the Govern-
ment also intends to reestablish machinery for effective medium-term planning.
It has set up a National Planning Commission, consisting of ministers with
economic and social portfolios, with a secretariat in the Ministry of Plan-
ning and Economic Development. In the past the planning ministry has not
had sufficient influence on determination of macro-economic and sectoral
priorities or on project selection and review. It is therefore especially
important that it be strengthened so that it can play a central role in the
new planning system. To assist in this effort, the Bank Group, as executing
agency for a UNDP-financed project, will provide assistance to the ministry
in staffing and training.   In addition, a National Manpower Council is being
proposed, to take stock of available and potential Ugandan manpower and
to reinstitute manpower planning. The Bank Group is also preparing a tech-
nical assistance project which will provide funding, to supplement that
available from other sources, for consultant studies, project identification,
feasibility studies, and training in project appraisal.
(e) Domestic Credit and the Parastatal Sector
32.       The financial viability of some of the cooperatives, particularly of
coffee growers, has improved following the increases in crop producer prices
recently enacted, and many now are able to obtain credit on a commercial
basis. In addition, the poor financial position of some of the parastatals
and cooperatives is due to low turnover and should be improved simply through



- 13 -
a revival in import supply. Moreover, the issue of parastatal indebtedness
has not yet become pressing, in large part because the imports for which
domestic finance will be required have not yet become significant due to the
insufficiency of foreign exchange. Of the US$160 million equivalent allo-
cated by the Bank of Uganda for imports during July-November 1979, only some
US$27 million was unutilized for lack of domestic credit. However, in order
to support the reconstruction program, action may soon be required to re-
organize and refinance some of the parastatals which experienced losses under
the previous regime and to adjust prices so that they become viable. With
this problem in mind the Government has established a task force in the
Ministry of Finance to review parastatal organizations and make recommenda-
tions on their future status, including their financial needs. As it will
take some time for this review to be completed, in the interim priority should
be given to mechanisms which will enable a quick response to credit requests
by parastatals to finance essential imports under the reconstruction program.
(f) External Debt and Compensation Claims
33.       The new Government has inherited a manageable external public debt
and commercial arrears problem, but at the same time it is confronted with a
large number of compensation claims resulting from expropriations carried out
by predecessor regimes. These concern enterprises taken over prior to 1971,
during the 1972 "economic war" and subsequent to 1972; they involve both
foreign individuals and companies and Ugandan citizens, mainly of Asian
origin. With respect to external public debt, the Government is examining the
purposes for which past debt was incurred and, in cases where legitimate
obligations exist, intends to continue with scheduled payments or to work out
alternative repayment terms with creditors. In numerous cases Uganda has
already or will be afforded debt relief for past bilateral development loans.
With respect to private compensation claims, the Government has been conduct-
ing negotiations with some former owners of agricultural and industrial
enterprises in Uganda. The Government hopes that this will lead to the return
of these companies and individuals, and their involvement in the rehabilita-
tion of export crops and essential consumer goods production. In addition,
the Government has publicly stated its resolve to settle expropriation cases
through the payment of fair compensation. A Compensation Committee has been
established to investigate claims and to conduct negotiations.
(g) Foreign Exchange Allocation
34.       The Government has reestablished systems for regulating public
procurement and foreign exchange allocation to eliminate the serious abuses
which occurred under the previous regime. These mechanisms return responsibi-
lity for expenditure control and foreign exchange budgeting to the Ministry
of Finance and the Bank of Uganda. These systems are described in Part IV
below.



- 14 -
(h) Agricultural Producer Prices
35.       The principal export crop producer prices have been raised in a
commendable effort to improve the incentive to produce and market through
official channels. The increases, which were announced in July 1979, were:
robusta coffee, from UShs3.50/kg to UShs7.00/kg; tea, greenleaf, from
UShsl.25/kg to UShs2.00/kg; and seed cotton, from UShs.5.00/kg to UShs6.00/kg.
The increase in the coffee price seems already to have had a positive impact
on official marketings, whereas any impact from the cotton price cannot be
determined until the next crop season in 1980. The effectiveness of these
price increases will also depend on complementary actions in other areas,
e.g., in improving input supplies, transport facilities, repair of processing
facilities, and availability of consumer goods. Furthermore, given the
present imbalance between producer prices and consumer goods prices, as well
as the possibility of continuing inflation, it may be necessary to raise
producer prices again in order to maintain incentives.
(i) Transport
36.       Some steps have been taken by the Government to improve the trans-
port system: new lorries were purchased or leased and some have already been
delivered. Agreement has also been reached with Kenatco Transport Co. of
Kenya to supply additional trucks for transporting coffee to Mombasa. Further-
more, limited use is being made of routes to the coast through Tanzania which
were previously not available to Uganda. One result of these efforts is that
the flow of coffee leaving the country has increased to over 10,000 tons per
month, or about double the rate during the second quarter of 1979. Despite
these improvements, however, the transport system remains inadequate to handle
Uganda's reconstruction needs, especially for imports. Mombasa still accounts
for most of Uganda's external traffic and the railway within Uganda and in
Kenya is suffering from both technical and organizational problems, as well as
poor working relations between the two railway systems. Normal international
air services have still not been resumed since the hostilities, although
action is underway to address the technical difficulties presently blocking
the reopening of Entebbe airport to international traffic. Internal transport
bottlenecks also impede the distribution of needed imports for agriculture
and industry, as well as consumer goods, and the transfer of coffee and other
export crops from farmers to cooperatives and processors. More lorries and
spare parts must be procured for the public, private and parastatal sectors.
Reflecting the magnitude of these problems, the Government has estimated the
foreign exchange requirements of the transport sector during the first phase
of reconstruction to be approximately US$120 million. It recognizes that
elimination of the transport bottlenecks is clearly of the highest priority
in the rehabilitation program.
(j) Distribution
37.       The distribution system in Uganda faces various difficulties.  Most
important, under the former regime, and especially after the expulsion of



- 15 -
citizen and non-citizen Asians, businesses were allocated to unqualified
Ugandans. Then, during and immediately after the war, many businessmen fled
and their shops were looted. The Government has made some progress in
allocating these businesses, an important step in the process of reactivating
the supply of consumer goods and repairing the damage done by looting.
Commercial properties were gazetted for reallocation by the Ministry of
Commerce in August 1979, and committees have been established in each district
to scrutinize applications in accordance with criteria emphasizing business
qualifications and creditworthiness. In the interim, the Government has
established a public distribution system for essential commodities which works
through allocation committees set up at the regional and district levels.
(k) Government Administration
38.       In general, Uganda has the manpower needed to implement the recon-
struction program. While there remain specific shortages, the civil service
has managed to retain many capable individuals and it has already been
strengthened by returning exiles. The key problem is less a shortage of
manpower than the demoralization of the civil service because of the abuses
and maladministration of the previous regime. In addition, as mentioned
earlier, the real value of government salaries has fallen substantially. The
new Government has already taken certain steps to reestablish appropriate
standards of conduct and competence among public servants. It has recently
set up machinery, under the Public Service Commission, to review and evaluate
the performance of senior civil servants. If used to reward competent per-
formance, this will be an important factor in restoring administrative effi-
ciency. Furthermore, the Government has established an interministerial
technical liason committee, chaired by the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry
of Finance, to coordinate the reconstruction effort. This committee has been
meeting regularly and has proven to be an effective forum for bringing together
all the ministries and agencies concerned with reconstruction.
39.       Evaluation of Progress.  Overall, the new Government's rehabilita-
tion strategy is sound, focussing as it does on reviving existing capacity
in the productive sectors, on eliminating transport bottlenecks, and on
addressing the administrative and policy problems inherited from the previous
regime. Moreover, as reviewed above, the Government has taken a number of
important. steps to deal with major policy issues. While further action
is still needed in certain key areas - in particular the exchange rate, price
control, parastatal and cooperative debt - the Government has done all that
could have been expected thus far with the extremely limited resources at its
disposal. The resource constraints and their effect on the implementation of
the reconstruction program are discussed in detail below (para. 41-43). In
addition, the policy areas which were focused on in the preparation of the
reconstruction credit are summarized in para. 55.



- 16 -
The Balance of Payments and External Assistance
40.       Uganda's balance of payments experience from the early 1970s
through 1978 was discussed in paragraphs 6 and 7 above. With the exception
of the coffee price boom in 1976-1977, the balance of payments situation was
characterized by trade deficits, low levels of grant and loan assistance,
chronic overall deficits, and the accumulation of substantial payments
arrears. The situation did not improve markedly in 1979 (see Table 3).
Export revenues, over 95 percent of which are derived from coffee, are
expected to be slightly above the depressed 1978 level, but well below the
level of 1977. Imports, however, are expected to fall below the 1978 level
even in nominal terms, reflecting the fact that the expansion of imports
called for in the first phase of reconstruction had not yet really begun.
Official grant and loan assistance is expected to amount to only US$50
million on a net basis, excluding US$7 million drawn in August under the
IMF's Compensatory Financing Facility which has been included in the change
in net foreign reserves. Payment arrears are expected to decrease by about
US$30 million.
41.       Looking ahead to calendar year 1980, it is apparent that a much
higher level of imports will be needed if the rehabilitation effort is to
take off. The Government's estimate is that, for the first full year of
reconstruction, the minimmum import requirement to achieve the first phase out-
lined earlier will be US$1,030 million. Imports of this nominal amount would
be roughly equal in real terms to the level of imports in 1970-71, the last
years of relatively normal economic activity in Uganda and the benchmark
years for rehabilitation. However, even this level of imports would not
permit the economy to move to the 1970-71 level of production, since a large
share of the imports would be needed for replacement and maintenance that has
not been carried out for the past eight years and for rebuilding inventories.
Net services, debt amortization and other payments will probably require about
US$99 million, to which should be added about US$45 million of planned arrears
reduction, leaving payments arrears at only some US$25 million at the end of
1980, and about US$46 million increase in gross foreign exchange reserves.
Export revenues are expected to total approximately US$450 million, comprising
coffee exports of 145,000 tons (up from an expected 136,000 tons in 1979) at a
world market price of US$3.10/kg, and other exports of around US$30 million.
Taking all of the above estimates into consideration, net financing of approx-
imately US$767 million would be needed from all sources - development assist-
ance, IMF resources and private finance - to enable Uganda to achieve the
import level necessary to implement the first phase of reconstruction. This
assistance would clearly have to be of a quick-disbursing form, i.e. program
or commodity assistance, in order to permit completion of the first phase of
rehabilitation during 1980.



Table 3
UGANDA: Balance of Payments 1971-80
(US$ million)
1971         1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980
Prov.           Projected
Trade Balance                           -40.8        -25.2         85.9        131.4        -32.0          32.0      -241.7
Exports of goods                     243.9        237.2        323.6        547.9        322.0        378.7        453.3
Imports of goods                   -284.7       -262.4        -237.7       -416.5       -354.0       -346.7       -695.0
Net Services                            -40.1        -43.4        -40.7        -55.7        -98.5         -66.7        -66.7
Net Transfers 1/                         -4.8         12.6          2.1         -2.6         -3.0          16.7        117.0
Current Account Balance                 -85.7        -56.0         47.3         73.1       -133.5        -18.0        -191.4
Private Capital  (Net)                   10.6         19.5        -42.0        -44.0          95.9         18.0         85.3
Net direct investment and
loan disbursements 2/             (30.8)        (41.1)      (-23.8)      (-22.4)      (122.6)       (35.1)       (99-3)
Long term capital outflow           (-20.2)      (-21.6)      (-18.2)      (-21.6)      (-26.7)       (-17.1)      (-14.0)
Public Long-term Capital (net)           26.4         19.0         -0.4         -5.7         12.4          -2.0        142.7
Disbursements                        (55.5)       (29.1)       (10.6)       (23.6)       (17.7)        (15.3)      (168.0)
Amortization                        (-29.1)      (-10.1)      (-11.0)      (-29.3)       (-5.3)       (-17.3)      (-25.3)
Other Capital (net) 3/                    3.8        -10.4         -6.4            -          -33.1          -           6.7
Overall Balance                          44.9        -27.9         -1.5         23.4           58.3        -2.0         43.3
Accumulation of arrears                 -          28.0          2.7        -24.7           72.7       -28.0        -44.7
(- = decrease in liabilities)
Monetary authorities (net) 4/    44.9            -0.1         -1.2          1.3         -14.4         30.0          1.4
(- = increase)
Source:  Bank of Uganda, IMF and IBRD staff estimates.
1/ Includes capital grants
2/ Includes net short term capital, errors and omissions
3/ Includes allocation of SDRs
4/ Includes net use of IMF resources



- 18 -
42.       Development assistance already committed to Uganda or expected to
disburse during 1980 can currently be estimated at only US$100 million in the
form of grants and US$90 million of loans. Included in these totals are
several multilateral donors and those bilateral donors who have made reason-
ably firm commitments. Present indications are that a further US$100 million
of private loans and investments might be negotiated. In addition, US$48
million will be available from the IMF under the First Credit Tranche and
Compensatory Financing Facility. Together with the proposed IDA credit (in-
cluding the Netherlands participation) the Special Action Credit, and the
Canadian grant, this would give Uganda a total of US$434 million in balance of
payments assistance during 1980, sufficient, ceteris paribus, to finance total
imports of only US$695 million. 1/ While this would be far short of what
would be required to complete the first phase of reconstruction, it would be
sufficient to make a start on the reconstruction effort.  An import level of
US$695 million would be slightly higher in real terms than imports in 1977,
when high coffee prices permitted a slight recovery in economic activity.
43.       Uganda thus would need additional external assistance of US$335 mil-
lion during 1980 to achieve the target import level of US$1,030 million -
nearly double the amount already commited. It is likely that over the course
of 1980 more donors will commit additional quick-disbursing balance of pay-
ments assistance to Uganda. Additional commercial loans may also be nego-
tiated, and the Government may, later in 1980, approach the IMF for drawings
under higher credit tranches. These further commitments would, however,
almost certainly fall short of the additional US$335 million needed. Reflect-
ing this foreign exchange constraint, it is therefore clear that the first
phase of reconstruction will be more protracted than originally planned.
PART III   BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
44.       Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million for hydroelectric power development in 1961. Between 1967 and 1971
Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$42.6 million for projects in
education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranching). In addi-
tion, Uganda has benefitted from ten loans totalling US$244.8 million which
have been extended for the development of the common services and development
bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda through their association
in the former East African Community. IFC's only investment in Uganda, in a
textile company, was sold to the Government in 1970. Annex II contains
summary statements of IBRD loans and IDA credits to Uganda and the East
African Community as of November 30, 1979, and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
1/   This is the import level which is shown in Table 3.  The corresponding
public and private capital inflows and grant assistance are also
shown on a net basis in Table 3.



- 19 -
45.       Because of the lack of an adequate development program and sound
economic policies, there has been a hiatus in Bank Group operations in Uganda
since 1971; no new loans or credits have been extended since June of that
year. The Bank Group nevertheless continued to disburse funds against prior
loans and credits. At present, only two projects, in roads and education, are
still under implementation. Out of the original credits of US$11.6 million
and US$7.3 million only US$0.6 million and US$1.6 million, respectively,
remain to be disbursed. We anticipate completion and final disbursement for
the roads project by early 1980 although the Bank and Government have agreed
that sufficient funds from the credit will be put aside to continue funding
technical assistance to the Ministry of Works through 1980. The education
project, on the other hand, had been a problem project even before the recent
war and was adversely affected by the fighting and subsequent looting (see
Annex II for details). However, a supervision mission which visited Uganda
in November 1979 confirmed that the Government wishes to complete the project
and the closing date has been posponed to permit this.
46.       Following the change in Government the Bank Group was requested to
reestablish a project lending pipeline in Uganda. Reflecting our conclusion
that the present Government is fully committed to carrying out a viable
development program, the first steps in this process have begun. Since
the initial reconnaissance mission in July 1979 an effort has been made to
assess the basic constraints facing the Government in the productive sectors
and in transportation. Industrial, agricultural and transport (roads and
railways) sector reconnaissance missions have already visited Uganda and
follow-up missions are scheduled for the near future. An initial water
supply mission and the education mission mentioned above also visited Uganda
in recent months. These missions have started the project identification and
preparation process in these sectors. In addition, preparation of a technical
assistance project (para. 31 above) is well advanced and we expect to present
it to the Board of Directors for consideration during the current fiscal year.
Assistance from the Bank Group in a number of other sectors has been requested
by the Government and we expect to respond positively to these requests.
Thus, assuming that progress on the reconstruction program continues, we
expect over the next twelve to eighteen months to reestablish an active
project pipeline and to propose new project lending in Uganda. In addition,
given the analysis of short-term balance of payments needs outlined above and
the likely need for further quick-disbursing support, it may be necessary for
the Bank Group to consider further balance of payments lending, provided the
policy framework for reconstruction continues to be satisfactory.
East African Community
47.       Lending from the Bank Group to the East African Community con-
tinued until 1976 when the problems facing the Community made it impossible
to continue lending within that framework. Uganda continued to benefit
directly from loans made to the Community after 1971; for telecommunications
in 1973 and for the East African Development Bank (EADB) in 1976. Uganda is
also an indirect beneficiary of a 1972 harbors loan, although the proceeds



- 20 -
of that loan are being disbursed entirely in Kenya and Tanzania. Since
October 1, 1977, all remaining undisbursed balances under the Community loans,
with the exception of the EADB loan, have been disbursed on the basis of
separate national guarantees. Under the agreed allocation of undisbursed
balances for each loan, as approved by the Executive Directors, some US$2
million was allocated to Uganda for completion of projects in that country,
US$1.9 million for railways and. US$0.1 million for telecommunications.
As of November 30, 1979, only US$0.11 million of the railway loan remained to
be disbursed.
48.       The major developments affecting the Community were outlined in a
report to the Executive Directors dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312) and more
recent developments were reported in a statement to the Executive Directors at
the Board meeting held on January 14, 1979. The three former Partner States
have employed Dr. Victor Umbricht as an independent mediator to recommend
disposition of the assets and liabilities of the Community corporations and
the General Fund Services. Dr. Umbricht has visited East Africa on numerous
occasions, has employed consultants to assist in the appraisal of Community
assets and liabilities, and has now prepared reports to the Partner States on
the results of his fact-finding work and on the methodology adopted in the
appraisal process. The next phase of the Mediator's work will be to make
formal recommendations on the allocation of these assets and liabilities.
Meanwhile, the Mediator's report and recommendations on the future structure
of the EADB have been accepted in principle by the Partner States and the
revised EADB Charter along with the Treaty to enact the new Charter have been
submitted to the three Governments for signature.
PART IV - THE RECONSTRUCTION CREDIT
49.       During the Bank Group reconnaisance mission which visited Uganda in
July 1979 (para. 2 above), the Government requested balance of payments
support for the reconstruction effort. An appraisal mission for the proposed
reconstruction credit visited Uganda during September 14-27, 1979, and nego-
tiations were held in Washington on December 19, 1979. The Ugandan delegation
was led by the Commissioner for Revenue, Ministry of Finance, Mr. Bangirana.
50.       It is clear from the foregoing sections that the case for balance of
payments assistance to Uganda is a strong one. The Ugandan economy has been
severely run down through mis-management and diversion of resources over the
past eight years. In addition, extensive physical damage was caused by the
recent war and the looting which followed. In the present circumstances,
project or sector lending could not accomplish the rapid resource transfer
which is required for short-term reconstruction; only flexible program lending
can meet the urgent rehabilitation needs of the economy. Through this credit
the Bank Group can make a significant contribution to the first phase of
reconstruction, the execution of which has been delayed by the lack of foreign
exchange resources. Our funds will help reestablish the flow of essential
imports of replacement machinery, raw materials, spare parts, transport equip-
ment, agricultural implements and inputs, and building materials. An improved



- 21 -
supply of these essential imports will in turn permit a revival of the
productive sectors leading to increases in the output of agricultural export
crops and basic consumer goods for domestic consumption.
51.       The proposed credit would support the reconstruction program des-
cribed above. The policy framework for our balance of payments assistance has
been established by the new Government's economic and social policy statement
and the various Government policy decisions 'outlined above. In making this
credit the Bank Group would be strengthening the capacity of the Government to
carry out further policy reforms which are critical to reconstruction. In
particular, the improved supply of imports which our credit will facilitate
will enable the Government to carry out an exchange rate adjustment in the
near future.
52.       It is our view that without increased balance of payments support
the Ugandan economy cannot begin the recovery process which is an essential
first step to the resumption of economic growth and development over the
longer term. Thus program lending from the Bank Group at this time, and
possibly subsequently, will hasten the progress of the economy to the second
phase of reconstruction in which more conventional project lending to meet
longer range development objectives will be possible.
Coordination with the INF
53.       As was indicated earlier, the new Government of Uganda approached
the DMF shortly after taking office to discuss use of DMF facilities.  In
June 1979 Uganda drew its reserve (gold) tranche and in August SDR 5 million
under the Compensatory Financing Facility. In November 1979 the Government
reached agreement with the IMF on a further drawing of SDR 55.5 million under
the First Credit Tranche, Trust Fund and the Compensatory Financing Facility.
These drawings were approved by the Board of the IMF on January 4, 1980, and
have been taken into account in our balance of payments forecast for 1980.
54.       In preparing this reconstruction credit, information and analysis
have been exchanged with the IMF to ensure consistency. In particular, the
analysis of the fiscal and balance of payments situations presented in this
report is broadly consistent with that presented by the DMF in its latest
report on Recent Economic Developments, and in its recent decision to permit
Uganda to draw under the First Credit Tranche, the Compensatory Financing
Facility and the Trust Fund. The Fund has been kept informed of the progress
of the proposed credit. In addition, the Bank and the Fund are providing
complementary assistance to the Government in the area of fiscal policy.
Policy Understandings
55.       During the preparation of this credit, policy discussions between
Bank Group staff and the Government have focussed on three principal areas:
(a) the need for an overall economic and social policy framework to guide
reconstruction; (b) the importance of a published budget as evidence of



- 22 -
restoration of fiscal accountability; and (c) the need to deal with the dis-
tortion in the exchange rate. The Government's progress in dealing with
issues (a) and (b) has been excellent, as described above. On the exchange
rate issue, the Government has developed a clear strategy to deal with the
problem. It has decided to carrying out an exchange rate adjustment as soon
as an increased flow of imports, financed with additional aid and export
revenues, nas begun to have an impact in restoring a more normal supply situation
in domestic markets. Given the increased inflow of foreign exchange from coffee
exports evident in late 1979, and the imminent arrival of some aid and commer-
cially financed supplies, the Government expects this revival to begin in the
early part of 1980. It has therefore committed itself to an exchange rate ad-
justment by mid-1980. In the interim, the Government has taken a number of
administrative measures in an effort to control the distribution of essential
commodities, to regulate and monitor the allocation of foreign exchange, and
to ensure that items procured with foreign exchange made available prior to
devaluation are not diverted to other than the intended users. The Government's
actions and commitments on the policy areas discussed with the Bank Group are
detailed in a letter of intent from the Minister of Finance, which is being
distributed separately.
Allocation of the Reconstruction Credit
56.       Foreign Exchange.  The proposed IDA credit of US$72.5 million includes
a participation of US$17.5 million from the Government of the Netherlands; the
IDA credit will only be disbursed above US$55 million if the funds from the
Netherlands are available to the Association (Schedule 1, para. 2(g) of the draft;
Development Credit Agreement). Discussions are presently ongoing to work out the
arrangements for the participation. It is expected that under these arrangements
the Netherlands contribution will be made available to the Association and that
each withdrawal application by the Uganda Government would be financed out of the
Association's and Netherlands' resources in an agreed proportion. To reflect the
fact that the Netherlands' participation is expected to be on a grant basis, the
arrangements would provide that, upon each withdrawal of the proceeds of the credit,
the Ugandan Government shall be treated as having prepaid the credit in an amount
equal to that part of the withdrawal which is financed out of the participation.
Along with this credit, a proposed Special Action Credit is approximately US$20
million and a Canadian grant of Can$3 million would be available to finance a wide
range of essential imports including industrial raw materials and spare parts,
vehicles, vehicle spare parts and workshop equipment, agricultural inputs and
implements, constructions equipment, building materials and telecommunications
equipment. Specifically, the credits and the grant would be allocated to imports
in categories 2, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the SITC, except for those items specified in
Annex IV (Schedule 1 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft
Special Action Credit Agreement). The amount of imports required under these
categories for the first phase of reconstruction is almost US$400 million; thus
quick disbursement of the credits and grant should be possible.
57.       While the total of the Special Action Credit and Canadian grant will
be eligible for disbursement after effectiveness, the IDA credit will be dis-
bursed in two tranches in order to provide for a mid-term review of the Govern-
ment's progress in implementing the program of policy reforms required for
reconstruction: a first tranche of US$30 million would be available for dis-
bursement after the credit is declared effective and a second tranche of US$42.5
million would be disbursed upon a finding that satisfactory progress was being
made in carrying out the needed policy reforms (Schedule 1, para. 2(f) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).



-23-
58.       Counterpart Funds - Local currency counterpart funds generated by
the sale of foreign exchange provided by the credits and the grant would be
allocated to a special Government account in the Bank of Uganda. The Govern-
ment has agreed that such counterpart funds will be allocated to the recurrent
or capital costs of projects included in the reconstruction program (Section
3.02(a) and (b) of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft
Special Action Credit Agreement).
Accounts, Audit and Evaluation
59.       The project account (para. 58) would be audited by auditors accept-
able to the Association and certified copies of the relevant financial state-
ment would be submitted to the Association by June 30, 1981 (Section 3.02(c)
of both the draft Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Action
Credit Agreement). The Bank of Uganda will maintain records adequate to
record and monitor project implementation (Section 3.04(a) of both the draft
Development Credit Agreement and the draft Special Action Credit Agreement).
In addition, not later than six months after completion of the project, the
Government shall prepare and furnish to the Association a completion report on
the costs and benefits resulting from the project (Section 3.04(b) of both the
draft Development Credit Agreement and draft Special Action Credit Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
60.       Procurement would be on the basis of normal commercial practices,
except that international competitive bidding with prior review of documents
by the Association will be required for contracts estimated to total US$2
million and above (Schedule 3 of both the draft Development Credit Agreement
and the draft Special Action Credit Agreement). As speed of disbursement is
the prime requisite to meeting Uganda's urgent rehabilitation needs, this
objective can best be met by using the import licensing and payment proce-
dures which have been adopted by the new Government. These procedures have
been reviewed by the Association. All Government purchases exceeding UShs
10,000 for any single ministry in any financial year and contracts for
services or civil works exceeding UShs 25,000 for any ministry in any year
must be approved by the Central Tender Board, under the Ministry of Finance,
which requires either competitive bidding or submission of not less than three
quotations from different suppliers. The Board also issues import licenses
for overseas procurement. The Uganda Advisory Board of Trade under the
Minister of Commerce performs an overseer function for parastatal and private
sector imports. It reviews the prices and quantities of all applications and
makes an assessment of the priority of the items requested. Recipients of
import licenses must then apply to the Foreign Exchange Allocation Committee
of the Bank of Uganda for a foreign exchange license. This committee screens
all applications to ensure that allocations are made in accordance with the
previously determined reconstruction priorities, and again reviews price and
quality standards.
61.       Disbursements under the IDA credit, the Special Action Credit
and the Canadian grant would be made for the foreign cost of eligible imports
against full documentation, including invoices paid by the Bank of Uganda or
the relevant commercial bank under existing regulations controlling the
allocation of foreign exchange. While IDA and Canadian funds would be dis-
bursed against eligible imports from any Bank Group member country and



- 24 -
Switzerland, disbursements under the Special Action Credit would be limited
to imports from the nine EEC countries or any developing country which is
a member of the Association and a potential recipient of a Special Action
Credit (Section 2.02(b) of the draft Special Action Credit Agreement). The
Bank of Uganda would be responsible for collection of the necessary documenta-
tion, the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications, and mainten-
ance of the full accounts and documentation evidencing the final payments. No
reimbursement will be provided against imports for which other financing has
been secured. Resources from the Special Action Credit would be disbursed
before the IDA credit to the extent feasible (para. E of the preamble to the
Special Action Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
62.       The principal benefits anticipated from the proposed credit are that
the credit resources would permit the importation of essential raw materials,
intermediate goods, spare parts and equipment to begin the rehabilitation of
the Ugandan economy. The proposed credit, and the IDA administered cofinanc-
lng, would finance approximately 9 percent of the total import requirement
of the first phase of reconstruction, but would cover 16 percent of the
proportion of imports requiring foreign financing (net of anticipated export
earnings) and approximately 20 percent of the first phase reconstruction re-
quirements of the sectors to which the funds would be allocated. Specifically:
(a) the increased flow of imports would permit a restoration of
productive capacity which has been underutilized for the
past eight years.
(b)  the Bank Group's action, and use of DMF resources, will strengthen
Uganda's resource position and capacity to implement rehabilita-
tion which will in turn encourage bilateral lenders and institu-
tions to provide assistance.
(c) the proposed credit would also strengthen the capacity of the
Government to carry out further policy changes which are essen-
tial to rehabilitation and to a restoration of normal conditions
in domestic markets. As noted above, an exchange rate adjust-
ment will be directly facilitated by this operation.
63.       The principal risk facing the proposed credit would be that the
Government was unable to take necessary action on the exchange rate to remove
price distortions. Allied to this is the risk that the Government would
prove unable to regulate internal distribution channels to prevent diversion
of goods from intended end users. However, on the basis of the actions which
the Government has taken to date, and of the assurances which have been
detailed above, we believe that an adequate policy framework will be developed
and implemented. Furthermore, in view of the critical role of IDA resources
in providing the basis for the initial injection of foreign exchange for
rehabilitation we believe that the benefits from the credit far outweigh this
potential risk.



- 25 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Uganda and the Association, the draft Special Action Credit Agreement
between the Republic of Uganda and the Association as administrator of the
Special Action Account established with funds contributed by the member
states of the EEC, the draft Development Grant Agreement between the Republic
of Uganda and the Association as administrator of the funds contributed by
the Government of Canada and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for
in Article V, Section I (d) of the Articles of Agreement are being distri-
buted to the Executive Directors separately.
65.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III of this report.
66.       A special condition for effectiveness of the Development Credit
Agreement would be that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Action Credit Agreement and the Canadian Grant Agreement have been
met other than the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement (Section
6.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). There are parallel cross-
effectiveness conditions in the Special Action Credit Agreement and the
Deveopment Grant Agreement (Sections 6.01 and 4.01 respectively).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association; that the Special Action Credit would
comply with the criteria established by the Agreement of May 2, 1978, between
the Association and the European Economic Community; and that the Canadian
grant would comply with the criteria established by the the Agreement of April
22, 1977, between the Association and the Government of Canada, as amended.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
January 29, 1980



- 26 -
ANNEX I
UacA * SOCAL 1210ICAYORS DATA SS S
urnU cS CIou,s (ADno T         *
WANDA A    IW D   0.t.)- HMOST RECw_ SrzMAu7             h    `
LhL                                                      SAK5        SA.Z      a= -I1012
CcELrrM    103.5 aHS UCT                                                GOAPlC         12IC0m      INCOMI
L960 .t    1970 ,  ZSTZ-AXR j         ZGZol u   OaouP a i      G  ROU
cm  Pu  CAWIA  111SS                  160.0        240.0      2S0.0           306.1      209.6        467.3
flOt;T C0   UOWN 7   CAMA
(83300221S 01 0061. ZlqnvSlLUT)     30.0        74.0       41.0            80.6        83.9       262.1
PO"r o            A VrtL STATISTICS
POGULAntON. KID-TZL    (NZ.LZONS)     6.8         9.8        2.0
DM1I pONLA   (i   P Or TOTAL)  4.&                 6.9       9.2.            17.1       12           24.6
POFMLATIOl ?UJWTOUS
1OPULATIN 33168U 200 (N=OW)                               33.0
UATZONAAT  OULATN (Lb0US)                                 51.0
MM  S?AZONST POPULATION U1 U8A                          2130
POIULAtIOU DsmTY
i   sq. m.                         29.0        42.0       51.0             18.4   *    9.4         45.3
?a SQ. 11. AC      IruIs  LAW      72.0        9J.0      116.0            S0.8      2U2.0         149.0
POPULATON AGt ShXOCTUht m    CIF)
0-14 TZs.                          43.8        4.0        45.0           4".1         *3.1        43.2
15-44 TYu.                          53.0        33.0       52.0            52.9        53.2        5.9
65 1U. Am AB0 '                      3.2         3.0        3.0             2.          3.0        2LS
POPULATION 0801f SAX (PUCt)
TOTAL                               2.J         3.7        3.0              2.7        2.4          2.7
t0865                               7.3         6.3        8.3             5.7         4.6         4.3
C021    61 sinT  RZ  (PER IUSAND)    45.0        45.0       *5.0             46.3       42.4         39.4
C O3D  DIATS lAn  (PO 3100861D)      2.0          17.0      14.0             17.2       15.9         11.7
own  U?IDUCTOU UAZZ                   2.6          3.0       3.0              3.1        2.9          2.7
ACCZPr8. IMAL (18l S  3S)            ..         3.8       16.1 
USERS (PCur or MAUD   )              ..          ..         ..              ..        U.2         13.2
7000 AND W.TRITTION
nmz  or POOD rTboro
P   CaPITA (1"99-71-100)          101.0       100.0       94.0            94.3        98.2        99.6
rn CAA SUPPLY or
0400111 (PERCENT Of
U     5}QOIRfls)                 93.0        91.0       90.0            89.5        93.3        96.7
rsr%NS (GtAcS FM DAY)              56.0        55.0       54.0            15.8        52.1        56.3
af VIcr ANIML AW N UtD  Z          ..        31.3/t   22.1              17.9        13.6         17.4
CVlLO (AGO  1-4) Nl&LZTT MAZ         30.0         22.0      17.0             22.3       18.3         11.4
Lin  ZrvTAscy AT axa (116s)    44.0              49.0       53.0            47.0        49.3        54.7
13116  NWO UAIT PATE (RZ 2,
056A0)                                 ..       120.0         ..              ..       105. 4       68.1
ACCESS  0 WSAXZ WAX   (1P5027  Of
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..        22.0       35.0            20.3        26.3        34.4
UAN                                  ..        U.O       100.0            53.9        58.5        57.9
3U21                                ..        17.0       29.0            10.1        15.J        21.2
ACCZS5  0 T ZXETA OtSPOSAL (7Ic5 r
or PoFuATow)
OAL                                  ..        76.0       94.0            22.5        It.0        40.J
URBN                                "..        8.0        82.0            (a.5        65.1        71.3
ALa*z.                               ..        76.0      95.0             13.9         3.5        27.7
POPULATION PE  P575C7X            L3000.0L    9210.0  28330.0          17424.7    11396.4       6799.4
POPULATIO  PER SURS0W   P*SaN      9450. OLz    6030.0LU'4410.0           2506.6      5552.4      1522.1
POPUAToN Pa 30SPIAL AU
TOTAL                             760.0      6"0.0       640.0           202.3      1417.l       726.5
N                                    ..          ..         ..           201.4       197.3       272.7
A.L                                  ..          ..         ..          1603.6      245S.9      1404.4
ADOtSSIONS FM bOs5        3UD          ..       154.13 ..                    U.4        24.8        27.5
AVEAGE SIZZ o0 aO017011L
TOTAL                                ..         4.8         ..             4.9         5.3         5.4
..           ..          ..         ..             4.9         4.9         5.1
RURAl.                              ..           ..        ..              3.3    5     .S    5     .5
AVUACZ 2MWEU 01 P5503 750 ROOM
TOTAL                                ..          ...       ..
aR                                   .        '  .          . ..    ..          ..
109....6 .                           ..          ..        ..
ACCESS TO ELCZ1ICT (P1CZ:T
o0 0MM2LLNCS)
TAL                                  ..          ..         ..              ..        22.5        28. 1
URBAS                                ..          ..        ..               ..        17.8        -5.1
UCAL                                 ..          ..         ..              ..          ..         9.9



- 27 -                                       Annezx
Pass 2
UGANDA - SOCIlL 2DICATOU DATA SEU'
B FELEnCE GtOUPS (AOJUSTD AL ES
UGANDA                                          TXD     AS- Mosr azcr: esrE)
SAME        SA      lo w  HICKER
.STS IEcE.'T   GZOGPSIC   I'COHE          (COME
1960 /b    1970 /b ESI1IATE /b       EGION /c  GROUP /d   CROUP /a
EDUCATION
A  JUStED   OLLLME1'T RInos
P?IMARLY:    TOTAL               49.0        61.0      51.0            59.0       63.3        S2.7
IALE                65.0        72.0      61.0    6-.2               79.1        37.3
ILE                 32.0    *    9.0      42.0       *    4.2        48.4        75.8
SZCONDAXy:  TOTAL                 3.0         6.0       7.0             9.0       16.7        21.6
MALE                 4.0         9.0      10.0            12.0       22.1        33 0
L'ALE               1.0         3.0       *.a             4.4       10.2        15.5
VOCA=ONAL ERROL. (t Of SZONDARY)  12.0          7.0       6.0             7.0        5.6         9.J
pUPIL-TEAKL  RATIO
PRIMARY                          31.0        34.0      35.0            62.2       41.0        34.1
SECOIDAY                         13.0        20.0      21.0            22.9       21.7        23.4
ADULT LITZRACY RATE (PERCENT)      35.0          ..        ..            20.8       31.2        54.0
CONSUMPTON
rAS-SENGE CARS PU ThOUSAND
POPULAtON                        3.0         3.0       2.4             4.0        2.8         9.3
RADOO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       14.0          ..      21.0            44.3       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER TOUSAND
POPgLAo                            ..         1.5       5.9             2.9        2.4        13.5
NEYSPAPE ("DAILY GENMRAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PEI
THOUSAND POPVLATION                 8.0         8.0       5.0             5.6        5.3        U8.3
CIDA  ANNIUAL .AT'MNDANCE PU CAPETA 0.3          ..       0.1             0.4        1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOALt L-AOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3035.0      6262.0   6799.0                .
EwNALE (?PURCZE)                 34.2        33.7      33.4            31.9       24.8        29.2
AGRICULTRE (PERCE)               89.4.       85.9      64.0            77.6       69.6        62.7
INUSTRTY (PERCENT)                3.6         6.6       6.0             7.9       10.0        11.9
P?AtTCIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOL                                64.6        43.5      62.3            40.8       36.9        37.1
MALE                               58.3        57.3      56.1            53.9       52.4        68.8
FEKALE                             30.7        29.5      28.3            25.6       18.0        20.4
EOMUIC DEPENDVCT RATIO                1.0         1.1       1.1             1.2        1.2         1.4
INCOE DISRmoSION
ruRENT OF PRIVATE DNcO
CZEIVED BY
lClHST 5 PERCENT OP lUSENOLDS      ..        20.0                                             15.2
HICIEST 20 PERCEr OF HOUSEZOLDS   ..         46.6                                             48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCEX T 07 HOUSEHOLDS              6.2                                              6.3
LOIWEST 60 PZRCENT O0 HoUSEHOLDS   ..        16.6                                             16.3
POVERTY TARGET CROUPS
ESTINATED ABSOLUTE POVEY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PU CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..        ..           187.6       99.2      241.3
RUIIAL                             ..          ..        ..            96.8       78.9      136.6
ESTInATED RELATIV  POVRY INCOII
LZVEV  (US$ PE  CAPITA)
URUN                               ..          ..        ..           138.4       91.9      179.7
R0VAL                              ..          ..      87.0            71.0       54.8       103.7
ESTItATED PO?r.ATION 3ELO  ASOTE
POVERTY INCONE LEL. (PERZENT)
URJAN                              ..          ..        ..            34.5      44.1        24.8
RUAL                               ..          ..        ..            48.7      '3.9        37.5
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
la   The adjusted troup averages for each indicator are population-eighted geomerric eams., excluding the extream
values of the indicator and the mosc populated country in each group. Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is ntc uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betCen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most RecenKt Estimate, between 1974 and 1977.
/c    Africa South of Sahara;  /d  Low Income (S280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lover midde Income
(S281-550 per capita, 1976):  /f  1965;  LA  etgiscered. not all practicingina :he country; lh Covert-
ma:t establiahment& only.
host lacant Estimace of CNP per capi: is for 1976.
December 1979



28 -
ANNEX I
Page 3
UGANDA - ECONOMIC DATA
AREA                                                      POPtILATTON                    DENSITY
236,000 sq. km.                                           12.4 million (mid-1978)        52.5 per sq. km (1978)
Rate of growth 3.3Z
T0_LAI:o-.N CmRACTERISTICS (1977)                                 ET   (Ca. 197)
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                   45.0            Population per physician                   28,330
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                   14.0            Population per hospital bed                   640
ACCISS TO SAFE JATrEl (Ca. 1975)                                 EDUCATION
Percent of population                          35.0             Adult literacy rate 7. (1960)                 35
Primary school enrollment % (Ca. 1975)       51
NC!Rmt=ON (Ca. 1975)
Calorie intake as percent of requirements      90.0
Per capita protein intake (griUM  per day'     54.0
CMP PER CAPITA D  1978&i   US$280
Gross National Product in 1978-/ (estimatas)                   ANNUL RATE 07 CROWTR
(. constant prices)
US$ Million     7            1968-73    1973-78    1978
GNP at market pricas              3,260          CO.0          3.0       -0.7      -4.8
Gross fied invesnent                 156          4.8         -8.9       -11.1     -18.7
Gross national saving                139          4.3          0.1       -19.8      98.2
Current Account Balance             -131         -4.0
Export of Goods and NIS             332          10.2          -2.2      -12.4    -12.0
Mport of Goods and IPS              458          14.0         -8.1       - 5.2     -30.0
oiTrrur Dl 1978-l                                CZNTZAL G0VMThZET FINANCZ-!
IS$ Million   Z                                   5hs. Million           7. of GDP-/
Agriculture            1.842       56.5                                  1977/78          1977/78       1972/73
Industry                 235       7.2           Ravenne                  5,856           23.4           11.7
Services               1.183      36.3           Current Expenditure      4.113           16.4           14.0
Total                3,260     100.0           Current Surplus          1,743            7.0           -2.3
Capital Expenditure      1,755            7.0            5.2
a/ GNP, GDP, Per Capita GNP, invesernt, saving and sectoral output data
have been calculated by the same conversion technique as the World Bank
Atlas and are subject to review and further elaboraetlo. All other
conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during tha period concerned.
b/ Fiscal years are July 1st to June 30th.
*  Not Applicable.                                                                     December 1979



-29-9                                  ANNEX I
Page 4
UGANDA - ECONOMIC DATA
HONEY, CE1TT AkTD PRICES
1974      1975      1976      1977      1973      1979 June a/
(Shi. million outstanding end of period)
Nam, Supply                                              3,010     3,257     4,497     5,787      7,053     8,371
Set Credit to Govewet                                    2.895     3,532     4,869     5,532      7,207     8,178
Crdit co Private Sector                                  1,570     1,681     1,912     2,334      3,207     3,334
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
"y ss  of! D?  t                                      17        16        19        23         29
Isapla Low Income Cost of Livig InTdex (1960 * 100)        341       410       601     1,133      1,705
Annual percentages cbanu:s iL:
Cost of Living Index                                      67        20        47        89         50
ut Credit to Gavrewnt                                     35        22        38        14         30        33
Creit to Privart  Sector                                  30         7        L4        48         13         3
3&VsCz OF PArM?Y S                                                    1MC1gANDISE EL0RTS (AVAGE 1975-78)
UM        1976      1977      1978                             US$ M%o    Z
ttlL%lu US$)
Coffee              337.3      87.9
Export of Good, SE5         248       333       553       332         Cotton               21.5       5.6
Imparts of Goads, INS       313       2S%       471       458         Tea                  11.8       3.1
lsaurce Gap                 -65        52        82      -16          Copper                4.8        1.5
Tobacco               2.0       0.5
Factor favmnts (nct)        -4        -7       -11         -1         Other                 6.4       1.7
Net Trezafrs                13          2        -3        -3           Total             383.8      100C
Curret Account Balance    -56          47        68      -130
~EHLDEBT. DECEBB 31. 1977 SI
set frivate Loug-rr=.
Captcl                     *5        -9      5-U        -20                                             1Ss  n.,
Not =  Borrowing                                                      Public Debt, Lncluding guaranteed,
Disbar e.ta                29        11        24        14           outstanding and disbursed          215.0
-aortizaton                10        1         29         5
r9        -         -5        13                                                2
Other Capital                                    49       153         Public Debt Service Latio 1977 S      3.3
Increase in reserves          -        -2         1       -14         MRD/MDA LZIING (December 31) (Million TJSS)
Gross reserves (end year)   28         37        38        51                                   197,           1978
Petrolem imparts             51        55        55        39                               D5D-l MA    I       -
Outstandinag and
Disbursed            2.4  43.0     2.1  44.5
oFTLI    fst VVoL1MkVM                                           Udisbuzsed                -  4.9        -
Outstanding tncl.
hmml Aver^ate                        Misbursad            2.4  47.9    2.1  47 7
1977      1978    Jan.-June 1979
usn.oO - Sh.              a;6       7Mg 7z         5
Sb. 1  a US$              0.121     0.130        0.133
J/ Pronvisial
M C1P has bee  estimaed using the s   technique as ildicated
in fo'otooe a/ on page 1.
JI  External public debt data may be incuplete.  T-u public debc
service ratlo La debt service as a percencage of exoorts of
goods and 5on-factor aervices.
Lt  Includes accuklation of arrears.
eJ  Crude and derivatives
Xoc available
Mec applicable                                                                                December 1979



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS TO UGANDA
AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1979
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year      Borrower      Purpose                      Bank   IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and five credits fully disbursed                     8.4    23.6
164-UG   1969      Uganda        Roads                               11.6       0.6
258-UG   1971      Uganda        Education                            7.3       1.6
Total                                               8.4    42.5       2.2
of which has been repaid                          7.0     0.6
Total now outstanding                               1.4    41.9
Amount sold:                       8.3
of which has been repaid         6.9              1.4     0.0
Total now held by Bank and IDA/1                    0.0    41.9
Total undisbursed                                            2.2       2.2
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1979
Nil
/1   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. SUMMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES GUARANTEED
BY KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1979
(US$ million)
Amount (less cancellations)
Loan
No.       Year      Borrower       Purpose               Bank /1         Undisbursed
Five loans fully disbursed                                93.4
638-EA   1969      EAHC           Harbours               35.0               0.6
674-EA   1970      EARC           Railways               42.4               0.4
865-EA   1972      EAHC          Harbours                26.5               0.9
914-EA   1973      EAPTC          Telecommunications    32.5                 1.8
1204-EA   1976      EADB          Development Finance   15.0                 5.9
Total                                           244.8               9.6
of which has been repaid                        52.8
Total now outstanding                           192.0
Amount sold                  24.4
of which has been repaid  24.4                   0.0
Total now held by Bank /1                       192.0
Total undisbursed                                 9.6               9.6
/1   Net of exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
UGANDA
D. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF NOVEMBER 30, 1979
There are currently two projects under execution:
EDUCATION SECTOR
Credit No. 258-UG - Second Education Project: US$7.3 million
signed on June 23, 1971; Date of Effectiveness - October 26,
1971; Closing Date - December 31, 1979*
Project implementation is now about four years behind schedule.
Prior to the war a number of remedial actions were taken to speed up imple-
mentation: these included strengthening the Project Unit, streamlining
Government processing of project related matters, and contracting for civil
works. Reflecting these measures progress towards educational objectives was
satisfactory; project implementation had advanced by 12% from August 1978 to
January 1979, raising the overall completion of the project to 48%. However,
following the recent events in Uganda, in which the war and subsequent looting
affected most contractors and school sites, the status of the project com-
ponents had to be reviewed and the effect of the war assessed. A supervision
mission visited Uganda in November 1979 to begin this work. Arrangements are
now being discussed which would enable the project to be fully implemented.
TRANSPORT SECTOR
Credit No. 164-UG - Second Highway Project: $11.6 million
signed on September 29, 1969; Date of Effectiveness -
December 1, 1969; Closing Date - December 31, 1979*
All of the civil works contracts being supported by this Credit
have been completed except one small contract for a bridge over the Ishasha
River on one of the IDA-financed tea roads, now being constructed to replace
the old bridge which collapsed during a flood. This bridge, when completed
around the end of 1979, will enable the tea roads to be used as originally
planned. Four of the original 11 technical assistance posts financed under
the Credit remain occupied. Skilled expatriate technical assistance continues
to be essential for the Ministries of Transport and Works, and financing of
the posts will continue to be provided under the credit during 1980.
*To allow project completion both of these closing dates were postponed
subsequent to November 30, 197T.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
E. EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY PROJECTS INVOLVING UGANDA
In addition to the projects described above, Uganda also benefits
from lending to the East African Community. Following the disintegration of
the East African Community, the allocation among the Partner States 1/ of
undisbursed balances of loans to the East African Community Corporations at
October 1, 1977 was approved by the Executive Directors on January 12, 1978
on the basis of recommendations made in a report dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312). Agreements in line with those recommendations were subsequently
signed by each of the Partner States on January 25, 1978. A portion of the
undisbursed balances under two loans (Loan 674-EA - East African Railways
Corporation, and Loan 914-BA - East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation) was allocated to Uganda. Industrial projects in Uganda are also
eligible for financing under the ongoing East African Development Bank Project
(Loan 1204-EA). Progress on implementation of these projects is summarized
below. Although the closing date for Loan 674-EA is June 30, 1978, since the
amount allocated to and guaranteed by each Partner State is clearly defined
under the terms of the agreement of January 25, 1978, disbursements will
continue to be made.
Loan No. 674-EA - Third Railways Project: US$42.4 million
Loan of May 25, 1970; Date of Effectiveness - October 30,
1970; Closing Date - June 30, 1978
The original purpose of the project was to complete the Railways'
1969-72 Development Program, including track improvement, procurement of
rolling stock and other equipment, and to finance studies of the economic
feasibility of certain railway lines and services. The physical execution
of the original project has been seriously delayed due to administrative
and political problems within the Community. In November 1974, the
Executive Directors approved a reallocation of the uncommitted balance of
the Loan to be used for consultant services and emergency investments in
track material. All three countries have now enacted legislation to
establish their own Railways Corporations. The agreed allocation of un-
disbursed funds at October 1, 1977 among the various countries concerned
is given below:
US$ Million
Kenya                               2.0
Tanzania                            3.8
Uganda                              1.9
Total            7.7
1/   Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Loan No. 914-EA - Third Telecommunications Project: US$32.5
million Loan of June 22, 1973; Date of Effectiveness -
September 19, 1973; Closing Date - December 31, 1979
The project included provision for procurement of local telephone
exchange equipment, cables and susbscriber apparatus, microwave and UHF/VHF
systems and multiplex equipment, interurban cables and wires, automatic
switching and signalling equipment, telegraph, telex and data equipment,
and training. All project items except the microwave radio system have
been completed; this system is likely to be completed by mid-1980. The
slippage of the project's completion was due to initial delays in procurement
caused by staffing and other problems associated with the relocation of head-
quarters. As of December 31, 1979, about US$30.8 million of the loan had been
disbursed. The agreed allocation of undisbursed funds as at October 1977
among the countries concerned is as follows:
US$ Million
Kenya                                2.4
Tanzania                             3.5
Uganda                               0.1
Total              6.0
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Date of Effectiveness - June 7
1976; Closing Date - March 31, 1980
The environment within the Community has continued to have a
negative impact on EADB operations. Level of operations both for appraisal
and supervision has been depressed. About US$9.1 million of the loan has
been disbursed to date, and the uncommited balance amounts to approximately
US$3.0 million.



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 1
UGANDA
RECONSTRUCTION CREDIT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Date of first presentation to the Bank
and date of first Bank mission                        July 1979
(b)  Date of departure of appraisal mission                September 1979
(c)  Date of completion of negotiations                    January 1979
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness                         March 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  There will be a midterm review of the Government's progress
in implementing its reconstruction program; disbursement of the
second tranche of the IDA Credit (amounting to $42.5 million)
would be conditional on the Government making satisfactory
progress in implementing the program (para. 57).
(b) The local counterpart funds generated by the credit would be
deposited in a special account in the Bank of Uganda and used
to help finance recurrent and capital costs of priority projects
in the reconstruction program (para. 58).



- 36 -                ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
IMPORTS ELEGIBLE FOR FINANCING UNDER UGANDA RECONSTRUCTION CREDIT
SITC
Category                                      Description
2                        Crude Materials, Inedible, Except Fuels
5                        Chemicals
Except: 553.0 (perfumery and cosmetics, dentifrices
and other toilet preparations, except soaps); 554
(soaps, cleansing and polishing preparations);
571.4 (hunting and sporting ammunition).
6                        Manufactured Goods Classified Chiefly by Materials
Except: 613 (fur skins, tanned or dressed); 632.70
(Manufactures of wood for domestic or decorative
use); 651.14 (silk yarn put up for retail sale);
651.25 (yarn of wool or animal hair, put up for
retail sale); 651.42 (cotton yarn put for retail
sale); 651.52 (flax or ramie yarn, put up for
retail sale); 651.63 (yarn of continuous fibers,
put up for retail sale); 651.65 (yarn of discon-
tinuous or waste synthetic fibers, put up for
retail sale); 651.73 (yarn of continuous regener-
ated fibers, put up for retail sale); 651.75 (yarn
of discontinous or waste regenerated fibers, put
for retail sale); 653 (textile fabrics, woven, not
including narrow or special fabrics, other than
cotton fabrics); 654 (tulle, lace, embroidery,
ribbons, trimmings and other small wares); 656.6
(blankets and travelling rugs); 656.9 (made-up
articles of textile materials, n.e.s.); 657 (floor
coverings, tapestries, etc.); 665.2 (glass table-
ware and other articles of glass for household
use); 666 (pottery); 667 (pearls and precious and
semi-precious stones, unworked or worked); 696
(cutlery); 697 (household equipment of base metals).
7                        Machinery and Transport Equipment
Except: 719.4 (domestic appliances, non-electrical)
725 (domestic electrical equipment); 732.1 (passenger
motor cars, other than buses or special vehicles,
whether or not assembled); 732.6 (chassis with
engines mounted of a kind used for vehicles of
heading 732.1); 732.9 (motorcycles, motorized
cycles and their parts); 734 (aircraft); 735 (ships
and boats).



- 37 -
ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
SITC
Category                                       Description
8                        Miscellaneous Manufactured Articles
Except: 821 (furniture); 831 (travel goods, hand-
bags and similar articles); 841 (clothing); 851
(footwear); 861.4 (photographic cameras and flash-
light apparatus); 861.5 (cinematographic cameras,
projectors, sound recorders and sound reproducers);
861.6 (photographic and cinematographic apparatus
and equipment, n.e.s) 862 (photographic and cine-
matographic supplies); 863 (developed cinematographic
film); 864 (watches and clocks); 891 (musical
instruments, sound recorders and reproducers and
parts and accessories thereof); 892 (printed matter);
893 (articles of artificial plastic materials, n.e.s.);
894 (perambulators, toys, games and sporting goods);
895.2 (pens, pencils and fountain pens); 896 (works
of art, collectors' pieces and antiques); 897
(jewellery and goldsmiths' and silversmiths' wares);
899 (manufactured articles, n.e.s.).



ANNEX V
38 -
Statistical Annex
Table
1. Gross Domestic Product at Constant Factor Cost by
Industrial Origin, 1970-1978 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
2. Expenditure on Gross National Product at Current Prices, 1970-1978
3. Production of Principal Crops, 1970/71-1978/79 . . . . . . . . . . . .
4. Production of Selected Manufactured Goods, 1970-1978 . . . . . . . . .
5. Price Developments, 1971-1978  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
6. Balance of Payments, 1971-1978 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
7. Major Export Commodities, 1971-1978  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
8.  Trade Indices, 1970-1978   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
9. Payment Arrears Outstanding, 1973-1979 .
10.  Central Government Budgetary Operations, 1971/72-1979/80 . . . . . . .
11.  Revenue Performance of the Central Government, 1971/72-1979/80  .
12. Functional Classification of Central Government Recurrent
Expenditure, 1971/72-1979/80 ....................
13. Functional Classification of Central Government Development
Expenditure, 1971/72-1979/80 ....................
14.  Monetary Survey, 1970-1978 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
15.  Public External Debt Outstanding, 1973-1978  . . . . . . . . . . . . .
16. Drawings on External Loans, Contractor Finance and Suppliers'
Credits,  1971-1978   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .



Annex V
Table 1
Uganda: Gross Domestic Product at Constant Factor Cost
by Industrial Origin, 1970-1978
(millions of Ugandan Shillings at 1966 prices)
1970     1971      1972      1973     1974      1975      1976     1977      1978 1/
Monetary Economy                    5,092    5,246    5,200    5,068    4,984    4,768    4,738    4,752    4,333
Agriculture 2/                   1,859    1,721    1,777    1,895    1,768    1,702    1,656    1,670    1,579
Mining and Engineering             119      112       100        72       69        59        40        21       10
Manufacturing                      631      638       640       598      585       505       494      480       427
Construction                        92       95        77        65       73        56        44        45       38
Commerce                           891      940       806       685      699       635       642      665       606
Transport and Communications       276      323       332       326      346       322       318       266      167
Government                         447      566       627       634      669       712       729       751      800
Other Services                     777      851       841       793      775       777       815       854      706
Non-Monetary Economy                2,187    2,246    2,342    2,428    2,525    2,589    2,673    2,769    2,826
Agriculture 2/                   1,912    1,960    2,048    2,123    2,210    2,264    2,336    2,422    2,467
Construction                        30       32        32        34       35        36        38        39       40
Other                              245      254       262       271      280       289       299       308      319
Total                               7,279    7,492    7,542    7,496    7,509    7,357    7,411    7,521    7,159
Source: Data provided by the Ugandan authorities and staff estimates.
Notes: 1/ Estimated
2/ Includes forestry, fishing and hunting



Annex V
Table 2
Uganda: Expenditure on Gross liational Product at Current Prices, 1970-1978
(in millions of Ugandan Shillings)
1970     1971      1972     1973      1974     1975      1976      1977 I/  1978 1/
Domestic Expenditure                     9,158   19,851   11,008   12,540   16,073   22,983   26,017   47,898   65,278
Consumption 2/                        7,897    9,219    9,770   11,478   14,362   21,271   24,486   45,551   62,797
Gross fixed investment               .1,2613/ 1,632 3/ 1,315    1,001    1,571    1,541    1,209    1,807    1,881
Change in stocks                                           -7.1      61       140      171       322       540      600
Resource Balance                          -291      430      -279     -413       *48       481     -436       676       974
Imports of goods and non-factor      1,810    2,399    1,786    1,599    2,215    2,318    2,351    3,893    3,524
services
Less: diperts of goods and          -2,101   -1,969   -2,065   -2,012   -2,167   -1,837   -2,787   -4,569   -2,550
non-factor services
GDP at Market Prices                     9,449   10,421   11,287   12,953   16,025   22,502   26,453   48,574   64,304
GDP at factor cost                   8,528    9,316   10,190   11,696   14,262   20,776   23,963   43,998   58,246   1
Met inddrect taxes                      921    1,105    1,097    1,257    1,763    1,726    2,490    4,576    6,058  4,
0
Net Factor Income from Abroad             -107     -158      -121     -100      -123       -55      -52       -66       -70 l
GNP at Market Prices                     9,342   10,263   11,166   12,853   15,902   22,447   26,401   48,508   64,234
Source:  Data provided by the Ugandan authorities and staff estimates.
Notes: _/ Estimates
2/ Residual
3/ Includes change in stocks



Annex V
Table 3
Uganda: Production of Principal Crops, 1970/71-1978/79
(Thousand metric tons)
1970/71    1971/72    1972/73    1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78    1978/79 2/
Cash Crops
Coffee                      175.5       183.7       213.6       198.6      198.5       137.1       155.9       121.3       120.0
Robusta                  (159.3)    (162.9)    (195.5)    (180.5)    (183.5)    (123.1)    (151.6)    (119.0)    (114.5)
Arabica                   (16.2)      (20.8)      (18.1)      (18.1)      (15.0)     (14.0)       (4.3)       (2.3)       (5.5)
Cotton                       76.3        76.0        79.4        50.0        31.9       24.1        13.8        20.2        14.8
Tobacco                        3.4        4.4         5.0         3.9         3.8         3.7        3.1         3.1         2.4
Tea                          18.0        23.4        21.9        21.9        21.7       18.4        15.4        15.2        10.8
Sugar (raw)                 141.3       121.4        68.6        68.5        38.1       23.9        18.5        11.4         7.8
Food Crops
Plantains (matoke)             ..         ..      8,127       8,880      9,107       8,138       8,531       8,855       9,194
Cassava                        ..         ..      2,132       2,350      2,992       2,838       2,993       2,928       2,865
Maize                       426         525         419         430         571        674         566         594         622
Sorghum                     285         353         389         425         467        390         344         351         355 i
Beans                          ..         ..        170         196         326        337         253         291         297
Groundnuts                     ..         ..        212         200         194        177         193         187         188
Finger millet                  ..         ..          ..        619         682        567         578         561         543
Sweet potatoes                 ..         ..      1,232       1,786      1,953       2,002       1,659       1,689       1,720
Source: Data provided by the Ugandan authorities.
Notes: 1/ Coffee and cotton are recorded on a crop year basis; figures for other crops refer to the calendar
year after the stroke.
2/ Estimates.



Annex V
Table 4
Uganda: Production of Selected Manufactured Goods, 1970-1978
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   1976   1977   1978 1/
Beverages (Waragi) ('000 liters)                     564    598    729    910    814    859    543    526    408
Beer (million liters)                                 28      35      38     46      44      39      23     22
Cigarettes (billions)                                  2       2       2      2       2       2       2      2
Pipe tobacco (tons)                                  127    126    127       96      82    108    115       98
Cotton and rayon fabrics (million sq. meters)         50      46      48     38      36      34     39      36      25
Blankets ('000 pieces)                             1,164  1,396  1,204    863    315    309    619    663    595
Soap ('000 tons)                                      13      14     14       6       5       4       3      1       1
Matches, small size ('000 cartons)2/                  49      55      43     39      25      25     13      10       4
Matches, large size ('000 cartons)3/                   -       4       7      5       5       6       4      -       1
Superphosphates ('000 tons)                           25      24     23      19      14       4      2       1       -
Steel ingots ('000 tons)                              24      27      22     14      12       8      8       9       3
Corrugated iron sheets ('000 tons)                    12      14     13       5       4       1      1       2       2
Cement ('000 tons)                                   191    205    166    143    153         98     88      71      50
Paints (million liters)                                2       2       2      1       2       1      -       1       1
Blister Copper ('000 tons)                            17      16      14      9       9       8       5      2       2
43
Source: Data provided by the Ugandan authorities
1/ Preliminary
2/ Cartons of 10 gross small-size matchboxes
3/ Cartons of 200 large-size matchboxes



Annex V
Table 5
Uganda: Price Developments, 1971-1978
(Percent per annum)
1971     1972      1973      1974     1975      1976      19771/   1978/
Consumer Prices
High-income group                         3.4       4.6      12.0     36.2      16.2      30.4      39.2      29.5
Middle-income group                      10.3       1.2      12.9     49.5      18.9      38.8      74.9     47.7
Low-income group                         15.8      -3.0      24.4     67.2      20.2      46.6      88.5     50.5
Implicit GDP deflator                           6.1      9.0      15.1      21.7     48.7      14.5      80.9      39.1
Import prices                                   7.1     15.0      15.9      39.4     30.9      10.6      18.0      11.0
Export prices                                   4.8     -3.0      18.7      27.6     -5.1      55.8    110.8    -37.8
Sources: Data provided by the Ugandan authorities and staff estimates.
Notes: 1/ Provisional



Annex V
Table 6
Uganda:   aelance of Payments, 1971-1978
(millions of Ugandan Shillings)
1971           1972           1973           1974           1975            1976           1977            1978
Exports of goods and non-factor services                     2,007.4         2,065.2        2,011.5        2,167.2        1,836.7         2,787.2        4,569.2        2,542.7
Merchandise f.o.b.                                        (1,742.3)       (1,884.4)      (1,931.5)      (2,100.8)      (1,758.3)       (2,707.8)      (4,528.4)       (2,477.0)
Services                                                     (265.1)        (180.8)         (80.0)         (66.4)          (78.4)         (79.4)         (40.8)          (65.7)
Imports of goods and non-factor services                    -2,424.7        -1,786.8       -1,598.6       -2,215.6       -2,317.5        -2,351.4       -3,853.0       -3,539.0
Merchandise c.i.f.                                       (-2,034.0)      (-1,411.4.)    (-1,416.1)     (-1,940.5)    (-1,945.3)       (-1,989.1)     (-3,442.5)      (-2,723.1)
Services                                                    (-390.7)       (-375.4)       (-182.5)       (-275.1)       (-372.2)        (-362.3)       (-410.5)        (-815.9)
Resource balance                                               -417.3          278.4          412.9          -48.4          -480.8          435.8          716.2          -996.3
Factor income (net)                                            -160.7         -120.5         -100.2         -115.0           -28.2          -58.0          -90.0            -7.9
Inflow                                                        (22.0)         (17.1)         (28.4)         (30.6)          (30.4)         (23.3)         (28.0)          (47.3)
Outflow                                                    (-182.7)        (-137.6)       (-128.6)       (-145.6)         (-58.6)        (-81.3)       (-118.0)         (-55.2)
Unrequited transfers (net)                                      -34.1          -41.6           -9.3           -8.7            93.3           17.7          -21.7           -22.7
Private (net)                                                (-53.1)        (-64.1)        (-27.3)        (-35.7)         (-25.2)        (-47.4)        (-38.2)         (-67.9)
Official inflow                                               (59.5)         (72.8)         (35.7)         (57.5)         (148.6)         (91.1)          (39.2)         (58.5)
Official outflow                                             (-40.5)        (-50.3)        (-17.7)        (-30.5)         (-30.1)        (-26.0)        (-22.7)         (-13.3)
Private capital (net)                                            75.8         -289.4         -271.1         -171.4           144.4         -350.9         -364.0           737.4
Inflow of direct investment and long-term loans              (189.6)        (161.5)        (137.8)        (153.2)         (123.7)         (74.1)          (57.0)         (49.9)
Outflow of dire25 investment and long-term loans            (-143.9)        (-91.2)       (-196.6)       (-154.8)        (-160.3)       (-152.1)        (-179.2)       (-205.8)
Net short-term -                                              (30.1)       (-359.7)       (-212.3)       (-169.8)         (181.0)       (-272.9)       (-241.8)        1893.3)   Z
Public long-term3 apital (net)                                  188.3          161.0          -44.7          100.2           141.2           -3.1           -47.2           95.7
Disbursements 3                                              (396.5)        (348.7.)        (97.4)        (218.1)         (216.0)         (88.4)         (194.7)        (136.3)
Amortization                                                (-208.2)       (-187.7)       (-142.1)       (-117.9)         (-74.8)        (-91.5)        (-241.9)        (-40.6)
Public short-term capital (net)                                  -3.8          -12.9          -13.2          -21.3           -76.8          -53.7               -          254.5
SDR allocation                                                   30.7           32.9              -               -              -              -               -              _
Overall balance                                                -321.1            7.9          -25.6         -264.6          -206.9          -12.2           193.3         -448.3
Accumulation of arrears (net) 4/                                    -              -          -43.1          149.9           207.4           22.7         -204.4           559.0
private (net)                                                    (-)            (-)        (-43.1)        (130.3)          (29.6)        (-31.0)         (-51.2)        (318.9)
official (net)                                                   (-)            (-)             (-)        (19.6)         (177.8)         (53.7)        (-153.2)        (240.1)
Monetary authorities (net) -                                    321.1           -7.9           68.7           114.7           -0.5          -10.5            11.1         -110.7
Memorandum: Average exchange rate (Ug.Sh./US$)                    7.1429         7.1429         7.0214          7.1439         7.4122         8.3677          8.2656         7.6917
Source: Data provided by Ugandan authorities
Notes: 1/ Provisional
2/ Includes net errors and omissions
3/ Includes acquisition of equity capital
/ Minus indicates decrease in liabilities or increase in assets



Annex V
Table 7
Uganda:  Major Export Commodities, 1971-1978
(value in million shillings; volume in metric tons)
1971          1972           1973           1974           1975            1976           1977           1978
Coffee
Value                                      982.3        1,128.3        1,247.6        1,567.8        1,398.1        2,487.0        4,536.3         2,419.4
Volume                                     174.6          214.2          192.4          187.2          176.6          153.1           135.3          113.4
Cotton
Value                                      351.9          368.5          336.0          272.3          210.9          182.0           131.2          153.3
Volume                                      68.7           66.1           64.7           36.2           25.4            19.3            9.9           11.8
Tea
Value                                       95.7          125.9          110.0          109.6          120.8           89.2            98.0           63.8
Volume                                      15.3           20.7           19.2           16.7           16.9            11.7            8.8            8.7
Copper
Value                                      137.7          112.8          109.5          120.7           69.5            59.2           23.0             -
Volume                                      16.8           14.1            9.7            9.0            7.8             6.4            2.2             -    4
Unmnanufactured tobacco
Value                                       21.3           18.9           13.9            9.4           15.9            15.9           25.1            8.3
Volume                                       2.2             2.5           1.5            1.1             1.3            1.1            1.5
Value of merchandise exports, f.o.b. I    1,857.2         2,018.6        2,028.0        2,248.8        1,902.2         2,919.0        4,831.0        2,655.8
Source:   Data provided by the Ugandan authorities
Notes:    1/  Includes re-exports



Annex V
Table 8
Uganda: Trade Indices, 1970-1978
(1964   100)
1970     1971      1972     1973      1974      1975      1976     1977      1978
Exports
Quantity                                128       113      127       117        97        86       83        66        58
Price                                   105       110      107       127       162      154       240       506       315
Value                                   134       124      136       149       157      133       199       333       183
Imports
Quantity                                118       161       90        77        75       54        42        63        44
Price                                   112       120      138       160       223      292       323       381       423
Value                                   132       193      124       123       167      158       136       238       185
Terms of Trade 1                            94        92        78       79        73        53       74       133        74
Source:  Data provided by the Ugandan authorities.
Note:  1/  Export prices as percentage of import prices.



Annex V
Table 9
Uganda: Payment Arrears Outstanding, 1973-1979
(millions of Ugandan Shillings)
End of Period                             1973       1974        1975        1976        1977       1978        19791=
Private
Oil                                      -        74.3        63.2          -           -       103.9       165.0
Invisibles                               -        56.0        96.7      128.9        82.7       302.0       363.0
Subtotal                            -       130.3       159.9      128.9        82.7       405.9       528.0
Official
Public debt                              -        19.6        96.4      150.1        126.6      330.0       425.0
Other                                    -          -        101.0      101.0         41.3       22.0         .
Subtotal                           -         19.6       197.4      251.1       167.9       352.9       425.0
Total                                       -       149.9       357.3      380.0        250.6      758.8       953.0
(in millions of US$)                    (-)      (21.0)      (48.2)     (45.4)       (30.3)     (98.7)    (127.1)
-I
Source:  Data provided by the Ugandan authorities.
1/ As at June 30.



Annex V
Table 10
Uganda: Central Government Budgetary Operations, 1971/72-1979/80
(in millions of Ueandan Shillings)
1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78 1/  1978/79 2/  1979/80 3/
Current revenue               1,487    1,266    1,324    2,100    2,223    3,369    5,841             3,156        4,305
External grants                ---       ---       ---          2      107         2                   ---            504
Current expenditure           1,491    1,531    2,027    2,467    2,954    3,632    4,113             4,134        4,990
Current surplus/
deficit (-)                    -4      -265      -703     -365      -624      -261    1,728          -978         -181
Development revenue              59        20        54        15        13       21        15            41           62
Capital expenditure             946       574       635      860       816    1,037    1,755          1,098        1,815
Other expenditures 4/          ---       ---       ---      -187       257       496       419          209          ---
Overall deficit                 891       819    1,285    1,023    1,684    1,773          431        2,244        1,934
Financing
Foreign (net)                 143        33        69       219      280       148        68           43           344
Domestic (net)                470       723    1,003       804    1,404    1,625         363        2,201        1,590 -
Other Treasury
operations and residual         278        63       213     ---       ---
1/  Preliminary
2/ Estimate
3/ Preliminary budget estimate
4/ Includes extra-budgetary expenditure, the difference between checks issued and paid in the same
fiscal year, and unrecorded cash outlay.
5/  Includes Shs. 610 million from domestic sale of government stock; information not available on distribuiton of the
stock between the banking and nonbank sectors.
Source: Summary of Estimates of Recurrent and Development Expenditure, 1971/72 through 1978/79; data provided by
the Ugandan authorities.
*  .                                                 ..      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.



Annex V
Table 11
Uganda: Revenue Performance of the Central Government, 1971/72-1979/80
(in millions of Ugandan Shillings)
1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78 l/  1978/79 /.  1979/80 21
CURRENT REVENUE                    1,487    1,266    1,324    2,100    2,223    3,369    5,841             3,156        4,305
TAX REVENUE                        1,413    1,231    1,314    2,009    2,089    3,229    5,623             3,001        4,148
Taxes on Income and Profits           338      233       189       220       206       283      434           301          381
Pay as you earn                      68        69        76        79       103       98        96            85          100
Company and individual              263       152       107       135        99       175      325           205          269
Other                                  7       12         6         6         4        10       13            11           12
Taxes on Goods and Services           509      462       530       847       814    1,268    1,417         1,573         2,179
Sales tax                           258       228       292       619      621    1,041    1,176          1,426 4/    1,983
Excise duties                       222       200       176       160       130      136        96            68          100
Commercial transaction levy         -           5        12        19        18        25       40            30           23
Motor vehicle licences                22       22        21        25        18        25        20           24           27
Other taxes and licences               7        7        29        24        27        41       85            25           46      1
Taxes on International Trade          548      524       583       938    1,065    1,673    3,767          1,123         1,584
Import duties                       276       153       224       262       316       215      429           249          484
Export duties                        272      371       359       676       749    1,458    3,338            874        1,100
Other Taxes                            18       12        12         4         4         5         5            4            4
Non-Tax Revenue                        74        35       10        91       134       140       218          155          157
External Grants                       -        -         -           2       107         2       -            -            504
Development Revenue                    59       20        54        15        13        21        15           41           62
TOTAL REVENUE AND GRANTS           1,546    1,286    1,378    2,117    2,343    3,392    5,856              3,197        4,871
11 Provisional
2/ Estimate
3/ Budget estimate-
4/ Includes a selective sales tax introduced in 1978/79 and earmarked for development expenditure.
Source: Summary of Estimates of Recurrent and Development Expenditures, 1971/72 and 1978/79; and data
provided by the Ugandan -authorities.



Annex V
Table 12
Uganda: Functional Classification of Central Government Recurrent Expenditure, 1971/72-1979/80
(millions of Ugandan Shillings)
1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78 1/  1978/79 _/  1979/80 3/
General Public Services           305      325       542      583       686       794      847          822        1,211
Finance                           26       31        44      113        39        33        57          82          226
Internal affairs, police
and prisons                     122      117       119      182       237       312      365.         306          305
Other                            157      172       379      288       410       449      425          434          680
Defense                           300      224       306       379      492       750      833          799        1,303
Economic Services                 204      244       301      380       331       444      627          604          724
Agriculture, forestry
and cooperatives                 79       86       116      131       156       229      242          227          231
Animal resources                  37       44        47        92       72       104      109            99         116
Commerce and industry              4        7         8         7       12        19       20           18           22
Other                             84      107       130      150        91        92      256          260          355
Social Services                   449      464       464      627       902    1,171    1,285         1,226        1,339
Education                        322      331       330      445       529       676      735          807          948
Health                           106      114       109      131       202       309      406          258          287
Other                             21       19        25        51      171       186      144          161          104
Statutory (CFS)                   233      279       414      498       543       473      521          683          413
Public debt                     143       235       393      383       372       310-    448           -            334
Other                             90       44        21      115       171       163        73         -             79
GRAND TOTAL                    1,491    1,531    2,027    2,467    2,954    3,632    4,113            4134990
1/ Provisional
2/ Estimate
3/ Preliminary Budget estimate.
4/ Includes amortization payments on external debt (Shs. 200 million).
Source: Sm-arv of Estimates of Recurrent and Development Expenditures, 1971/72 and 1978/79; and data
provided by the Ugandan authorities.



Annex V
Table 13
Uganda: Functional Classification of Central Government Development Expenditure, 1971/72-1979/80
(millions of Ugandan Shillings)
1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1974/75  1975/76  1976/77  1977/78 1/  1978/79 2/  1979/80 3/
General Public Services          338       213       246       334      369       283       567          299        1,075
Finance                         243       120       106      202       158       222       354          116          900
Internal affairs, police
and prisons                     31        19       13        61        45        36       105           58           41
Other                            64        74       127        71      166        25       108          125          134
Defense                          266       149       158       227      186       242       354          168          100
Economic Services                268       173       160       209      162       332       525          396          382
Agriculture, forestry
and cooperatives                64        45        41       47        53        96        83           50           82
Animal industry                  50        48        67        79       51       195       198          103          100
Commerce and industry            10         6        -         11        1         2         9            2            1
Other                           144        74        52        72       57        39       235          241          199
Lni
Social Services                   74        39        71        90       99       180       309          235          258          e
Education                        51        24        57        36       40        52       138          165          151
Health                           22        14         6         3        9        71        86           35           46
Other                             1         1         8        51       50        57        85           35            61
GRAND TOTAL                      946       594       635       860      816      1037      1755         1098          1815
1/ Provisional
2   Estimate
3/ Preliminary Budget estimate
4/ Includes mainly lending to parastatals.
Source: Summary of Estimates of Recurrent and Development Expenditures, 1971/72 and 1978/79; and data provided
by the Ugandan authorities.



Annex V
Table 14
Uganda: Monetary Survey, 1970-1978
(millions of Ugandan Shillings)
End of period:                                1970           1971           1972           1973          1974           1975           1976           1977           1978
Net foreign assets                           459.4          133.6          132.2          83.6          -27.4           31.4           47.9          112.6          253.9
Domestic credit                            1,451.7        1,821.1       2,356.6        3,347.6        4,465.5        5,212.5        6,781.0        8,365.8       10,413.2
Net claims on Government                  (542.3)        (887.2)      (1,357.7)     (2,139.0)      (2,895.3)      (3,531.9)      (4,869.3)      (5,531.8)      (7,206.6)
Claims on private sector                  (909.4)        (933.9)        (998.9)      (1,208.6)     (1,570.2)      (1,680.6)      (1,911.7)      (2,834.0)      (3,206.6)
Money                                      1,104.5        1,134.0        1,526.5       2,114.5        3,010.0        3,256.8        4,496.5        5,787.4        7,052.5
Quasi-money                                  544.3          511.7          543.6         807.7          859.2        1,425.6        1,742.7        1,613.6        2,294.5
Other items (net)                            262.3          309.0         418.7          509.0          568.9          561.5          589.7        1,087.4        1,320.4
Source:  Data provided by the Ugandan authorities                                                                                                                            ,



Annex V
Table 15
Uganda: Public External Debt Outstanding, 1973-1978
(millions of Ugandan Shillings; end of period)
1973       1974        1975       1976        1977        1978
Canada                                   14.3        14.3       19.2        19.2        19.2        19.2
Denmark                                  59.2        59.2        62.2       60.2        30.2        49.8
Germany, Federal Republic of            195.2       189.7      180.8       218.7       263.0       154.3
Japan                                     22.9       22.5        31.2       28.7        25.6        27.2
Libya                                       -        89.1        89.1       89.1        89.1        94.2
Netherlands                               13.7       28.4        32.1       31.8        29.6        29.6
Saudi Arabia                            107.1       107.1       123.9      103.3        82.6        62.0
United Kingdom                          433.3       386.2       325.1      291.1       246.1       250.5
U.S.S.R.                                 278.7      278.5       301.5      305.8       377.5       412.3
U.S.A.                                  115.2       114.7       127.2      124.4       111.7       119.6
African Development Bank                  77.6       77.1       187.9      184.5       181.2       178.0
Arab Fund                                   -        40.4        80.8       80.8        80.8        80.8
Arab League                                 -        83.2        83.2       83.2        83.2        67.0              1
IBRD/IDA                                476.5       471.0       464.8      458.4       453.2       420.7              n
Other                                    212.4      164.5       158.1      184.8       130.1        22.6
Total                            2,006.1    2,125.9    2,267.1    2,264.0    2,203.1    1,987.8
Source: Data provided by the Ugandan authorities.



Annex V
Table 16
Uganda:  Drawings on External Loans. Contractor Finance and Suppliers' Credits, 1971-1978
(millions of Ugandan Shillings)
1971          1972           1973          1974           1975          1976           1977           1978
Canada                                        1.9            1.4             -              -              -             -              -              -
China, People's Republic of                     -              -             -              -           7.3            2.2              -              -
Denmark                                       6.4            2.3           4.7            1.2           2.3            1.9            0.3              -
France                                       15.0              -             -              -             -              -            3.6              -
Germany, Federal Republic of                  0.7              -             -              -           7.4           40.1           57.8          32.1
Israel                                       67.1              -             -              -             -              -              -              -
Japan                                           -            2.0           0.6            3.0             -            6.9            5.5             -
Libya                                           -              -             -           89.1              -             -              -          49.2
Netherlands                                   1.5            0.7             -            0.9           3.1            0.4              -              -
Saudi Arabia                                    -           53.6          53.6           35.7          71.5              -              -          15.5
United Arabs Emirates                           -              -             -              -             -              -              -          27.9
United Kingdom                              115.7           98.5           5.7              -             -              -              -              -
U.S.S.R.                                     17.1            3.1           5.4           27.6          68.5           17.3           84.3           0.5
V.S.A.                                       25.7           17.1           0.3              -             -              -              -              -
Yugoslavia                                   37.5              -             -              -             -              -              -              -
African Development Bank                        -              -             -           18.9           8.0            5.1            6.2            3.0
Arab Fu6d                                       -              -             -           40_4          40.4              -            1.0            0.5
IBRD/IDA                                     67.9           65.9          27.1            1.3           7.5           14.5              -            7.6
OPEC Special Fund                               -             -              -              -             -              -           36.0              -
Total                                    356.5          244.6          97.4          218.1         216.0           88.4          194.7          136.3
Source: Data provided by the Ugandan authorities.
*       ,                                                                                 .  



