OFFICI1AL        CREDIT NUMBER 983 UG
DOCUENTS     CAN
Development Grant Agreement
(Reconstruction Program)
between
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator on behalf if
THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
Dated                                , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 983 UG
CAN
DEVELOPMENT GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated             2    , 1980, between REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION, acting as Administrator on behalf of THE
GOVERNMENT OF CANADA, (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the assistance of the
International Development Association and of the Government of
Canada in the financing of a project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the International Development Association (herein-
after called the IDA Credit Agreement);
WHEREAS for this purpose, the International Development
Association is prepared, out of its own resources, to extend to
the Borrower a development credit (hereinafter called the IDA
Credit) on the terms and conditions set forth in the IDA Credit
Agreement, and the Government of Canada has authorized the Inter-
national Development Association, acting as Administrator on
behalf of the Government of Canada, to extend for the same purpose
a development grant (hereinafter called the Grant) out of the
Canadian Government development aid funds on the terms and condi-
tions hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS the Borrower has also requested the Association as
Administrator of the Special Action Account established with funds
contributed by the Members States of the European Economic Commu-
nity to provide additional assistance towards the financing of the
Project, and by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Association, acting in such capacity (hereinafter
called the Special Action Credit Agreement) the Association has
agreed to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to approximately twenty million United States dollars
(US$20,000,000).
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,


﻿-2-
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Aplicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) The term "Association", whenever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as Administrator of Canadian Government development aid funds
pursuant to an Agreement dated April 22, 1977, as amended by
an Agreement dated March 8, 1978, each entered into between the
Government of Canada and the International Development Associa-
tion.
(b) The term "Development Credit Agreement", whenever
used in the General Conditions, means this Development Grant
Agreement.
(c) The term "Credit", whenever used in the General Condi-
tions, means the Grant hereunder.
(d) The term "Credit Account", whenever used in the General
Conditions or in this Agreement, means the account opened by the
Association in its books in the name of the Borrower to which the
Amount of the Grant is credited.
(e) The term "Project" means the project or program for
which the Grant is extended, as described in the IDA Credit
Agreement and as the description thereof may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Association and the Borrower.
(f) Sections 3.02, 3.03, 3.04, 3.05, 4.01, 4.02, 4.03,
4.04, 4.06, 6.05, 7.01, 8.01 (a) and 12.05 are deleted.
(g) In Sections 2.01 (9) and 6.02, the term "Association"
shall include also the International Development Association
acting in its own capacity.
ARTICLE II
The Grant
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to extend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions herein set forth or referred


﻿- 3 -
to a grant in an amount of three million Canadian dollars
(Canadian$3,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Grant may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provision of
Schedule 1 to the IDA Credit Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement among the parties, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant.
(b) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in
the respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Grant have been paid or are payable or,
at the option of the Association, in Canadian dollars.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the IDA Credit
Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1980
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. Articles III and IV of the IDA Credit Agreement
are hereby incorporated into this Agreement with the same force
and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, it being
understood that all references in such Articles III and IV to the
"Association" shall be deemed to be reference to the Association,
as Administrator on behalf of the Government of Canada under this
Agreement, all references to the "Development Credit Agreement"
shall be deemed to be reference to this Development Grant Agree-
ment and all references to the "Credit" shall be deemed to be
reference to the Grant hereunder.
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Representation
Section 4.01. The following event is specified as an addi-
tional condition to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the


﻿-4-
meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions, namely,
that all conditions to the effectiveness of the IDA Credit Agree-
ment and of the EEC Special Action Credit, save for the effective-
ness of this Agreement, have been fulfilled.
Section 4.02. The date             1     is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.03. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Borrower and the Association hereunder shall terminate on the date
on which the IDA Credit Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms.
Section 4.04. The representative designated in Section
7.01 of the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the representative of
the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 4.05. The addresses specified in Section 7.02 of
the IDA Credit Agreement shall be the addresses specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions.
Section 4.06. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the IDA Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Transfer of Rights and Obligations
Section 5.01. In accordance with the Agreement dated April
22, 1977, as amended as aforesaid, between the Government of
Canada and the International Development Association, the rights
and obligations of the Association under this Agreement may be
transferred to the Government of Canada, or one of its agencies
designated by it. The Borrower accepts and agrees that, upon
notice by the Association to the Borrower to that effect, the
Government of Canada (or the agency designated by it) shall ipso
facto, from the date specified in such notice, be substituted in
all rights and obligations of the Association under this Agreement
as if the Government of Canada or such agency had been an original
party to this Agreement, without any further action or formality
required on the part of any party, and from such date the Interna-
tional Development Association shall cease to have any rights or
obligations as a party under this Agreement.


﻿-5-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATION DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION,
as Administrator on behalf of
THE GOVERNMENT OF CANADA
By
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   a        day of
198 2.
FOR SECRETARY


