Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repot No. 5105
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GHANA: OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 531-GH)
May 31, 1994
Operations Evalulation Departmrent
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents bmy wot otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriaztion.



Weights and Measures
1 hectare (ha)   =   2.47 acres
1 kilogram (kg)  =   2.2 lbs.
1 metric ton (t) =   2,204.6 lbs.
Abbreviations
ADB     Agricultural Development Bank
EDF     European Development Fund
FAO     Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations
FFB     Fresh Fruit Bunches
GOPD    Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
IDA     International Development Association
ICB     International Competitive Bidding
IRHO    Institut de Recherches pour les Huiles et Oleagineux
LCB     Local Competitive Bidding
NIFOR   Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research
OPRC    Oil Palm Research Center
RMWA    Regional Mission in West Africa
SFC     State Farms Corporation



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GHANA: OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 531-GH)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface ......................................
Basic Data Sheet ...........................................                                  i
Highlights .iii
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
I. SUMMARY .1
II. MAIN FINDINGS.                                                                        4
A. Project Success and Durability .
B. The Land Compensation Issue.                                                   6
C. Labor ......................................                                   7
D. The Outgrower Approach.                                                        8
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.  Background ........................   11
II.    Project Formulation ......................................    12
III.  Implementation .               .....................................  15
IV.    Evaluation of Project Impact  ............                .................    28
V.    Benefits and Economic and Financial Evaluation  ....                    .......   29
VI.    Institutional Performance  ................................    30
VII.    Conclusions  .           .............................................    33
Annexe Tables
Planting Program . ..............................................  37
Estimated and Actual Costs and Financing  ......................    38
Status of Funds as at February 1983  ...........................    39
Schedule of Disbursements  ........                .............................    40
Project Costs .                                                                         41
Imports of Oils and Fats for Industrial Use  .....                    ..............    42
Inflation Rates and Factors  ...........               ........................    43
Breakdown of Field Establishment  Costs  ......                  ..................    44
Farm Budget ...............................................  45
Economic Millgate Price of Palm Oil .--------------------------    46
Economic Millgate Price of Palm Kernel  ......                   ..................    47
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutics. Its contents may not otherwise bc disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (coat.)
Page No.
Annexe Tables
Yield Projections for Nucleus Plantation and Outgrowers .......  48
Details of Economic Operating Costs ...........................  49
Details of Project Costs ......................................  50
Economic Rate of Return .......................................  51
Assumptions Underlying Economic Rate of Return Calculations  ...  52
Map - 10271 R (PPA)



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 531-GE)
PREFACE
This is a performance audit of the Oil Palm Development Project in
Ghana, for which Credit 531-GH was approved on February 18, 1975, in the
amount of US$13.6 million.  The Credit is expected to be closed fully dis-
bursed on June 30, 1984.
The audit report consists of an audit memorandum (PPAM) prepared by
the Operations Evaluation Department (OED) and the Project Completion Report
(PCR) dated Jume 1983, prepared by the Bank Resident Mission in West Africa
following a country visit in September 1982.  The audit memorandum is based
on a review of the Appraisal Report (No. 173a-GH) dated February 3, 1975, the
President's Report (No. P-1431-GH) of February 6, 1975, the Credit Agreement
dated March 5, 1975 and the PCR.  Internal Bank memoranda on project issues
as contained in relevant Bank files have also been consulted and Bank staff
associated with the project have been interviewed.
A copy of the draft PPAR was sent to the Borrower for comments on
January 27, 1984. However, none were received.
The audit finds that the PCR covers adequately the project's sali-
ent features and the PPAM agrees with its conclusions.   In addition to
summarizing the objectives and results of the project, the PPA! expands upon
certain aspects of land acquisition and land compensation, the availability
of labor and the outgrower development approach because of their importance
to this and other similar projects undertaken in the same region.
The valuable assistance provided by the Government of Ghana, the
project staff and the officials involved in the project during the prepara-
tion of the PCR is gratefully acknowledged.



- ii -
PMUnF.CT FF:MIIt"ANFC. AUtIT Rpnlutl
GUANA: OIL rALM DEVR.IJvPEmr ISaAC?
_ _..J!       I   533___) ______
BASIC DATA SIUFXT
KET ruOJEC? DATA
Appraisal               Actual or            Actual as Z of
rEtimate             Estimat_d Actual       Apprasal Lalate
Total Project Cost (US$ million)                              22.5                     47.8                     214
Credit Amount CUSS million)                                   13.6                     13.6                     100
Date Board Approval                                            -                     0211/75
Date Effectivene                                            06J13/75                 06124/76                   40
Date Physical Components Completed                          12/31/82                 03131/84                   132
Proportlon then completed (2)                              100                    94-112-951a
Closins Date                                                12/31/83                 06/30/84                   124
Economic Rate of Return (X)                                   16.6                     12.0
Financial Rate of Return (2)
Inmtitutional Performace                                                                                         80
Agrunomic Performance                                          -                         -                       90
Number of Direct Ueneficiarls (1984)
Smallholders/outgrouera                         250                       318                     12?
Staff and Laborers                              850                      900                      106
CUHUATIVE DISSURSEUEUOTS
7177    m78    Fn79    rTS0    "el    782    7T83    7164
Appraiaal Estimate CUSS milllon)                   1.3      2.3     3.6      5.9     9.3    11.3    13.6    13.6
Actual (US5 mlllon)                               0.97    1.77    2.77    4.97    8.47   11.77   13.1    13.6
Actual aa *     of eutisate                        74      77      77       84      91      104      96      100
Date of final dlsbursement:        *me 1984
MISSI0N DATA
Date        No. of                    Specializations        Performance                  Types of
Mission                (No.lYr.)     Persons      Mandays        Represented  k          Ratinx /d   Trend le    Problem /f
Identification           03171          NIl          N/A
Preparation              06/72          MIA         N/A
Appraisal                10/72           5           75             a.bc                   -            - 
Subtotal                                             75
SupervisIon  1           12/75           1            2               c              not effective    N/A            N/A
Supervision  2           04176           1            5               d              oot effective    N//A           R/A
Supervislon  3           09/76           2           12              b.c                    2           1             n
Supervision  4           03/77/b         2            2              a*d                   -            -
Supervision  5           06/777ii        1            6               b
Supervlison  6           10/77           1            5               a                    I            1
Supervision  7           05/78           1             3              a                     1           2             11
Supervision  1           11/?8           2            8              a,d                    1           2             T
Supervision  9           11/79           1             6              c                     2           3            T.r
Supervimion 10           05/80           2           17              ce                    2            3            r,0
Supervision 11           10180           3            15            a,;,f                  2            2            n 0
Supervision 12           05/81           4           18            a*.c.dd                 2            2            O.P
Supervision 13           12/81           1            7               a                     2           2            0,Y
Supervision 14           09/82           1            9               a                    2            3           r.n.r
Subtotal                                       115
Total                                          190
OTRZ PROJECr DATA
Borrover             RepublIc of Chana
Executing Agency    Chana 011 Paln Development Corporatlon
Fiscal Year          July I - June 30
Name of Currency (abbretlatlon)           Cedi (9)
Currency Excharge Rate:
Apprai-al Year Average                     ISS1.00 -    1.15
lntervening Tears Averape                 5DI_00 - 9 2.21
Completion Year Average                    US$1.00 - 1i 2.75
Y11ow-on ProjeCL:/1
Name:  (Pioponed)         Second 011 Palm Development Project
Credit Number:           NMA
Credit Amount:            US$15.0 million
Date Board Approval:      Planned June 1984
/a   942 of the nucleus estate. 117Z nf amallholders;autgrowere anod 952 of the nil m111 comronent.
7b   A Reck-to-Office Report wan prepared Instead of a Full Supervieinn Rrpnrt.
7r   a- agriculturalist: b - agricultural economlit; c - financial anmlyat; d - ecnnostmt;
C - con.lts.n; f - vp.
Id   I - problem-free or minor prol.lemn; 2   m derate pruhlea-; and 1 - mjor problems.
7e   1 - I Ipr-.ving; 2 - slam ine-.-r;; aed 3 - detrinratting.
If   F- finmmrll: N - mnnnimpl.]; T * trChmmlf'l  P - polItical; and 0 - otier.
7k   ImA rrntedr Cmv-r.msrnt n 11. udvancem of S';857.00t) n May  9813.



- ili -
PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT REPORT
GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 531-GH)
HIGHLIGHTS
The project was the first phase of an oil palm development program
and consisted mostly of establishing and operating a 4,000 ha nucleus planta-
tion, assisting outgrowers for planting 1,200 ha, constructing a palm oil
mill and training personnel.   The project objectives were to generate an
annual production of 14,000 tons of palm oil for internal consumption and
3,000 tons of palm kernels for export, and to provide employment to about 250
farming families and 600 staff and laborers on the oil palm nucleus planta-
tion and in the oil mill. The project, to be implemented over an eight-year
period, was to be executed by the Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation
(GOPD) an autonomous agency which was to operate as a commercial entity with
the assistance of a firm of consultants experienced in oil palm development.
Project start-up and implementation experienced delay due to the
political and economic problems of the country, difficulties in acquiring
land for oil palm planting in the nucleus area, the lack of labor and conr
tinuous shortages  of building materials.    As a result of difficulties
encountered during project implementation, the planting program was delayed
by two years but attained 5,145 ha, or 99X of the appraisal target.
Construction of the oil mill was successfully completed on schedule. Actual
project costs totalled US$47.8 million, instead of US$22.5 million estimated
at appraisal, an increase of 114%, due mostly to high inflation, the high
cost of land compensation and an increase in oil mill size and capacity.
The project ERR is now estimated at 12%, compared with 16.6% esti-
mated at appraisal. The project cost increase has been partly compensated by
increases of world market price projections for oil palm products. The proj-
ect benefited about 600 permanent staff and laborers of GOPD and about 318
farming families, 27% more than anticipated at appraisal.
Considering that the project was implemented in a difficult working
environment and at a time when Ghana faced considerable political and
economic problems, the project was a success despite its cost and time over-
runs.  The autonomy of the execuring agency, the efficiency of consultants
and Government's support were the main reasons for the project success.
However, the project's durability remains uncertain because the training
objectives, aimed at having qualified Ghanaians replace expatriate staff,
have not been met.
The following points may be of particular interest:
-    training efforts are frequently lost to projects because of high
staff turnover, poor design of the training component, and the



- Iv -
difficulty for expatriate-) to Implement project vorks wlthin a
tight schedule vhile at the same time having to traln counterpart
(PPAM, paras. 18-20; and PCR, pars. 7.06c);
when land expropriatlon is a prerequisite for successful project
execution, a cadastral survey and a land compensation plan should
be completed before appraisal, and Government Rxpropriation pro-
cedures should be reviewed by the Bank (PPAM, paras. 21-23; and
PCR, para. 7.07);
in little-populated regions, the only way to attract and retain
good laborers is to provide them with housing and to support ford
crop production (PPAM, paras. 24-25; and PCR, paras. 3.35 and
7.04); and
as in some other Bank-assisted oil palm projects, there is a risk
that recovers of credit might prove difficult as farmers may evade
repayments by selling part of their crop on the parallel market
instead of through the official mill channel (PPAM, paras. 26-27).



PROJECT PERFORMANCE AUDIT MEMORANDUM
GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 531-GH)
I. SUMMARY
Background
1.        In the early 70s,  agriculture,  forestry and  fisheries  employed
about 60Z of the Ghanaian population and contributed to about 40% of its
GDP.   Cocoa was the main export commodity and generated about 622 of the
country's export earnings   Ghana's main economic problems were dominated by
the need to reduce the bAlance of payments deficit, achieve self-sufficiency
in food and diversify its agricultural production, emphasizing import substi-
tution projects.  To achieve its objectives the Government was considering,
inter alia, the development of oil palm, because of the suitable climatic
conditions of the southern part of the country and the increasing internal
demand for palm oil.
2.        Palm oil production in 1970 was estimated at about 20,300 tons, of
which 19,000 tons was used for human consumption.   Internal demaLnd for palm
oil was projected to increase to about 69,000 tons in 1985 and to 80,000 tons
in 1990, well in excess of the estimated production of 41,000 tons and 45,000
tons respectively.  The country's main sources of palm oil were the natural
wild palm groves, small private plantings and some large-scale plantations.
Project Design
3.        The project was the first phase of an oil palm development program
and consisted of:
Ca) establishing and operating a 4,000-ha nucleus plantation;
(b) providing technical services and credit facilities to develop
1,200 ha of outgrower plantings;
(c) constructing and operating a 10-ton/hour pain oil mill;
(d)  financing infrastructure development and operating costs;
(e) training personnel; and
(f) carrying out field trials.
The project was to be implemented over an eight-year period, and was to
include expenditures up to the year when plantings were brought into har-
vest.   Planting would be completed during the first  five years.   Total
project cost was estimated at US$22-5 million of whic l IDA was to provide



-2-
US$13.6 million (60%). The project was to be executed by the Ghana Oil Palm
Development Corporation (GOPD), which was to operate as a commercial entity,
and had been established under the existing Statutory Corporation Act.  To
ensure efficient management, GOPD was to recruit key staff by entering into a
contract with an internationally recognized firm experienced in oil palm
estate management.
4.        The nuclems plantation with outgrowers approach was expected to
offer advantages in the spheres of employment, extension and large-scale
central processing.  The employment opportunities on the nucleus plantation
would provide a regular source of income for members of the outgrower commur-
nity and would serve as a valuable extension factor in the outgrower planting
sector of the project.   Participating outgrowers would be limited to those
with land suitable for oil palms within a 15-mile radius of the nucleus
estate.   Credit would be supplied to successful applicants in the form of
planting material, fertilizers and other elements supplied in kind, and cash
for up to 80% of estimated labor costs.  Loans would be recovered from the
proceeds of Fresh Fruit Bunchl/ (ffb) sales.
Project Implementation
5.        Although the Credit Agreemeir: was signed on March 5, 1975, the
project did not become effective until Jui.e 30, 1976, because a number of
conditions of effectiveness remained unfulfilled, particularly the appoint-
ment of a Managing Director, the contract with consultants and the
acquisition of 1,200 ha of land for oil palm planting in the nucleus area.
Project implementation also experienced some delay, mostly due to continuous
difficulties in acquiring and transferring land to GOPD as a result of slow
compensation of dispossessed farmers and dissatisfaction of the latter with
the compensation rate. In addition, the Government's policy and funding were
not adequate for a satisfactory solution of the land compensation issue.
6.        Manual land clearing also proved difficult and lengthy.  In Septem-
ber 1976 it was decided that clearing would be done mechanically.   Three
bulldozers were ordered, and arrived in April 1977, but their performance was
below standard because of poor maintenance and lack of spare parts. Clearing
operations improved markedly in 1979/80 when two bulldozers of another type
were purchased and an expatriate workshop manager was recruited.
7.        The availability of sufficient labor remained a constant problem.
The labor policy, set up at appraisal, to employ only non-resident laborers
proved unrealistic as (i) most workers living in the project area were
mainly seasonal and made up of smallholders with a low output; (ii) the
dispossessed farmers, dissatisfied with the rate and the pace of land
compensation, generally refused to work on the project; (iii) the pro_ect
lacked the means to safely transport large numbers of workers from distant
villages; and (iv) salaries paid by GOPD were lower than in other oil palm
estates. This unfavorable situation was reversed in 1981 when the plantation
1/   Fresh Fruit Bunches (ffb) are the produce of the oil palm.



-3-
workers benefitted from World Food Program rations and when a housing program
for workers was finally adopted.
8.        The initial outgrower program changed at the end of 1977 when it
became apparent that it was seriously delayed by the lack of access roeds and
the lengthy delays in obtaining the legal documents for outgrowers.  At the
suggestion of the Managing Director, a block of smallholders was created conr-
tiguous to the nucleus estate. Each smallholder was to receive on lease from
GOPD 8 ha of land to be planted under oil palm at an annual rate of 4 ha, and
1 or 2 ha for growing food crops.   The introduction of the "smallholder-
policy (farmers' taking up land for cultivation of oil palms), as dis-
tinguished from 'outgrowers- (farmers receiving assistance to plant their own
land) was reflected in an amendment of the Credit Agreement in 1980.  The
smallholder program made a good start, as land was allocated to nearby
villagers, but because of difficulties in obtaining additional land, the out-
grower concept was reintroduced later.   At project completion 318 farmers
(202 smallholders and 116 outgrowers) or 40Z more than expected at appraisal
have benefitted from the program.
9.        As a result of delays and difficulties encountered during project
implementation, the planting program, for both the nucleus estate and the
smallholders/outgrowers was delayed by two years. However at project comple-
tion in September 1982, the overall planting program had attained 5,145 ha or
99X of the appraisal target (94% of the target for nucleus estate, and 112%
of the target for the smallholder/outgrower component).
10.       The construction program, consisting of offices, houses for senior
staff, a training and a health center, workshop, storage facilities and a
small dam, was delayed because of continuous shortages of building materials,
and is expected to be completed in 1984.  Construction of the oil mill was
started in June 1980 and successfully completed in November 1982, one month
ahead of schedule.2/
I1.       Actual project costs totalled US$47.8 million, instead of US$22.5
million estimated at appraisal, an increase of 114%.  The main reasons for
this cost escalation were an overvalued exchange rate, high inflation, addi-
tional buildings and heavy equipment for land clearing, the high cost of land
compensation, much higher local wages than anticipated and a larger oil mill.
Project Impact
12.       Yields at full maturity are expected to be lower than anticipated
(about 10% for nucleus estate and 20% for smallholders/outgrowers) because of
the likelihood of droughts, the shortage of inputs in Ghana and possible
problems which could result from the departure of expatriates before a
replacement team of Ghanaians is ready to take over. The project ERR is now
estimated at 12%, compared with 16.6% estima-ed at appraisal.  The project
2/   In 1977 the decision had been made to increase the oil mill capacity
from 10 tons to 15 tons per hour.



cost increase has been partly compensated by increases of world market price
projections of the palm produce as compared with appraisal estimates.
13.       The social impact of the project is not negligible since about 600
permanent staff and laborers and as many casual workers are employed in proj-
ect works.   In addition the project contributed to lncreaslng the incomes
of 318 smallholder/outgrower families representing 1,500 to 2,000 people.
About 900 additional farmers have applied to become smallholders or out-
growers, should a follow-up project materialize.
14.       The project was less successful in improving the capability of
Ghanaian nationals to operate and manage an oil palm development project.
Training of national staff proved insufficient, and there is no evidence that
the training program met the project objective to have qualified Ghanaians
replacing expatriates at the time of project completion. In addition, a num-
ber of trained national staff have been suspended or have resigned following
civil disturbances and political problems during project implementation.
15.       A second-phase project aiming at consolidating the Phase I project
and expanding both outgrower plantings and the capacity of the oil mill was
appraised by the Bank in April 1981.  However, submission of documents to
the Board was deferred after the change of Government In December 1981 and
pending agreement of the Government with the IMF and the Bank on macro-
economic policy issues.  In October 1983, the project was re-appralsed fol-
lowing the Government's announcement of major policy reforms. Board presen-
tation of the second project is now scheduled by June 1984.
II. MAIN FINDINGS
A. Project Success and Durability
16.       Considering that the project was implemented at a time when Ghana
faced enormous political and economic problems, resulting In the failure of a
number of Bank-assisted projects, this oil palm development project can be
termed a success despite its large cost overrun. In the audit's view, and as
correctly pointed out by the PCR, the project success was mostly due to (i)
the relative autonomy of the project, which was under the responsibility of a
statutory corporation, not part of the government bureaucracy; (ii) the
efficiency and wide experience of the consultants; and (iii) the government
support despite its financial difficulties.
17.       As already mentioned in a number of OED rep-rts4/ an autonomous
agency, able to integrate production, transportation, processing and
marketing, is generally more efficient than a ministerial dep:irtment for pro-
moting crops which have to be processed. In this respect, :ne project was no
3/   See particularly PPAR of Ivory Coast: Cotton Areas Rural Development
Project (OED Report No. 4568).



- 5-
exception; it undoubtedly benefitted from the statutory autonomy and the
undeniable flexibility of GOPD, particularly during the difficult and
troubled period of the country- The need for technical assistance from a
firm of consultants experienced in oil palm planting and management was
recognized at appraisal and proved to be essential for the project success
since little expertise in oil palm existed in Ghana before the project. The
team of expatriates was efficient and dedicated amid difficult working con-
ditions-   The consulting firm fully supported the project and agreed to
leave its management team in Ghana awaiting a follov-up project. Finally,
the Government was cooperative and supported the project even in the 1981/82
period when financial problems became particularly severe and management more
difficult because councils of workers were given the right to intervene in
day-to-day management.
18.       The question of the project's durability, however, remains un-
answered. It is clear that the training objectives, aimed at having quali-
fied Ghanaians replace expatriate staff, have not yet been met. One of the
reasons was that some top Gnanaian staff have been suspended or resigned
following the revolution.  In addition, it is not evident that the training
program4/ was adequately designed and the personnel who attended the courses
made the best use of their training for the benefit of the project. Should a
Bank-assisted second-phase project not materialize, and the technical
assistance stop within a few months, the   economic viability of this first-
phase project could be seriously jeopardized.
19.       The project illustrated the shortcomings of the training component
in a number of Bank projects. The PCR correctly mentions that it is diffi-
cult for expatriates to train counterparts during a tightly scheduled
plantation program; besides, expatriate technical and managerial specialists
do not always have the ability and skills to train their counterparts. In
addition, as noted in other Bank-financed projects,5/ the benefits derived
from training efforts are frequently lost to the project because staff
turnover is high in many countries and trainees are often transferred
elsewhere soon after their training.   Another problem, which has affected
many plantation projects under parastatal management, is that conditions of
employment often compare unfavorably with those in the private sector and
prevent attracting and retaining staff of the calibre required.
20.       The experience of this, as well as other projects of the same
nature proved that (i) the type and timing of training should be clearly
defined at appraisal and, if necessary, designed with the assistance of a
training specialist; (ii) expatriate technicians and managers should not be
entirely relied upon for training purposes and a training specialist should
4/   A two-week course in Swaziland for assistani plantation managers, a
one-month course on harvesting in Ivory Coast for the senior assistant
plantation manager, ten-month courses in the Netherlands and Malaysia
for mill engineers and a three-year course in agricultural economics in
Australia for an assistant plantation manager.
5/   See particularly OED Report No.  4749 (Dominican Republic: Yaque del
Norte Irrigation Project); Yemen Arab Republic: Southern Uplands
Regional Development and Grain Storage Projects (under preparation).



- 6 -
be included in the expatriate team when training is considered essential for
the durability of the project and (iii) when costly training abroad is
included in the training program, beforehand assurance would be _btained from
the trainees that they would serve the project for a number of years before
being transferred elsewhere.6/
B. The Land Compensation Issue
21.       The project faced a continuous problem of land acquisition because
the Government proved unable to quickly and adequately compensate the
dispossessed farmers.  This led to serious delays in the land clearing and
planting programs, to a marked hostility of the population against the
project and to severe labor problems. Although the cost of land compensation
turned out to be 550% higher than anticipated at appraisal, there is no
evidence that dispossessed farmers have been adequately compensated and/or
relocated.
22.       The land availability and land acquisition and compensation issues
have been noted in a number of projects of the same nature (as well as in
livestock and irrigation projects) and have been raised in some PPARs.7/
With the benefit of hindsight, it is clear that the land tenure and land com-
pensation aspects of the project were not sufficiently scrutinized at
appraisal. The Staff Appraisal Report only stated (para. 3.06) that 'there
does not seem to be any problem in acquiring the land needed for the nucleus
plantation and recommended to obtain assurances that -the Government take
all requisite steps for the acquisition and retention by GOPD of all land
required to establish a 10,000 acres plantation prior to June 30, 1976-
(para. 4.06). In sum, it was thought at appraisal that since the Government
was entitled to acquire land, there would be no land acquisition problem. In
addition, land compensation was essentially a local cost and therefore,
according to Bank rules, no Bank funding was earmarked for this purpose. In
fact, it became apparent during project implementation that the procedure and
methods of compensation were slow and inadequate (PCR, para. 3.05); the comr
pensation rate was somewhat arbitrary and continuously questioned by
dispossessed farmers; and the Government lacked the necessary funds.
23.       The experience of this project confirms OED findings that when land
expropriation and land compensation are a prerequisite for project execution,
a cadastral survey and a land compensation plan should be completed before
project  appraisal.    The  Government  expropriation  procedures  should  be
reviewed  by  the Bank and  the  compensation  rate and  timing  should  be
6/   Some Bank staff argue that it is often better to let trainees go than to
attempt to hold them against their will.  On the other hand, other staff
note that a high turnover of competent national staff may result in an
increasing dependency on expatriates.
7/   OED Reports lo. 3972 (Ghana: Livestock Development Project); No. 4979
(Dominican Republic: Yaque del Norte Irrigation Project); and No. 3971
(Ethiopia: Lower Adiabo Development Project).



-7-
determined during project preparation and agreed upon at negotiations.
Finally, it should be a condition of effectiveness of the Loan/Credit that
the Government has acquired all land or most of it as needed for project
implementation.
C. Labor
24.       The availability of sufficient labor was another important problem
of the project during implementation. Unlike most of the cree crops projects
in Africa and elsewhere, the project policy was to employ only non-resident
laborers. Therefore, no villages were built in the estate and the project
had to rely on costly and unsafe transportation of laborers from surrounding
villages. The situation was complicated by the shortage of food on the proj-
ect site, the low salaries, and the dissatisfaction of the dispossessed
farmers who were the main source of labor and often refused to work on the
estate. As a result the rate of absenteeism was abnormally high. A further
risk was a rapid turnover of the labor force and the difficulty of training
people in skilled operations like harvesting. In 1976, a reversal took place
and the decision was made to establish villages at the project site. But the
construction cost proved to be much higher than at appraisal time and
progress in construction was slow because of shortages of building materials,
mostly cement.
25.       Again, the experience of this project confirmed those of other
similar projects and showed that in the little populated regions, where tree
crop development usually takes place, the only way to attract and retain good
laborers is to provide them with housing and to support food crop
production.8/  Like in other tree crop projects, the type of housing has
also been a matter of controversy in this project- While a Bank consultant
and the Project Manager recommended temporary wooden houses, the Government
gave preference to houses made of concrete.   In the Bank-assisted rubber
projects in Cameroon,9/ and the oil palm and coconut projects in Ivory
Coast,10/ villages were also built in concrete but the design of the houses
and, more importantly, the siting and layout of the villages, proved tc be
poorly adapted to the socio-economic context of the region and the
population. The umodern blocks construcred under these projects soon turned
to urban slums rather than rural 'Villages and raised discontent among
dwellers. In view of these past experiences one may wonder whether a mare
traditional type of village and traditional construction material (like that
prevailing in land-settlement projects in Malaysia) would not have been
better accepted by laborers and proved cheaper than the villages built under
these projects.
8/   On this subject see also Cameroon: Niete Rubber Estate Project (OED
Report No. 3507).
9/   OED Report No. 3507.
10/  See Ivory Coast:   Impact Evaluation of Oil Palm and Coconut Projects
(OED Report under preparation).



-8-
D. The Outgrower Approach
26.       The PCR states that the nucleus plantation with outgrowers approach
proved a feasible excercise. This approach was also generally successful in
other Bank-assisted tree crop projects in Southeast Asia and Africa.   In
Ghana, like in other countries, the Bank development strategy was based on
credit in kind and cash to outgrowers. With the benefit of experience gained
under other oil palm projects the credit system proved a dangerous financing
mechanism for farmers who are not familiar with its requirements and evade
repayment by selling part of their crop on the parallel market instead of
through the official oil mill channel.  In addition to a low recovery of
loans from outgrowers the adverse effect of this practice is that processing
plants do not operate at full capacity, which keeps processing costs high and
jeopardizes the economic viability of the project.
27.       Since a free market of oilpalm products probably exists in Ghana
like in neighboring countries, GOPD will have to face the same issue as in
other projects when repayments by outgrowers are being started, i.e., when
the oil palms are nine years old.  The best way to solve this problem will '.
to ensure that (i) the ffb price paid to outgrowers remains competitive with
the one of the free market, (ii) collection of ffbs is timely and properly
organized and (iii) payments to farmers are made on a regular basis. In this
respect the follow-up project appears essential to protect and bring to full
development the investments made under the Phase I project and more
particularly to organize an adequate harvesting, collection and payment
system for outgrowers/smallholders.



GEEAN
OTM PALH DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 531-Ga)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
JXLu.E 19B3
The World Bank.
Resident Mission in Western Africa



t
I                   r~~~~~~~~~



- 11 -
I.  BACKGROUND
1.01      Ghana, vith an area of about 239,000 kmd, has a population of 11.7
million, growing at over 3 percent a year. With an average population density
of 48 per sq. km there is no overall scarcity of land, although in certain
regions like the Central and the Eastern, population density can exceed 100 per
km2. A significant shift of rural population 1/ to the urban areas has taken
place since the early 1970's when some 70 Z of the total population was deriving
a livelihood from agriculture. With a declining GDP per capita of approximately
USS 420, Ghana was, in 1980, among the 34 least developed countries in the world.
1.02      Some 12 Z of the country's 22.7 million ha of land is under cultivation;
nearly 55 Z under bush-fallow and the remaining 33 Z under forest. Shifting
cultivation with long periods of fallow is the predominant farming system.
Important food crops include maize, which constitutes slightly over 50 Z of the
overall cereals production of 700,000-800,000 tons, sorghum and millet, groundnuts
and rice. The starchy staples are estimated at 5 million tons, 50 Z of which is
cassava, 30 Z plantain and 15 x yams. Cocoa covers some 50 Z of all cultivated
land; oil palm is grown on about 111,000 ha whereas cotton, coffee and sugarcane
remain minor crops.
1.03      The Bank's main objectives in Ghana is agricultural sector have been
to assist the country in achieving self-sufficiency in food and raw materials
for agro-industries. Total sector lending over 1969/80 amounted to
USS 105.5 million and comprised 8 projects. These included one fisheries, two
cocoa, a sugar, a livestock, an oil palm and two agricultural development
projects.
1.04      Oil palm cultivation has been important in Ghana for several decades.
However, it was onlv late in the sixties that more attention was devoted to the
crop. The country's main sources of palm oil were the natural wild palm groves,
small private plantings and large scale plantations. Departing from previous
interventions in production activities through heavy investments in large capital
intensive State Farms, the Government decided in the earlv seventies to give more
consideration to smallholders and large scale nucleus estates. The country's
overall production reached 20,000 t of palm oil in 1970, while recent forecasts
put the internal demand for the commoditv at 70.000 t in 1985 and 90.000 t in
1990. This is well in excess of the pfoiected national output of 75,000 t of
Dalm oil in 1990.
1.05      The nast development of oil nalm in Ghana has mainlv been through the
establishment of three large-scale Dlantations e State Farms Corporation (SFC)
which has about 14,200 ha planted including 400 ha under outgrowers; Benso -
Unilever - with about 4,000 ha and Twifo - CDC - which out of a targeted
5,300 ha has achieved only 1,000 ha so far due to land acquisition problems.
The Oil Palm Development project for which an IDA credit of USS 13.6 million
was approved in February 1975, helped the Government expand the area under
oil palm through the implementation of both a 4,000 ha nucleus estate and
1,200 ha of smallholder/outgrower plots. The project, located in the southern
part of Ghana, - some 160 km North-East of Accra -, also provided for the
construction and operation of a 10 t per hour ffb oil mill, the building of
access roads in the vicinity of the nucleus estate, the training of personnel,
1/ World Development Report 1982. Table 12. It is estimated that from 1960 to
1980, the rural labor force declined from 64 x to 53 % of the country's
total vorking population.



- 1Z-
the carrying out of field trials and the allocation of credit to smallholders/
outgrowers. The project was to be implemented over an eight year period at a
total cost of US$ 22.5 million of which the IDA credit represented 60 Z.
Outgrowers were to contribute 20 Z of farm labor requirements during establishment,
equivalent to some US$ 120,000 or about I Z of total project costs, whereas the
Government was to provide the remaining US$ 8.8 million equivalent or 39 Z of
total project costs. The credit agreement between the Government of Ghana and
IDA was signed June 24, 1976 and the credit was expected to be fully disbursed by
the new closing date of June 30, 1983 - six months ahead of the original closing
date.
1.06      This report is based on a review of IDA records, the findings of a
supervision mission which visited Ghana in August/September 1982 and views
expressed by Government officials during the above mission. Because of the heavy
workload prior to handing over the project to the Government in September 30, 1982,
the IRHO management team submitted only a brief and incomplete analysis of the
project's past problems and achievements. At the time of the mission, about 98 %
of the IDA credit had been committed, the appraisal planting targets were 94 Z
complete for the nucleus estate and 112 % for the smallholders/outgrowers and the
construction program for workers' housing, which was much larger than anticipated
at appraisal, was in full swing. The oil mill was commissioned in October 1982,
one month ahead of schedule.
II. PROJECT FORMULATION
A. Identification, Preparation, Appraisal and Board Recommendations.
2.01      An identification report for an oil palm development project was
submitted to IDA by the Ministry of Agriculture, in November 1970. The proposed
project consisted of the implementation of some 4,050 ha each in the Kade and
Twifo areas of the Eastern Region. It was later agreed during discussions held
between the Ministry of Agriculture and an RMWA mission in May 1971, that the
project should instead   (i) be limited to a single area; and, (ii) provide for
both a smallholder and a nucleus estate component. At the specific request of
the Ministry of Agriculture, preparation of the project was left with their
planning unit. However, as a result of insufficient know-how within the Ministry
and a lack of coordination between the soil research institute and the planning
unit, progress was slow and in March 1972 the Government asked the Bank to take
over responsibility for final project preparation. The Bank retained the services
of the "Institut de Recherche pour les Huiles et Oleagineux" (IRHO), a French
institute specialised in oil producing crops, which initiated the study
immediately.
2.02      The IRHO preparation report was received by RMIWA on August 8, 1972
and reviewed.thereafter. Despite the short notice and scarcity of available data,
it was felt that IRHO had presented a well balanced report. REWA concluded that
the project was sound and ready for appraisal. Over an eight year period
subdivided into a two phase oil palm development operation the main components
were to include : a) planting of a 5,200 ha nucleus estate and 4,800 ha for
smallholders; b) building of roads; c) construction of a 20 t ffb/hour oil mill
to be implemented in 10 t stages; d) providing mediumrterm credit to smallholders
e) backing the local oil palm Research; and f) recruiting expatriate technical
assistance. Depending on the disbursement period and the phasing of the second
project, costs for the first project were estimated at US$ 7.5 to US$ 8.5 million.



- 13 -
2.03      The appraisal mission composed of HQ staff visited Ghana in October
1972. Issues raised by Government during appraisal included :
a) the need f or the internationally recognized management firm
retained, to take a minority share-holding position in the
Corporation, in order to secure the financial interest of a
private partner - the idea was subsequently dropped as it
appeared unlikely that an international firm would wish to
become involved in the equity of GOPD during the limited time
span of the managing contract;
b) the key positions to have more than one Ghanaian deputy appointed
so as to provide flexibility in relation to the ultimate replace-
ment of expatriate staff -  instead, trainLng provisions were
included in the contract and no more than one deputy was appointed
per expatriate. (Para. 3.28);
c) emplovment of a Plant Breeding Consultant - Government initially
thought that this was unjustified whereas IDA was convinced that
the services of a consultant would have a positive impact on the
project -- the above employment was later approved by Government;
d) whilst recognizing the need for formulating a pricing policy for
oil palm, Government was reluctant to enter into an agreement which
involved consulting IDA when fixing prices - although Government
later reversed this initial view, the related covenant -section
3.04 - was barely adhered to (para. 3.50).
2.04      In the issues paper dated November 24, 1972, the appraisal mission
stated that it had no major differences in the general proposals put forward in
the feasibilitv study although it lengthened the period of development; the
mission proposed that the project would comprise the development of 5,200 ha of
oil palm as Phase I of a program ultimately scheduled to expand to 10,100 ha.
Essentially, Phase I would involve
i) establishing and operating 4,000 ha of nucleus estate;
ii) developing 1,200 ha of outgrowers plantings;
iii) constructing and operating a 20 ton ffb/hour oil mill;
iv) establishing a fruit collection system for outgrowers;
v) training personnel; and,
vi) carrying out applied research in selected spheres of study.
Planting would be completed during the first 5 years of the 8 year project. In
fact the feasibility study 11 had planned an 8-year planting program subdivided
into two 4 year phases. Some 5,200 ha would have been established from year 2
to 5 and 4,600 ha from year 6 to 9. The implementation history of the project
shows that the program proposed by the appraisal mission was more realistic.
2.05      In November  1972 project costs were estimated by the appraisal
mission to be USS 8.6 million and included expenditures up to the year when
plantings were brought into harvest; they were therefore extended from year 1
through year 9. It was the appraisal mission's intention to recommend that
disbursement of IDA funds be limited to 7 years with 8 and 9 financed entirely
from local funds. The foreign exchange component was estimated at 47 Z of total
project costs. Applying the world market prices forecast for 1980 by the Bank
Economic Analysis and Projections Department and shadow pricing the cedi at
1.70 to the US$ 1.0 the economic rate of return was 9 Z.
1/ Feasibility study p. 48 para. 4.2.



- 14 -
2.06      A number of issues and policy matters on which agreement needed to be
reached at negotiations were reviewed during the decision meeting 1/. These
included : a) interest rates for lending to farmers and credit channels,
b) employment of expatriate staff, c) feeder road construction, d) commodity
pricing policy, and e) exchange rate.
2.07      Project processing was delayed for various reasons, including the
prevailing economic situation and the need to look for a confinancer (the Kuwait
Fund was a possibility). Soils surveys took longer than expected as well as the
establishment of the project entity, due to Government's indecision on whether
to establish COPD as a limited liability company or as a statutorv cornoration.
As time gassed. costs had to be recalculated and rose to USS 13.5 million in
Anril 1973: USS 18.9 million at the time of negotiations in May 1974: and due to
increases in price contingencies. USS 22.6 million in February 1975 at Board
approval. IDA's contribution was increased from US$ 8.8 million to US$13.6 million
representing 60 % of costs. No cofinancer was found.
2.08      Points raised by Executive Directors, prior to Board presentation
included queries on : i) the reason why the estate/plantation approach had been
adopted, which seemed to have failed in the past and also might be in conflict
with the Bank Group's commitment to rural development (para. 2.10); ii) what use
would be made of the wood from trees to be felled during land clearing
(para. 3.13); iii) whether there was an alternative oil generating crop which
could be produced more competitively since there was a high tariff on imported
palm oil (para. 4.01) and iv) whether consideration had been given to possible
soil erosion due to land clearing (para. 4.04).
2.09      The project was presented to and approved by the Board on
Februa-rv 18, 1975. The Credit Agrement was signed Marched 3, 1975 and the
Credit became effective June 30, 1976.
B. Proiect Description
2.10      The project comprised the first phase of an oil palm development
program which was to utilize the nucleus plantation with outgrovers approach.
It was thought that such an approach would offer advantages in the spheres of
employment, extensior. and large scale central processing. The employment
opportunities on the nucleus plantatiop were to provide a regular source of
income for members of the outgrower community. Finally, the technical experience
gained by the outgrowers working in the nucleus plantation under well supervised
conditions was to serve a valuable extension factor in the outgrower planting
sector of the program.
2.11      The project was to be carried out over eight years from 1975 to 1982
and involve the planting of 5,200 ha of oil palm as a Phase I of a total
10,100 ha planting program. Amendments to the project credit agreement were
proposed to Government on November 6, 1974 with specific mention of the construc-
tion of a 10mile access road and the provision of technical assistance to the
Agricultural Development Bank (ADB). Government approved these amendments at the
end of January, 1975. The project was thus to include :
(a) establishing and operating a 4,000 ha nucleus plantation,
(b) providing technical services and credit facilities to develop
1200 ha of outgrower plantings adjacent to motorable roads
leading to the plantation,
1/ Decision Memorandum of December 20, 1972 and Addendum dated February 28, 1973.



- 15 -
(c) constructing and operating a 10 ton/hour palm oil mill
(designed for possible extension to 20 tons) and establishing a
fruit collection system for outgrowers,
(d) building ten miles of road in the vicinity of the nucleus
pi itation,
(e) training personnel,
(f) carrying out field trials with oil palms, and,
(g) providing technical assistance to the Agricultural Development
Bank (ADB).
2.12      Plantings, which were to be completed during the first five years,
would all be in bearing within 9 years. The project was to be implemented by
the Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation (GOPD), a statutory corporation
established by the Government and to operate as a commercial entity with
responsibility for developing and operating the nucleus plantation, constructing
and operating the palm oil mill, organizing and managing credit and extension
services, and fruit collection for outgrowers. The board of GOPD was to
formulate policy and approve operational programs, delegating responsibility for
their execution to the Managing Director. Finally, GOPD's senior staff positions
were to be provided under contract by an internationally recognized firm
experienced in oil palm planting and management.
2.13      The prcject's main impact at full development would be to generate an
annual production of 14,000 tons of palm oil and 3,000 tons of palm kernels. The
project would sustain and develop an industry generating a gross income of
US$ 17 million annually in a poor and relatively less developed region of Ghana.
Project induced oil production would substitute for imports that otherwise would
be required and kernels would be exported. Finally, there would be several
unquantifiable benefits including : i)providing employment for about 250 farmers
and 600 staff and laborers at GOPD headquarters and on the plantation;
ii) employing and training skilled labor in construction, roads, water and
electrical supply; and, iii) establishing an efficient marketing system for
smallholders 'palm produce.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Effectiveness and Start-up
3.01      Six conditions of effectiveness were included in the Development
Credit Agreement for the project, namely that :
a) Government had acquired and transferred to GOPD not less than
1200 ha of land suitable for oil palm planting in the nucleus
area;
b).GOPD had entered into a contract with a plant-breeding consultant
on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA;
c) financial arrangements, acceptable to IDA, between Government and
GOPD for providing Government and IDA funds to GOPD had been
concluded;
d) a person acceptable to IDA had assumed full time duties as
Managing Director of GOPD;



- 16 -
e) GOPD had entered into a contract with consultants experienced in
oil palm planting and management acceptable to IDA; and,
f) the Form of the loan agreement for outgrowers had been approved by
IDA.
3.02      Although the Credit Agreement between IDA and the Government was
signed on March 5, 1975, the IDA Credit did not become effective till June 30,
1976, after the date of effectiveness had been repeatedly postponed from
June 13, 1975 to , successively, September 30, 1975, December 31, 1975,
March 31, 1976, April 30, 1976, and May 31, 1976. At first the delays were
essentially due to the principal requirements relating to the appointment of a
Managing Director and the contract with consultants remaining unfulfilled. Also
the Government needed additional time for the acquisition and transfer of land
to GOPD. By May 1976, three conditions still had not been met, namely, the
management contract, the contract with the plant-breeder and the legal opinion.
The project was finally declared effective on June 30, 1976.
B. Physical Implementation
3.03      Project physical implementation experienced a one vear delav from the
date of effectiveness due to :
(i) remaining difficulties in acquiring and transferring the necessary
land to GOPD as a result of slow compensation of dispossessed
farmers by Government;
(ii) the late switch from a manual to a mechanized land clearing policy;
and.
(iii) late arrival (April 1977) of the heavy eauipment.
As a result, in 1978 the appraisal planting targets had to be revised. The
availabliliry of sufficient and suitable land remained a major preoccupation
throughout  the project. A land survey promised by Government for Septeuoer 1971
r-,as only completed in March 1974. It was therefore difficult for the preparation
and appraisal missions to. challenge the Government's assessments that there would
be no problem in getting the amount of land necessary for project implementation.
Also difficult to assess was the likely participation of farmers in an oil palm
project, in a predominantly cocoa growing area. Concern about Government's
ability to acquire the land and the cooperation of the affected farmers was
expressed within the Bank as early as June 1972 and well into 1974. According to
comments on the Bank's proposals by German Aid officials in February 1974, the
Chief of the Kwae village knew hardly anything about the project and was opposed
to replacing cocoa trees by oil palm. In February.1975, the Bank was still
enquiring about the steps Government was taking to acquire land for the nucleus
plantation. Land for the nucleus plantation was finally made over to Government
by Decree in September 1975, under the Administration of Lands Act. Bovever, for
technical reasons related to the transfer of this land from Government to GOPD,
this vas revoked on March 12, 1976. Subsequently the transfer was made under the
1962 State Lands Act by Executive Instrument 30. A 50-year lease for the land
was signed by both the Chairman of GOPD and a representative of the Commissioner
of Lands on April 3, 1976. This step theoretically fulfilled one of the remaining
conditions of effectiveness which was that Government had acquired and transfer-
red to GOPD, not less than 1200 ha.
Compensation
3.04      Land compensation remained a bone of contention throughout the project
mainly for three reasons. Firstly, the Government intended to resettle the Kvae



- 17 -
villagers outside the plantation and at the same time allocate them some 1000 ha
of land in the adjacent Aiyaole forest reserve for village food crops in place
of the conceded land. The Ministry of Forestry never complied with this latter
commitment. As a result, the Kwae villagers hampered project implementation,
especially the final clearing and planting phase. It therefore took six years
to plant 5,145 ha when appraisal estimates were for 5,200 ha to be completed
within four years.
3.05      Secondly, too many Ministries were involved with the project. While
direct responsibility for the project was with the Ministry of Agriculture, the
Bank's contact was the Ministry for Finance. The allocation of land from the
forest reserve had to be approved by the Ministry of Forestry, while the rate
of compensation was decided by the Ministry of Finance and distributed through
the Ministry of Lands, Natural Resources, Fuel and Power. Despite several
requests, Project management never obtained more than global figures on the
amounts paid to farmers.
3.06      Thirdly, farmers were dissatisfied with the compensation rate of
4 0.50 per cocoa tree paid to them till mid-1980. This was especially the case
in the concession for smallholders at Okaikrom where the villagers refused to
move from approx-imately 385 ha of land needed to meet 1981 and 1982 planting
targets. Some 3,000 ha of cocj:: had been compensated at that low rate, totalling
about 4 14 million. By end-1960., farmers were asking for e 5 to d 8 per tree,
depending on the age. Claims for compensation for other c-rops were made as well.
Faced with a 0 60 million payment adjustment for compensation of the initial
3,000 ha, in addition tJ compensation for a remaining 1,000 ha, the Government
in 1982 ordered an in-depth investigation of past and present claims. Project
management which had always deplored the lack of cooperation with officials on
the compensation issue, highlighted that most farmers'claims were over-inflated
while seldom challenged in the field. Real progress only started by end-1982
when payments of up to d 2000 were made to individual farmers. This represented
part-payment for some growers and complete payment for others.
3.07      Oherall, Government had no clear cut policy to zackle the issue. It
had little means to cross-check farmers claims and, at times, completely lacked
the necessary funds. This situation resulted in the planting targets not being
met as farmers on eight occasions, between February 1980 and September 1982,
obstructed deforestation, demarcation and windrowing operations, each
disruption lasting for several weeks, even months.
Land Preparation
3.08      It was decided during project preparatiorr and appraisal, that land
would be cleared manually by local labor and the use of chainsaws. Import
substitution and the creation of local employment were the project philosophy.
The manual option was clearly retained during an April 1972 pre-appraisal
mission which stated that mechanical land clearing and windrowing prior to
planting were not acceptable. This approach was completely reversed in 1975 by
the IRHO management team winich supported mechanical clearing instead, going so
far as threatening to withdraw from the project should their view not be adopted.
The reversal was based on the prevailing Ghanaian labor situation characterized
by labor shortages and possible difficulties with the labor unions. As a matter
of fact, only 20 ha had been cleared manually over a three month period when the
project was initiated. IDA indicated, in April 1976, that it had not objection
to mechanical clearing provided that unemployed labor in the project area be
given job opportunities. Finally, the GOPD Board, On the advice of IRRO and with
previous agreement from the Bank, decided on September 7, 1976, that land
clearing wDuld be done mechanically.



- 18 -
3.09      Because of the two year delay in starting project implementation, the
project was allowed to forego ICB in purchasing the land clearing machinery.
Three bulldozers were ordered in October 1976 and arrived in April 1977. The
equipment chosen proved to be inadequate for land clearing. There were no
canopies to protect the drivers, gearing was too high and the pushers too weak.
Furthermore the overall performance of the machines was belov standard because
of poor maintenance, lack of spare parts and insufficient training of the
operators. Some 100 ha vere cleared per month when the normal average should have
been 200 ha. In July 1980, an expatriate workshop manager was recruited, although
not provided for at appraisal. Maintenance improved markedly and the land
clearing program made up for some of the delay. Two more bulldozers of another
type were purchased and became operational in March 1979. This had a positive
impact on project implementation. Overall, the land clearing program was as
follows :
1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982         Total
Deforestation (ha)
Manual                8      42      162     128      214       84        638
Mechanical          190     734      780   1 399      354      808      4 265
Windrowing (ha) 1/  190      574      734     936      487      647      3 568
Total hours 2/    1 766   2 052   1 B42   2 777        262   1 942      10 641
Deforesting
(hours/ha) 3/       n/a        2.8      2.4     2       *        2.4
Windrowing
(hours/ha) 3/       n/a        4.5      4.4     3.7      3.5     *
1/ As at September 30, 1982.
2/ of bulldozer for both deforesting and windrowing.
3/ Figures unreliable.   * Work was often interrupted by dissatisfied farmers.
3.10      Once the surveying and demarcation had been completed, bulldozers
equipped with tree-pushing and dozer blades carried out land clearing. Trees
too large for the tractors to push over were felled by chainsaw. All vegetation
was then windrowed in alternate rows oriented North-South, using stacking rakes.
The alternate windrowing practice, one row in every two, was aimed at minimizing
soil erosion and loss of fertility. Strict monitoring of land clearing operations
prevented the top soil being unduly disturbed. Finally the legume
Pueraria phaseolides was sown shortly before the rainy season. Because local
labor refused to harvest puerarie seed, for fear of snakes, the project had to
import about 30 t of seed from the Ivory Coast, at a cost of about CFAF 16 million,
or US$ 64,000 equivalent, in foreign currency, excluding transport.
3.11      There is no mention in the appraisal report of how the vast quantity
of wood and timber were to be disposed. No proper survey quantifying the
merchantable timber on the area cleared was carried out. As a result, the project
relied on various contractors taking away whatever wood they wanted at bargain
prices. A better use of the timber could have been t'-rough the project's large
construction program and/or by making charcoal 'ihi--h fetched high prices in urban
centers.
Roads
3.12      It had been agreed during negotiations that Goverrent would build a
10 mile (16 km) feeder road in the vicinity of the nucleus plantation and would
maintain all roads within a 15 mile radius of Kwae but not on the nucleus



- 19 -
plantaticn. In fa.:t, due to the lack of equipment, Government did not keep to
its commitment. Road construction was therefore mainly entrusted to a contractor,
supervised by GOPD's building consultant. Three types of roads were built;
namely. i) 4 m wide East-West roads, ii) 6 to 8 m Nortb-South roads, and
iii) 6 to 8 m boundary roads. Some 92 Im of well graded and graveled roads were
thus constructed. Maintenance included the newly opened roads as well as the
30 km portion between Kade and Kwae.
3.13      The pace of road construction work dropped sharply in 1979-80 when the
contractor started facing financial problems. As a result, the road construction
program was delayed, which in turn had a negative impact in 1982, when 1978-plots
were ready for harvesting. By mid-1982 GOPD had no other alternative than to
actively participate in the program, when both a new bulldozer and a loader
became operational. No roads were built for outgrowers. The project had, by the
end of 1982, constructed an additional 24 km of roads of which 5 km was for
smallholders.
Field Establishment
3.14      Oil palm plantations for both tne nucleus estate and the smallholders/
outgrovers component were established from 1977 to 1982, as shown in Annex
table 1. It was anticipated at appraisal that the bulk of the project seed
requirements would be supplied by the Oil Palm Research Center (OPRC) at Kusi,
by IRMO and by the Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research, NIFOR. In fact
for quality reasons, most of the seed came from the IRHO Research Station at
La Me, Ivory Coast, at d 4 per seed compared to 4 2 for local seed. Also,
supplies from other sources like Benin were limited. Since tnis situation was
expected, funds had been included in the project for a plant-breeding consultant
to visit O?RC tvice yearly. The consultant was to assess the suitability of
plant material produced by OPRC and monitor the seed breeding and propagation-
programs. To that effect Government had agreed to provide OPRC with foreign
currency for buildings, laboratory equipment, vehicles, irrigation equipment and
seed, for a total amount of about USS 230,000. Engaged in early 1978, the
consultant made two short visits to Ghana. He then refused to return when it
became obvious that no foreign exchange could be expected from Government and
that consequently none of his recomuendations would be taken into consideration.
3.15      The plant-breeder's analysis-revealed that seed production techniques
at the Kade station were less than adequate though some of the existing genetic
material could have allowed the production of excellent variety combinations
ie. 5.368 Deli x 32.3005 NIFOR. With an improvement of production techniques
Kade would thus have been able to supply about half of the country's required
planting materials. Wnile the European Development Fund, EDF, was willing to
consider provision of tne necessary foreign exchange, Government preferred to
wait for the 1980-81 Lome Convention before asking for funds from EDF. However
since no action was-taken, Ghana became almost entirely dependent on oil palm
seed from abroad.
3.16      The planting material received by GOPD was in both the form of
germinated and heat treated seed, at the rate of 280 seeds per hectare to be
planted. The former needed to be dispatched within three days while the latter
allowed for a more flexible dispatching schedule. While germinated seed was
planted upon arrival, heat-treated seed required 15 days to germinate. The seed
was placed in a pre-nursery for 3-4 months for easier control and better
homogeneity of the plants, as well as because of continuous delays in the
delivery of large polybags. After proper selection, some 220 plants-were left
out of each batch of 280 seeds introduced for transplanting in the nurseries



- 20 -
where seedlings remained for between 8 and 12 months. Urea and the compound
fertilizer 15-15-6-4 were applied and pest control was taken care of by using
various pesticides. Plants were grown under shade until 1981. However Temik
had been used on a trial basis since 1978179 against blast disease on unshaded
plants. In 1982, the Plantation Manager decided not to shade the nurseries and
obtained healthy seedlings.
3.17      Density of planting was 143 trees per hectare, planted in triangles
at 9 meter intervals. Transplanted seedlings were protected in the field by
wire netting sleeves to prevent damage from rodents among which the grass-cutter
or agoutis was the most common.
Maintenance
3.18      Regular maintenance work was carried out on the plantations as they
were established. This consisted in maintaining clean circles around each young
plant while controlling the growth of the cover crop Pueraria. Circle weeding
w-as done either manually or using chemical herbicides. Also the regrowth of
vegetation in the wuindrows had to be periodically cut back, using machettes.
Additional maintenance work included the yearly application of chemical
fertilizers and the replacement of trees up to year 3 - less than 5 Z. Finally,
castration palm oil trees required special attention, trained staff and a firm
stand from project management as the practice was unpopular in Ghana. The
castration, which is common on IRHO plantations throughout the world, and which
is still being advocated, was necessary even the moreso as the oil mill was not
ready to process the harvest. Castration of oil palm trees consists in the removal
of all young male and female inflorescences and bunches. This practice which is
meant to favour the growth of the young palms until they are three to four years
old, is carried out every month co=mencing in the sixteenth month. At that tine
some 50 per cent of the trees produce their first inflorescence. In fact,
experiments have shown that where plantations are castrated at an early stage,
production rises markedly in the following years and usually makes up the
difference. At the time of the mission, most palm trees looked strong and healthy.
Based on leaf analysis and girth measurements and taking into account the possible
recurrence of severe droughts like the one that occured from December to
April 1983, IRRO estimates the average yields at full maturity at about 12 t/ha ffb
on the nucleus estate and 7 to 8 t/ha ffb on the outgrowers/smallholders plots.
The oil extraction rates should be 21 and 20 percent respectively. These figures
compare with the slightly higher productivity forecasts made at appraisal of
13 t/ha ffb on the nucleus estate and 10 t/ha ffb for the outgrowers with an
overall oil extraction rate of 21.5 per cent. Finally, of concern was the fact
that no application of fertilisers was planned for the first half of 1983, due
to the lack of foreign exchange.
Smallholders/Outgrowers
3.19      The IRHO feasibility study in 1972, defined smiallholders as farmers
receiving project assistance to plant oil palm on their own land while having
access to credit facilities. A rather similar definition was given to
outgrowers in the appraisal report. However, due to the lengthy delays in
obtaining the necessary legal documents for the outgrowers and the lack of access
roads, the Managing Director suggested, in late 1977, that a block of smallhol-
dings be created in the area located north-west of and contiguous to the nucleus
estate. Smallholders were therefore farmers taking up project land leased from
GOPD for cultivation of oil palm. Their selection by a loan committee including



- 21 -
Project staff, representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture and of ADB was
based on the candidates having a minimum land, labor and funds. GOPD provided
chainsaw teams for deforestation, as well as personnel for surveying, lining,
and pegging. Each smallbolder received 8 ha of land to be planted under
oil palm at an annual rate of 4 ha and about 1 to 2 ha for growing foodcrops.
3.20      The introduction of the term smallholders, as distinguished from
outgrowers defined in the Development Credit Agreement, required the amendment
of the Development Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement, the Financing
Agreement and the Agreement between GOPD and Smallholders. This was officially
agreed to by the Bank, in June 1980. The initial smallholder program did not
experience many difficulties as land was allocated to nearby villagers. Credit
was also supplied by GOPD to participants in the form of planting material,
fertilizers and other non-labor elements supplied in kind, as well as up to 80 Z
of estimated labor cash requirements. The project provided technical assistance
throughout the development phase and vas responsible for fruit collection. In
return, the smallholders were committed to sell their harvest to the project for
processing at the central mill. The production of fresh fruit bunches (ffb) by
smallholders was still too small by the end of the on-going pro-ect to assess
whether smallholders were actually complying with the above comnitment.
3.21      Most smallholders felt that 8 ha of oil palm would require too much
work as their families decreased in size and they got oldey. Because of increasing
difficulties in obtaining additional land for the smallholder program, the project
reintroduced the outgrower concept by which farmers, within a 15 mile radius of
the nucleus estate and near a motorable road, could grow oil palm and obtain both
advice and credit facilities. The outgrowers planted an average 4 ha of oil palm
each, which tends to substantiate the smallholders earlier statements that 8 ha
were too nuch. By Septenber 1982, the project was looking after 202 smallholders
and 116 outgrowers, as against 152 outgrowers planned at appraisal.
Labor
3.22      The availability of sufficient labor remained throughout one of the
Bank's main concerns. During preparation in 19i2, indications were that up to
1000 laborers per day were available, based on the assumption that the manual
land clearing policy would be adopted. In March 1974, queries were again put to
Government, as to both the exact labor situation and the likely cooperation of
dispossessed farmers. A complete reversal took place in September 1976 for
reasons mentioned in para. 3.10; other reasons included
(i) the labor policv at the time of appraisal was to employ only
non resident labore_s - tnis proved unirealistic as most workers
living outside the estate were mainly seasonal, made up of
smallholders with a low output and who therefore were very
costly;
(i;) the dispossessed farmers, dissatisfied with both the rate and the
pace of compensation by Government, refused in many cases to work
on the project;
(iii) the project had limited facilities to accommodate a sizeable
labor force and lacked the means to safely transport large numbers
of workers from distant villages; up to 30 % of working hours were
wasted on transportation - a housing program for the workers was
subsequently adopted on which progress has been very slow due to
acute shortage of building materials;



- 22 -
(iv) the salaries paid by GOPD vere always lower than on the other
oil palm estates - this unfavorable situation was gradually
reversed starting in May 1981 when the project benefitted from
the World Food Program following arrangements with the Government.
Rations of rice, fish and edible oil were distributed on a monthly
basis to both the project staff and to the plantation workers. The
distribution was further extended, a few months later, to the
smallholders/outgrowers as well to the labor they employed. Given
the at times, scarcity of basic food stuffs, the World Food Program
had indeed a positive impact. Labor absenteism dropped sharply from
30 % to about 18 2 during the peak season whereas farmers showed
keener interest in the project.
Construction Program
3.23      The project construction program as described in the SAR mainly
included offices, houses for senior staff, a training and a health center, a
workshop, storage facilities and a small dam. IDA was to finance USS 1.79 million,
representing 58 Z of total expenditures. Realizing the high cost versus the low
output of non-resident labor, project management in September 1976 appealed to
the GOPD Board to consider establishing modern villages at the project site to
house a corps of f-eld and factory workers. Meanwhile the cost of housing had
already increased by 2-3 times since appraisal. This led a Bank consultant to
recommend temporary instead of permanent housing in order to reduce expenses.
The Managing Director presented in October 1976, a i 5.3 million (US$ 2.37 million)
building program to be spread over five financial years, aimed at housing at least
half the labor force required to run the nucleus estate.
3.24      In addition to the contractor which was responsible for the building
program, the project hired the services of Consultant Engineers to oversee the
construction work. Progress remained slow due to continuous shortages of building
materials and cost overruns were substantial. Again, in 1978 suggestions were
made, this time'by the Plantation Manager, for the project to provide temporary
wooden houses for workers, The Government consistently reiected this possibility,
preferring houses made of concrete and the Consultant Engineers showed little
enthusiasm for investigating what could have turned out to be a cheaper solution.
In March 1980, the Ministry of Finance expressed considerable concern at the high
unit costs of construction. In order to speed up the construction program while
lowering the costs, a Bank mission suggested in September 1980, that a Brick
plant be imported. Following positive results from soil surveys which located
high quality clay at the project site, a USS 240,000 brick and tile plant was
ordered from Brazil. It arrived in February 1982 but was still in crates by
June 1983. The equipment arrived in February 1982 followed a few weeks later by
the arrival of the Brazilian technicians. The latter were to put up the small
brick plant and co=nission the equipment. Once at the project site the technicians
finding the living conditions unbearable left without notice, after rwo days.
Although several complaints were lodged with the Braziiiar. Embassy in Accra, no
replacement team had been sent by the end of June 1983. So far, houses have been
built for the senior and most of the middle level staff. However, none is as yet
available for laborers.
Oil Mill
3.25      The contract to build the palm oil mill at Kwae was awarded by the
Board of Directors of GOPD, on January 21, 1980. The award of contract caused
complaints from bidders (see para. 3.45). Started in June 1980, the mill was
coamissioned on November 8, 1982, one month ahead of schedule. This was a major
achievement given the country's poor economic situation.



- 23 -
Training
3.26      Both Government and the Bank rightly considered the training of the
local staff as a major goal. As such, training provisions vere specifically
included in both the contract vith the managing firm, IRBO and in the project
agreement (Section 2.03) with the aim of having qualified Ghanaians replace
expatriate staff when time came. The project thus financed :
i) a two-week course at the Mananga Agricultural Management Center,
Swaziland for four out six Assistant-Plantation Managers. A ban on
overseas training prevented the sending in 1982, of the two
remaining candidates;
ii) a one montb training session on harvesting and collection systems,
in the Ivory Coast, for the Senior-Assistant-Plantation Manager;
iii) a ten month course on operating an Oil Hill, in both the Netherlands
and Malaysia, for two mill engineers; and
iv) a three year course in Australia, for an Assistant-Plantatioa
Manager to obtain a M.A. in Agricultural Economics.
3.27      By contrast, the middle level staff received little training. In fact,
the training needs had not been well identified at project inception. Furthermore,
responsibility for training had been left with expatriates whose ability to train
had not been assessed and whose primary duties were of a technical and executive
nature. Also the difficult circumstances in Ghana at the-period did not leave
much time for training.
Field Trials
3.28      Although the project was to carry out field trials with oil palms, no
specific funds were earmarked for that purpose 1/. Tne applied research program
was thus to be limited. Emphasis was to be given to nursery and field establish-
ment practices together with harvesting and post maturity maintenance techniques.
Cooperation between GOPD and OPRC was initially very good. However, due to lack
of funds it soon became difficult for the Research center to participate as
anticipated. Because GOPD's financial contribution was small - US$ 30,000 and
limited to the plant-breeder consultant's visits which were discontinued at an
early stage (para. 3.16 and 3.17) little progress in seed production was
achieved. GOPD's contribution to research as part of its field operations
included information on :
i) deforestation - windrowing every four instead of two rows, to
improve the output of the heavy equipment;
ii) nurseries -- suppressing shade after using Teik, a standard
practice elsewhere;
iii) plantation - basing fertilizer applications of nitrogen and
phosphorus on leaf analysis;
iv) anti-pest measures -- applying free acid tar on young trees to
prevent destruction by grass-cutters which are common rodents;
v) harvesting - introducing transportation methods of ffb by
workers, similar to the methods prevailing in Asia and in other
parts of ;'est Africa using two baskets and a bamboo pool and,
vi) landscape - construction bunds according to contour lines, on plots
showing marked water deficit.
None of the above was original work but merely an adoption of methods evolved
in other oil palm growing countries.
1/ SAR : See project description p. 7 and Project Cost Amnex 5 table 1.



- 24 -
Technical Assistance to ADB
3.29      Technical assistance to improve ADB's lagging accounting system and
controls, credit policy and procedures was originally included in the Sugar
Rehabilitation project - Credit 354-GE. Two consultants Btarted their assignment
in early 1973 and published their findings in 1973 and 1974. It was however felt
that in order to enable the consultants to implement their recommendations a
27-month extension of their assignment was necessary. In view of difficulties in
reallocating further project funds under che Sugar Rehabilitation Credit, IDA
agreed to include the financing of the extension (about US$ 200,000) under the
oil palm project Which was then being processed. A contract for a one-year
extension of the contract was signed in November 1974.
3.30      Most of the consultants' recommendations have been implemented however,
many of the latter were found to be of a standard difficult to attend locally
and had therefore to be modified. One component of the consultants' assignment
which seems to have succeeded has to do with training. It is nevertheless
unfortunate that inspite of the apparent improvements in ADB's internal operations
under the Sugar Rehabilitation project, the results would indicate that the
underlying objective of the exercise was not achieved.
C. Project Costs and Financing
3.31      Actual project costs including duties and taxes, for the seven years
during which 99 % of the plantings were completed totalled US$ 47.8 million
instead of US$ 22.5 million (SAR). This is 114 Z above the appraisal estimates.
With the exception of Technical Assistance costs to ADB (USS 179.000) the actual
cost of every component greatly exceeded appraisal estimates. In US Dollar terms
the actual total project cost was more than double the appraisai estimare. Tne
increase was even higher in cedi terms, by almost five times. .;he following
main factors were responsible for the wide, unfavorable differences between
actual and appraisal costs (See Annex-tables 2-3-5).
3.32      Exchange Rate and Inflation
(i) The variation in the exchange rate between the cedi and the
US dollar from US$ 1 - i 1.15 in 1975 to US$ I - 4 2.75 in
1980 onwards; and
(ii) very high annual inflation rates in Ghana, during project field
establishment. Inflation rates reached 116 Z in both 1977/78
and 1980/81. The lowest inflation rate during the period under
review was 44.3 Z in 1979/80.
Although the exchange rate varied it did not reflect the true value in dollar
terms 1/. As a result, it should be noted that the dollar equivalent of local
costs is extremely high because of conversion at the offical rate of exchange
which was significantly overvalued during the last few years. Most of the cost
overrun reflects this since differences between appraisal and actual costs are
mainly in local terms.
3.33      Land Compensation. Initially estimated at $ 534,000 at appraisal, the
total payment for land compensation of dispossessed farmers reached 4 14 million
(US$ 2.9 million equivalent) by September 1982 with still more to be claimed. As
the price paid per cocoa tree until 1979 was estimated to be insufficient,
1/ At the end of 1982 the black market exchange rate for the cedi was
US$ 1 - 60 to 70 i in contrast to the official rate of US$ 1 - d 2.75.



- 25 -
Government raised compensation from 4 0.5 to between  5 to 4 8 per tree,
depending on the age. Faced with an additional claim for d 66 million by
rid-1982, Government suspended all payments till early 1983 in order to cross
check the claims in the field.
3.34      Land Clearing Equipment. As indicated earlier, the GOPD Board agreed
in September 1976 to mechanical instead of manual land clearing as initially
proposed in the appraisal report. This decision rerllted in the purchase in
1977, of three bulldozers at a total cost of US$ 450,000. Two further bulldozers
were purchased in 1978, raising the total expenditure for heavy equipment to
around USS 800,000.
3.35      Housing and Buildings. As already mentioned in para. 3.25 and 3.26,
housing facilities for laborers had not been foreseen during appraisal since
the policy was to rely on non-resident workers. Thus the initial housing program
had been limited to $ 0.3 million. However, as implementation progressed, the
need to house the project's junior staff and laborers on the estate became urgent.
The budget for Housing and Buildings was thus increased, to the extent that by
June 1982, US$ 7.9 millior. (d 20.15 million equivalent) had been spent on this
component.
3.36      Palm Oil Mill. The cost of a first phase 10 ton capacity mill was
estimated at appraisal at USS 4.2 million in January 1980. This compares with the
cost of the 15 ton mill selected, which amounted to US$ 8.6 million, of which
US$ 6.64 million was in foreign exchange and US$ 2.0 million in local currency.
3.37      Operating Expenses. Actual operating expenses were much higher than
anticipated because of mucn higher prices for the project's material, inputs
and labor. As a result of both inflation and labor shortages in a region of
competing crops, wages increased sharply. For instance, labor paid 4 2 per day
in 1977 on the Nucleus estate received d 15 plus food from the World Food Program
in 1982. In -the meantime smallholders/outgrowers had to pay -between d 30 and  40
per manday.
3.38      With the exception of the oil mill, the landclearing equipment and the
brick factory, all the differences between actual and appraisal project costs were
in cedi terms and the Government provided the additional financing. When the mill
contract was awarded, Government was called upon to fund an additional
USS 3.35 mi1lion in foreign exchange. Further contributions by Government have
been by way of waiver of duties on all items imported by GOPC for the project,
although no assurance to this effect was given by Government at negotiations. A
blanket i-port licence to bring in all IDA-financed items duty-free and the
facility to pay by letters of credit through the Ghana Comercial Bank had been
obtained during a Bank- mission, in November 1976.
3.39      Tne agreed financial arrangements were for the IDA credit of
USS 13.6 million to finance 60 Z of project costs excluding taxes and duties.
The credit was to cover the foreign exchange requirements of USS 10.6 million and
US$ 3.0 million or 25 2 of local costs. Outgrowers were to contribute 20 x of
farm labor requirements during establishment representing some US$ 120,000
equivalent or 1 % of total project costs. Finally, the Government was to provide
the rmnaining USS 8.8 million equivalent or 39 Z of total project costs.
3.40      With regard to smallholder/outgrcwer financial arrangements, the
participants were to receive credit for the full cost of inputs and 80 X of labor
costs, during the field establishment period. The credit was to attract 8 Z
interest compounded o-ver the first nine years of implementation. Repayment was to



- 26 -
cormence in the tenth year and spread over a period of ten years. While GOPD
endeavoured to fulfil its obligations for the supply of inputs to tne
smallholders/outgrowers, its provision of credit for their labor costs never
met the requirements. This letter situation was the result of GDPD basing credit
for labor on wage rates closer to what it was paying for workers on the nucleus
estate. (Para. 3.35).
D. Disbursements
3.41      Despite delays in effectiveness and early implementation problems,
disbursements were overall close to schedule, ranging between 75 and 90 % of
appraisal estimates. (Annex-table 4). Only in early 1978 did disbursement fall
to 61 % of appraisal estimates. It then caught up rapidly in mid-1978. By
March 31, 1983, some US$ 12.7 million had been disbursed or 94 2 of the total
IDA credit.
3.42      Problems in the form of delays in disbursements were occasionally
experienced during the project. Delays of up to three months occurred at times
in the processing of documents in Ghana before they were sent to the Disbursement
Division in Washington for release of funds. This usually stemmed from the
unavailability of the signatories in the authorising Ministry, at the time of
applications. Furthermore, although IDA records show that applications were, on
average, processed within ten days after receipt, the release of funds from the
Bank of Ghana to GOPD ranged between three to six weeks. Finally, prolonged
delays were sometimes experienced in the release of Gover nent counterpart funds.
But this must be viewed against the back ground that project costs in local
currency escalated well beyond what Goverzm-ent expected to contribute at
appraisal.
E. Procurement
3.43      The most common procurement problems faced by the project were the
delays in delivery dates. As a result and also because of the two-year delay in
starting project implementation, the project was given permission by the Bank,
to forgo ICB in purchasing the land clearing machinery and equipment as well as
immediate vehicle needs like four-wheel-drive vehicles, passenger cars, trucks,
tractor/trailers and office equipment.
3.44      Two significant procurement fssues developed during project
implementation :
i) the project requested bids for six 80 HP wheeled tractors and six
8 ton tipper trailers. Government evaluated the bids and proposed
that the contract be awarded to a make they were familiar with. The
Bank revieved the evaluation and noted that other bidders had clear
advantages in price, delivery date, after-sale services etc. It was
therefore indicated to management that unless a satisfactory expla-
nation was given, IDA would not reimburse the costs related to the.
purchase of the vehicles. While the Board did not appreciate the
Bank's firm stance, the Government fully supported the Association's
decision, and,
ii) the tender for the mill elicited a complaint to the Bank from the
two losing tenderers which had both submitted lover tenders. One had
been judged unresponsive and the other proposal vas not regarded as
sufficiently sound. The Ghana Public Agreements Committee awarded
the contract in February 1980. Following complaints from the two
losing tenderers,, the Bank undertook a full review of the procedures



- 27 -
used; it concluded -tbat the evaluation had been thorough and that
the award of the contract was neither inconsistent with the guide-
lines nor the circumstances prevailing in the country. The highest
price bid had been accepted on the basis that the subcontractors
of the winning firm were best organized on the-ground. Government
then proceeded with the arrangements for the construction of the
mill.
3.45      Besides the above two cases, procurement under international
competitive biddings (ICB) posed no major problem. However, it was generally
felt that the minimum level of US$ 20,000 above which items had to be procured
through ICB was too low. As a matter of fact the above level was substantially
raised to US$ 200,000 during preparation of the Ghana Oil Palm follow-up
project, whereas local competitive bidding (LCB) would be employed for contracts
between US$ 50,000 and US$ 200,000. In the case of the ongoing project LCB's
could only be used for lots below US$ 20,000.
3.46      Under ICB, the procedure required GOPD to order and receive items
before submitting an application for settlement with documents attached. The
experience was that few suppliers were prepared to wait for the long application
processing periods. Consequently GOPD, with the concurrence of the Bank, resorted
to the Services of a procurement agency, to assist the project in procuring
urgently needed items such as spare parts and small equipment which could not be
procured locally and were of sufficiently low cost so as not to warrant going
through the process of ICB.
3.47     OCeof the advantages of using the procurement agency included its
ability to obtain quotations quickly from various sources thus providing the
project with the best value possible at any given time. Furthermore they had
financial facilities which allo:ed them, with the Froject's agreement to obtain
speed delivery by directly paying the suppliers, thus reducing the risk of costly
delays. The agency included a commission of 5 Z for their services and a finance
charge representing about three months interest.
F. Covenants
3.48      The Government complied with covenants included in the Development
Credit Agreement with the exception of the following :
i) the Governrent was expected to inform IDA about changes in the
national fertilizer subsidy program - the matter was discussed
with the Deputy Minister of Agriculture in 1980 and subsequently
in 1981, by which time the Principal. Secretary confirmed
Government 's intention to remove subsidies;
ii) the setting of a committee to prescribe a price formula, acceptable
at all times to IDA, for determining the price to be paid by GOPD
to outgrowers -- prices were established without IDA being
consulted; and
iii) the construction and maintenance by Government of a 10 mile road
provided for under the project - the road was built but the project
had to maintain it at its own costs.
Covenants which experienced delays included :
iv) the provision of timely funds by Government to GJPD, to perform
its obligations - although still slow, the provision of funds
speeded up by 1981 despite the country's economic difficulties; and,



- 28 -
v) Section 3.02 on land acquisition and retention by GOPD - the
Borrower vas very slow in taking the necessary steps especially in
surveying and adequately compensating dispossessed land owners.
Matters improved in mid-1982, close to project completion.
IV. EVALUATION OF PROJECT IMPACT
A. Agricultural Impact
Incremental Output
4.01      Given the rather limited number of smallholders (202) and outgrowers
(116) the project's incremental output over the years to come vill mainly origi-
nate from the Nucleus Estate. While the country's overall demand of palm oil is
estimated to reach 90,000 t in 1990, forecast are for the project to then produce
some 11,600 tons of palm oil or 15 2 of the country's requirements and 2,200 tons
of kernel. Based on up-dated estimates, IRHO has in June 1983 revised downwards
its previous production forecasts. Yields at full maturity on the nucleus
plantation should peak at ffb 12 t/ha and those for the Smallholders/Outgrowers
should attain ffb 7.8 t/ha. Extraction rates for palm oil and kernels would in
both cases be at 21 percent and 4 percent respectively. The reasons for this
include i) the likelyhood of severe droughts, like the one that occured from
January to April 2983, to take place again over the long term; ii) the shortage
of inputs due to lack of funds should there be no follow-up projects - for
irLstance no fertilizers have been applied since August 1982; and, (iii) the
current level of management could be impaired should the management team leave
before a replacement team of Ghanaians is ready to take over. About 60 per cent
of the smallholder/outgrower plots were weli maintained and the project has so
far experienced no major nutrient deficiencies or diseases. Given the still
satisfactory-world prices for palm oil, IDA's support to Government's policy
of crop diversification and addressing the country's acute shortage of vegetable
oil, was appropriate. This was especially so given that cocoa, a possible
alternative tree crop, was already being supported by the association. In
financial terms and at world market prices of US$ 582 and US$ 369 per ton of
palm oil and kernel respectively, the prgject should make a gross import saving,
at maturity, of US$ 9.1 million annually in foreign exchange, (1982 constant
terms).
4.02      From February till November 8, 1982, when the oil mill became
operational, the total production of ffb reached 3;000 tons. Prices varied from
4 1200 per ton at the start to reach e 1500 by July 1982, compared to estimates
of 4 39 to e 45 per ton at appraisal. In November-December 1982, GOFD produced
58.3 tons of palm oil at 4 16,500 per ton whereas 81 tons were produced in
January and February 1983 at 4 24,750 per ton compared to d 566 per ton
forecast at apprdisal, for 1983. While the prices are decided by Government it
is noteworthy to mention that the latest sharp increase was based on proposals
put forward by the state farms, which cDuld no longer meet their production
costs. In early 1983, the oil although of edible quality, was transported to
Accra by tankers and turned into a medium quality soap for which there was an
acute local shortage. This operation prevented Government from importing the
necessary tallow for which it had no foreign exchange available.
B. Social Impact
4.03      Although the project experienced delays in implementation and was



-29 -
costlier than anticipated, the future financial impact On the Kwae region and
Ghana alike will be sizable. It is expected that by 1990, the amount of
additional cash available, derived from oil palm cultivation will enable the
area to provide for much needed infrastructure. Other project benefits
included :
i) employing some 600 permanent staff and labor and as many casual
workers during the peak season;
ii) diversifying the local agricultural structure at farmers'level
by expanding the production of a dietary staple;
iii) improving farmers'techniques in cultivating a perennial crop;
iv) benefitting some 318 smallbolders/outgrowers by increasing their
income and the standard of living of their families representing
between 1500 and 2000 people; and,
v) improving the capability of Ghanaian nationals to operate and
manage an oil palm development project, through technical
assistance and training.
C. Environmental Aspects
4.04      Because of delays and insufficient available labor, the project had
to switch from manual to mechanical clearing at an early stage. Substantial
destruction of forest thus took place over some 5200 ha of land, using heavy
equipment. The methods adopted, however, both prevented to a large extent soil
degradation and erosion by :
i) using chainsaws to fell large trees instead of uprooting them;
ii) planting a cover crop immediately after windrowing and pegging to
prevent water erosion and exposure of fragile forest soil to the
sun;
iii) constructing anti-erosion bunds in the drier areas to retain rain
water; and,
iv) replacing tropical rain forest with oil palm, a perennial tree
crop.
Regarding the oil mill, stringent anti-pollut.on measures were adopted especially
through treatment of the liquid palm oil effluents by anaerobic digestion and
the incineration of empty bunches. The ashes thus obtained containing valuable
potash, will be increasingly applied on plots thereby decreasirgfuture purchases
of muriate of potash.
v. BENE-FITS AND ECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A. Farm Benefits
5.01      At the time of appraisal, the average annual net income per family
over the life of the plantings was expected to yield a net benefit of some
i 1270. Given that only 91 ha out of the 1347 ha planted under the smallholder/
outgrower scheme are in bearing, farmers' benefits can only be estimated. It has
thus been calculated that using present costs and prices (1982), farmers'net
pre-tax benefits will average about d 46,000 per annum (based on the usual case
of a 4.5 ha plot, established in two stages of 3 ha and 1.5 ha respectively,
Anne'c table 9). About 600 additional farmers have applied to become smallholders
and another 300 have put a request to become outgrovers, should a follov up
project materialize.



- 30 -
B. Economic Rate of Return
5.02      The Economic Rate of Return (ERR) has been conservatively reestimated
at 12 2, which is lower than the appraisal estimate of 16.6 Z. The assumptions
used are indicated in Annex 1 bis. The sizable project cost increases due'to
higher than expected local and external inflation, is partly compensated by
comparable increases of world market prices of the palm produce, therebf resul-
ting in a still satisfactory ERR. For instance, the 1985 price projections of
one ton of palm oil (CIF Europe) is currently US$ 575 (in 1981 terms) as
compared with an appraisal estimate of US$ 510 (in 1981 terms).
5.03      Although the forecasts are conservative, the ERR could still be
affected by a decrease in prices or in the production of palm produce. A
decrease of 10 2 and 20 Z in either one would entail a reduced ERR of respecti-
vely 9.3 2 and 8.0 Z. The risk of not achieving expected yield levels due to
management problems, would be considerably reduced if the planned follow-up
project was implemented.
C. Financial Viability
5.04      Audited balance sheets are available for GOPD. Until 1982 there was
little income. No balance sheets or cashflows projections have been prepared
in this report in view of the chaotic financial conditions and uncertainty now
present in this country which make meaningful forecasting academic. However, the
financial analysis done at the time of the appraisal bf the second project
demonstrated that the company will be financially viable if reasonable operating
costs and pricing policies are followed. The income from sales should cover
operating costs by July 1983 and surpluses over operating costs should increase
considerably over the next five years as the plantings come into full bearing.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
A. Management Organization
6.01      Responsibility for executing the project was vested in the Ghana
Oil Palm Development Corporation (GOPD), a statutory corporation operating as a
commercial entity with profit making motives. The corporation has been responsi-
ble for developing and operating the.nucleus plantation, constructing and
operating the palm oil mill and appraising, supervising, providing credit
services and organizing a fruit collection and credit repayment scheme for
smallholders and outgrowers.
6.02      The corporation has a Board which consists of representatives of
various Gover ment agencies, a representative of the Kade District Council and
a representative of the farmers. Tne Commissioner of Agricultur lan give
written directives to the Board on policy relating tq long term development in
the agricultural sector. He also has the right to review GOPD's annual budget,
amend it or recommend changes. The main functions of the Board are to :
(i) formulate policies, (ii) approve the capital structure, (iii) approve the
appointment of key senior management staff except for the ManagiLg Director
appointed by the National Redemption CouncillA/(iv) approve the organization
structure of the corporation including terms of staff employment, (v) approve
the annual development/operational programs and budgets, and (vi) approve the
annual report and accounts. 1/
I/ While the above arrangements were made at appraisal it should be noted that
neither the position of Commissioner for Agriculture nor the National
Redemption Council exist any more.



- 31 -
6.03      The Chairman of the Board vas aluays a Senior Ghanaian Civil  Servant.
Amoag other members, specLal mention should be made of the Director of the Oil
Palm Research Center at Kusi who remained Chairman from August 1977 to mid-1979
and his replacent. The latter filled the position from September 1979 till
January 1980 when he was appointed Minister of Finance and Economic Planning.
Meetings of the Board were convened or. a monthly basis. This practice was more
or less adhered to, as 46 such meetings actually took place from 1976 till
October 10, 1980 when the last such meeting was recorded. A new Chairman was to
be elected thereafter. The appointment of a new Board Chairman became a major
issue when the Government suggested in mid-1&S1 a person whose past management
record was highly questionable. Following IDA's reluctance to the nomination of
the proposed candidate, Government dropped the case, and since then no Chairman
has been appointed or meetings held.
6.04      Government complied with covenant 2.01 (c) which stated that GOPD had
to employ consultants experienced in oil palm planting and management, acceptable
to the Association. GOPD first signed a management contract with IRHO, in
March 1976, without waiting for IDA comnents. Whereas the contract should have
included a Managing Director, a Nucleus Plantation Manager, a Mill Engineer, a
Senior Assistant Plantation Manager and a Finance Manager, both the Mill Engineer
and the Finance Manager were not mentioned in the contract. IDA later agreed to
change the experience requirements for the Senior Assistant Plantation Manager so
as to have a Ghanaian rather than an expatriate fill the position. Both the
latter staff and the Finance Manager were Ghanaian on IRHO-fixed-term-contracts.
Discussions on fees, between IRHO and GOPD went on for spome time  before the new
management contract was actually signed, June 23, 1976.
6.05      When the project switched to mechanical clearing it becnme necessary to
recruit a workshop manager; a position that had not been anticipated at appraisal.
A first candidate was appointed in 1980 as workshop/mill engineer. His appointment
was terminated by the Board in early 1981 because of poor knowledge of English
and insufficient background and experience in operating an oil mill. A second
workshop manager.was appointed by IRHO in mid-1981, on a one year contract. IREO
did not renew his contract in July 1982, for fcar that a second phase oil palm
project would not materialize.
B. Accounting and Reporting
6.06      Amnual budgets and estimate., of quarterly cash requirements were
prepared satisfactorily, by GOPD. Also accounts were maintained and audits
carried out within the time limits by a local Auditing firm. The auditors drew
attention to the fact that the corporation did not create a Depreciation Fund
which would have required the opening of a depreciation reserve account with the
Bank of Ghana. This never became an issue and the above provision was deleted
from the Credit Agreement in early 1979.
6.07      The project provided bohi IDA and Government with monthly reports of
field activities and progress. While extremely detailea, the project reporting
system could have gained by :
i) coimenting on the numerous and lengthy tables in the monthly reports;
ii) preparing quarterly reports on the financial situation in the form
of cash flow statements shoving the results of the previous quarter
and estimates for the coming quarter; and,
iii) submitting budgets and procurement programs on an annual basis.
It should however be recognized that Project management priorities were rightly
centered on implementaticn rather than vith reporting since most of management's
attention vas needed in the field.



- 32 -
C. Performance of Participants -
6.08      Government. The support of Government during the seven years of project
implementation was overall satisfactory. After the initial delays, Government was
in general very cooperative. Land compensation which became a major issue
throughout the project life span seems to have been underestimated and poorly
planned. This was the result of poor coordination among Gove.ament services, lack
of an in-depth survey at an early stage and lack of contact with farmers.
6.09      The project received less attention from officials in 1979 through 1981
when political changes occurred in the country. Hovever, at Government request a
second project was prepared in late 1980 by FAO/CP in collaboration with members
of an IDA mission supervising the ongoing project and appraised in April 1981.
The change in Government that year led to certain internal criticisms of the
project. Meanwhile the processing of the follow-up project was stopped at the
draft green cover report stage since the Bank felt that pending macro-economic
reforms in Ghana, there would be little justification in going ahead with
the project. The situation became difficult in 1981 and part of 1982, when coun-
cils of workers were given the task to scrutinize even intervene in the day-to-
day management of projects. Fortunately, the implementation program was not
greatly affected and by June 1982 Government itself began to show greater interest
again. However, as the project was coming to an end in September 1982 and expa-
triate staff were about to leave, the Ministry of Agriculture which was showing
much greater interest asked IRH0 to continue managing the project and made funds
available for the extension of its contract for 6 months. By letter dated
March 22, 1983 the Government officially requested an advance from IDA to finance
essential activities under the oil palm project while awaiting for a second phase
project to be approved. In May 1983, IDA accepted the Government's request and
granted a Project Preparation Facility advance of US$ 857,000. Consequently the
Government renewed the contract of the IRHO management team for another 10 months.
6.10      GOPD Board. Performance of the Board experienced ups and downs and was
generally mixed. Nevertheless the most productive period seems to have been from
mid-1979 till September 1980 when the then Chairman was most cooperative. The
previous three years were marred by, at times, rather t7nse relations be.tween
the Chairman and the Managing Director. The Board did not share the views of the
Managing Director on several issues especially on the procurement of certain
types of rolling stock.
6.11      Although the idea of having.a Board was a goo4 one, in practice it was
almost impossible for some members to attend the meetings on a regular basis thus
reducing its decision making capacity. Also, the Board could have played a
greater and more forceful role in the Land Compensation issue. The Board was left
without a Chairman from September 1980 till project completion in September 1982
due to differences of opinion between Governmenit and the Bank concerning the
proposed candidate.
6.12      Managing Team. The team of expatriates did very good work in
implementing the project. This was essentially due to'both the Managing Director
and the Plantation Manager's experience and dedication amid often very difficult
working conditions. The local Finance Manager also did his best to make the
project a success. Tne two workshop managers who spent some time with the project
had a difficult task to perform. Tneir main achievements were to put the workshop
back under control especially regarding working hours and the use of vehicles,
spare parts and fuel. The local Senior Assistant Plantation Manager, although
eager to learn, lacked the necessary managerial drive. It was therefore felt th.at
two candidates instead of one should have been tested for sufficient a long
probation period prior to filling this important position. The support from



- 33 -
IIMO's headquarters in France appeared insufficient at times. This trend changed
dramatically in 1981 and 1982 when IRHO fully supported the project and accepted
to leave its management team in Ghana while awaiting a follow-up project.
6.13      Bank. Although relations between thze Bank and both the Government and
the Project vere good and frank during mot of the project life, they were rather
tense on a few occasions. For instance in a978, on a procurement matter, the Bank
threatened to stop disbursement had GOPD and the Board not chosen the lovest
bidder. In an other instance, Government felt strongly that the appointment of
the Chairman of the Board was its own responsibility whereas the Bank made it
clear in 1981, that it was reluctant to risk the project's future on a candidate
whose competence in the field was highly questionable.
6.14      The Bank maintained as much staff continuity as possible during the
fourteen supervision missions which took place from 1975 to 1982. Although
thirteen different persons were on those mission at one time or another, five
supervised the project on three to five occasions. The average time spent per
mission on the project was about five to seven days which was sufficient given
the project's geographic compaction and proximity to Accra. In addition to the
above supervision missions, Bank staff including an agricultural economist and
a financial analyst visited the project on several occasions. The visits which
were not necessarily related to supervision missions always took place when
critical problems had to be resolved.
6.15      With the exception of the switch from manual to mechanical land
clearing which was brought up during the second Bank visit and the introduction
of a smallholder component, at the seventh visit, a few main problems remained
throughout most of project implementation. The need to compensate farmers
adequately was stressed from the second till the last mission. The slow progress
of building program to accommodate the workers was regularly discussed but
little action could be taken because of shortages of building material at
national level. The fifth, six, eleventh and fourteenth missions kept pressure
on the project to improve the training of local staff. Because of lack of funds
fron Government to boost the OPRC's activities, cooperation between the Research
Center and GOPD remained minimal. The project did however implement a limited
applied research program, benefitting when necessary from OPRC's advice.
Finally the nomination of a Chairman to the GOPD Board became an important issue
starting December 1980. The lack of'a Chairman was advantageous to the Managing
Director and apparently did not prevent the project continuing to mske good
progress over the next year and a half.
VII. CONCLIJSIONS
7.01      In summary the overall project was a technical success although much
more expensive in cedi terms than anticipated. The project was well-managed
given the, at times, very difficult working environment. Although it took
nearly six years instead of four, the plantation targets were 99 2 complete.
The other main components reached at least the level initially set at appraisal.
The number of beneficiaries was higher than expected. The oil mill was completed
ahead of schedule. A sizeable number of permanent jobs were created. Finally the
smallholders/outgrovers will in the medium and the long term significantly
increase their income.
7.02      Project preparation which was initiated in the early 1970's,
experienced difficulties obtaining reliable data especially on population and
related socio-economic aspects. Also, there was some apprehension within the Bank



- 34 -
as to whether the estate/plantation approach was advisable. Folloving a few
visits at the future project site by both consultants and Bank staff some
assumptions were made which had major technical, sociological and financial
implications on the project. The assumptions vere that :
i) sufficient labor existed in the project area and would be
available at all times to work on the estate;
ii) land clearing would therefore only be done manually;
iii) dispossessed farmers would be promptly compensated;
iv) labor requirements would be met using non-resident workers; and
v) outgrowers would have no problems in meeting project requirements.
7.03      It was and indeed still is difficult to properly assess the exact
population adjacent to the nucleus estate. Early warnings did highlight the need
to make sure that enough labor was available and would cooperate with the project.
This raises the point as to what extent some aspects could have been better
scrutinized and anticipated at appraisal, for instance :
i) the project purpose and goals could have been better explained
to neighbouring farmers and future outgrowers and above all;
ii) the Government's ability to conduct an in-deptb survey of the area
to be handed over to the project as well as to quickly and edequately
compensate the dispossessed farmers.
7.04      This second aspect was the main weak point which triggered most of the
project's many and costly problems. As farmers were not compensated, they became
increasingly reluctant to let the project take over their land. This led to
serious delays in the land clearing program. Consequently the project had to
switch to mechanical clearing. Frustrated villagers refused to work on the estate.
The project had therefore to collect labor from distant villages using inadequate
and unsafe transporration means (tractors and trailers). As vehicles were wasting
many hours on the road instead of in the field, it was decided to accommodate the
junior staff and, possiblv during a follow-up project, at least half of the labor
force. A large building program had to be designed and embarked upon.
7.05      Technical Performance. Despite the above difficulties, the project
managed to complete the plantation program, build sufficient roads, establish
both smallholders and outgrowers, complete before schedule a 15 tons ffb per hour
capacity oil mill and start the production of palm oil. Since the production of
ffb is still well below the capacity of the oil mill, it is currently difficult
to properly assess both the factory performance and the milling efficiency.
7.06      Financial Problems. The project experienced high inflation rates and
large costs overruns in cedi terms. However the Government did always provide the
necessary counterpart funds. These were late on occasions with consequently
adverse repercussions on the project's technical progress. Besides inflation, the
main cost overruns resulted from :
i) the compensation issue requiring much more funds than anticipated;
ii) the purchase of heavy equipment for land clearing;
iii) the adoption of a large building program to accommodate junior staff;
iv) the purchase of a brick factory to speed up the building program; and
v) the extension of the oil mill capacity.
7.07      Although the project is rightly considered as a success some lessons
can be learned



- 35 -
a) Nucleus plantation approach : The project has shown that the
nucleus pl3t~atioi-with outgrovers approach is a feasible exercise.
However, should it be tied with compensation, clear assessment
must be made as to whether local farmers i) have understood the
project, ii) are willing to leave the area on the basis of fair
compensation, iii) are interested in the proposed crop, and iv) are
willing to cooperate. Finally it is most important that a
Compensation Committee be set up and all land compensation issues
settled prior to project implementation.
b) Outgrowers/Smallholders : The project switched from an initial
outgrowers to a smallholders program, to finally end up with both.
Nevertheless, should a follow-up project materialize, the outgrowers
approach would definitely be preferred. In fact, the Bank tried to
quickly adjust to changing conditions. The choice between
smallholders and outgrowers depends essentially on both population
density and the availability of land. Whenever areas are sufficiently
populated the outgrovers approach should be adopted as it is less
demanding for the project. Because the project is responsible for
extension, the relative prospects for yields at maturity should be
similar on smallholder and outgrower developments. However, given the
current scarcity of palm oil in the countrv, the risk of fruit being
sold outside the scheme will remain high tmtil such time when
sufficient palm oil wculd be produced on a regional basis. Farmers
would then nave no other alternative as to sell their surplus fib to
the project. Tnis aspect needs further investigation as it will have
a direct bearing on credit recovery from farmers.
c) Training : It is felt that a training specialist should be recruited
on large estates, to take charge of continuous training as a hedge
against staff turnover. This project illustrated once more that it
is extremely difficult for expatriates to i-plement a plantation
within a tight schedule while at the sa   time having to train
counterparts.
Finally, the oil palm development project being the only successful agricultural
project in Ghana so far, it is worth mentioning the main reasons which led to its
success; these include :
i) the simplicity of the design whereby only a few straightforward
components had to be implemented ie. nucleus plantation,
smallholders/outgrowers plots, palm oil mill, building and road
construction programs;
ii) She efficiency of the expatriate management team which proved to be
competent and dedicated;
iii) the relative autonomy of the project which yas under the responsibility
of a statutory corporation, not part of the Government bureaucracy;
iv) the availability of counterpart funds, although late at times; and,
v) the project geographical location not far away from Accra the decision
center and Tema the port of entry for most of the goods required by
the project.



I   N)
     a1
IN



~ 37 -                           Table 1
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 531-GE
Planting Program as of March 31, 1983
1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982    Total
ha
1. Nucleus Estate
Appraisal estimate 1/         405    810   1215   1620       -      -      4050
Revised Targets (July 78)2/ 196    455   1366   1012    1012    -          4050
Actual achieved 31            190    575    688    941       774   630      3798
2. Smallholders & Outgrowers
Appraisal estimate 1/ 21    121    243    364    487         -      -       1215
Revised targets(July 78) 2/  -       101    202  - 405      507            1215
a) Smallbolders
Actual achieved 3/               91    268    194      250   248
b) Outgrowers
Actual achieved 3/       -       -      57    107       dO    52
total achieved Smallbolders       -      91    325    301       330   300      1347
& Out-growers
Combined total                   190    666   1013   1242    1104   930       5145
-=     mz=   ==   =*c        ==m=  :=c
1/ Appraisal estimates in acres converted in ha at 1 ha = 2.47 ac.
1978 revised estimates also converted accordingly.
2/ Credit effectiveness initially scheduled for Jufie 1975, but was delayed
one year. First planting was carried out in 1977.
3/ In n'et hectares planted. Obtained by dividing total number of trees
planted by 143/ha.



- 38 -                            ANXEX
Table 2
G H A 1; A
OIL PALM DBEELOPNEUT PROJECT - CREDIT 531-CH.
PROJECT CO2MLETION REPORT
Estinuated aud Actual Costs and Financinw,,
Appraisal                 Actual          Actual (USS)
Cedi       USS            Cedi-.       US          as   of
-4  I000)                        ('000).          Appraisal
Field establishment                5 681      4 924         47 444       18 097            367
Housing and Buildings                 333       289         20 145        7 874          2 725
Vehicles and Equipment              1 066       924          7 514        2 212            239
Development expenses                1 460     1 265          6 494        4 463            352
Oil Mill investment                4 772      4 136         37 626       13 682            330
Land compensation                    614        532         12 000          -               -
Land Rent                              11         10            33          -               -
Miscellaneous costs                   110        95          7 309          364            383
Technical assistance to ADB          278        241            206          179             74
Operating losses prior to
depreciation                        333        289            -            -               -
Initiaal  orking capital of Mll   447          387                         -               -
Contir-gencies                    10 880      9 430C
Total Proiect Cost and            25 985    22 522         138 771       47 871            213 2
financing
I D A                                        13 600                      12 720 -           94
Smallholders/Outgrowers                         120                         -               -
Gover=ent                                     8 800                       9 215            105
1/.  At March 31, 1983.
2/.  W'ith an additional USS 0.768 million co=-itted; leaving a balance of USS 0.112
million. see table 3.



-39-                              ANNEX
Table 3
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 531 -GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Status of Funds as at 28th February 1983
(US$'000)
Balance per IDA Statement of 31st December, 1982              1.073
LESS:
1. Payments made after latest statement
of 31st December, 1982                          123
2. Applications in pipeline with IDA               90
3. Application in pipeline ready for
World Bank                                        1
4. Application being processed in
office                                          20
5. Balance of Provision for Oil Mill              350
6. Estimated value of outstanding order
for which values are known                     323
7. Provision for other spares -
STORK AMSTERDAM (Additional mill
spares & services)                              54           961
Balance before outstanding orders
without values                                               112



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOP)ENT PROJECT - CREDIT 531-CH
PROJECT COMELETION REPORT
SCHZDULE OF DISBURSEENTS
(US   MION)
phiD                   Actual              Appraisal              Current        Actual or Current
Fiscal Year           Total                Estimated          Disburement        Estimates as
Disbursement      Disbursements           Estimates       2 of Appraisal
1975-76                                     .2
_           ~~~~.4
1976-77                  0.7                .6                                        -
-                .8                                       88
-               1.05
1.0              1.3                                       77
1977-78                   -                1.S5 5
1.1              1.8                                       61
_               2.05
1.8             2.3                                        78
1978-79                   -               2.55                                        -
2.1              2.8                                       75
_               3.2                                        -
2.8              3.6                                       78
1979-80                  3.3              4.0                                        83
4.0              4.4                                       91
4.5              5.3                                       85
5.0              6.2                                       8X
1980-81                  6.4              7.1                                        90
7.3              8.0                                       91
7.8              8.8                                       89
8.5              9.6                                       90
1981-82                  8.8             10.4                                        85
10.3             lt.2                                       92
11.1             11.4                                       97
11.8             11.6                                      102
1982-83                 12.0             11.8                                       10
12.6            12.0                                        105
12.7            12.25                                      104
13.6            12.5                   13.6                108
1983-84                                  13.05              '                       104
13.6                                      100



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 531-CM)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Project Investment Cost Details
(in OOO'cedis)
:    1977    :    1978   :    1979   :    1980   :    1981   :   1982     1983        1984   :    1983   :1986/2002
Field Establishment                   :    426    :   1,241   :  4,281   :  6,651   :  15,858   :  16,923   :  2,064.2 :   1,046   :    -                 -
Management Fees                       :    200           239   :    574   :    627   :    839   :                :           :           :    -           -
Other GOPD Costs                      :    211    :    404   :    582   :   1,052   :  2,003   :  2,242   :            -    :       -    :    -           -
lhousing and Buildings                :    237           847   :  3,655   t  2,811   :  2,108          10,487   :      -    a       -          -          -
Vehicles and Equipment                a    545    :    403   :   1,896   :    782   :   1,488   :  2,076   :    324.2 :   1,397.1 :  1,397.1 : 1,397.1
Brick Plant                                 -             -    :      -    :      -    :       -    :    915   :       85   :      -    :    -            -
Mill Investment                       :      -     :      -    :      -    :   1,096   : 12,494   :  16,721.4 :  7,315   :          -    :    -           -
Technical Assistance ADB              :    206    :       -    :      -    :      -    :       -    :      -    :      -           -           _          _
Land Rent                                     5.5  :       5.5         5.5 :       5.5 :        5.5 :       5.5 :      -    :      -    :            :
Land Compensation                     :  2,000         6,000   :  6,000   :       -    :       -    :      -    :      -            -          _          -
Total Project Costs                   :  3,830.5  :  9,139.5 :  16,993.5    13,024.5    34,495.5 : 49,369.5 .  9,788.4 :  2,443.1 :  1,397.1 :  1,397.1
... ...  .a                          .        2   .....                                            3ua . ...8  .. .  .......
Foreign Exchange Component                1,165.5  :    968.i :  2,877   :  6,034.0 :  19,315   :  9,569,7 :  4,616.0 :   1,566                698.6 :   698.6
(Current Cedis 000')                 :             :           :                                                2 :
Local Costs Component                 :  2,665.0  2  8,171.4 :  14,116.5 :  6,990.5 :  15,480.5 : 40,714.8 :  6,087.4 :   1,792.1 :    698.5 :   698.5
(Current Cedis 000')                 :             :           :           :            :           :           :            :           2
10



G 11 A N A
Oil PALM DEVEI.IME.NT P'RO.JECT - CREnIT 531 - Cll
P'ROJECT C(rMI'IE"rT0N REPORT
Imports of Oi ni d ; Fnd  nIts for Indtistrial Ilse
Ton1s
Year               Palm Oil                Soyabenn 1Oil         Tallow                 Total               Cedi 000'
P.lin K:erngel Oil                                                      Tona
1971                 2,800                    1,250              19,900                23,950                 4,9
1972                  I,'sn                     750               16,900               19,300                 5,1
1973                 12,800                   1,200               5,500                19,500                 5,6
1974                17,600                    1,600               5,700                24,900                14,3
1975                 3,550                      650               13,800               18,000                 9,2
1976                 9,500                      620               4,900                15,020                 9,3
1977                29,597                      830                 x                     -                   8,8
1978                47,680                      190               69850                54,720                12,6
x  : Not available
Source : Central Bureau of Stntistics, Accra.
p  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



C H Ai N A
I~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~      ,,
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 531 - GH
PROJ.I i.'J' COfPl.ETION REPORT
Inflation Rntes/Factors
I 9 7 6       1 9 7 7    I.9 7 8           1 9 7 9     1 9 8 0       1 9 8 1      1 9 8 2
IBRD FigureS
X Price change from Previous
year                                   1.7           S.A         I8,3            11.8        10.1         -395            4
Factor (%)                             65.5           73.7         86.9           97.0        105           100 z         100
tlIIANA Fig'lres
US%/Cedi  (average)                      1.15           1.15        1.5             2.75        2.75          2.75          2.75
% Price change form Previous
Year                                 56.3          116/.         54.7           44.3        106.6        100 z           100 Z
Factor (I)                              10.2          21.9         33.7            46.5        98.5         100 %          100 %
Consumer price I/                        0.053         0.115        0.199           0.308       0.462       100             100
Note  :   The IBRD factors were applied to the Foreign Exchange component of costs
T                            while the Ghana factors were applied to the local or cedi costs.
I/ IMP stAtistics
Ia3 



GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 531 - GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Breakdown of Field Establishment - Nucleus, Smallholder, Outgrower
(In Cedis)
1976/77       1977/78         1978/79         1979/80         1980/81         1981/82
Roadu, Bridges and Drains    20,100          43,115         387,362         869,050        2,018,337       2,453,531
Fertilizers/insecticides      32,349         78,133         222,669          98,268        1,414,606          ---
Oil Palm Seeds                112,409       209,041         432,752         384,183          220,356          29,310
Other Costs 1,               261,142        910,711       3,238,217       5,299,499       12,204,701      14,440,155
Total Actual Fleld           426,000      1,241,000       4,281,000       6,651,000       15,858,000      16,922,996
Establishment Costs                       .uuin.uuuu                      uumm===-    .n-...u. nu ....   ......
1/ Represents cost of labour, wire-netting, cover crop (pueraria) seeds, land-clearing, tools
and implements. Breakdown of figure into these items was not possible.
eIi
I        I                                                       .,  



GIIANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 531-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Farm Budget For 4.5 Ha Oil Palm Cropping-Planted In 2 Stagea*
(Cedis)
Year of Establishment/Operations          1979  :  1980    1981 :  1982    1983  :  1984 :  1985    1986    1987  :  1988    1989 :'90/2002
Area Planted in ha                    :    3        1.5:    -        -       -         -       -        _
Total Area Planted                    :    -  :    4.5:    4.5:    4.5:    4.5 :    4.5:    4.5:    4.5:    4.5 :    4.5:    4.5:    6.5
Total Production (tons FFB)           :       ;        :       :        :    7.5 :   15.8:   24.4:   35.2:   35.2 :   35.2:   35.2:   33
Sales of FFB 1/                                                           11,250 : 23,700' 36,750: 52,800: 52^8OO *2^,9i  ,
On Pars Costs (Annual) 2/             : 1
Establishment lst PlantTng       :     9,945 : 3,327 : 3,174 : 3,234 :  3,234 :    - :             .       .
2nd Planting       :        -  : 4,973 : 1,664 : 1,587 :  1,617 :  1,617:
Total on Farm Costs          :     9,945 : ,8'300:  4,838  : 4,2 4,851  : ,617 :.                                                 .
Maintenance lot Planting              :       :        :       :        :            3,234:  3,234:  3,234:  3,234 : 3,234:  3,234:  3,234    "'
2nd Planting             :       :        :       :        :         :    -  :  1,617:  1,617:  1,617 :  1,617:  1,617:  1,617
Total Maintenance Cost           :        :        :       :        :        : 3,234:  4,851:  4,851:  4,851 : 4,851:  4,851:  4,851
Harvesting                                                   -     -___                      12375 :    790:7 1,220:_ 60:  1,760 l: 760:  1.760:  1.650
Total on Farm Costs (Annual)    : 9.945 : 8,300 : 4,838 : 4,821 :5,226 : S,641:  6,071:  6,611:  6,611 : 6,611:  6,611:  b,501
was..  .... a       ==.  *.---.." I  .... S: -=on:  u==                     a". * .    ..=w.:  .==s.
Net Receipts before Credit            :(9,945):(8,300):(4,838):(4,821):  6,024 : 18,059: 30,679: 46,189: 46,189 : 46,189: 46,189: 42,999
Credit Receipts 3/                    : 9,189 : 7,550 : 4,280 : 4,251 :           .       :
Cumulative Total Credit at 82 Inter:(9,189)il7,474).a3,152).Q9,255):(31,595):(34,l23k(36,85Z:(39,801):(39,8o0):
Debt Serving (over 12 yrs at          :       :        :       :        :         :       :
82 interest 4/                :                                                                         5,703:  5,703:  5,703
Net Benefits                          :  (756):  (750):  (558):  (570):  6,024 : 18,059: 30,679: 46,189: 46,189 : 40,486: 40,486: 37,296
1/ Benefits calculated at constant prices of 4 1,500 per ton FFB.
V  On Farm Costs are expressed in constant terms. Budget for materials and labour.based on GOPDC budgets
for various years'plantings.
3/ Credit provided for 100 non-labour inputs and 802 for labour costs from 1979 to 1984                                                iX
4/ Debt servicing starts in 1988 and end in 1999 and not 2002.
5/ Net Benefit for 1999 is j 42,999.
* Budget based on effective oil palm planting of 4.5 ha, with an average yield of 7.8 t ffb
per ha declining to 7.3 t ffb per ha from 1990 to 2002.



CIIANA
011, PALM PROJECT - CREDIT 531-GHi
i'ROjECT COMP'LETIUN RE.PORT
Economic Millgate Price of Palm Oil
(d per m. ton)
(1981 Conlstrnt Terms)
World Batik                        C.I.F. Tema            Port and           Transport             Value
Palm Oil l'rice Forec.ast                   Palm Oil 1/           llandling              To                   at
Year                     ($/m. toll)             Trendl          Price              Ch.arges            Millgate 2/         Millgate
(1)                         (2)                   (3)             (4)                  (5)                (6)                  (7)
1981                        571                  1.000           16,500                 45                112               16,342
1982                        4/43                 0.775           12,788                45                 112               12,631
1983                        402                  0.704           11,616                 45                112               11,459              1
1984                        488                 (0.854           14,091                 45                112               13,934              -
M95                        575                  1.0(7           16,616                 45                112               16,459
1986                        570                  1.l08           I6,632                 45                112               16,475
1')81                       57 8                 1.12            16,69R                 6;                112               16,541
1988                        58(                  1.()1'          10,748                 45                112               16,591
1989                        58l                  1.017           16,781                 45                112               16,624
l'19"                       '8f                  1.01''          16,814                 45                112               16,657
1991                        581                  1.017           16,814                 45                112               16,657
1992                        581                  1.017           16,814                 45                112               16,657
1}9)3                       581                  1.017           16,814                 45                112               16,657
1994                        58(                  1 .             16,748                 45                112               16,591
145                        t58()                1.(15           16,748                 45                112                16,591
I/ Aettu.Ml late 1981 imports of palm oil from  Ivory Coast at US$660
equival ent convertecd to celis at a shadow exchange rate of
V 25 = US$ 1.00. WitU' actual 1981 as base, the projections have
leevi made otn the basis of trends in Col . (3).
2/ Finaneial costs V 160 per ton for a distance of nbout 177 km at                                                               c t
f 0.9)0 per ton/km; ceoitiomic cosL 70 Z.



GHA)NA
OIL PALM PROJECT - CREDIT 531-CNi
PROJECT COMPLETION RRPORT
Economic Millgate Price of Palm Kernels
t1981 Constaitt Terms)
World Bank    :               :                                                           :  Port and   : Transport  :    Value
I   Palm Kernel   :   Freight   :                 : Kirkoting  :   P.O.B.           :P.O..        Handling   : Miligate              at
PIrice Forecast :      Cost        Insurance  : , Cost;        :    Tema    :    Temna    :  Charges    : to Tema             M Kiligate
Yeor    :  ($/m. ton) 1/  : (/m. ton)    : ($/m.ton)2/:($/m. ton) 3/: ($/m.ton)  :(4/m.ton) 4/:(4/m. ton)    :(O/m.ton) 5/: (0/m.ton)
1981     :       317                110      :     1.1     :       3.2     :    202.7    :    5,068    :       45       :    112      :    4,911
1982     :       269               t110            0.9     :       2.7     :    155.4    :    3,885   :       45        :    112      :    3,728
1983     :       257                110      :     0.9     :       2.6     :    143.5    :    3,588    :      45        :    112      a    3,431
1984             308                110            1.1             3.1     :    193.8   s    4,845    :       45        :    112      :    4,688
1905             360                110      :     1.3     :       3.6          245.1          6,128          45             112           5,971
1986    :        362         :        o110   :     1.3     :       3.6     a    247.1    a    6,178    :      45        :    112      a    6,021
1987             364         :      110            1 .3    :       3.6     :    249.1    :    6,228    :      45        :    112      :    6,071  *
1988             366                110            1.3             3.7     ;    251       :    6,275    :      45       :    112           6,118 i
1989             367                110            1.3     :       3.7     :    252      :    6,300   :       45        :    112      a    6,143
1990             369                110      :     1.3     :       3.7     :    254            6 6,350    :   45        :    112      :    6,193
1991     a       367                 110    :     1.3             3.7          252      a    6,300           45        a    112      a    6,143
1992     :       365         :      110            1.3    :        3.7     :    250      :    6,250   :       45             1 112    :    6,093
1993    :        363                110            1.3    :        3.6     :    248.1    :    6,202    :      45       a    112       a    6,045
1994    :        360         :      110      :     1.3    :        3.6     :    245.1    :    6,128   :       45       a    112       a    5,971
1995             359         :      110      :     1.2     :       3.6     :    244.2   :    6,105   :        45        :    112           5,948
I/ Malaysia, CIF Europe.
T/ 0.35 Z of CiP cost.
1/ I Z of CIF cost.
W/ Converted at a slhadow exchange rate of t 25 * US$ 1.00
'S  Financial cost t 160 per ton ror A distanae of nhonlat
177 km at t 0.90 per ton/km; economic cost 70 X.



ANNEX:
- 48 -                              Table 12
GHANA
OIL PALK DEVELOPMEXT PROJECT
(CREDIT 531-GH)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Yield Projections for Nucleus Plantation and Smallholders/Outgrovers
Year from Planting              4      5      6      7       8      9 to 18      to 22
Nucleus Plantation
Appraisal (ffb tlha)       3.5    5.5    8.4   10.8   12            12.8        12.8
New Estimate  "            3.5      5      7.5    9     10.5        12          11.5
Smallholders/Outgrowers
Appraisal (ffb tJha)       2.5      4      6.25   8.-   10          10          10
New Estimate  "            2.5     4       5.5    6.5    7           7.8         7.3
Extraction Rates 1/
Oil/Bunch % Appraisal     18.0   19.0   20.5   21.0   21.5         21.5         21.5
New Estimate  18.0    19.0  20       20.5  21          21           21
Kernels/Bunch % Appraisal   S.5    4.5    4.5    4.5    4.5           4.5         4.5
it    ri Z New estimate   4        4       4      4      4          4            4



GUANA
OIL. PAlM PROJEcT - ORFDIT 531-CiI
I'ROJECT COMPLETION REPORTT
Detills or Ico:iumic Onernting Costs
1982          1983   ;    1984   t    1985 _          1986    _   1987   :    1988   :    1989    : 19901_2002?
:             :                                                    :             :            :      
FielIl tlpkeep I/                  5,663.6        7,667.7      9,621.0 :   9,621.0 :   9,621.0         9,621.0 :   9,621.0        9,621.0      9,621.0
Ttols anld Implemknts 1/              155.3  :      155.3 :       155.3 :      155.3 :      155.3 :       155.3 :      155.3 :      155.3 :       155.3
Hlarvesting 2/                        440           749   :   1,240          1,793   2   2,196         2,407         2,616      2,679          2,757
FFHI Purchases frum SIA/tX; 2/ :      240    :   1,230   :   2,6H5   :   5,415   :   7,275             8,820        9,915        10,500       11,025
Transiport of FEl to Hill 3/ :        131     :     220   ;      367   :       523   :      638           718          775          788          827
I'ruicesminig CoStR 41                55      :     745        1,222         1,751        2,134        2,382        2,555    ; 2,625           ?7nn
Other OOPD Charges                 2,242.0  :   2,242.0 :   2,242.0 :   2,242.0 :   2,242.0 :   2,242.0 :   2,242.0 :   2,242.0 :   2 242.0
Mnmagement Charges 5/                 915.0  :      915.0 :       915.0 :      457.5 :      457.5 :       457.5 :__   457.5 :       457.5 :       457.5
Tontl Economic Operating            9,841.9      13,924.0:  18.447.3    21,957.8    24,718.8 : 26,802.8    ZoJ6.8    29,067.8                     784.8
COMst N                           -Usue          *.....uu    *s=Runs        ......ut       ...-. -=  -u-uu..    -  .....          ....-*
Foreig tl xcliantge Compoitust *:   1,876.8  :   2,693.3       3,597.9 ;   4,391.5 :   4,943.7 ;   5,360.5 :   4,533.8            4,650.8      4,765.5
L.oca,l ContS Component        :    j5O7*6       10,773.2    14,391.9    17,566.3 :  19,775   :  21,442.3    23,803   :  24.417   :  25,019.3
I/ Based on data un COP)DC's 1977 and 1978 plantings.
2/ Bnsed on the assmmption thiat SII/OG would sell 70 S of their h.arvest to the project.
3/ Again based oil tOI'DC's collection experience (i.e. Hay, Jtne, JLuly, 1982).
41 llased onl processing cost data of similar mills in Ch.nn. About 500 t ffb were processed in 1982.
5/ Assumed that at best 50 2 of management clharges at development can be saved.
*  Estimnated at 20 2 from 1982 to 1987 and 16 Z thereafter.
w1



(IIIANA
011, PALN PR0.llbcf - CRIRIDT 531-CH
Ciilctilatiol of EcoN(Llimic tadt  of   ttr,n - Proelct Cost Details
a    I717 7         1978   t    1979   t    1980             1901         1982   1  1983 3/  1         1954  J  2002
Voil,cle easid Equ1ilsnmtuL 2/   t   545,000  i   403,000 i 1,896,111)0       782,000 1  1,488,000:  2,076,000&    324,200,  1,397,100: 1,397,1
Field Establistimemit           :   426,000  a 1,241,000 a 4281,0)0   6,651,000 1 15,858,000: 16,923,000:  2,064,200:   1,046,100:    -
Itan;:goment Foes              :   2n0,000  i   239,000 g   s74,n00o         621,000 I    839,000:       915,000W        -    I        -    a    -
Other (1OI'DC Cust.             a   211,000  I   404,000 a   582,0110 a 1,052,000 1  2,003,000:  2,242,000:                     a
hI|uskina and Bluildiias       :   237,000  a   847,000 a 3,655,11111) 1 2,811,000 a  2,108,000:  10,487,000:                                t
llrick Planit                   a     -       a      -      a      -      a     -      I       -    a    915,000:        55,000:       -           -        0
Hill Investment                                                             1,096,000 -  12,494,000: 16,721,4001  7,315,0001            -    :    -
Tuoclulcal As(leCaLca La Aflht    A  2n6,(100        -      a     -       a     -      a       -    a       -    I        -     I
L.nnd Rent                      I     5,500  I       5,500 a      5,501 :       5,500 1        5,500:       5,500:        -    s        -    I    -
I1.nil Coupenaati(ni            a 2,0n10,n00   :6,000,000 3.    I no !!,n jo           a -     -     a          _-_-                       :   _
'Cutal  Project Costs        2/a 3,830,500  a 9,139,500 :16,993,500 313,024,5pO i 34,795,500: 50,284,900:  9,788,400:  2,443,200:
Foreign Exchalnge C'ompnonelnt  a 1,165,50f a      968,100 : 2,817,00(0 a b,034,000 a 19,315,000:  9,569,700:  4,616,000:  1,566,600:
Total Adijusted Proj. Cuote  :41,144,410  t47,756,800 :69,653,110 076,593,000 :191,068,000:127,707,400: 47,141,200: 14,927,300:
a..
I~~~~~~~~~~~~ .  



Fro1                                  loll     I    339    1 991             iwo9It                   WIM  ift      0, 194     .94 Ica         %    I   I94 5         4.          41131:99I.19           39.40      %%19960     1    1      999 9lk3WHO 
M, elkIgtcesIai gt.tj                                                                                                                                                                                       V       . : 4  .4'  .  .'  4.':  4.:  4.       ,s
omu oll (teao'ss)45                                                                                                           I 391         491 t Tl      6,30        S.4'        9,I9   13,01*         33,190  :  19*%S       99,410  a  19.1       11.10  a   93.84
809.099 001 3!                                                                                                 89.1*4      993,194     344 I 9       40150    III MI    903 949        912,10  I 993.341  * 112.II."98111  2 991.314  IhM993.130 11.14  li.M  91.8  lt.Us 111112a 111.13
fI..l,                                                                                                  T    Iru-              MWru                                                                    a..                     u3r        SIl1              .       3 
lovecomett "Its1 :atl      3,980.3    a  3.139.1   , 9093.5  t 93,94.91    34,199.9  a,sn                *7w.4    1-lE9            r1i         rXrt          twri-T                       ,1  - fr  t TUT9  'tI,l      T ri1ra   r- uIM    rIWrla   -r         .s
I   *      I       .    a 9,141.1   a 33,~~~~~~~~~~114.9 a.  11,413.3 a    a o.suae         mm.         u,t.a    8931,9    l9S11 A 914                984         934                     .n
1,961.1   aOl   a  1.139.. I  4,534.0  1  31,393. ~~~~~~0.9 9,4.1. :  3,'tr.9  I   1,0113.1    1.0.. I  1,441.3 I  6,319.I       1.1.4    1.4441    9,644.9      1,4,64.1:  1,4644.9  1,5464.1    3449 1; .6    .,444.3
239             3.           3.          4,8 I        9.N ilk0   .    90.IW    :VI          30.0        31.0   :    920.0 aw        0          1..        30.0          0a00                 00         900         00         30.
hr.Ip  &~~~~~er9Wl e                                                   ' ,1.   3140 131.      ,44.3 I    99,19.0*  ,1.    I  71,338.9  *   1,%.  1V04.9 I  1,445.  .    6.U9.9     11,933.4    1,94.4    1,444.,   1,444 9:  9,14.9    1,44.3.   SA.4.3  1 646.9".
ShOss 411M SCI  ".  "I'I       "'N             6.6a 39                                                                    9.9           9. a          , 9,9:               9.3 1, .1    9.3I      9. 9        4.9:       9.9,        1.9
4414, 11.1                                       1~~~~~~~~~39,181.1  I 914,4.1  3.31.944.1           419444111    4,12.3
6115:0       41441.4       1.1.                                             41,391..11I  .  ... aS M  111,93:.O    19,4144.9   11,1.1   .9349,841 1 1,4MISSAL  49113.1   a  49,119.3a  49133         4,113.k  1 4,2.3:.1    1i,.u1.4
M.1T7  f.8           !            .     099            .99,         03 .-i:  .f.                         99            .9           13         93  ,        33  ,         3.89:       9.19      ,191        1.3111       1.33       1,1        1.81        .213,8 a
toll t~a9  9319tom1131                    :9,9,    : 8,111.3  , 45,90.9             91,:1    1.14.;          33,,90  :920CIAM1,04.                99,801         3,91,      3.24.3   8,11,4    3,314.4 :  39,14.4:  1k39,9,4!  1.31,214,4  219114.4;   33,14.141
3,313                 9,9.8 :. 33,410.9, I *0.499.4  I 993,3427.0  34,9.               191. 8t ...  19,031.0   4941,4      4,41.. 35160A  3"1.41*  *  61111,44.   69,614,2:  711,911.9;   80,933..7  711,11.3:   80,9131.9P; xt::      .
tonic tam. Ed slIlla  ,   98.0  94.0   a  11.0    41.0  1  331.0 :   990.   a    09,1  ,      44.3 a      443  a      99.1          23.4 a      62.3       Ole:       30.9 a       80.9.      311:       80.9:      U.,:        80.9"
9   ITJL,  sSI al          .,    99.89   :          904    .     3.           4.6 I1.    (99,0.4:   (9441,0.19     (31 V., :     3,9          93,        4.             34        98..       919          1.          1,:        1.          1.:      944           1,
I 44.sn  Is  .Innc.I*.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~14.1                                  44.1is                                              1.          164
olbaeal mp9c   s.   a         ea    m.h          3    11- oigpc               S6.90   s
solds as ftic  l          .c. .9Mta  Rall "IS.I
I A,"45I            3      gg  pltlc   casd9  .  l.-   -Ir  flapn,   ftf.u19   91"94b eIlteabe    u   df                 l.    a;,    l
c.3 304,*pig to"ea   glsc M 3 van.    meke 1*906.   phtwin  Isi.  a Cml930%bu.  .5e  acal 9.3 so14.Idbatice                     en1
go., meohou.. by    19309b.4..'S that...          IasIScd ic Mhi seelcia.
y  isslI .9:4., lb. PsAiLtl  cus 'bels.e cl P.,4 kpllm 0, "I#     fIIWNg  b in e,mtc  30 Ott ., Ud  i.90699



- 52 -                            ANNEX 1(bis)
GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - CREDIT 531-GH
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Assumptions Underlying Economic Rate of Return Calculations
(a) Project Life : Assumed to be 25 years from 1977 to 2002 with a fruit
bearing period of about 22 years.
(D) Project Costs
(i) Costs of all components have been included.
(ii) Costs are net of identifiable taxes, duties and subsidies;
(iii) Due to lack of information on current employment opportunity
in the project area, unskilled labor both on farm and
plantation has been conservatively costed at the prevailing
market wage rate, instead of using shadow wage rates of
respectively 75 Z and 65 Z;
(iv) Post-project operating costs have been reestimated on the
basis of current knowledge of requirements; throughout the
project period;
rv) Foreign exchange costs incurred during the project period have
been first expressed in 1981 Dollar terms using the MUV index,
then converted to 1981 economic cedis using different shadow
exchange rate for different years;
(vi) Local costs incurred during the project period were converted
into 1981 terms by using local deflator/inflator indices;
(vii) Estimated net value of production foregone, although not
considered in the APR, has been included.
(c) Project Benefits
(i) Only benefits accruing from palm oil and palm kernel production
are considered, as in the appraisal report;
(ii) Production has been valued at economic millgate prices
(tables 10-11) based on IBRD price forecasts and using a
shadow exchange rate of d 25 = US$ 1.



:                           rs~~~~~~~~~~~e                 ros
GHANA
KADE OIL PALM PROJECT
Prqect Area
Forest Reserves                                                                         Li'>-
Outrrowers Area (Approxirnote)
-     First Class Rood
Second Class Roods                                                                                               N.
---- Tld ClassRoads
Tracks
--Railways rI
Regional Boundanes
-- -  Interfitionol Boundories                                                                                  -
- -  Rivers                                                   *
N.TRCNANG  --RKL0
I                    Jr                   -    -.                  
-                            a X                    \-  |        i               *     /   IN  USTRIAL
NUCt EUS
ESTATE
VWE       AN M
o      ~-5                                                                         -.                   .-..
-t  S   
.      ~             ~~~ I}O./'  
S<--< .-s                                                                            .~..::
4 > _ ,_ I, p; r p .S <, r r ' | _, ~~~~..  ............./.g
I  ,--.;   :, -X   a                                          
iz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
A fl  I. .                          --  \*5B 
. I             . 
._ I._
~~~~~~I  I   
A; sla,.ic    Oc...                   .-~. ' .                                   ASBtN



X  - ( t  ,-   -,  oI,,:
' 1                                   X,, *,# .. -  I............
\,,I                 9,,,   W   5   t  i                                     I          -R                             ['
'  ,. ;                            .. A             ... . .....
dl\4~ ~ ~ ~~ 
1jMt                                                          *....    'K........
/~~~~~~~~~~/



