CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 531 GH
Project Agreement
(Oil Palm Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
DATED MARCH 5, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and GHANA
OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (hereinafter called GOPD).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between Republic of Ghana (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Association,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to  thirteen  million  six  hundred  thousand  dollars
($13,600,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that GOPD agree to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as hereinafter set forth;
WHEREAS by a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Borrower and
GOPD, most of the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development
Credit Agreement will be made available to GOPD on the terms and conditions
therein set forth; and
WHEREAS GOPD, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. GOPD shall carry out Parts A to E inclusive of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence
and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and
engineering practices.


﻿4
Section 2.02. (a) In order to assist GOPD in the preparation of bidding
documents for Part C of the Project and the supervision and implementation of
the works thereunder, GOPD shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to
the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(b)   In order to assist GOPD in its management and training of its staff,
GOPD shall employ consultants experienced in oil palm planting and management
acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association.
(c)   In order to assist GOPD in its planting program, GOPD shall employ
a plant breeding consultant acceptable to the Association on terms and conditions
acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.03. GOPD shall prepare, in consultation with the Borrower, a
program for the training of Ghanaian staff within six months of the Effective Date
with a view to replacing non-Ghanaian staff according to a schedule to be reviewed
from time to time in consultation with the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.04. In carrying out Part C of the Project, GOPD shall employ
contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Association.
Section 2.05. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions of the Schedule
to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) GOPD undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the
acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation,
and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable
by GOPD to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project
until its completion.
Section 2.07. (a) GOPD shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿5
(b)   GOPD: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower,
and to disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon
the provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's
representatives to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project,
and to examine the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records
and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as
the Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit so made available to it and the goods and services
financed out of such proceeds.
(c)   GOPD shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all
plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment of GOPD and
any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.08. GOPD shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, GOPD shall not
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.09. (a) GOPD shall, at the request of the Association:
(i)         exchange views with the Association with regard to the progress
of the Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(ii)        furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request in respect of the Project.
(b)   GOPD shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by GOPD of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 2.10. GOPD shall cooperate with the agricultural research agencies
of the Borrower in carrying out Part E of the Project.
Section 2.11. GOPD shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provision satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.


﻿6
Section 2.12. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, (a) GOPD shall
not engage in any business other than the carrying out of Parts A to E inclusive
of the Project for a period of five years commencing on the Effective Date; and
(b) GOPD shall carry out palm fruit collection from Outgrowers through its own
employees.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Sec- )n 3.01. GOPD shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. GOPD shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each financial year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than
four months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial
statements for such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning
the accounts and financial statements of GOPD and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
Section 3.03. (a) The financing of GOPD shall be carried out in accordance
with the agreement referred to in Section 5.01(g) of the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b)   GOPD shall obtain the approval of the Association prior to effecting
(i) any changes in such agreement, (ii) other financial arrangements with the
Borrower, or (iii) participation in its equity by others.
Section 3.04. GOPD shall set the initial millgate price for its palm oil at
a level acceptable to the Borrower and the Association and shall thereafter from
time to time consult with the Association on its palm oil pricing policy.
Section 3.05. In carrying out Part B of the Project GOPD shall:
(a)   provide loans repayable within 21 years, including a nine year grace
period as to principal, to Outgrowers at an interest rate of not less than 8% per
annum, said interest to be capitalized during the first nine years, pursuant to loan


﻿7
agreements substantially in the form of agreement referred to in Section 5.01(f)
of the Development Credit Agreement; and
(b)   obtain the Association's concurrence prior to making any changes in
its lending policy and other arrangements for Outgrowers' credit.
Section 3.06. GOPD shall establish an Outgrower loan committee, to be
responsible for approving credit applications by Outgrowers, consisting of the
Nucleus Plantation Manager (as chairman), head of the Outgrower Section, the
Senior Accountant, and a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture of the
Borrower, and the Agricultural Development Bank; provided, that no credit
application shall be approved if, as a result, the total oil palm planting of a single
Outgrower family aided by loans from GOPD would exceed 20 acres.
For purposes of this Section, "family" means a unit including a father or
mother or both, and his, her or their dependents, the purpose of so defining
"family" being that the total acreage involved in the aggregate of such loans to
a father and mother having the same or substantially the same dependents shall
not exceed 20 acres. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the case of a family
comprising a man with more than one wife and at least 20 dependents, the total
acreage involved in the aggregate of such loans may exceed 20, but shall not exceed
30, acres.
Section 3.07. (a) The price paid Outgrowers for palm fruit by GOPD shall
be based on the formula referred to in Section 3.05 of the Development Credit
Agreement.
(b)   GOPD shall pay bonuses to Outgrowers, based on the amount of palm
fruit the Outgrower has sold to GOPD, when its profits exceed a certain level.
The level of profits at which bonuses shall become payable and the proportion
of profits in excess of such level which shall be paid to Outgrowers shall be set
before Outgrower holdings come into production at levels acceptable to GOPD
and the Association. In determining the portion of the profits to be paid as bonuses
to Outgrowers, the Board of Directors of GOPD shall have due regard to the
comments of the Committee referred to in Section 3.05 of the Development Credit
Agreement on the recommendations of the management of GOPD in this regard,
which shall have been submitted to the said Committee prior to such determination.


﻿8
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of GOPD thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify GOPD of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Development
Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿9
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For GOPD:
c/o Ministry of Economic Planning
P.O. Box M76
Accra
Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICAL
For Ghana Oil Palm Development Corp.
Accra
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of GOPD may be taken or executed by its Managing Director or such other person
or persons as the Board of Directors of GOPD shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. GOPD shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of GOPD, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by GOPD pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier       Regional Vice President
Western Africa
GHANA OIL PALM DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
By /s / Samuel Ernest Quarm
Authorized Representative


﻿10
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.3 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    (a)        Bidders shall not be prequalified.
(b)         In order to encourage competitive bidding, contracts under the
Project shall be grouped insofar as practicable.
3.    (a)   Contracts for road construction under Part F of the Project and
contracts for procurement of goods and services costing less than $20,000 equivalent
each may be awarded on the basis of local competitive bidding in accordance with
the Guidelines or such other contracting procedures as are acceptable to the
Association.
(b)   Contracts for the procurement of goods and services costing less than
$5,000 equivalent may be let pursuant to such competitive practices as are
appropriate to the circumstances.
B.    Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Ghana may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish


﻿11
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Ghana equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Ghana.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. The lowest evaluated bid of
each group shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the goods offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of
such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the lowest evaluated bid from group C shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
1.   With respect to all contracts for civil works, vehicles, equipment and supplies
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and


﻿12
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement,
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
determination.


