CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 531 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Oil Palm Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 5, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 531 GH
Development Credit
Agreement
(Oil Palm Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED MARCH 5, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated March 5, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF GHANA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out primarily by Ghana Oil Palm
Development Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such
assistance, the Borrower will make available to Ghana Oil Palm Development
Corporation most of the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Agricultural Development Bank" means the statutory corporation
established pursuant to Act 286 of the Borrower for the purpose inter alia of
providing credit to farmers;


﻿4
(b) "GOPD" means Ghana Oil Palm Development Corporation, a statutory
corporation established under the Statutory Corporations Act, 1964 (Act 232) of
the Borrower;
(c)   "Nucleus Plantation Area" means an area of about 10,000 acres around
Kwae approximately within the boundaries shown on the Bank's Map
No. IBRD 10271 ("Kade Oil Palm Project," January 1973);
(d)   "Nucleus Plantation" means the oil palm plantation to be established
in the Nucleus Plantation Area;
(e)   "Outgrower" means a person or association cultivating, or proposing
to cultivate, oil palms in the Project Area;
(f)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and GOPD of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement;
(g)   "Project Area" means all land, excluding forest reserves, within a radius
of about 15 miles of the town of Kwae; and
(h)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and GOPD pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to thirteen million six hundred thousand
dollars ($13,600,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿5
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, contracts for
the purchase of goods or the carrying out of works or services (other than
consultants' services) for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit, shall be awarded in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1983 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 15 and
December 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 15 and December 15
commencing December 15, 1984 and ending June 15, 2024, each installment to
and including the installment payable on June 15, 1994 to be one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter
to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency *of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Parts F and G of the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate engineering
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
othe- resources required for the purpose.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause GOPD to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of land, funds, facilities, services
and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable GOPD to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would


﻿6
prevent or interfere with such performance. Without limitation to its obligations
under this Section, the Borrower undertakes to provide GOPD quarterly with such
funds as will be required to meet GOPD's budgeted expenditures for the three
month period beginning with the date funds are made available to GOPD, taking
into account unencumbered funds of GOPD held at the time and funds to be
provided from sources other than the Borrower. Such funds shall be provided in
accordance with the financial arrangements referred to in Section 3.03 of the Project
Agreement.
(c)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
make the proceeds of the Credit for Parts A to E inclusive of the Project available
to GOPD under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association pursuant to a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and GOPD.
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect its interests and those of the Association
and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(e)   For the purposes of carrying out Part G of the Project, (i) the Borrower
will retain, or will cause the Agricultural Development Bank to retain, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association, the services of the consultants who
were employed to carry out Part C of the Sugar Rehabilitation Project, as defined
in the Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association,
dated January 29, 1973; and (ii) the Borrower shall cause the Agricultural
Development Bank to comply with the requirements of Section 3.02(b) of the
Project Agreement between the Association and such Bank in connection with the
continued employment of such consultants as if such consultants had been financed
by the Association pursuant to the aforementioned Development Credit Agreement,
dated January 29, 1973.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall promptly take all requisite steps for the
acquisition and retention by GOPD of all such land, interests in land and other
rights in respect of land as are required for Part A of the Project and ensure that
good title to such land is vested in GOPD by June 30, 1976 free from all
encumbrances, adverse claims, or any other form of interference. The Borrower
shall take appropriate action to ensure that the proprietary interest of each
Outgrower in land to be planted under Part B of the Project is duly defined and
recorded with the office of the District Administrative Officer, Kade, prior to the
participation of such Outgrower in Part B of the Project.


﻿7
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall inform the Association of any policy
changes in respect of its fertilizer subsidy program.
Section 3.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall ensure that arrangements acceptable to the Association are made for (a) the
engineering and construction of the road to be constructed as Part F of the Project
and (b) for the maintenance of all roads in the Project Area (other than in the
Nucleus Plantation) to a standard which will enable a seven-ton lorry to use them
at all times.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall establish an appropriate Committee for
the purpose of: (a) prescribing the formula for determining the price to be paid
by GOPD to the Outgrowers for palm fruit; (b) reviewing from time to time the
price so paid to Outgrowers; and (c) advising GOPD as to the proportion to be
paid as bonuses to Outgrowers pursuant to Section 3.07(b) of the Project
Agreement. The formula for the price of palm fruit so prescribed shall at all times
be acceptable to the Borrower and the Association.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall appoint a Managing Director of GOPD
acceptable to the Association and shall maintain in such office at all times a person
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   GOPD   shall have failed to perform   any covenant, agreement or
obligation of GOPD under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
(b)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that GOPD will be able to perform its obligations under the Project
Agreement.
(c)   Legislative Instrument No. 1000 of 1975 of the Borrower shall have
been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to affect
materially and adversely the ability of GOPD to carry out the covenants, agreements
and obligations set forth in the Project Agreement.


﻿8
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of GOPD or for the
suspension of its operations.
(e)   GOPD shall have sold, leased, transferred or otherwise disposed of a
substantial portion of its property or assets financed in part out of the proceeds
of the Credit, other than in the ordinary course of business, without the prior
consent of the Association.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement
shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c), (d) and (e) of Section 4.01 of
this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
GOPD have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and GOPD have been duly authorized or ratified by all
necessary corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The Borrower shall have acquired and transferred to GOPD not less
than about 3,000 acres of land suitable for oil palm planting in the Nucleus
Plantation Area.
(d)   GOPD   shall have entered into a contract with a plant breeding
consultant as provided in Section 2.02(c) of the Project Agreement.


﻿9
(e)   GOPD shall have entered into a contract with a firm of consultants
experienced in oil palm planting and management as provided in Section 2.02(b)
of the Project Agreement.
(f)   GOPD's form of loan agreement to be concluded with Outgrowers for
the supply of credit under Part B of the Project shall have been approved by
the Association.
(g)   An agreement acceptable to the Association shall have been entered
into between the Borrower and GOPD for providing the Borrower's funds for the
Project to GOPD.
(h)   A person acceptable to the Association shall have assumed full time
the duties of Managing Director of GOPD.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association.
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, GOPD, and constitutes a legally binding
obligation of GOPD in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and GOPD
and constitutes a legally binding obligation of the Borrower and GOPD in
accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. The date June 13, 1975 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. (a) The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.01(a),
3.02 and 3.04 of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 25 years after
the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
(b)   The obligations of the Borrower under Section 3.06 of this Agreement
shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date ten years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.


﻿10
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Senior Principal Secretary, Ministry of Finance of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Principal Secretary
Ministry of Economic Planning
P.O. Box M76
Accra, Ghana
Cable address:
ECONOMICOM
Accra
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿11
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GHANA
By  /s/ Samuel Ernest Quarm
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ R. Chaufournier
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Civil works and                 1,790,000         58%
housing
(2)  Vehicles, equip-               300,0              100% of foreign
ment and agricul-                                 expenditures
tural inputs
(3)   Seedlings, cover               1,590,000         53%
crop, GOPD ex-
penses and local
salaries
(4)  GOPD expatriate                  430,000          100% of foreign
salaries and ex-                                  expenditures and
penses                                            73% of local ex-
penditures
(5)  Technical assis-                  80,000          100% of foreign
tance and train-                                  expenditures and
ing in connection                                 50% of local ex-
with Parts A                                      penditures
through E of the
Project
(6)  Technical assis-                 200,000          100% of foreign
tance referred                                    expenditures
to in Part G of
the Project
(7)  Unallocated                    5,710,000
TOTAL              13,600,000


﻿13
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term  "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods or
services supplied from the territory, and in the currency, of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, and for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if any event occurs which shall affect the amount of any
such taxes included in the cost of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, correspondingly
adjust the disbursement percentage then applicable to such item.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made (i) in respect of Categories 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 on
account of expenditures incurred after June 1, 1974 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $600,000 and (ii) in respect of Category 6 on account
of expenditures incurred after July 31, 1974 in an aggregate amount not exceeding
the equivalent of $200,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category to the extent required to meet the estimated shortfall
proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures, and
(ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the


﻿14
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of the Borrower's oil palm development program
to be carried out over an area of approximately 13,000 acres and consists of the
following components:
Part A:    Establishing and operating an oil palm plantation of about 10,000 acres
in the Nucleus Plantation Area;
Part B:    Provision of technical services and credit facilities to develop about
3,000 acres of Outgrower plantings adjacent to motorable roads leading
to the Nucleus Plantation;
Part C:     Construction and operation of a palm oil mill with a capacity of 10
tons of oil palm fruit bunch per hour to be located on the Nucleus
Plantation, and establishing a fruit collection system for Outgrowers;
Part D:     Training Outgrowers and GOPD personnel;
Part E:    Implementation of field trials with oil palms;
Part F:     Building a road of about 10 miles' length in the vicinity of the Nucleus
Plantation connecting such points, and pursuant to such specifications,
as the Association shall approve; and
Part G:    Technical Assistance to   the Agricultural Development Bank in
implementing improved credit accounting and control, reviewing its
financial position, advising on credit policies and procedures and
assisting in staff training.
*          *           *          *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1982.


