Report No. PIC1939
Project Name              Mali-Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion
Region                    Africa
Sector                    Agriculture, Irrigation
Project ID                MLPA1738
Borrower                  Government of Mali
Implementing Agency       APROFA (Agence pour la Promotion des Filieres
Agricoles)
Bamako, Mali
Contact
Mr. Dominique Traore
c/o Direction de la Cellule de Planification
et de la Statistique
Ministere du Developpement Rural et de
l'Environnement
Bamako, Mali
Tel.   (223) 22.29.79; 22.227.85; 22.44.96
Date of PID Preparation        May 3, 1996
Project Appraisal Date         October 17, 1994
Project Re-appraisal Date      April 1, 1996
Projected Board Date           September 3, 1996
Country and Sector Background
1.        With a per capita GNP of only $0 in 1994, Mali is one of the
poorest countries in the world. Mali's population of about 9.5 million
is predominantly young and rural, with 50 percent being under twenty
years of age, and 75 percent living in rural areas. Agriculture
including livestock is the driving force of the Malian economy. It
contributes for about 50 percent of GDP, occupies more than 80 percent
of the active population, and provides three quarters of export
revenues. From 1991 to 1995, real growth in the sector averaged 5.6
percent, while real growth in the economy overall was brought from -2.5
percent in 1991 to an estimated 5 percent in 1995. With an increasingly
favorable policy environment, Mali has great potential for developing
its agricultural sector.
2.        Mali has the largest irrigation potential in the Sahel, and
the 1994 FCFA devaluation increased the competitiveness of its
production of irrigated crops in national, regional and European
markets. However, a previous upsurge in small-scale irrigation
investments has declined. Lack of technical and managerial assistance
to private irrigators has resulted in poor husbandry practices,
inefficient design and management of equipment. Consequently, the
profitability of these schemes is often low. Results from a survey
carried out during project preparation indicate that: (a) many farmers
are willing to invest in small-scale irrigation and are prepared to pay



for services that increase the investment's profitability; (b) adequate
solutions to the technical and managerial problems are diverse and
location-specific, and require high expertise and experience in small-
scale irrigation management; (c) Government support services prioritize
other agricultural sub-sectors, and the support capabilities for
specialized irrigation production activities are weak; (d) because of
the specificity and the diversity of private irrigation, its promotion
must be led jointly by the public sector (extension and research
services) and the private sector (technical and management specialists,
legal consultants, and financial institutions); and (e) Government
should play a catalytic role and maintain its present policy to support
the private sector.
Project Objectives
3.        The  project's long term objective is to improve the
profitability of investments in small-scale irrigation and to lay the
basis for a sustainable private sector financing of investments in the
sub-sector. To achieve this development goal, the project will aim in
the medium-term, to develop an operational understanding of mechanisms
by which producers in small-scale irrigation would be provided technical
and managerial support services. The project will accomplish this by
learning through trials the most cost-effective services and techniques,
as well as by testing producers' willingness to pay for the services
provided.
Project Description
4.        This four-year pilot project would test effective means of
providing technical and managerial support services to private
irrigation producers in order to improve and expand investments in
small-scale irrigation. The Project would assist private irrigators by
providing: (a) technical assistance and training in the operation and
maintenance of irrigation equipment, selection of investment plans,
credit documentation and technical appraisal of investments; (b) legal
services for the formalization of land tenure arrangements and technical
studies for irrigation development; (c) experimentation of irrigation
equipment; (d) capacity building of producer groups and individual
farmers in organizational and financial management; (e) environmental
mitigation measures to protect against the potential negative
consequences of the project such as water-borne diseases and soil
erosion; and (f) monitoring of the incentive environment for private
irrigation development through surveys and studies.
Project Costs and Financing
5.        Total project costs over the four-year implementation period
are estimated at US$ 5.5 million, not including irrigation investments
that will be financed by producers' own resources and/or through credit
from financial institutions.    The IDA portion of US$ 5.0 million
represents about 90 percent of project costs; the balance will be
covered by Government and beneficiaries. The detailed financing plan
would be finalized during negotiations.
- 2-



Project Implementation
6.        The Project would cover, during the first two years of
execution, the regions of Sikasso, Segou, and Koulikoro which also
includes the district of Bamako. From the third year, it will extend its
activities in selected areas of the region of Mopti. The project
headquarters will be located in Bamako, and there will be one technician
each in the Sikasso and the Segou region, and from the third year one
technician will be hired for the Mopti region.
Project Sustainability
7.        Sustainability is difficult to gauge at this stage because of
the pilot nature of the project. It will hinge on the speed at which
full cost recovery can be obtained. This in turn will depend on the
quality of services provided by the Agency and farmers' perception of
the impact of these services on the profitability of irrigation. The
mid-term review should identify those features, tested in the first two
years of implementation, that are most likely to ensure the
sustainability of the action programs beyond the project's
implementation period. Particular emphasis would be made on the cost
recovery scheme that will be implemented during the first phase of the
project.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
8.        Emerging lessons from the Bank's lending experience in Mali
are that: (a) farmers are responsive to improved and profitable
technologies, (b) individual farmers or groups are prepared to take
important roles in the management and design of rural development
activities; and (c) centrally managed projects involved in commercial
activities tend to loose sight of farmers' constraints and priorities.
In addition, lessons from the Mauritania Small Scale Irrigation Project
(Credit 1571-MAU) were fully taken into consideration into the
preparation of this project. No particular ethnic group is targeted but
project beneficiaries are individuals from different cross-sections of
the Malian population. Also, the proposed pilot operation would be
demand-driven and carried out by a private sector entity. There would
be no pre-determined investment or infrastructure patterns imposed on
farmers, nor would the pilot project impose cropping patterns. Instead,
farmers would approach the management team with problems related to
their farms.
Poverty Category
9.        N.A.
Environmental Aspects
10.       A category B environmental analysis concluded that the
project's environmental impact is likely to be small and that the
project would have a positive impact in terms of improved efficiency
of water use in small scale irrigation.
Program Objective Categories
-3-



11.       The project encourages private sector development in
irrigation in the aftermath of the 1994 CFAF devaluation.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



