                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                Report No: 26764

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                       (IF-N0210)

                                          ON A

                                        CREDIT

                           IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 3.0 MILLION
                                    (US$4.2 MILLION)

                                  TO THE REPUBLIC OF

                                         MALI

                                         FOR A

                     PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT




                                      January 2004




Rural Development 4 (AFTS4)
Africa Regional Office

                            CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                        (Exchange Rate Effective January 2003)

                              Currency Unit = CFA Franc (CFAF)
                                 CFAF 100 = US$ 1.06
                                  US$ 1.00 = 620.78

                                   FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AGMK   Kati Market Gardening Association (Association des groupements maraîchers de
       Kati)
AMADIP Malian Association for Private Irrigation Development (Association malienne pour
       le développement de l'irrigation privée)
APCAM  Permanent Assembly of Malian Chambers of Agriculture (Assemblée permanente
       des chambres d'agriculture du Mali)
APROFA Agricultural supply chain promotion agency (Agence pour la promotion des filières
       agricoles)
CAM    Malian Chambers of Agriculture (Chambres d'agriculture du Mali)
CECI   Canadian Center for International Studies and Cooperation (Centre canadien
       d'étude et de coopération internationale)
CPS    Planning and Statistics Unit (Cellule de la planification et de la statistique)
DAF    Administrative and Financial Directorate (Direction administrative et financière)
DMGP   Public Procurement Directorate (Direction générale des marchés publics)
DNAER  Rural Land Management Directorate (Direction nationale de l'aménagement de
       l'espace rural)
DNAMR  Rural Support Services Directorate (Direction nationale de l'appui au monde
       rural)
DTP    Demonstration of production techniques (Démonstration de techniques de
       production)
EIG    Economic interest group
ERR    Economic Rate of Return
ETI    Experimentation of Irrigation Techniques (Expérimentation de techniques
       d'irrigation)
FAO    United Nations Food and Agricultural Organization
ICR    Implementation Completion Report
IDA    International Development Association
IER    Malian Rural Economics Institute (Institut d'économie rurale du Mali)
MAEP   Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Fisheries (Ministère de l'agriculture, de
       l'élevage et de la pêche)
MDR    Ministry of Rural Development (Ministère du développement rural)
NGO    Non governmental Organization

N/K     Cost-benefit ratio (Ratio avantages nets-investissement de toutes les ressources
        engagées)
ON      Office du Niger
PAVCOPA Agro-processing and trading project (Projet d'appui à la valorisation et à la
        commercialisation des produits agricoles)
PNRA    National Agricultural Research Program (Programme national de recherche
        agricole)
PNVA    National Agricultural Extension Project (Projet national de vulgarisation agricole)
PO      Producers'Organization
PPIP    Pilot Private Irrigation Promotion Project (Projet pilote de promotion de
        l'irrigation privée)
PPIV    Small-scale village irrigation perimeters (Petits périmètres irrigués villageois)
PSPHR   Health, Population and Rural Water Project (Projet de santé, population et
        hydraulique rurale)
QAE     Quality at entry
QAG     Quality assurance group
QER     Quality enhancement review
SDR     Special Drawing Rights
SME     Small and medium enterprise



                              Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
                           Country Director:     A. David Craig
                             Sector Manager:     Mary Barton-Dock
                              Task Manager:      Patrick Labaste

                                             MALI
                PILOT PRIVATE IRRIGATION PROMOTION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            11
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             23
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             24
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             26
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                27
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            28
Annex 8. Performance Evaluation in Specific Areas                                29
Annex 9. Comments by the Quality Assurance Group                                 31
Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution                                                33

Project ID: P001738                                                  Project Name: Mali:IRRIG PROMOTION
Team Leader: Patrick Labaste                                         TL Unit: AFTS4
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Mali:IRRIG PROMOTION                                     L/C/TF Number: IF-N0210
   Country/Department: MALI                                                               Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Irrigation and drainage (48%); Central government administration
                            (34%); Law and justice (10%); General finance sector (8%)
                  Theme: Rural policies and institutions (P); Rural services and infrastructure
                            (P); Infrastructure services for private sector development (S); Other
                            rural development (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 03/13/1987                                     Effective: 04/22/1998                04/22/1998
     Appraisal: 03/17/1997                                         MTR: 05/15/2000                  05/15/2000
      Approval: 05/30/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2002                 03/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF MALI/APROFA
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:               A. David Craig                                 Hasan Tuluy
Sector Manager:                 Mary Barton-Dock                               Jean-Paul Chausse
Team Leader at ICR:             Patrick Labaste                                Anne Mossige
ICR Primary Author:             Mahaman Salifou


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        U
                      Sustainability:      UN
   Institutional Development Impact:       N
                 Bank Performance:         U
            Borrower Performance:          U


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: U                                S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
This project was identified in 1987, but due to the events that have affected the country's economic and
political situation in the early 1990s and the absence of a rural development strategy, its preparation was
considerably slowed.

Starting in 1992, the Government began the process of developing an agricultural development strategy in
close collaboration with several donors, including the World Bank. This strategy was intended, among
other things, to promote decentralization, Government withdrawal from productive and commercial
activities and the strengthening of public/private sector partnerships in order to improve socio-economic
conditions for agricultural producers.

In 1994, following the devaluation of the CFA franc, the competitiveness of irrigated crops improved
considerably on national, regional and international markets. Mali, with one of the largest potentially
irrigable land areas in the Sahel and, now, a favorable environment, decided to seize this opportunity to
establish a private irrigation development project. The irrigation sub-sector was characterized at the time
by declining investment, mainly due to constraints related to technical outreach and equipment management
in small-scale irrigation. The pilot project was reactivated in order to help private irrigation farmers test
various technologies, enhance their capacity to manage equipment and improve their access to credit. These
elements were expected to generate greater investment in the sub-sector and higher incomes for producers.

The project's objectives were fully in line with the Bank's country assistance strategy (CAS) for Mali, both
for rural development and for the irrigation sub-sector, and in line with the country's poverty reduction
strategy, as set forth in the PRSP adopted in 2002. One of the CAS priorities was to promote agricultural
and private sector development by focusing on the following key areas: a) completion of the trade and
markets liberalization program; b) strengthening the capacities of local communities and farmers'
organizations to manage their businesses/assets and become dynamic partners in the provision of public
services; c) refocusing scarce public resources on top-priority services and investments; and d) generating
local capacity to monitor trends in the agricultural sector.

The main objectives of Mali's Master Plan for Rural Development, adopted in 1992 and updated in 2000,
are: a) to decentralize public support services, thereby increasing the efficacy of local development
activities; b) to improve extension and agricultural research services, thereby transforming an agriculture
characterized by low inputs and production levels; c) to provide training for producers' organizations (POs)
which are expected to play a leading role in identifying and implementing collective activities, thereby
enabling them to assume responsibility for a greater share of activities previously provided by the public
sector; d) to continue government withdrawal from commercial activities and promote private sector
initiative and intervention in these activities; and e) to channel investments in rural development programs
within the overall framework of Mali's development strategy, thereby promoting sustainable natural
resource development, rural infrastructure, competitiveness of Malian products, capacity-building, rural
credit and support to vulnerable population groups. In addition, the government enacted an action plan in
1993 aimed at refocusing the activities of the Ministry of Rural Development (MDR) on basic services, and
is currently carrying out this action plan with the aid of donors, including IDA. The Government's strategy
for the irrigation sub-sector, adopted in 2000, includes the following broad objectives: a) focus public
investment on selective rehabilitation of existing large-scale irrigated perimeters; b) provide farmers with
effective extension and research services; c) establish mechanisms to increase producers' participation in
the rehabilitation and maintenance of Government-owned irrigated perimeters; d) stimulate private
investment in small-scale irrigation by improving producers' ability to identify, operate and manage



                                                        - 2 -

profitable investments.

The long-term objective of the project, viewed as a research/development and capacity-building operation,
was to improve and expand investment in small-scale irrigation. The project was intended to enhance the
capacities of private institutions involved in providing equipment, services and financing for small-scale
irrigation investments. These institutions were expected to provide small-scale irrigation farmers with
technical support and management services, thereby putting them in a better position to: a) identify the
most cost-effective investments in irrigation equipment and infrastructure; b) operate and maintain this
equipment; c) prepare loan applications for submission to financial institutions and obtain credit for
irrigation investments; d) enhance the security of their assets, including their property titles; and e) develop
their organizational and financial management skills. In addition, the project was intended to strengthen,
through training activities: a) the ability of financial institutions to evaluate irrigation investment projects;
and b) the technical performance of independent consultants and consulting firms active in the sub-sector.

On-farm investments generated by the project were expected to help rehabilitate about 400 ha and develop
about 600 ha of new irrigated perimeters (including bottomlands, individual plots in peri-urban areas and
pump-irrigated village plots). Project activities were to be demand-driven and, since this was a pilot
operation, confined to geographic areas where small-scale irrigation is most developed (i.e., parts of the
Koulikoro, Ségou and Sikasso regions, and the District of Bamako). The success of the project was to be
gauged by the beneficiaries' willingness to pay a larger share of the cost of services, and by the private
sector's capacity to provide those services.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Project objectives were not changed. The "irrigation equipment testing" component was revised in order to
add ­ as an essential adjunct to, and in synergy with, irrigation technologies and equipment ­
demonstrations of already-known production techniques and crop varieties, and the development of
specialized advisory/support services to irrigation farmers. The project was granted a nine-month extension
to March 31, 2003, and the project's area of intervention was, in the end, not extended to the Mopti region
due to implementation problems encountered. The extension of the closing date was formalized through an
amendment to the Credit Agreement approved on June 27, 2002.

3.3 Original Components:
According to the appraisal report, the project had seven components:

a)        Support to the implementing agency to strengthen its institutional and technical capacities in
support of the Government's strategy for developing small-scale irrigation. Estimated cost of this
component: US$0.5 million.

b)        Technical and management support services and training aimed at: i) enabling small-scale
irrigation producers to better operate and maintain irrigation equipment and to identify the most
cost-effective small irrigation investments; ii) enabling producers and private entities in the irrigation sector
to devise more appropriate investment plans; iii) enhancing the ability of financial institutions to perform
technical evaluations of sub-sectoral investments. Estimated cost of this component: US$1.1 million.

c)        Legal services and technical studies aimed at granting private irrigation producers official land
titles, creating officially recognized producers' groups and carrying out technical studies pertaining to
irrigation development. Estimated cost of this component: US$0.4 million.

d)        Testing of irrigation equipment, in order to identify and disseminate equipment suited to the



                                                        - 3 -

needs of small-scale irrigation producers. Estimated cost of this component: US$0.7 million.

e)       Capacity-building, in order to improve the institutional and financial capacities of producers'
organizations and independent private irrigation producers. Estimated cost of this component: US$0.2
million.

f)       Monitoring and mitigation of environmental impacts, in order to gauge the project's ecological
effects and develop ways to protect: a) producers from water-borne diseases; and b) irrigated farms from
soil deterioration. Estimated cost of this component: US$0.2 million.

g)       Socio-economic surveys and studies designed to monitor the incentives offered to private
irrigation and the project's development impact, and the Bank's usual periodic beneficiary surveys.
Estimated cost of this component: US$0.4 million.

3.4 Revised Components:
During the project launch workshop, an IDA supervision mission proposed that activities be grouped into
four operational components, as follows: (i) technical and managerial advice/support to irrigation
producers; (ii) legal assistance and help in preparing credit applications; (iii) equipment testing; and (iv)
training and studies. However, this proposed breakdown was not implemented, and the seven original
components were kept.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was not subject to the Quality Enhancement Review at entry (QER), but a quality at entry
(QAE) review carried out in May 1998 rated it as marginal (see Annex 9). This rating was based on the
following considerations : (i) project design and objectives were unclear, reflecting poor knowledge of the
sub-sector; (ii) the project's technical validity was not well established; (iii) the poor were not among the
project's beneficiaries; (iv) weak capacity of the implementing agency, which was already having trouble
managing another Bank-financed project; and (v) lack of a clearly defined monitoring and evaluation
system. The QAG team made some suggestions for improvement of the project design, some of which were
taken into account at the project launch workshop.

Other risks had been quite clearly identified in the appraisal report, and mitigating measures or alternatives
had been proposed. One risk was that small investors would have no incentive to invest in small-scale
irrigation, and that financial institutions would not be interested in granting medium- to long-term credit in
this sub-sector. The measures designed to mitigate these risks included: i) enhancement of the ability of the
technical staff of Malian banks to evaluate irrigation investment projects, and development of producers'
ability to prepare viable investment plans; and ii) strengthening of micro-finance institutions providing
services to small rural producers thanks to the forthcoming Financial Sector Support Program for Mali.

Another risk was that the implementing agency, APROFA, might not fully play its role and might fail to
develop services to beneficiaries (either directly or through service providers). This risk was to be
minimized through: i) the adoption of rigorous management rules and procedures; ii) strict monitoring of
management results, intensive technical supervision and regular beneficiary surveys; and iii) progressive
project implementation and an appropriately-timed Mid-Term Review allowing project design and
implementation procedures to be modified if necessary.

The risk that the Government would retreat from its prevailing private sector policy was deemed relatively
low, since that policy was enjoying increased support in Mali, and the Bank and IMF were engaged in a
dialogue with the Government based on an existing economic policy framework document that was to be



                                                       - 4 -

further strengthened under the Bank's country assistance strategy for Mali.

These three risks became real during project implementation, but the corrective measures identified during
project preparation proved ineffective: the government perpetuated ambiguity by entrusting management to
a parastatal organization under its control and by appointing staff from the public sector without private
sector experience. APROFA behaved like a classic, inefficient project management entity unable to develop
the expected services, and issues of access to credit, which proved more complex than expected, were not
dealt with in depth.

Comments on the QAE review : Overall, the QAG's apprehensions were justified, except for the concern
that a few wealthy producers would monopolize project benefits, a fear that proved unfounded.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project was supposed to eliminate several of the major constraints affecting the sub-sector, namely: a)
the use of rudimentary technology, and the inefficient design and management of perimeters; b) producers'
limited access to technical support and management services; c) producers' marginal access to credit; d) the
lack of officially recognized land titles; and e) the scarcity of technically skilled consultants and private
consulting firms. In addition, the project was supposed to complement efforts made under the National
Agricultural Extension Project (PNVA, Cr. 2235-MLI), the National Agricultural Research Program
(PNRA, Cr. 2557-MLI), and under the agricultural extension and research components of the Rural Sector
Support Program then under preparation, to identify farmers'constraints, disseminate improved techniques
and conduct other on-farm experiments adapted to the needs of irrigation practitioners. Project services
were expected to liaise closely with technicians working for those projects and to take advantage of their
expertise in their respective areas of specialization.

The project was also expected to complement the Agro-Processing Trading Project (PAVCOPA, Cr.
2737-MLI), which was aimed at removing the major sectoral constraints hampering private investment in
the marketing and processing of agricultural products, and involved in particular the strengthening of
professional capacities and the transfer of know-how to private sector actors, firms that market and process
agricultural products, and entrepreneurs. With the support of the IDA-financed Structural Adjustment
Credit and Private Sector Assistance Project (Cr. 2432-MLI), the two projects were expected to constitute
an essential part of the private sector support program. The fact that they were jointly managed by a private
entity, the Agency for the Promotion of Agricultural Supply Chains (APROFA), which was designed to
provide services to rural producers and was supervised by producers' organizations (APCAM), was
supposed to facilitate the dissemination of information to producers concerning marketing constraints and
opportunities, and the dissemination of information to agricultural product traders and processors regarding
production constraints and opportunities. In this manner, linkages between fruit and vegetable producers,
traders and agro-industrial actors were supposed to be strengthened. In addition, the sharing of the costs of
the various services between the project and its beneficiaries was expected to help determine the
appropriateness and quality of services, as well as producers' willingness to pay for them.

The project's overall objectives were, for the most part, not satisfactorily met. A component-by-component
review shows that the constraints of the irrigation sub-sector were not alleviated, although some positive
results were obtained with the demonstration of production techniques. These results came too late,
however, to be disseminated under the project, and have not yet been validated over the course of several
cropping seasons. The project did not help to remove any of the baseline constraints identified at appraisal.
No low-cost technology capable of increasing the income of small-scale irrigation producers was validated,



                                                       - 5 -

the format of advisory services (i.e., the direct management option favored by APROFA) did not meet
producers' needs, and contracts with external service providers, since they were organized too late, failed to
yield any results. No additional knowledge of funding constraints was obtained and no significant activity
occurred to facilitate irrigation producers' access to financing, or to help them put together viable financing
applications.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Support to the implementing agency

For purposes of implementing this component, APROFA's services could be made available in three ways:
(i) directly, through the recruitment of staff by APROFA; (ii) in collaboration with institutions that would
handle the transfer of technologies and know-how; or (iii) exclusively through sub-contracting. The
APROFA agency chose the first option (with staff reporting directly to APROFA).

The evaluation indicates that the results of technical and managerial support provided to the project by
APROFA are unsatisfactory, since the desired goal ­ the strengthening of the project's technical and
financial capacities ­ was not achieved. It took nearly a year -- from 1997 until effectiveness in April 1998
-- to recruit staff for the PPIP's central and regional offices. Due to the team's poor performance, an acting
director was appointed in December 1999, and he did not renew the contracts of the staff past August 2000.
The resumption of activities began with the restructuring workshop in January 2001, but it was slow and
was not fully effective until March 2002, with the recruitment of a rural engineer and an agricultural
economist. APROFA's weak capacities in the areas of administrative and financial management caused
procurement delays and gaps in the monitoring of contract execution. Frequent staff changes made it
impossible for people to receive better training in project management. The poor organization and
management of the APROFA team prevented the development of a clear project strategy that could be
understood by staff, service providers and beneficiaries. For purposes of collaboration with other agencies,
cooperative agreements were signed in 1998 with most of the entities or organizations involved in irrigation
(e.g., IER, DNAMR, DNAER, PSPHR, etc.), but they were not actually implemented. APROFA did not
enforce the new institutional framework approved at the time of restructuring (i.e., at the mid-term review).
The project never reached full development. The desired synergy with PAVCOPA did not materialize, and
the two projects progressed on parallel tracks instead of being integrated.

Technical support, management and training activities

Generally speaking, execution of this component was unsatisfactory, because the results obtained did not
improve farmers' operation and maintenance of irrigation equipment. Private producers and service
providers are not any better able to draw up investment plans, and the skills of the financial institutions
were not improved. Nevertheless, 89 irrigation producers (of 750 planned) and 34 mechanics (of 88
planned) were trained to operate and maintain motorized pumps, and ten people (from NGOs, consulting
firms and government services, plus one trader) were trained in choosing from among the motorized pumps
available on the market.

Although this training was positively rated, it was not continued after 1999. Faced with strong demand (in
the form of 559 requests for diagnostics), the project performed 462 technical consultations compared to
the 300 planned (for a total area of 1,986 ha), but only 26 management consultations out of the 500
planned (for a total area of 85 ha). The quality of the diagnostics was too sketchy, however, and
investment proposals were not of sufficient quality to be submitted. Loan requests were not adequately
analyzed. Finally, the training planned for banking personnel in the evaluation of irrigation investments did
not take place.



                                                       - 6 -

Legal services and technical studies

This component was not executed satisfactorily, since the project was unable to formalize farmers' land
titles or to establish POs capable of providing viable services to their members, and failed to carry out
good-quality technical studies of small-scale irrigation development.

Only 20 producers' groups, of 70 planned, obtained legal status, but these groups generally do not possess
sufficient managerial capacity to provide services to their members without help.

Of 450 legal consultations planned for purposes of securing land titles (which would have affected over
2,000 ha), 302 consultations were provided; 15 land titles, out of 160 planned, were obtained (for a total
area of 61 ha). Two major obstacles impeded the success of legal consultancies: (i) the Government
stopped issuing land titles for a period of two years (1999 and 2000); and (ii) most land title applications
were for purposes other than those targeted by the project, i.e. the acquisition of land titles for irrigated
perimeters.

Of 400 feasibility studies planned, 35 were carried out (covering 110 ha). All of these studies were of
unsatisfactory quality, and responded neither to the needs of farmers nor to those of the financial
institutions. Despite several recommendations made by FAO technical support missions, these studies were
not improved before the end of the project.

Testing of irrigation equipment

Execution of this component was unsatisfactory, because it failed to identify and disseminate equipment
suited to the needs of small-scale irrigation producers. On the other hand, satisfactory results were
obtained on the technical demonstration plots (DTPs) introduced in 2001, where varieties and technical
itineraries produced above-average yields, especially during the warm season.

Under the equipment testing protocols, the firm chosen to perform the tests (after a lengthy selection
procedure lasting over two years) proved not to have the requisite skills. American NGOs, which are the
most competent in this area, were ineligible due to the type of funding (i.e., IDA's Interim Fund, which
excludes participants from non-contributing countries). It did not provide any working methodology and
tested only equipment behavior, without reference to any technical or economic criteria. While the firm's
contract was indeed brief (12 months instead of the four years planned at appraisal), APROFA's
supervision of it was very poor, if not contradictory according to the consultants. The second service
provider hired (October 2002) to replace the first was even weaker: it lacked a methodology and also failed
to produce reports.

The program for Development of Production Techniques (Développement des Techniques de Production -
DTP) recommended by a supervision mission in 2001 proved to be very positive and produced the best
results obtained under the project. This program, contracted out to a Canadian NGO (CECI), began in
December 2001 with four mandates: (i) organizing demonstrations; (ii) setting up a private technical and
economic council; (iii) determining the advisability of developing a large-scale private advisory/support
mechanism for farmers; (iv) determining the advisability of helping young professional market gardeners to
get established. Due to the cumbersome selection and contracting process, as well as APROFA's cash flow
problems, only two cycles of production technique demonstrations, out of three planned, were completed
(60 plots, of which 19 during the warm season and 41 during the cool season). The other mandates were
not carried out. Yield increases were spectacular for some crops: over 100 percent for cabbage, tomato,


                                                      - 7 -

okra, maize and European eggplant. Some new warm season varieties of tomato (Mongal) and okra
(Volta) were introduced, with 20% yield increases. Although the contract did not last long enough to obtain
validated results, over 500 producers adopted the new varieties, and 15 producers applied the
newly-learned techniques properly without the NGO's help. Due to the analyzed problems, the project was
unable to integrate irrigation techniques and equipment into the production technique demonstrations, nor
could it produce technical and economic benchmarks, or support the broader dissemination of results.

Capacity-building

Overall results of the capacity-building component were unsatisfactory, because it failed to improve the
institutional and financial capacities of producers' organizations and of private irrigation producers.
Training occurred infrequently and was insufficiently integrated into a training plan suited to the POs'
training requirements.

Nevertheless, 194 producers (of 900 planned) and members of producers' groups received training in topics
related to land tenure and the procedures for acquiring land title; 21 artisanal blacksmiths were trained to
make improved watering cans, but there was no communication strategy for promoting the dissemination of
this technology, which would undoubtedly be profitable. Only one mason was trained in the Friry technique
of well-head construction, and that individual is currently working in the Bamako District.

The associations that were established, and particularly APROFA-Association or AGMK, did not
experience any transfer of knowledge or expertise relevant to their activities. Information remained on file
at the agency and was not widely disseminated. Other types of training foreseen at appraisal also failed to
materialize, e.g. : (i) training for irrigation producers in organizational management, micro-enterprise and
financial management; (ii) training of project staff, including study trips to countries with more
sophisticated irrigation technologies; (iii) training for consulting firms in the operation of small-scale
irrigation projects; and (iv) training for the personnel of financial institutions.

Monitoring and mitigation of environmental impact

Execution of this component was very unsatisfactory, since no evaluation of the project's environmental
impacts or of ways to protect producers from waterborne diseases was performed. Indeed, none of the
activities planned under this component was carried out.

An agreement was signed with the Rural Economic Institute of Mali (Institut d'économie rurale du Mali,
IER), but a proposal made to APROFA concerning environmental monitoring received no follow-up. By
the end of the project, only the terms of reference for a study of the project's environmental impacts had
been prepared. The project's environmental impact was insignificant, since the volume of physical works
completed was negligible.

Socioeconomic survey and studies

Execution of this component was highly unsatisfactory, because the studies and surveys planned for the
purposes of monitoring incentives for private irrigation development and for impact evaluation were not
carried out. Planned studies on taxation and the supply of inputs and spare parts were not performed.
Although some activity reports were produced and some data collection occurred at the regional level, these
activities took place outside of any integrated monitoring and evaluation framework. There was no
monitoring and evaluation of the project's results, effects and impacts.




                                                        - 8 -

Only a few studies were carried out: (i) the updating of baseline studies; and (ii) six progress reports on
project activities and on the impact of training irrigation producers in the maintenance of motorized pumps.
Since the monitoring/evaluation service functioned only intermittently, it was unable to alert the
management team to the need to re-direct project activities.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Project performance in this regard was insignificant, due to delays in starting the testing of irrigation
equipment and the production technique demonstrations. The appraisal report calculated an economic rate
of return (ERR) only for on-farm investments. This ERR was quite high, ranging from 32 percent for the
development of new rice perimeters to 116 percent for the rehabilitation of market gardens in urban areas.
The ERR calculated under FAO preparatory studies was lower, at 19.5 percent.

Despite all, one irrigation technique that was tested, namely the simplified drip system using locally-
available materials, should be pursued further. Although tests were not completed, producers on farms
where they were conducted extended that technique to their entire holdings. For an investment of CFAF
400,000/ha (about US$ 700), producers achieved a 40 percent reduction in the cost of fuel for pumping in
the first year, and a 60 percent reduction in labor costs, while at the same time improving the regularity of
watering and maintaining previous yield levels.

The results of production technique demonstrations conducted on 64 producers' farms were inconclusive.
Since a single series of demonstrations was performed each season, this data would need to be validated
over the course of a few more seasons before being widely disseminated to producers, but it points to
particularly large yield and income increases for both warm and cool season crops. These results suggest
that profitable market gardening can be envisaged, with assured yields for such mass-consumption products
as tomato, okra or cabbage, for which productivity and incomes were previously very low (during the warm
season). Market gardeners in the Bamako region, particularly producers from the Kati market gardeners'
association (AGMK), who have access to sufficient water during the warm season, did not wait for
demonstrations to continue before introducing these crops to their farms.

In general, on the basis of demonstrations conducted on small areas (i.e., ranging from 0.05 to 0.25 ha) and
compared to the generally low yields, the technologies tested produced yield increases ranging from 25 to
75 percent when demonstrations occurred under normal conditions. Yields have even more than doubled in
some cases. Assuming these same conditions, and based on incomplete summary data, the monetary gain
for producers is in the same range.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
N.A.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Project impact on macro-economic policy

Because of the project's pilot status, its activities were expected to have a limited impact, even though its
activities were in line with the policy on private sector development. Its potential impact on institutional
and macro-economic development policy is limited, however, because the government did not entrust
project management to producers' organizations.

Project impact on agricultural policy

At the time of its design, the project was a part of the government's rural development strategy, mainly in



                                                       - 9 -

terms of its objectives, i.e.: (i) promotion of private sector initiatives and interventions in agriculture; (ii)
increasing the efficacy of local-level development activities; (ii) improving productivity through better
advisory and agricultural research services; and (iv) appropriate training for POs.

Even though the production techniques that were developed need to be validated by at least one more
cropping season, initial results justify the expansion of the production schedule for several market garden
crops to include the warm season, which used to be very unproductive. The adoption of newly available
varieties (of tomato and okra) and the proposed production itineraries are believed to have made it possible
to reduce, over the medium-term, the shortage of market garden crops during the warm season. Although
the new technologies allow for more rational use of soils and water, they do not fit into an overall natural
resource management framework, since the environmental and social management plan has not been
developed. The development strategy for irrigated agriculture has not been updated in such a way as to
specify the government's policy vis-à-vis the private sector.

To a lesser extent, the project helped increase familiarity with the legal aspects of land tenure, and raised
awareness of the importance of land ownership, by helping producers and their organizations obtain
collateralized property titles and set themselves up as recognized associations.

The project made little contribution to capacity-building for NGOs and consulting firms involved in
small-scale private irrigation development. There was very limited enhancement of the capacities of POs to
become major partners in implementing agricultural policy, since the project remained attached to
governmental structures.

Impact on Institutional Development

The project's objective was to strengthen the capacities of private operators, thereby enabling them to
initiate and carry out sustainable irrigation development activities for their own benefit. In order to achieve
this, the project's preparation studies had proposed that project implementation be entrusted to an
association of irrigation professionals, AMADIP. This proposal was rejected by the Government, which
preferred to entrust implementation management to APROFA, an agency created to manage the
PAVCOPA project. In doing this, the Government and IDA hoped that synergies between these two
projects would be better fostered under APROFA.

In actual fact, the desired synergies did not materialize, since the two projects were progressing at different
speeds. APROFA, the implementing agency, was focused to a great extent on providing services to
producers/exporters, and irrigation producers were somehow neglected. Furthermore, neither APROFA
nor its sponsor, APCAM, had the experience or skills to manage private sector development projects. For
these two public sector entities, the management of two pilot projects requiring constant, high-quality
technical and managerial monitoring was a challenge that could only have been met with the participation
and control of beneficiaries.However, APROFA failed to recruit the full range of private sector
competencies that were required, its managers were not capable of fully adopting a private sector,
results-oriented management style, and the beneficiaries' supervision was never effective.

Given the project's poor results, an initial restructuring took place in December 1999, with the result that
staff contracts were not renewed, and the staff was not replaced for several months. At the mid-term
review, it was agreed that the institutional framework of the two projects managed by APROFA would be
improved. An institutional organization study was commissioned, It recommended the creation of an
APROFA-Association, the members of which would be sector professionals who wanted to belong to it,
followed by the transfer of ownership of APROFA, the implementing and service-providing agency, to this


                                                       - 10 -

association, which would then manage it through a board of directors. These changes were aimed at
fostering a greater sense of ownership on the part of beneficiaries, as a key condition for the sustainability
of interventions. A deadline of December 31, 2002 was set for the transfer of APROFA, the agency, to
APROFA-Association. However, this transfer was finally not implemented before the project closed.

Under the current circumstances, impact on the development of farmers' institutions and organizations has
been weak, except for the new "APROFA" association. This inter-professional association has over 2,000
members, a national office and functioning regional committees. It has been participating in supervision
missions since early 2002. It has organized information and outreach campaigns for its members. Its
income in 2002, derived exclusively from members' dues, was nearly CFAF 5 million.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The following factors, which are independent of the Government and APROFA, prevented smooth project
implementation:

The main problem was that the credit agreement precluded the hiring of US-based firms for service
provision, due to the nature of the funds used (i.e. a trust fund, instead of regular IDA resources).
American NGOs, which are the most experienced in disseminating small-scale irrigation equipment and
have also worked successfully in IDA-financed projects in Niger and Burkina Faso, were excluded from
procurement procedures. It was necessary to fall back on firms with very little or no experience in this
highly specialized area.

The political unrest in Côte d'Ivoire delayed the delivery of irrigation equipment by several months,
beginning in September 2002.

Recently issued European regulations concerning the safety of food products, and the downward trend in
international market prices, may have discouraged some farmers from getting involved with export crops.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government entrusted project implementation to an agency established by the Permanent Assembly of
Agricultural Chambers of Mali (APCAM), which was already in charge of the PAVCOPA project.
Various problems hampered project start-up, which was greatly delayed. In early 2000, both projects were
placed under a provisional administration reporting directly to the MDR. A new administration was slowly
put in place beginning in late 2000, but proved no more effective than the first one in implementing the
project.

At the mid-term review, it was agreed that the agency's ownership should be transferred to the
APROFA-Association no later than December 31, 2002. However, the institutional restructuring study was
never validated by the various partners. The final report was therefore never issued and the implementing
agency, APROFA, was still being supervised by APCAM at the time of project closure.

The role and responsibilities of the advisory committee, which had become a steering committee, and those
of APCAM were not defined in a way that would have enabled them to monitor project implementation
effectively.

The performances of APROFA senior staff involved in project implementation were never evaluated.




                                                     - 11 -

Contract management procedures were subject to general procurement procedures handled by the Public
Procurement Directorate (Direction générale des marchés publics, DGMP). Processing of service
providers' contracts using these procedures was very cumbersome (taking over a year per contract.)

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementing agency did not fulfill all its commitments. The managing office and local branches
produced activity reports which, although short, were available at regular half-yearly and annual intervals.
APROFA's monitoring and evaluation of project activities and management was inadequate. The project
failed to develop a framework, suited to the PPIP's pilot-type activities, for monitoring implementation or
project results with a view to learning lessons quickly and integrating them into its activities. Several
decisions expressed by joint supervision missions were never implemented. Financial reports were often
produced with delays. As per the provisions of the project agreements, a good start was taken in terms of
creating coordination mechanisms and making synergies effective with the various institutional and
parastatal partners, but these received no follow-up and did not translate into results for the project. The
project made particular provision for synergies with Bank projects (PNRA, PNSA), which ended before the
PPIP did, due to the latter's late start-up.

APROFA, as project implementing agency for APCAM, never drew up a business plan (or strategic
development plan) and the scope of services offered to operators remained inadequate for the most part.
APROFA's operations were plagued with problems of coordination and information circulation within the
agency team, as well as with its partners. The lengthy delays in approving contracts and setting up work
logistics caused postponements of seasonal activities, and this affected the quality and replicability of
results. The Loan Approval Committee soon ceased to function. Results and studies financed under the
projects were not broadly disseminated to partners.

The organizational framework of the implementing agency was flawed: staff contracts, status and pay
scales were in contradiction with Malian labor regulations. The system for evaluating staff performance,
although set out in the procedures manual, was not operational. The procedures manual, which was
revised at mid-term, was never formally approved.

The implementing agency had great difficulty planning its purchases and organizing them into a regularly
updated procurement plan. This had a severe impact on the management of disbursements and cash flow.
Requests for the replenishment of the advance account were submitted late, thereby causing many seasonal
activities to be postponed for lack of funding.

Audit reports were often submitted with delays. For example, the reports for the 2002 accounts of
PAVCOPA and PPIP were still not available at the end of 2003.

The November 2002 supervision mission advised the agency to approach a firm specializing in
organizational methods and human resource management for assistance in carrying out an organizational
diagnostic of the agency, developing a work scheme and tools for improving the coordination of activities
and for ensuring that the last year's work plan would be carried out. This improved framework was
intended to promote better information circulation, decentralization of decision-making and greater
assumption of responsibility, on the part of staff, for implementation of the work plan. This was never
done.

Annual project work plans and activity reports were very sketchy and did not give an accurate picture of
project status. The project included provisions for synergies and complementarities with several projects,
agencies and departments that never got past the agreement stage. Environmental and social management



                                                     - 12 -

activities were never implemented despite repeated recommendations made by supervision missions.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Total project costs were estimated at US$4.67 million. The project was implemented between April 22,
1998 and March 31, 2003, with a 9-month extension of the project closing date. By the end of the project,
US$2.212 million had been disbursed from the IDA credit, representing 54% of the credit amount ($4.2
million). There was no counterpart funding in the project. Beneficiary contributions amounted to US$0.20
million compared with US$0.47 originally planned.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability of actions developed under the project is unlikely. The APROFA association is new and
dynamic, but has not yet developed structured professional services for its members. It was not in charge
of managing the implementing agency, APROFA, during the life of the project and therefore had no
opportunity to take advantage of project support to improve its internal organization and develop its
member services. The agency's very existence is compromised, since the only two projects it was
managing have now closed.

Irrigation techniques developed in connection with equipment testing started late and could not be
completed properly with analysis of their profitability for producers, optimal usage conditions and the
production/dissemination of results to producers. Only one of the tested technologies holds some promise
for fruit producers. The choice of technologies for testing was out of sync with the priorities of small-scale
irrigation producers. Although there has been only one year (cool and warm seasons) of activity,
production technique demonstrations have produced promising results that many producers are already
incorporating into their practices.

Advisory services were planned in consultation with extension services supported by another World Bank
project (i.e., the PNVA), the activities of which have just recently resumed (PASAOP). PPIP is a pilot
project that was supposed to continue with a second phase based on the experience and lessons learned
under the pilot phase.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
Future Operations

The PPIP project was designed and implemetented to respond to some critical needs in terms of rural
development and poverty alleviation strategies for Mali : (i) there is an important local, regional, and
international market for fruit and vegetables, and there is also a significant irrigation potential in Mali; (ii)
constraints related to the technical level of farmers and their professional organizations, as well as
problems of credit availability, are still not resolved; and (iii) there is a need to link production to
marketing, which was the justification for the linkage with the PAVCOPA project. Although the first PPIP
project did not have the hoped-for success, this does not mean that its objectives should be abandoned. A
new project should attempt to achieve them, but it should be linked institutionally with an agricultural
product marketing project.

The design of the follow-up operation should involve beneficiaries, i.e. it should be driven by producers and
by people who ith a stake in its success, instead of depending on a state or parastatal entity. In order to
promote the private sector, staff recruitment and project management should be flexible and not
encumbered with procedures that drag on for months. Most activities should be contracted out, thereby
promoting the emergence of specialized local operators. With regard to activities that are new for the most


                                                      - 13 -

part, emphasis should be on training operators and on establishing an effective monitoring/evaluation
system. Finally, project intervention zones should be modest and initially limited to the current main
production areas, with expansion to harder-to-reach areas planned for a later date.

The two research/development components dealing with irrigation and production techniques should be
continued jointly, with a focus on the dissemination of results and performance objectives. Given the long
period required to obtain validated test results, the terms of reference for these components should be
prepared as soon as project negotiations begin.


7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance was unsatisfactory. The Bank financed and provided technical support to
the team that developed the project, the design of which was very protracted (nine years) and expensive
(over US$1.2 million). Two appraisal missions also occurred. Project launch workshops (both national
and regional) were organized with beneficiaries in June 1998.

Despite this, the project had objectives that were too broad for its duration and that exceeded its budget as
well as the capacities of its implementing agency. In addition, the project began in an environment in which
support to the private sector was new in rural areas. Monitoring and evaluation were not sufficiently
detailed for a pilot operation. The QAG had raised several major issues (see Annex 9), which the
supervision missions were unable to fully and adequately address .

7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory. There was continuity in the Bank's team , its approach
was pro-active and the team demonstrated flexibility in addressing issues in a changing environment. The
team focused on adequacy of IDA and Government inputs to implementation and development impact. The
aide-memoire provided detailed advice for improving the performance and correcting the shortcomings on
the project's components. The Bank carried out 12 supervision missions and used FAO asssistance to
further amplify various technical aspects of the project. The Bank approved the procedures manual and,
during implementation, examined and approved requests pertaining to consultant hiring, investments and
purchases. Budget replenishments occurred within two to three weeks after receipt of duly formulated
requests. However, the frequent time lags between technical supervision and financial monitoring missions
made it impossible to place enough emphasis on the project's fiduciary issues and disbursement problems.
The mid-term review was not accorded sufficient attention. Also, the team was not always being realistic in
making project performance ratings.

Supervision reports repeatedly mention recommendations that were not implemented by the implementing
agency. The Bank had to stop the project to deal with the dysfunctions of the initial team. Recruitment of
the second management team was slow and its performance was also poor. In December 2000, the Bank
belatedly rated the project as a "problem project" and drew up an action plan to restore it to normal status.
Unfortunately, the Bank's supervision missions did little to improve overall project operations and the
achievement of its objectives.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Project preparation is deemed unsatisfactory because it was lengthy, costly and ineffective. Four
successive task managers handled project planning, and their individual abilities were inconsistent. Bank
supervision, on the other hand, is deemed satisfactory; as it kept the same task manager from project



                                                       - 14 -

effectiveness to closure. It correctly pointed out the implementing agency's problems and reported them to
the Government so that the required measures could be taken to address them. It helped stop the project
and recruit a new team, which also performed poorly. It assigned the operation to `problem project' status
during the December 2000 to June 2001 period. However, the Bank was slow to take corrective action to
address deficiencies in monitoring/evaluation and implementation of the environmental sub-component, and
to suggest the organizational, institutional and financial management reforms needed to ensure project
sustainability.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Government took an active role in project preparation. However, its refusal to delegate project
implementation to a producers' association, and its subsequent refusal to transfer overall project
implementation accountability to APCAM led to institutional dysfunctions that compromised project
management.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The Government delegated project management to APROFA, an agency established by APCAM (the
Permanent Assembly of Agricultural Chambers), with the specific goal of implementing the PAVCOPA
project. At the time of credit approval, the agency was already showing signs of losing momentum and was
having trouble managing PAVCOPA. The Government participated in all joint project supervision
missions. No financial contribution from the Government was planned for this project.

The Government, through the Ministry of Rural Development, was supposed to handle overall project
supervision. To this end, it was expected to create an advisory committee made up of representatives of
governmental agencies and beneficiaries. This advisory body was never operational and the Government
did not address the agency's shortcomings adequately. Supervision mission reports contained many
recommendations that were never put into practice. The Government failed to take adequate steps to correct
this situation. However, it should be noted that, in light of the poor results achieved by the agency team in
1999, the Government placed the project under the provisional management of a Ministry administrator for
one year and replaced the agency's staff in 2001. This belated and long-awaited decision failed to improve
the quality of technical execution.

The issue of the project's responsibility vis-à-vis beneficiaries and Government, and the problem of
monitoring/evaluation, especially of project impacts, remained unresolved. By the end of 2000, the
project's financial and technical management had also deteriorated without the Government's having taken
corrective action. The resolution emerging from the Selingué workshop ­ i.e., to hand over control of the
APROFA Agency to the APROFA Association, which represented project beneficiaries -- was not
implemented by the Government, and the project's institutional sustainability therefore failed to materialize.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The implementing agency, APROFA, can claim only very limited achievement of the objectives of the
various project components. APROFA's performance was weak in managing project finances, and the
agency did not evaluate the impact of its activities. APROFA handled its cash flow and disbursement
requests poorly, thereby causing frequent postponements of seasonal activities. Several audit reports were
delivered with delay and the 2002 audit had not yet begun at the time of the ICR mission. It never
developed an effective cost-accounting system, and budget expenses were not adequately monitored
according to the various project activities. The change in top management made in 2001 did not solve the
problem of weak financial management. The agency never evaluated the quality of its human resources,
failed to create synergies with other sector institutions, or even between the two projects it was managing.



                                                      - 15 -

At project closure, the disbursement rate was low, with only 54 percent of the credit spent.

The agency put up strong resistance to the transfer of monitoring/control to the APROFA-Association and,
in so doing, prevented the creation of a mechanism for ensuring the sustainability of the agency's activities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance is rated unsatisfactory. Overall project monitoring by the Government
remained weak throughout, despite various changes occurring in terms of Government officials responsible
for the task and for project staff. Several recommendations made by supervision missions were not
implemented, especially regarding important issues related to monitoring/evaluation, financial management,
environment, and institutional mechanisms.

8. Lessons Learned

The evaluation of the PPIP pointed out the importance of involving beneficiaries and their organizations
(e.g., professional associations, producers' organizations, etc.) from the initial planning stages onward, and
of giving them some responsibility for implementation. The institutional framework should clearly spell out
these responsibilities. There also needs to be an awareness that the managerial capacity of these
organizations is still weak and that substantial support is required to enable them to assume this role.

Despite the limited results of the project in disseminating technology and technical irrigation practices,
some testing and demonstration results that interested several hundred producers deserve to be pursued, i.e
simplified drip irrigation technology for fruit trees, use of high performing varieties and technical packages
for market garden products in the warm season. Furthermore, the water management technology currently
practiced in Mali is still traditional and inefficient, and there is room for very important productivity gains
from water catchment, pumping and distribution, especially with respect to the technical itinerary related to
each variety available on the market. Project beneficiaries have shown their enthusiasm for technologies
related to irrigated agriculture and still ask for any kind of technology that will improve their productivity,
ensure more stable production and increase their incomes.

The Bank supported projects in Niger, Nigeria, Burkina Faso to develop small private irrigation; each of
these projects yielded a better understanding of the sector and insights into possible solutions for specific
problems at a regional level. In some countries like Niger, some artisans are pushing ahead with the
production and distribution of technologies that respond to irrigated farmers' priority needs.USAID and
other donors are also active in this area and must have experiences worth sharing. It would be very useful
to organize workshops with technicians and managers of these projects to share experiences, draw lessons
for improving the efficacy of current and future actions, in order to better respond to beneficiaries' needs
and avoid having each country go through the same learning process.

Any development project, and especially those dealing with producers' organizations, should be based upon
a simple, clear and coherent design, validated hypotheses, a limited number of components, well-identified
(and described) target beneficiaries, a validated monitoring/evaluation framework, and realistic
performance indicators. Even when dealing with a simple project design, it is essential that a detailed
project implementation manual be prepared, stating at the outset the strategies, methodological approaches,
logistics of intervention, target beneficiaries and performance indicators. This manual should also contain
information making it possible to quickly draw up an initial procurement plan, so that the project team can
promptly start its activities.

Fiduciary matters are critical and are the source of many project implementation problems. It is essential



                                                      - 16 -

that the systems be put in place, as well as the initial disbursement requests, be closely monitored, and that
supervision missions be carefully synchronized so that all experts are present, including financial
management and procurement specialists. If projects are to begin well and quickly reach full development,
the entire implementation team must have a thorough understanding of these aspects.

Projects aimed at strengthening the private sector should be managed according to private sector
procedures. Measures pertaining to the management of public procurement should be simplified, without
compromising sound financial management.

Managerial staff for these `public/private partnership' projects should be recruited primarily from the
private sector. If such human resources are not available and it is necessary to recruit civil servants, they
should at least be extensively trained to the working methods and specific demands of the private sector.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Government concurs with the ICR findings and ratings. Unsatisfactory results were explained by the
inadequacy of the institutional arrangement, the weakness of monitoring and evaluation in the project and
the lack of social assessment which did not provide sufficient incentive for active beneficiary participation.
The Government agrees that this project is consistent with its development policy for rural poverty
reduction and is willing to take advantage of lessons learned in the design of follow-up operations to both
reduce rural poverty and improve the country's agricultural competitiveness.

Refer to Annex 10 for the summary of the Government's completion report.

(b) Cofinanciers:
N.A.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
N.A.

10. Additional Information

N.A.




                                                      - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix


Table 1.1             Monitoring indicators according to PAD

                             Indicators                           Responsible         Planned   Achieved    %
                                                                                                          Achieve
                                                                                                           ment
                                                                                        Total    Total

1) Number of consultancies to irrigation farmers
Legal consultancies                                    APROFA/Law firms                450       254       56
Management consultancies                               APROFA/Consultants              500        26        5
Technical consultancies                                APROFA/Consultants               300      462       154
Feasibility studies                                    APROFA/Consultants               400       35        9

2) Legal aid
Property title applications                            APROFA/Technical services and   200       302       151
                                                       providers
Tittles delivered                                                                       160       15        9
Constitution of legally registered producers' groups   APROFA/Law firms                 70        20       29

3) Number of loans considered
Loan applications                                      APROFA/Consultants               330      37        11
Applications submitted to financial institutions       APROFA/Consultants              250        7         3
Loans approved by financial institutions               Financial Inst.                  200       1         1
Total loan amount (million CFA)                        Financial Inst.                  500       1.5       0
Personal input (million CFA)                           Irrigation farmers               125      0.03       0
Loan recovery                                          Financial Inst.                   0
 a) estimated amount                                                                  100%      100%
 b) actual amount                                                                    95/98%    95/98%



4) Training
A) Financial and organisational management             APROFA/Consultants

Sessions                                                                                60       n.a.      n.a.
Days                                                                                    240      n.a.      n.a.
Participants (producers)                                                                900      194       22
B) Training of staff of financial institutions          APROFA/Consultants

Sessions                                                                                 24       0         0
Days                                                                                     90       0         0
Participants (Financial insti. Staff )                                                  18        0         0
C) Exploitation and maintenance

Training of irrigation farmers
Sessions                                                                                50        3         6
Days                                                    APROFA/Consultants              200

 Participants                                                                           750       89       12
Mechanics                                                                                0
Sessions                                                                                 7        1        14
Days                                                                                     7        6        86
Participants                                                                             88       34       39
                                                       APROFA/Consultants



                                                     - 18 -

Consulting firms staff
Sessions                                                                       2     1    50
Days                                                                          40     8    20
Participants                                                                  30     7    23

5) Irrigation equipments testing                   APROFA/IER/Consultants

Mechanical and wind devices:                                                  5
- Improved watering cans                                                            150
- Ciwara manual pump                                                                 2
- Motorpumps                                                                         4
Water supply networks:
- Aspersion                                                                    5     3    60
- Drip                                                                         5    19   380
Equiped surface (ha)                               APROFA/Consultants/       100     6    6
                                                   IER/PNVA


6) Surfaces covered by the project (ha)
Developed                                           APROFA                   600    0     0
Rehabilitated                                       APROFA                   400    10    3
Total                                              APROFA                   1000    10    1
Total exploited                                    APROFA                   1000    10    1

7) Investments
New perimeters (millions CFA) [2 millions CFA/ha]  Irrigation farmers        1200    0    0
Rehabilitated perimeters (millions CFA)                                      400     5    1
[1 million CFA/ha]
Total                                                                        1600    5    0

8) Cropping Intensity (%)                                                     0
Market gardening/other crops                       PNVA/CMDT/ON             200%          0
Trees crops                                         PNVA/CMDT/ON             100%         0
Investments profitability                           DNA/PNVA/CMDT/ON         n.a.




                                                 - 19 -

Table 1.2      Data specific to Production Demonstration Techniques
               Results from plots according to witness and demonstration plots

                                                       Demonstration plots for production techniques
  Areas       Villages       Producers      Crops         Witness plot               Demonst. plot      Total
                                                     Size  Yield     Weight     Size    Yield   Weight  Weight
                                                     (m2)  (Kg//m2)  (kg)       (m2)    Kg/m2   (kg)    (kg)
KATI       Diagokomita  1.Kotinin Konaté  Cabbage   276    3.63      1001.88 64         4.6     294.4   1296.28
           Tilénabugu   2.Ténéyo Diarra   Tomato    92     4.45      409.4      421.41 8        3371.28 3780.68
           Koyan        3.Adama Diarra    Tomato    416    6.43      2675       626     11.01   6892.26 9567.26
           Dio          4.Saïbou Diarra   Tomato    211    5.14      1085.4     282     8.41    2371.62 3457.02
           Kati         5.Yacouba Diallo  Okra      285    1.68      478.8      434     2.09    907.06  1385.86
Bagui-neda Sébéla       6.Moriba Samake   Maize     620    5 stems   3100       620     6 stems 3720    6820
                                                                     stems                      stems   stems
                        7.Karim Samake    Okra      405    1.07      433.35     450     3.33    1498.5  1931.85
                        8.Seydou Konaté   Okra      456,22 0.85      387.78     456.22 1.16     529.22  917.01
           Gnogna       9.Mamadou Diarra  Okra      336    0.58      194.88     368     0.96    353.28  548.16
Ségou      Sonincoura   10.Mamadou Keita European 27,5     2.10      57.75      280     3.25    910     967.75
                                          eggplant
           Diakoro      11.Sanata Traoré  European 92      3         276        219     4       876     1152
                                          eggplant
                        12.Lamaine Sanogo Okra      120    0.82      98.4       380     1.13    429.4   527.8
           Dioro        13.Hawa Coulibaly Okra      400    0.73      292        800     1.435   1148    1440
Sikasso    Bamadougou 14.Mama Sanogo      African   500    0.05      25         500     0.816   408     433
                                          eggplant
                        15.Nouhoum        African   500    0.454     227        500     0.906   453     680
                        Coulibaly         Eggplant
           Samogossoni 16.Moussa Berthé   Okra      -      -         -          1000    1.06    1060    1060
           Sabalibougou 17.Abdoulaye      Okra      -      -         -          400     0.975   390     390
                        Sanogo
           Ifolobugu    18.Madou Balo     Cabbage   -      -         -          800     4       3200    3200
                        19.Adama Berthé   Tomato    -      -         -          600     1.6     960     960




                                              - 20 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
1. Vehicles and equipments                                   0.57             0.22              38
2. Consultancies & Services                                  2.34             0.86              37
3. Operating Costs                                           0.55             0.65             118
4. PPF                                                       0.75             0.37              49
5. Unallocated                                               0.46             0.00

Total Baseline Cost                                          4.67             2.10
                        Total Project Costs                  4.67             2.10
                  Total Financing Required                   4.67             2.10


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.50         0.10          0.00         0.60
                                  (0.00)           (0.46)      (0.09)          (0.00)       (0.55)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00         1.60          0.00         1.60
Consultants                       (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.30)          (0.00)       (1.30)
4. Training                       0.00              0.00         1.10          0.00         1.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.00)          (0.00)       (1.00)
5. Operating Costs                0.00              0.00         0.62          0.00         0.62
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.31)          (0.00)       (0.31)
6. PPF Refinancing                0.00              0.00         0.75          0.00         0.75
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.75)          (0.00)       (0.75)
   Total                          0.00              0.50         4.17          0.00         4.67
                                  (0.00)           (0.46)      (3.45)          (0.00)       (3.91)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00         0.22           0.00        0.22
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.22)         (0.00)       (0.22)
3. Services                       0.48             0.00         0.38           0.00        0.86
Consultants                       (0.48)          (0.00)       (0.38)         (0.00)       (0.86)
4. Training                       0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00        0.00


                                                - 21 -

                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.00)            (0.00)           (0.00)
5. Operating Costs                      0.00               0.00              0.65             0.00              0.65
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.65)            (0.00)           (0.65)
6. PPF Refinancing                      0.00               0.00              0.37             0.00              0.37
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.37)            (0.00)           (0.37)
   Total                                0.48               0.00              1.62             0.00              2.10
                                       (0.48)             (0.00)            (1.62)            (0.00)           (2.10)

1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                       - 22 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

It is not possible to perform a cost-benefit analysis of the pilot phase, which the mission deemed
unsatisfactory.

Production techniques practiced by small-scale irrigation farmers are still very basic, with very low yields
and very rudimentary water management compared to Burkina Faso or Niger. Gravity-driven water
management is under-developed, and watering cans or calabashes are still widely used. Following the slow
start (as the project remained at that stage) and the inability of the service provider to develop irrigation
techniques and equipment, no testing (ETI) was carried out in accordance with the rules. At the mid-term
review, a decision was made to introduce production technique demonstrations. Only one type of testing
was performed during the warm and cool seasons; none occurred during the rainy season. The testing that
was accomplished did not generate results that would justify a recommendation to disseminate them to all
producers. No validated operating account was produced on the basis of the demonstrations and tests
performed.

However, one irrigation technique and a number of production techniques drew the mission's attention and
deserve further study. These irrigation techniques and tools are likely to generate increased yields,
production and income for professional market gardeners and fruit producers.

For example, two crops (i.e., dry season tomato and okra) sometimes produced spectacular yields for
producers who had no water constraints and who integrated them quickly into their production cycle. If
these varieties prove promising, they will change the market supply because these crops are very scarce
during the dry season in the Sahel and demand for both of them is strong in urban centers.

Cool season demonstrations indicated that potentially important gains in yields and income can be achieved
with the main market gardening crops -- onion, white onion, cabbage, potato, pepper and French beans --
simply by applying techniques developed by Malian and Sahelian agronomic research services.

Regarding irrigation techniques, only one of the tested techniques met the needs of some producers, i.e.,
fruit tree growers: this was a "simplified" drip technique using piping manufactured in Mali. Tests that
were not completed and for which no cost-benefit analysis was done, were very appealing to some target
producers who expanded the use of the equipment in question, at their own expense, to their entire farms
(of a few hectares.) Equipment costs are low (CFAF 400,000/ha, i.e., under US$700) and, depending on
the producer, reduce pumping costs by 40 percent and labor costs by 60 percent, while at the same time
ensuring more uniform watering which should generate higher yields over the medium term. The cost for
such equipment would therefore be easily offset, as early as the first year, by the reduced pumping and
labor costs.




                                                      - 23 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              02/14/1992                6    TEAM LEADER (1);
                                             AGRONOMIST (2);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST(1);
                                             HYDROGEOLOGIST (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1)
              11/15/1993                4    TTL (1); JURIST (1)
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              10/20/1994                5    TTL (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); AG
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIST
                                             (1); JURIST (1);
              08/15/1995                2    SOCIO-ECONOMIST (1); AG
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIST (1)
              11/16/1995                4    TTL (1); IRRIGATION
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             AGRO-ECONOMIST (1); AG
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIST (1)
              03/13/1997                4    TTL (1); JURIST (1); AG
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS SUPPORT (1)

 Supervision

              06/08/1998                1    TTL,SR AGRIC ECONOMIST           S               S
                                             (1)
              03/01/1999                7    TTL (1); IRRIGATION              S               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             SOCIOLOGIST (1); AG
                                             SERVICES SPECIALIST (1);
                                             OPERATIONS SUPPORT (1);
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1)
              10/28/1999                7    TEAM LEADER (1);                 S               S
                                             IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                             RURAL CREDIT SPECIALIS
                                             (1); AG SERVICES SPECIAIST
                                             (1); FARMERS ORG
                                             SPECIALIST (1);
                                             PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); FINANCIAL ANALYST (1)
              10/14/2000                6    TTL (1); IRRIGATION              U               S
                                             SPECIALIST (1); AG



                                              - 24 -

                                            ECONOMIST (1); AG
                                            SERVICES SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FMS (1)
               06/16/2001              8    TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); AG           S    S
                                            SERVICES SPECIALIST (1);
                                            IRRIGATION SPECIALIST (1);
                                            AGRONOMIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); FMS (1); IRRIGATION
                                            ENGINEER (1)
               03/15/2002            11     TTL (1); CO-TTL (1); AG INST      S    S
                                            DEV SPECIALIST (1); AG
                                            SERVICES SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                            (1); SAFEGUARDS
                                            SPECIALIST (1); IRRIGATION
                                            ENGINEER (1); AGRONOMIST
                                            (1); FMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                            M&E SPECIALIST (1); TEAM
                                            ASSISTANT (1)
               11/02/2002            10     TASK TEAM LEADER (1);             S    S
                                            CO-TTL (1); AGRONOMIST
                                            (1); RD SPECIALIST (1); RD
                                            INSTIT SPECIALIST (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT SPEC (1);
                                            FMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                            ASSISTANT (1); AG
                                            ECONOMIST (1); IRRIGATION
                                            ENGINEER (1)


 ICR
               07/21/2003             6     TTLl (1); ECONOMIST
                                            (1);CIVIL ENGINEER (1);
                                            M&E SPEC. (1); OP. ANA-
                                            LYST (1); ASSISTANT (1).



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation             135                         132.2
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    58                          99.3
  Supervision                              87                        168.4
  ICR                                       7                           5.5
  Total                                  287                         405.4




                                            - 25 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 26 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 27 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Aide-mémoire of PPIP and PAVCOPA supervision mission, November 5 to 16, 2002
2. Aide-mémoire of PPIP and PAVCOPA supervision mission, March 20 to 30, 2002
3. Detailed answer concerning extension of the project closing date from June 30, 2002 to March 31, 2003,
sent by IDA to the Minister of Rural Development and Environment on July 24, 2002
4. Aide-mémoire of PPIP and PAVCOPA supervision mission, June 5 to 15, 2001
5. Aide-mémoire of PPIP and PAVCOPA supervision mission, October 10 to 16, 2000
6. Aide-mémoire of PPIP and PAVCOPA supervision mission, June 1st to 8, 1998
7. Aide-mémoire of PAVCOPA supervision mission and mission launch of PPIP (Cr. N021-MLI),
February 23 to March 3, 1998
8. Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, July 3, 1997
9. Staff Appraisal Report, April 29, 1997
10. APROFA Procedures Manual : additif for PPIP, 1998
11. Closing Report of Sahel Consult R&D, August 2002
12. Final preparation report by FAO, Vol. I, main text and annexes 1-4, May 1993
13. Final preparation report by FAO, Vol II, main text and annexes 5-10, May 1993
14. Preliminary report of the FAO mission, main text and annexes 1-8, March 2000
15. Report of the support mission of rural engineering specialist, ASTEC, Oct. 2002
16. Intermediary report on Development of Production Techniques (DPT), October to December 2002,
CECI
17. Final report on DPT (December 2001- March 2003), CECI
18. Report on 1999 activities and budget for PPIP, APROFA
19. Report on 2002 activities for APROFA
20. Intermediary reports 4 and 6 on PPIP, APROFA (other intermediary reports unavailable)
21. Irrigation development strategy, Rural Development Ministry, 1999
22. Impact evaluation of training of irrigation farmers in maintenance of the irrigation network
(infrastructures and water fetching means), PPIP-APROFA, March 2000
23. Situation of small irrigation in the intervention zones of the project ­ document of synthese,
PPIP-APROFA, March 2000




                                                      - 28 -

Additional Annex 8. Performance Evaluation in Specific Areas

Poverty reduction and other social objectives

Overall, the project had only a marginal positive impact on poverty reduction. It did not really include any
activities that focused directly on the poorest segments of the population, since it involved private irrigation
farmers with land and capital to invest. Very small-scale irrigation promotion was planned, however, for
three types of simple equipment: improvement of traditional watering cans to make them last longer,
manual digging of boreholes and the dissemination of family-run drip irrigation systems (15 to 25 m2
each). The results of the corresponding tests were positive only for watering cans, of which 150 were
distributed. The other tests did not produce positive results, nor were they carried out under optimal
conditions. It should be noted that the dissemination of treadle pumps, which was very successful in
similar IDA-financed projects in Niger and Burkina Faso, was funded in Mali by USAID.

The project did not include any activities specifically geared to women. It should be pointed out, however,
that women play an important role in fruit and vegetable marketing and that this component was handled by
the PAVCOPA project, which was funded in parallel to the PPIP.

Environmental objectives

Appraisal report forecast

At the time of project preparation, Malian regulations did not require a formal environmental impact study.
The project was classified by IDA as Category B, however, and as such was subject to an environmental
assessment conducted in accordance with the World Bank's environmental assessment guidelines, and
especially DO 4.01 and its Annex C: `Plan to mitigate project's environmental impacts.'

This analysis was carried out by a specialized Malian team, with some assistance from foreign specialists.
Focusing sessions were held with public agencies, parties involved in irrigation, and with entities, such as
public health services, that might become involved. The analysis devoted ample attention to the reactions of
the population groups affected by irrigation expansion, and especially to the affected women. In-depth
consultations were organized with NGOs in the project areas.

Since the sites to be irrigated were supposed to be defined on an on-demand basis, the environmental
assessment adopted a regional approach, identifying overall positive and negative impacts for the entire
project area, as well as the mitigation measures to be proposed.

The analysis concluded that, given the land and water resources, the positive impacts of irrigation far
outweighed its negative effects. The positive effects include the increased volume and diversification of
production, greater food security, an easing of pressure on non-irrigated lands, and a reduction in rural
outmigration. Women express considerable interest in irrigated market gardening due to the associated
financial advantages and nutritional benefits.

The following negative impacts were forecast: (i) soil degradation (e.g., salinization, erosion, etc.) in
bottomlands perimeters and around the Office du Niger's irrigated perimeters; (ii) harm to vegetation in
village-level and peri-urban perimeters; (iii) waterborne diseases. Points (ii) and (iii) were deemed most
important. The feasibility report also estimated that the 600 hectares of new perimeters would draw off
only a negligible amount of water from the Niger river, which supplies many neighboring countries and



                                                     - 29 -

aquifers. The Niger Basin Authority was apprised of the project, in accordance with World Bank OP 4.30.

Implementation of recommendations contained in the environmental action plan

Project management failed to take any effective steps to mitigate the project's environmental impacts.
APROFA had signed an agreement with Mali's Rural Economy Institute (IER) that provided for: (i)
reforestation activities supported by training and environmental education programs for producers; (ii)
training for farmers in erosion control; (iii) monitoring of underground water levels; and (iv) monitoring of
salinity on irrigated perimeters.

The first IDA supervision mission on this topic occurred in March 2000, almost four years after the project
became effective. Its recommendations, which appear to be fairly irrelevant to small-scale irrigation, were
followed in February 2003 ­ about a year after the supervision mission -- by a proposal from APROFA
for terms of reference for a new environmental study The corresponding consultancy had not yet begun by
the time the project closed.

Actual project achievements fell far short of initial forecasts, and their impact was therefore negligible. The
degradation and salinization problems that were feared by Office du Niger at the time of project
preparation were greatly exaggerated by the specialists, and are now considered to be a topic for long-term
research. The only problems are damage to vegetation around peri-urban plots and waterborne diseases.
The potential exhaustion of aquifers could, however, become a problem in some overexploited areas (e.g.,
the urban area around Bamako). It should be pointed out that a study of the area's aquifers, which was
conducted during project preparation, was not put to any use.

It is unfortunate that no steps were taken to provide training in integrated crop management, except during
tests conducted in connection with production technique demonstrations. Indeed, market garden crops
receive unreasonable applications of pesticides that can be very dangerous for both farmers and consumers.
It is also regrettable that no training was provided on the risks of waterborne diseases associated with
irrigation, even on a small scale.

Private sector participation

The World Bank recognizes that the private sector must play a greater role in many countries if efficiency
is to increase. The private irrigation promotion project responded to this concern, since it aimed to
strengthen the private sector's capacity to develop small-scale irrigation.

The project's training activities were supposed to address the following topics: for producers: financial and
organization management of farms; for agents of financial institutions: examination of loan applications;
for farmers and irrigation equipment mechanics: operation and maintenance of equipment; and for
consulting firms: preparation of irrigation projects.

Actual accomplishments were limited, however. Only three sessions on equipment maintenance were
conducted for irrigation farmers, and one session on irrigation equipment was held for mechanics. Training
sessions in financial and organizational management of farms were confined to problems related to the
acquisition of land titles. One training session was provided for the staff of consulting firms on the choice
of pumping equipment. Proposed training for consulting firms in small irrigation project studies was
prepared but not implemented.




                                                      - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. Comments by the Quality Assurance Group

1. Overall, this project's quality at entry, after six years' preparation, the expenditure of $485,000 from
BB, a considerable amount of TF, as well as a PPF of $750,000, is marginal:

            *    The project concept and objectives are unclear, reflecting inadequate sector knowledge:
            why has private investment declined recently (post-devaluation)? Why have banks been
            unwilling to lend for private irrigation, and what (if anything) would induce them to lend? In
            addition, there appear to be important flaws in the coverage and content of the terms of
            reference for critical training deemed necessary for the staff of participating financial
            institutions. Why have some projects succeeded (e.g., treadle pumps) while others have failed
            (e.g., peri-urban irrigation)? The ongoing demand survey will help build sector knowledge, but
            we should already have a much clearer project concept after such a long design phase.

            *    The technical soundness of the project is not well established (technical testing is to be
            carried out) and the economic analysis raises more questions than it answers: if private
            irrigation has such high economic returns, and even higher financial returns, why have earlier
            investments yielded poor results?

            *    Beneficiaries will be of three kinds, but primarily the non-poor, since considerable equity
            will be needed for irrigation investments. The project is misleadingly classified as poverty
            targeted; `private sector development' would be a more appropriate label. More importantly,
            however, the project as designed places no ceiling on the project benefits obtainable by
            individuals and could therefore be hijacked by elites. This problem could be easily remedied.

            *    The (recently-created) implementing agency has no track record in project activities and
            did not lead project design. While provision has been made to recruit technical specialists, no
            quality control is provided. It is unclear whether the agency will be able to handle the
            administrative and accounting burden of managing many small contracts. Moreover, the
            agency is currently managing another Bank-financed project, and its managerial performance
            is poor.

            *    The SAR reports favorably on readiness for implementation, as of April 1997, with
            effectiveness expected in the fall. But the project has only just become effective (for country
            reasons). Readiness will have to be reassessed, new actions may be needed, and the
            implementation plan will have to be revisited. In addition, the initial reporting and monitoring
            documents proposed by the Government re model annual work program and budget are very
            weak.

            *    This type of project is inherently risky, and the risk is compounded in this case by a lack of
            clarity on project concept. It is properly designated a pilot. As such, M & E is particularly
            important, and the choice of key performance indicators is critical. This has not yet been done,
            but this situation can be remedied.

2.     In view of the perceived risks, the reviewers' major recommendations for boosting the project's
chances of achieving its development objectives involve the following key elements:

            *    organization of an immediate project launch workshop to draw lessons from the demand



                                                       - 31 -

study and to revisit project schedules, project management's responsibilities for deliverables,
formulation of an appropriate project logical framework, and close association with potential
participating financial institutions to clearly identify their perceived training needs or other
constraints;

*   definition and agreement on the modalities for regular independent third party evaluation of
APROFA's and consultants' performance during project implementation;

*   recasting of the project's annual work program and budget documents;

*   selection of key performance indicators and definition of how they are to be monitored;

*   establishment of a ceiling for individuals' access to project benefits;

*   adherence to the proposed supervision plan (attached), with the participation of all
stakeholders'; and

*   substantial inputs from Bank supervision missions, which must include the required
expertise in the critical areas identified above.




                                          - 32 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Contribution

SYNTHESE DU RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DU GOUVERNEMENT

I. Aperçu général du projet
A)       Dates du projet : Entrée en vigueur : Avril 1998 - Clôture officielle : 30 juin 2002, prorogée au
31 mars 2003

B)       Financement prévu :
Crédit IDA N° 021MLI : 4,20 millions de dollars US
Bénéficiaires : 0,47 millions de dollars US
Total projet : 4,67 millions de dollars US

C)       Objectifs du projet :
L'objectif global du projet est de contribuer à lever les obstacles à l'investissement privé dans la petite et
moyenne irrigation (absence de sécurité foncière, faibles capacités techniques et de gestion, difficulté de
financement, manque d'accès à des types d'équipements adaptés, etc...) par les activités de renforcement
des capacités de façon à contribuer à l'accroissement de la productivité et à la sécurité alimentaire.
L'objectif à moyen-terme de cette opération pilote est de fournir aux petits irrigants davantage de services
d'appui technique et de gestion pour leur permettre : (a) d'exploiter et d'entretenir les équipements ; (b)
d'établir des demandes de prêts pour les soumettre à des institutions financières et d'obtenir des crédits
pour des investissements dans l'irrigation ; (c) d'améliorer la sécurité de leurs actifs y compris de leurs
droits fonciers ; (d) de développer leurs capacités (des producteurs indépendants et des opérateurs de
production) en matière de gestion organisationnelle et financière et de gestion de micro entreprises.

Le PPIP comporte les sept composantes suivantes :

`'Renforcement de l'APROFA'' : Il s'agit de renforcer les capacités institutionnelles, et techniques de
l'APROFA au service de la stratégie adoptée par le Mali pour développer l'irrigation privée par la
fourniture de services de consultants d'études et de formation.

`'Services d'appuis techniques, de gestion, et d'activités de formation'' pour : (a) renforcer les capacités
techniques et de gestion des producteurs dans l'exploitation et le maintien du matériel d'irrigation et dans
l'élaboration de plans d'investissement économiques ; (b) renforcer les capacités des producteurs et du
personnel spécialisé dans l'élaboration des investissements d'irrigation et la préparation de demandes de
financement d'une part et renforcer les capacités du personnel des institutions financières dans l'évaluation
des demandes de financement d'investissement dans le sous-secteur de l'irrigation.

`'Services juridiques et d'études techniques'' pour : (a) le renforcement des producteurs à se constituer en
groupements pour la fourniture de services de consultants juridiques ; (b) l'amélioration de l'accès des
producteurs au système de droit foncier par la fourniture de services de consultants techniques juridiques de
formation ; (c) la réalisation des études techniques relatives au développement de l'irrigation privée dans la
zone du projet.

`'Tests d'équipements d'irrigation'' pour tester au niveau des exploitations, des techniques et matériels
d'irrigation et diffuser les résultats de ces tests par l'acquisition d'équipements et la fourniture des services
de consultants techniques et de formation.




                                                       - 33 -

`'Renforcement des capacités des producteurs'' pour améliorer les capacités institutionnelles des
organisations de producteurs et des irrigants privés indépendants.

`'Suivi et atténuation de l'impact sur l'environnement'' pour (a) l'élaboration et l'application des mesures
d'atténuation de l'impact du projet sur l'environnement pour prévenir l'érosion des sols, les maladies
hydriques liées à l'irrigation par l'acquisition et la fourniture de services de consultants techniques et de
formation ; (b) la réalisation d'études et d'enquêtes sur le cadre institutionnel et réglementaire des
programmes d'irrigation privée.

`'Enquêtes et études socio-économiques'' pour suivre les incitations offertes au développement de
l'irrigation privée et l'impact du projet en termes de développement et d'évaluations périodiques de la
banque auprès des bénéficiaires.

II. Résultats et analyses des composantes
2.1 Réalisation des objectifs globaux :
Le projet devrait lever plusieurs contraintes qui pèsent sur le sous-secteur à savoir :
a) l'utilisation d'une technologie rudimentaire ; la conception et la gestion inefficace des aménagements ;
b) l'accès limité des producteurs aux services d'appui technique et de gestion ;
c) leur accès marginal au crédit ;la rareté de la reconnaissance officielle des droits fonciers ,
d) le nombre réduit de consultants et de bureaux d'études techniquement compétents ;

La réalisation des objectifs globaux du projet a été généralement insatisfaisante.L'analyse des résultats des
composantes montre que les contraintes du sous-secteur de l'irrigation n'ont pas été levées, bien que
certains résultats positifs aient été obtenus dans le cadre des expérimentations. Ces résultats n'ont pas été
validés par plusieurs campagnes, et ne peuvent donc être diffusables dans le cadre du projet.

2.2 Réalisation des objectifs par composante

2.2.1 Composante A : Appui à l'organisme d'exécution
Les activités de cette composante portent sur le recrutement de techniciens supplémentaires pour le siège de
l'APROFA à Bamako (un spécialiste senior des questions d'irrigation chargé de coordonner les activités
d'irrigation et un agro-économiste pour l'unité de suivi et d'évaluation) et l'ensemble du personnel
administratif de la représentation régionale de l'APROFA pour Bamako/Koulikoro. Ainsi, l'organisme
d'exécution du projet, l'APROFA, le principal responsable de l'exécution de l'ensemble des activités du
projet se chargera en tant que maître d'ouvrage délégué, des programmes d'assistance et des services
destinés aux producteurs, aux institutions financières et aux agents du secteur privé engagés dans des
opérations d'irrigations privées. L'unité de coordination assurera la coordination, la supervision et
l'encadrement des activités des Bureaux Régionaux.

2.2.1.1 Résultats de la composante
La mise en place du personnel prévu au siège et dans les antennes régionales a duré près d'un an, de juillet
1997 jusqu'à la mise en vigueur en avril 1998. Le Directeur intérimaire, nommé en décembre 1999 en
remplacement du Directeur Général, n'a pas reconduit les contrats de ce personnel après août 2000. Après
la restructuration du projet en février 2001, le personnel du projet a été réduit à une seule personne chargée
de superviser les contrats des opérateurs pour exécuter les ETI et les DTP. C'est seulement en mars 2002
que le personnel a été étoffé par un ingénieur du génie rural et un agro-économiste. Les résultats de
l'exécution des programmes d'assistance et des services destinés aux producteurs, aux institutions
financières et aux agents du secteur privé se retrouvent dans les composantes ci-dessous.




                                                        - 34 -

2.2.1.2 Analyse des résultats
Les résultats de cette composante sont peu satisfaisants. Les dysfonctionnements dans l'organisation et la
gestion de l'équipe de l'APROFA n'ont pas permis de développer une stratégie claire pour le projet. Quant
à la collaboration avec d'autres organismes, des protocoles ont été signés en 1998 avec la plupart des
structures impliquées dans le domaine de l'irrigation (IER, DNAER,DNAMR), mais n'ont pas été suivis
d'effet.

2.2.2 Composante B :Service d'appui technique et de gestion et activités de formation

2.2.2.1 Résultats de la composante

            Activités et résultats attendus                          Prévision       Réalisation        Taux de
                                                                                                       réalisation
   · Dossiers de consultation en gestion                                500               26             5,2 %
   · Dossiers de consultation techniques                                300               462            154 %
   · Formation technique de producteurs                                  50                5             10%
   · Formation de mécaniciens                                             7                1            14,2 %
   · Formation de Bureau d'Etudes                                         2                0              0%
   · Formation des institutions financières dans l'évaluation
   technique des invest. dans le sous secteur de l'irrigation             -                -
   privée
   · Elaboration de plans d'investissements                             330                -              0%
   · Préparation de dossiers de demandes de Prêts                       250                7             2,8 %
   · Approbation de dossiers de Prêts auprès des institutions           200                1             0,5 %
   financières sur appui du projet

2.2.2.2 Analyse des résultats
Au regard des résultats obtenus, le bilan peut être jugé insatisfaisant. Les activités en matière de formation
ont porté sur l'organisation de 2 cycles de formation en technique de production qui a permis une certaine
augmentation et une diversification de la production et l'organisation de 3 sessions d'entretien des
équipements et une session pour les mécaniciens.

Au nombre des formations qui n'ont pas pu être exécutées on peut citer la formation en gestion financière;
la formation des bureaux d'étude et les formations destinées aux institutions financières. En outre,
l'élaboration de plans d'investissement n'a pas été exécutée.

2.2.3 Composante C : Services juridiques et études techniques
Cette composante vise essentiellement à :
- permettre d'officialiser les droits fonciers des irriguants privés;
- créer des groupements de producteurs officiellement reconnus;
- entreprendre des études techniques en vue du développement de l'irrigation.

2.2.3.1 Résultats de la composante :
Les résultats enregistrés, au regard des prévisions pour la durée du projet, sont consignés dans le tableau
suivant :




                                                       - 35 -

Activités                                            Prévisions       Réalisations        Taux de
                                                                                          réalisation
1. Services juridiques et administratifs

- Consultations juridiques                           450              254                  56
- Constitution de groupements de producteurs
légalement enregistrés                               70               2                    3
- Demandes de titres fonciers (titres provisoires
et définitifs)                                       200              58                   29
- Titres délivrés                                    160              13                   8

2. Etudes techniques

- Consultations techniques                           300              258                  86
- Consultations en gestion                           500              22                   4
- Etudes de faisabilité                              400              26**                 6,5

* toutes ces activités ont été réalisées entre 1999 et 2000. A partir de cette année, le projet a été réorienté
** dont 2 études sommaires, réalisées après la restructuration.

2.2.3.2 Analyse des résultats
Ces activités ont été menées jusqu'en 2000. En 2001, la restructuration en profondeur, opérée au sein de
l'agence, a vu une nouvelle définition des activités. Ce processus n'a pas permis la poursuite de la présente
composante, seules certaines activités entamées, ont été conduites à terme. Ce fut le cas de l'octroi de titres
fonciers. D'autres ont été purement et simplement annulées. C'est ainsi que les demandeurs d'appui qui
l'ont voulu, ont vu leurs contributions remboursées, sur proposition de l'APROFA. Ceci explique en partie
le faible taux de réalisation de la composante.
Les lourdeurs administratives ont contribué pour beaucoup dans le domaine des appuis juridiques. Les
études de faisabilité n'ont pas été suffisamment approfondies sur les aspects économiques et financiers, les
bureaux d'études retenus ayant sommairement traité ces points, tandis que le volet technique
d'aménagement était très détaillé. L'analyse des résultats du tableau ci-dessus montre que, excepté les
consultations techniques et les consultations juridiques, le taux de réalisation d'aucune autre activité n'a
atteint la barre des 50 %.Comme signalé plus haut, ceci est dû d'abord au fait que ces activités n'ont pas
couvert toute la période prévue. La poursuite de ces activités au cours des deux autres années de la vie du
projet (2001 et 2002) aurait certainement permis d'atteindre des taux de réalisation meilleurs. Certes des
insuffisances ont été constatées sur les dossiers des études de faisabilité, mais cela ne justifiait pas
l'abandon de l'activité. Celle-ci gagnerait à être appuyée par l'obtention de financement qui constitue, en
fait la raison principale ayant motivé les demandeurs d'appui pour cette activité. En effet, pour la plupart
des demandeurs d'appui, l'APROFA devait également intervenir pour la réalisation des infrastructures
d'aménagement proposées par l'étude de faisabilité. Pour d'autres, l'APROFA devait leur octroyer un
crédit pour leur permettre de réaliser les travaux (investissements), d'autant que le projet a fortement
contribué à l'élaboration du dossier d'étude technique.

2.2.4 Composante D : Tests d'équipement
Cette composante a été retenue dans le but d'identifier et de diffuser du matériel adapté aux besoins des
petits irriguants.




                                                      - 36 -

2.2.4.1 Résultats de la composante
Les résultats enregistrés sont consignés dans le tableau ci-après.

Activités                                                 Prévisions         Réalisations       Taux de
                                                                                                réalisation
Captage
- Forage à la tarière manuelle                                    -                    4                 -
- Puits améliorés                                                 -                   14                 -

Expérimentation de technique d`exhaure
- Arrosoirs améliorés                                            69                   53               77
- Pompes à pédales/manuelles                                      -                    2                 -
- Motopompes                                                      5                    5               100

Expérimentation de système de distribution
- Goutte à goutte                                                 5                    7               140
- Aspersion                                                       5                    6               120

Démonstration de techniques de production
- Saison sèche                                                   26                   26               100
- Saison pluvieuse                                                5                    5               100

Superficie équipée (ha)                                          100                 20,42            20,42

2.2.4.2 Analyse des résultats
Jusqu'à la fin du 3ème trimestre 2000, cette activité s'est vue réduite à l'élaboration des procédures de
recrutement du consultant qui sera chargé de sa mise en oeuvre. L'exécution du contrat a finalement
démarré en octobre de la même année avec d'énormes difficultés. Par ailleurs, deux consultants sont
intervenus pour aboutir aux résultats consignés dans la tableau précédent, appel ayant été fait au second à
la suite de la défaillance du premier. Certes, les résultats obtenus semblent satisfaisants dans l'ensemble
avec des taux de réalisation nettement positifs, mais il faut retenir que si parfois les bénéficiaires sont
satisfaits des tests, ils sont restés sur leur faim face à la nécessité d'étendre le système. En plus, la répétition
de ces tests est nécessaire pour tirer quelques conclusions, dans la perspective de vulgarisation des
systèmes.
On constate également que ceux-ci semblent plutôt prêts à une extension à la charge du projet, et ne pensent
pas intervenir.
Les résultats indiquent par ailleurs, que si en nombre les tests effectués ont été positifs, il y a lieu de retenir
que la surface à équiper demeure nettement en deçà des prévisions.
l Concernant les techniques de fonçage à la tarière manuelle, les quatre forages réalisés n'ont pas
    répondu aux préoccupations des bénéficiaires, du point de vue technico-économique. Non seulement
    leurs coûts paraissaient élevés, mais également ces puits ont tari prématurément.
l Par contre les deux tests d'ouvrages de captage (puits améliorés) ont été concluants. Sur 140 demandes
    enregistrées, 14 ont été satisfaites par un maçon professionnel formé à la réalisation de cette technique.
    L'activité devait se poursuivre, du moins pour la satisfaction des autres demandes.
l Le test de système d'exhaure réalisé sur arrosoir a été positif. Le modèle réalisé (dit APROFA) et
    diffusé a été très apprécié par les utilisateurs, qui ont constaté une plus longue vie et un coût acceptable
    de l'outil. Au total, quelques 150 unités ont été fabriquées.
l De même deux motopompes testées ont répondu aux attentes, mais les bénéficiaires ont souhaité des




                                                         - 37 -

     modèles plus puissants (car les surfaces en vue sont plus grandes). En plus des pannes ont été
     enregistrées.
l Pour les tests des systèmes de distribution d'eau, on constate tout d'abord que l'ensemble des sites ne
     sont pas correctement équipés. Malgré la réalisation d'études sommaires, les sites retenus ont été
     équipés de systèmes d'irrigation en fonction du matériel disponible, préalablement achetés et acheminés
     sur place. Il revenait dès lors au consultant de se plier à la réalité existante. Ensuite, ce sont des
     matériaux d'équipements acquis localement qui ont servi au montage des systèmes. Cet aspect permet
     de réduire les coûts d'installation des équipements.
l Les micro asperseurs utilisés en maraîchage n'ont pas été appréciés, les bénéficiaires préférant voir
     l'eau s'asperger avec plus de pression sans augmentation de la pression de la motopompe.
l Les tests d'équipements réalisés n'ont pas été suivis pour la durée nécessaire. Ceci ne permet pas de
     mieux apprécier les résultats. Non seulement la fonctionnalité du système est à observer, mais
     également son application par les bénéficiaires doit être suivie en vue des améliorations éventuelles.
l Enfin, certaines installations entamées, n'ont pas été menées à terme. Ce qui laisse un goût amer du
     projet au regard des exploitants concernés.

 2.2.5 Composante E : Renforcement des capacités

 2.2.5.1 Objectifs

 L'objectif recherché à travers la mise en oeuvre de cette composante est l'amélioration des capacités
 institutionnelles et financières des organisations de producteurs, des irrigants privés individuels, du
 personnel des bureau d'études et des institutions financières et des opérateurs privés notamment les
 mécaniciens.

 Le projet a privilégié trois domaines à savoir : (a) la formation en gestion financière et organisationnelle
 des producteurs et des bureaux d'études afin de permettre aux participants d'améliorer le fonctionnement
 institutionnel de leurs organisations et d'accroître leur compétence en matière de comptabilité et la tenue des
 livres de gestion; (b) la formation du personnel des institutions financières afin de les familiariser au
 fonctionnement des exploitations irriguées et de susciter une meilleure collaboration et (c) la formation en
 exploitation et en entretien des réseaux d'irrigation en vue de créer un cadre formel de partenariat entre
 irrigants, mécaniciens et bureaux d'études.

 2.2.5.2 Résultats


Indicateurs                             Objectifs          Objectifs           Réalisations        Pourcentage
                                        prévus par le      prévus après
                                        PAD                réorientation du
                                                           projet

 A. Gestion financière et                     900                  900                 194               21,55
 organisationnelle

 B. Formation du personnel des                 18                   18                  0                  0
 institutions financières

 C.Exploitation et entretien

 C1. Formation des irrigants                  750                  750                  89               11,86

 C2. Formation des mécaniciens                 88                   88                  34               36,63

 C3. Formation personnel des



                                                       - 38 -

                                               30                   30                  10                  33,33
bureaux d'études

TOTAL                                        1 786                1786                 327                  18,31


   2.2.5.3 Analyse des résultats
Il ressort de l'analyse du tableau ci-dessus que les activités de renforcement de capacité n'ont pas été
exécutées à satisfaction en raison du taux de réalisation jugé assez faible (18,31% des quantités prévues).
Seules les activités de formation des irrigants en entretien des pompes et infrastructures d'irrigation et de
procédures d'obtention des titres fonciers et des mécaniciens ont été réalisées. Ces activités, qui ont pu être
réalisées connaissent également un faible taux d'exécution variant de 12% à 37%. Les activités prévues
telles que la gestion financière et la formation du personnel des institutions financières n'ont pu être
réalisées.

En plus des activités de renforcement de capacité prévues, le projet a formé 21 artisans forgerons dans le
domaine de la confection des arrosoirs de modèle APROFA, 1 maçon en technique de margelles renforcées
et 10 participants au choix des motopompes. Le projet a également appuyé la mise en place d'une
organisation d'irrigants et des associations régionales et une association nationale APROFA. Ces
associations ont été mises en place en 2001 soit une année avant la fin du projet. Aucune étude préalable
n'ayant été réalisée, elles connaîtront vite des problèmes qui constitueront par la suite des obstacles à
l'atteinte des objectifs pour lesquels elles ont été créées. L'étude de faisabilité, si elle était réalisée aurait
permis de définir le niveau d'encrage, le rôle et les activités dévolues aux associations. Ce qui aurait permis
de faciliter la réorientation des activités du projet pour l'atteinte des objectifs.

2.2.6 Composante F : Suivi et atténuation de l'impact environnemental
La mise en oeuvre de cette composante devait permettre d'empêcher la dégradation des sols et le
développement des maladies hydriques. Pour cela, le projet devait prendre des mesures dans ce sens, avec
des structures opérant sur le terrain.
Excepté l'élaboration de termes de référence pour l'établissement d'un site de suivi de la dégradation des
sols, cette composante n'a pas été mise en oeuvre avant la restructuration. Par la suite, un plan de suivi
environnemental a été mis en place prenant en compte les aspects hygiéniques au niveau du centre de
formation et des unités de transformation à Sikasso.
Par contre, une mission de supervision de la Banque Mondiale, du volet environnemental, a eu à constater,
par région couverte par le projet, des points présentant de sérieux problèmes environnementaux.

2.2.7     Composante F : Enquêtes et études socio-économiques

2.2.7.1 Objectifs :
Le projet a prévu la réalisation des enquêtes et études en vue de déterminer les incitations offertes au
développement de l'irrigation privée et l'impact des activités menées par le projet. Les études devraient
toucher le niveau de taxation du matériel importé et des intrants et pièces détachées. Le projet devrait
également réaliser des études de marché et des enquêtes auprès des producteurs; des études sur les mesures
à prendre pour répondre aux besoins spécifiques des producteurs en matière de développement de
l'irrigation.

2.2.7.2. Résultats et analyse
Le projet a réalisé en 1998 une étude en vue de préciser l'évolution de la situation économique des
exploitations irriguées. Une enquête a été réalisée également en 1999 par l'équipe de suivi/évaluation du



                                                       - 39 -

projet. Les résultats des études et enquête confirment que les revenus nets d'exploitation des exploitations
irriguées augmentent. Cette augmentation semble dûe à plusieurs facteurs notamment le rétablissement de la
pluviométrie, l'amélioration des réseaux d'irrigation par l'appui conseil fourni par le projet. Concernant le
nombre d'irrigants installés, il a augmenté entre 1994 (462) et 1998 (948). Ce qui témoigne l'engouement
qu'ont les producteurs à pratiquer l'agriculture irriguée. Le nombre de bénéficiaires du projet étant en
augmentation, le sous-secteur de la petite irrigation semble donc rentable.

Quant à la situation des irrigants selon le régime foncier, l'on constate que les attributions coutumières
constituent encore le mode de propriété foncière le plus dominant suivi des lettres d'attributions. Selon la
taille, les exploitations dont la superficie est inférieure à 5 hectares sont les plus importantes, soit 76% en
1994 et 77% en 1998; et 66% en 1999. Ces études et enquêtes menées par le projet ont confirmé la
rentabilité des exploitations irriguées conformément aux conclusions de celles réalisées en 1994 et 1998.
Elles militent toutes en faveur de la poursuite des appuis aux irriguants tels que prévus par le projet (appuis
juridiques, technique, de gestion et de formation).

2.3 Impact sur la politique économique
Les objectifs du projet s'inscrivent parfaitement dans la stratégie du gouvernement du Mali tant pour le
développement du secteur rural que pour le sous-secteur de l'irrigation.Cependant, ces objectifs étaient trop
nombreux, trop ambitieux et insuffisamment ciblés en ce qui concerne les types d'irrigation.Compte tenu
des résultats obtenus dans les différentes composantes, l'impact potentiel du projet, en raison de son
caractère pilote pour la politique de développement institutionnel et macroéconomique, sera très limité.

III. Performance du bailleurs de fonds, de l'emprunteur et de l'agence d'éxecution

3.1 Performance du bailleurs de fonds : IDA
L'IDA a financé le projet et fourni un appui technique à l'équipe de formulation du projet. Deux missions
d'évaluation ont été réalisées. Des ateliers de lancement (national et régional) ont été organisés avec les
bénéficiaires avec l'appui de l'agence en juin 1998. La Banque mondiale a aussi approuvé le manuel de
procédure. Cependant la performance générale de la Banque a été insatisfaisante :
l La préparation du projet a été longue, coûteuse et inefficace ;
l Quatre task managers se sont succédés pour la supervision du projet et la compétence de certains
     d'entre eux laissait à désirer ;
l Des retards ont été enregistrés dans le traitement de certains dossiers de marché et des demandes de non
     objection pour diverses activités (certaines n'ont pu être exécutées à cause de ces retards) ;
l La Banque a été lente dans la prise des mesures correctives pour les insuffisances du suivi-évaluation,
     la mise en oeuvre de la composante `'Suivi environnemental'', la suggestion de réformes
     organisationnelles, institutionnelles et de gestion financière afin d'assurer la pérennité du projet.

3.2 Performance de l'emprunteur
Le Gouvernement a délégué la gestion du projet à l'APROFA, une agence crée par l'APCAM pour la mise
en oeuvre du PAVCOPA . Le Gouvernement a activement participé à la préparation du projet, aux ateliers
de lancement et à toutes les missions de supervision conjointes. La performance générale du Gouvernement
est jugée insatisfaisante :
l Le Gouvernement a créé un comité consultatif composé des services techniques et des bénéficiaires. Ce
     comité n'a jamais été opérationnel ;
l Le refus du Gouvernement de transférer le suivi-évaluation général de l'exécution du projet a créé un
     disfonctionnement dans la structure institutionnelle, ce qui a été préjudiciable à la gestion du projet ;
l Les aides mémoires des missions de supervision ont fait un grand nombre de recommandations qui
     n'ont pas été mises en application parce que le Gouvernement n'a pas pris les mesures adéquates pour


                                                        - 40 -

    corriger la situation. Certes, à la lumière des résultats insuffisants du projet en1999, le Gouvernement a
    mis le projet sous la tutelle d'un Administrateur provisoire pour un an et a remplacé le personnel de
    l'Agence en 2000. Cette décision n'a pas permis d'améliorer la qualité d'exécution technique et
    financière du projet. A la fin de 2002 la gestion financière et technique s'était également affaiblie sans
    que le Gouvernement ne prenne de mesures correctives.

3.3       Performance de l'Agence d'exécution
L'Agence d'exécution, l'APROFA n'a que partiellement atteint les objectifs qui lui étaient assignés à sa
création. Sa performance a été faible dans la gestion financière du projet. Elle a produit des rapports d'audit
avec beaucoup de retard et n'a pas encore entrepris l'audit 2002 du PACOPA et du PPIP , et celui de 2003
pour le PPIP. L'Agence n'a pas développé une comptabilité analytique et par conséquent, on ne sait pas
comment le budget a été alloué aux différentes composantes du projet. A la fermeture du projet le taux de
décaissement était faible avec 54% des crédits dépensés.

IV. Leçons à tirer et suite à donner

Au plan de l'appui technique, de gestion et de la formation :
L'évaluation du PPIP aura permis de constater que la mise en oeuvre des projets de promotion du secteur
privé requiert une démarche participative à travers l'implication des producteurs et de leurs associations à
toutes les étapes et leur formation.

Au plan des services juridiques, des études techniques et des tests d'équipement :
Le projet depuis son démarrage, a été l'objet de modifications. Si le rapport d'évaluation structure le projet
en 7 composantes, lors d'une première revue effectuée en 1998, celles-ci ont été ramenées à 4, et adoptées
en 1999 à l'occasion de la 1ère mission de supervision. Par la suite, les différentes misions de supervision
ou d'appui technique, ont à chaque occasion, apporté des modifications. Ceci est de nature à freiner l'élan
de l'agence dans sa volonté de mieux faire. Le mouvement du personnel a aggravé la situation avec comme
constat la démobilisation de celui-ci en 2000, aboutissant à l'obtention de faibles résultats au regard des
objectifs assignés. Cette démarche hésitante s'est poursuivie après la restructuration en profondeur du
projet.Les tests d'équipement ont été réalisés, mais dans des conditions non voulues. Ceux-ci donneraient de
meilleurs résultats si tous les paramètres prévus (durée, équipements complets, meilleurs choix des sites)
avaient été observés. Aucune disposition n'a été prévue pour l'exécution de systèmes d'irrigation, là où les
résultats ont été appréciés, et encore moins pour le suivi des tests effectués pour les durées requises. Ce qui
permettrait d'aboutir à des conclusions. Le projet gagnerait à prévoir des mécanismes d'orientation pour
ceux qui souhaiteraient étendre leurs réseaux. Les études de faisabilité réalisées n'ont pas été suivies
d'effets, malgré la relecture des dossiers disponibles pendant la 2ème phase. Au moins, certains devraient
être exécutés à la lumière des corrections apportées lors de la relecture des dossiers.
Il serait intéressant de retenir :
l La nécessité de poursuivre les tests, au moins ceux réalisés jusqu'à terme ;
l La nécessité de prévoir l'accès à une ligne de crédit à des conditions très intéressantes pour les
    bénéficiaires ;
l La nécessité de réunir tous les éléments avant d `effectuer un test (élaboration de protocole préalable
    précisant les moyens, les durées, etc..) ;
l L'intégration, dans les DTP, de l'aspect irrigation.


Au plan du renforcement des capacités :
Malgré les difficultés rencontrées dans son exécution et la faiblesse des appuis apportés dans le domaine du
renforcement des capacités, le projet possède de nombreux atouts qui doivent être valorisés à savoir :
l L'institution de la prestation payante dans le domaine de l'irrigation privée. La mise en oeuvre de cette



                                                      - 41 -

    approche a permis de comprendre que les producteurs sont à mesure de payer une partie du coût des
    services offerts par les privés. Cet acquis milite en faveur de la poursuite des activités d'appuis aux
    productions irriguées. La possibilité d'augmenter le coût des services payés par les irrigants existe car
    malgré la qualité faible des services ils ont mobilisés rapidement près de 12 millions de FCFA.
l La grande disponibilité des producteurs et des opérateurs privés a été un facteur important dans la mise
    en oeuvre des activités de renforcement des capacités. Les besoins de formation étant importants, les
    activités d'appuis aux irrigants doivent être soutenues.
l Les relations établies entre irrigants, artisans et institutions financières sont de nature à conforter la
    viabilité des actions entreprises et à leur pérennisation. Il faut pour cela un appui conseil rapproché des
    opérateurs privés qui pourrait être organisé par le réseau des chambres d'agriculture.

Au plan du cadre institutionnel :
Les enseignements que nous tirons de l'exécution du projet remettent en cause le modèle d'agence bicéphale
gérée à la fois par une institution professionnelle et un département ministériel. La réflexion doit aller
désormais vers la contractualisation des services d'appuis aux irrigants à des opérateurs privés
expérimentés qui rendront directement compte à la profession agricole. En outre, les bénéficiaires du projet
doivent siéger au sein des comités de pilotage. Ils joueront plus efficacement le rôle de conseiller pour la
définition de la nature des appuis et d'orientation des activités menées par les opérateurs privés.




                                                      - 42 -

- 43 -

